SECURING YOUR WORLD Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 27 Introduction and contents G4S is the world’s leading global, integrated A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS security company specialising in the delivery of security and related services to a diverse range of customers across six continents. We play an important role in society – our 610,000* employees deliver services that create a safe and better environment in which millions of people live and work. HUMAN RIGHTS In this report we feature the important work carried out by our colleagues that makes us proud to be securing your world. 31 ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION Visit: www.g4s.com * Includes 44,000 employees for more information in businesses to be sold or exited. COMMUNITY INTEGRITY • Social and • Human rights† economic impact INTEGRITY • Anti-bribery and corruption† • Community • Risk assessment and investment management • Audit and compliance COMMUNITY PEOPLE • Whistleblowing and reporting PEOPLE • Health and safety† ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT • Labour relations • Energy and fuel efficiency • Employee engagement • Reducing carbon intensity • Training and development • Waste and water • Diversity and inclusion consumption • Employee welfare † Priority areas 25 Overview OVERVIEW Our performance in 2015 2 G4S at a glance 4 Shape of the organisation 6 HEALTH Introduction by the Group AND Chief Executive Officer 8 SAFETY CSR Chair: Our approach to CSR and the role of the board 12 Case study: Care and rehabilitation 14 Case study: Safety focus 16 Case study: Business for peace 18 Stakeholders and materiality 20 HEALTH AND SAFETY Progress in 2015 25 Priorities for 2016 26 HUMAN RIGHTS Progress in 2015 27 Priorities for 2016 28 An open approach to addressing human rights issues 29 ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION Progress in 2015 31 Priorities for 2016 32 G4S’ business and culture In 2015, we undertook a review are underpinned by our values. of the group’s values to ensure While we have governance structures and review processes that they are relevant and appropriate for our business ABOUT THIS REPORT in place that sit outside the activities of today and into Reporting frameworks 33 line management structure to the future. More information provide scrutiny of our practices, on our updated values can be we expect our managers across found on page 9. the business to understand our Our values are the standards Corporate Social Responsibility we set for ourselves and our (CSR) commitments and to culture is the way those values uphold them in their everyday are reflected in the everyday business activities. behaviours of our colleagues. We reinforce group values and Following the launch of our standards at every opportunity new values in March 2016, and assess compliance with we will focus on embedding standards through a variety them in our business practices of means, including internal and and processes. external audit, contract reviews, risk reviews, self-assessments and other embedded operational processes. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 1 2015 sustainability actions OUR PERFORMANCE IN 2015 A snapshot of some of our key SAFEGUARDING OUR INTEGRITY • Completed a review and sustainability actions during 2015 developed new corporate values • Conducted a review of our CSR material issues, identifying three core priorities • Launched Speak Out, a new and enhanced global whistleblowing process and case management system • Completed the integration of our human rights framework into key business processes • Integrated human rights control self-assessments into our group risk and audit compliance processes • Completed 121 on-site internal SECURING OUR PEOPLE audits, the majority of which • Undertook health and safety included a review of compliance leadership training with with business ethics standards more than 1,000 managers • Conducted 111 human rights • Developed and launched regional risk ‘heat-map’ a new road safety policy assessments • Completed six group-led • Conducted seven human rights critical country reviews of safety assessments of major business in high priority businesses opportunities for review by the • Conducted our fourth and group investment committee largest global employee • Business units have conducted engagement survey to date, local human rights risk assessments receiving responses from 73% across all operating countries of all employees 111 • Engaged with the Australian • Achieved an overall favourable and UK OECD National Contact score of 82% in our global Points (NCP) in relation to employee engagement survey two complaints. Further details regional ‘heat-map’ human of these complaints and the rights risk assessments OECD NCP findings can be found on pages 29 and 30 73% of employees responded to the global employee engagement survey 2 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 4.6% reduction in carbon intensity since 2014 Overview £1.6m invested in community programmes and welfare programmes for employees 1,113 community programmes supported by G4S SECURING OUR ENVIRONMENT SECURING OUR COMMUNITIES • G4S total carbon footprint in • Conducted studies of the 2015 was 522,901 t/CO2e economic impact of G4S within • Achieved a carbon intensity of the UK, demonstrating a total 77 t/CO2e per £m of revenue contribution to the UK economy in 2015, representing a reduction of £1.72bn of 4.6% since 2014 • Invested approximately £1.6m • Measured 52% of the waste in charitable community generated by the group, totalling programmes and welfare 9,298 tonnes of mixed waste with programmes for employees 32% diverted from landfill • Matched £48,000 of employee • Measured 74% of the group’s fundraising for local community water usage with a total good causes across the world consumption of 1,917,196 litres • Supported more than 1,113 • Increased use of video community projects across conferencing and virtual meeting 65 countries, including: technology has helped us reduce –– Bhubesi Pride (Africa) the carbon emissions generated –– Shiksha School (India) by our business air travel by 6% 6 –– Landmine Education (Somalia) since 2014 –– Habitat for Humanity (USA) • Continued to invest in telematics technology to monitor driver –– Game On (UK) behaviour, leading to reductions critical country reviews in fuel usage and maintenance of safety in high priority costs, as well as improving driver businesses and road safety. At the end of 82% 2015, some 4,700 of our cash solutions vehicles had been fitted with telematics devices For more information on our approach to favourable response rating securing our environment from the global employee and our communities, engagement survey visit www.g4s.com/csr Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 3 Securing Your World G4S AT A G4S plays an important role in society – our 610,000* employees deliver services that create a safer and better environment in which GLANCE millions of people live and work. The breadth of our services and geographic coverage provides both resilience and growth opportunities. SECURE SOLUTIONS Security and facilities management (FM) services Security systems and technology Market Security and facilities management We differentiate the G4S brand Security systems and technology and strategy (FM) services is by far the largest by investing in employee selection, represented around 8% of group business segment in G4S, representing training, supervision, service delivery revenue in 2015. 58% of group revenues. The 84 and customer service and The global security systems market markets in which we provide relationship management. is a large and growing market but these services are usually highly Our manned security customer regional markets vary widely in fragmented. Our competitors are base is a valuable intangible asset. terms of competition, products typically smaller local and regional We have historically had little and services sold and customer companies although we do compete cross-selling in our secure solutions segments. Our technology strategy with international companies business segment and an important seeks to market core products in some countries and in some long-term element of our strategy and services that are increasingly markets we compete with facilities is to offer our broad range of developed globally and configured management companies. Competition services on a stand-alone basis or locally to meet each region’s is intense in manned security and in conjunction with other services unique requirements. secure FM and customers can be to provide customers with an extremely price sensitive. In our security systems service line integrated and more valuable we compete against fire and alarm We position G4S as a high quality, security solution. This offers the system manufacturers, installers global security service provider opportunity to increase customer and security systems integrators. with the skills, expertise and longevity and grow our margins. market coverage to offer our We have begun to improve our We promote outsourcing and customers integrated, cost effective cross-selling in the USA, UK and enhance the value of traditional and innovative security solutions Middle East and will continue security services through greater that protect or add value to to focus on this in 2016 and into use of technology. their organisations. the future. Services The secure solutions business covers a wide range of services, including: Security systems and technology includes: Risk services and consultancy Security installation and Monitoring and response maintenance – CCTV and video Secure facilities services and image analytics software, advanced access control systems Manned and mobile security services System software and integration – RISK360, GIS, TravelAware £3,752m 58% £506m 8% Revenue (2014 restated: £3,548m) (2014 restated: £482m) * Includes 44,000 employees in businesses to be sold or exited. 4 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Overview G4S areas of operation CASH SOLUTIONS Care and justice services Specialist outsourced services Cash solutions & secure logistics Care and justice services represented Based mainly in the UK, G4S offers The cash solutions business accounted for around 14% around 9% of group revenue in 2015. a range of outsourcing services, of group revenue in 2015. We are the market leader The market structure is typically which together accounted for around or number two in 43 of our 48 cash solutions markets. consolidated on the supply side 11% of group revenues in 2015. The main providers of similar services are a small number with a small number of providers. These services include back office of international competitors in mainly developed markets. Larger companies are usually better support and custody suites to Wherever possible our cash solutions business shares equipped to deliver such highly UK police forces and utility services facilities and back office processes with our secure specialised services. G4S will only (data collection and smart meter solutions businesses. The market is highly regulated, offer custody and detention services programmes). We also manage often by central banks, and the business requires complex where we can maintain a qualified welfare to work programmes in the infrastructure and significant expertise. Our strategy talent pool and where the political, UK and to date have helped 58,000 assumes that digital payment technology will continue legal, human rights standards and people find employment. These are to grow in developed markets and gain traction regulatory framework is consistent specialist services and there tend in emerging markets in the medium term. with our group values and results in to be just a small number of private We aim to: acceptable operational, commercial companies providing similar services and reputational risk. in the UK. • Position G4S as a reliable, innovative low cost operator that helps our customers to reduce their G4S care and justice services are We aim to offer innovative and cash handling costs and increase the ease of use concentrated primarily in the UK, cost-effective solutions to customers, of cash for their customers USA, Australia and South Africa leveraging our scale and expertise. and on a smaller scale in a • play a key role in the management of the cash cycle number of European markets on behalf of central banks, commercial banks and and New Zealand. retailers, allowing them to focus on their core business • use our developed market cash cycle expertise and track record to encourage central bank and financial institution outsourcing in emerging markets • continue the expansion of innovative technology such as CASH360™ for retail customers. Care and justice services offers Specialist services include: The cash solutions business covers highly specialised services to central a wide range of services including: Police services and local governments and Cash management outsourcing government agencies and authorities: Employment services Cash consulting Adult custody and rehabilitation Utility services ATM management Prisoner escorting Secure health services Retail cash management (CASH360TM)/Retail Solutions Immigration services International transportation Electronic monitoring £557m 9% £738m11% £880m (2014 restated: £587m) (2014: £698m) (2014: £872m) 14% Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 5 Key metrics SHAPE OF THE Frontline gender diversity (%) Africa 92 8 Asia & ORGANISATION Middle East 90 10 Latin America 85 15 Europe 82 18 North 73 27 America UK & Ireland 73 27 0 20 40 60 80 100% G4S is a global business with operations Male Female in more than 100 countries. We employ over 610,000 people, making G4S one of the world’s Managers gender diversity (%) largest private employers.* Africa 80 20 Asia & 86 14 Employees by geographical segments Employees by role Middle East Latin America 79 21 Europe 82 18 North 69 31 America UK & Ireland 69 31 0 20 40 60 80 100% Male Female Diversity We believe that increased diversity Africa 120,400 (20%) Front Line Employees 89.4% is vital to our continued success Asia & Middle East 262,500 (43%) Supervisor / because the skills and talents we First Line Managers 6.1% Latin America 76,000 (12%) need in the future are found in Europe 58,200 (10%) Administrative, people from diverse backgrounds. Professional & Technical 3.3% Nor th America 56,400 (9%) Managers 1.2% Gender is the only diversity metric UK & Ireland 36,500 (6%) which can be applied globally, and is an important indicator of our progress in this area. At the end of 2015, over 610,000 people worked for G4S. Women make up 13% of our The largest geographical region frontline employees and 23% of continues to be Asia Middle East our managers, although there is where 42% of our employees work. a wide variation between markets. The majority of employees are It continues to be challenging in frontline roles, with the number to attract and retain women in of managers and supervisors varying frontline operational roles, so we depending on the nature of each offer support via a variety of toolkits business and the extent to which and templates to our businesses technology is deployed to meet to assist with recruitment and customer requirements. retention of women. * Includes 44,000 employees in businesses to be sold or exited. 6 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Overview Collective agreements Collective agreements In the past, as well as reporting the % Collective agreements percentage of employees covered by 2015 2014 2013 collective agreements, we have also Africa 57% 50% 56% been able to give an indication of the Asia & Middle East 11% 8% 11% levels of union membership. The figures Latin America 39% 39% 38% for union membership were based on Europe 67% 63% 66% payroll deductions made to pay union North America 17% 17% 18% subscriptions. Since union subscriptions UK & Ireland 67% 67% 84% are increasingly collected directly from employees’ bank accounts, the company Total 33% 30% 33% no longer has an accurate way of confirming levels of union membership Employee turnover across the group. 2015 2014 2013 We continue to have a healthy and Africa 24.9% 23.3% 14.4% positive relationship with trade unions Asia & Middle East 36.9% 37.2% 41.0% across the globe and, under the framework Latin America 23.9% 28.3% 32.6% set out in our Ethical Employment Europe 25.6% 29.1% 25.3% Partnership, work with them to improve employment standards. North America 29.0% 36.6% 25.9% UK & Ireland 13.0% 15.0% 12.7% Employee turnover Total 29.7% 30.8% 29.6% Employee turnover is one of our key performance indicators and is closely monitored each month. In 2015, a number Length of employee service (%) of regions and businesses introduced 2015 2014 2013 measures to address high voluntary < 1 year 26% 27% 28% turnover rates. For example in Europe, 1–2 years 17% 16% 18% where turnover is relatively high, during 2–5 years 25% 25% 23% the first six months of employment, new induction and employee buddying 5–10 years 19% 19% 19% programmes are being piloted. In Latin > 10 years 13% 12% 12% America the focus has been on improving the recruitment processes and building the skills and confidence of the first-line 33% managers. In North America we have used the extensive feedback from the employee engagement survey to develop plans for improving retention rates. employees covered by The reduction in turnover rates suggest collective agreements that the measures are working but we will continue our focus in this area and extend any good practices developed to gain 74% maximum benefit across the group. Having a stable workforce enables us to build relationships with our employees employees have more and ensure the consistent delivery than one year’s service of service to the same standards for our customers. It also helps to reduce costs related to the recruitment and training of new employees and allows us to focus resources on the development of employees who wish to stay or progress within the organisation. In 2015, 74% of our employees had more than one year’s service. For more information visit www.g4s.com/csr Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 7 Introduction by the Group Chief Executive Officer A SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS Ashley Almanza Group Chief Executive Officer G4S employees play an important Importance of sustainability In this CSR report, we analyse Being a sustainable, ethical business the key ethical and sustainability role in society – safeguarding the is key to the ongoing success of issues and themes that arise welfare and prosperity of millions G4S. We are trusted by customers from our business and provide an update on their progress since of people and helping create safer and other stakeholders to safeguard our last report. their most precious assets and we and better environments in which strive to place that responsibility people live and work. at the centre of everything we do. Prioritising CSR activities G4S demonstrated its commitment Our values and our approach to CSR through signing the UN Global to embedding CSR strategies into Compact five years ago. The core our business model are important principles of the Compact continue differentiators for the group. to be reflected in our values and They help us to attract and retain in our business ethics, human rights employees, to win and keep and other CSR policies. customers and to obtain appropriate investment in the group – all of Our CSR programmes cover a which is key to supporting our broad range of issues from assessing sustainable business performance. the economic impact of our operations to improving the fuel efficiency In recent years we have reviewed of our fleet. However, our primary the systems and processes that focus is on those strategic issues govern the way in which we work that are most closely aligned to our at G4S. Those reviews have resulted business performance and have been in us developing a new approach highlighted by internal and external to embedding CSR practices into stakeholders as the most material our operations, from implementing CSR issues faced by the group. a new process for assessing and managing our core risks and Our 2015 CSR materiality review introducing a human rights framework, identified health and safety, human to making substantial enhancements rights, and anti-bribery and corruption to our health and safety policies as our most important priorities and practices. We have made and material CSR issues. considerable progress in these and wider sustainability-related More information on the programmes, which has had 2015 CSR Materiality Review a positive impact on G4S and can be found on pages 20 to 21. its stakeholders. 8 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate values commitments we make to our Achievements in 2015 Overview Values are the standards we set stakeholders. We have concluded Health and safety for ourselves and the culture of the our review and have launched The safety of our employees and organisation is the way those values a new set of values. those in our care is a key priority are reflected in our behaviours In 2016, we will focus on embedding for the group. We have made and actions. these values in our processes and improvements to our health and Being a service business, people practices across the group and safety practices across the business, are at the heart of our business. building them into our management with a particular focus on We rely on them to provide incentive programmes. management accountability as excellent customer service and well as incident prevention and Where incidents are reported best practice sharing. to behave in line with the company’s or the conduct of our staff falls values and standards. They rely on short of our values and standards, It has been a challenging year and the company to provide a safe place we always treat them with the while the added focus on health to work and for development, utmost gravity. We report any and safety has led to a reduction support and guidance throughout failures to the relevant authorities in the number of fatal incidents and their career. and conduct our own investigation attacks in some regions during 2015, In 2015, we commenced a review or appoint an independent third I regret to report that 46 of our of our corporate values, recognising party to carry out an investigation colleagues lost their lives in the that they were originally developed on our behalf. We learn from any course of their duties during 2015 in 2004, the year G4S was created. breaches of policy or standards (41 in 2014). Our goal is zero harm While many elements of the values and adapt our practices to prevent and whilst I am encouraged by the remain relevant to our business them reoccurring in the future. greatly improved safety awareness, strategy today, we felt that they our safety results remain completely could better reflect the standards  Information on recent incidents unsatisfactory. My management we expect from our staff and the can be found on pages 29 and 30. team and I remain wholeheartedly We act with… INTEGRITY AND RESPECT We are passionate about… SAFETY, SECURITY AND SERVICE EXCELLENCE We achieve this through… INNOVATION AND TEAMWORK Integrity and Respect Safety, Security and Innovation Teamwork Our business activities Service Excellence We invest in technology We work together and relationships are built We work in a safe way and best practice to as a team to achieve on trust, honesty and and take great care to continually improve the best results for our openness. We deliver protect our colleagues our service offering. customers and our on the promises we make and customers from We challenge ourselves business. Everyone has and treat our colleagues, harm. We are experts to find new ways of a valid opinion and their customers and those in security and use that helping our customers. contribution is valued. in our care with the knowledge to protect utmost respect. our customers’ most valuable assets. We are passionate about delivering high levels of customer service. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 9 Introduction by the Group Chief Executive Officer continued committed to our goal of zero harm contracts or operational areas, process. As well as to a new and will continue to invest in safety and internal audit and compliance global whistleblowing hotline, our awareness, training and intervention assessment. Our prioritisation Speak Out programme is supported as part of an ongoing programme of human rights issues is based by a central whistleblowing case to enhance the safety culture of on an annual assessment of human management system which will the company. rights risks and a series of control provide us with much improved self-assessment and reviews in visibility of whistleblowing issues and Our approach on health and safety markets where human rights risks help us to assess trends. In addition, will focus directly on the actions may exist. We take human rights we have identified a series of of supervisors and staff on the front risks extremely seriously and when specialist investigators within the line with resources being realigned a risk or concern is identified, company who have been trained to to the areas where they can have action is taken to make sure that investigate whistleblowing matters the most impact – reviewing health we put in place processes to within their area of expertise. and safety practices at our offices, branches and customer sites and mitigate or reduce that risk. Creating an environment in which taking remedial action to reinforce Anti-bribery and corruption colleagues feel confident that they everyday compliance with our Every G4S colleague has a can raise concerns and they will health and safety guidelines. responsibility to ensure that we be taken seriously without fear of uphold our values, adhere to the retaliation is essential to the success Human rights law and operate in a manner that of the business and one of our Our human rights framework has is consistent with the important priorities for 2016. The importance been embedded in key systems and of supporting this outcome was business decision-making processes commitments set out in our ethics underlined by the shocking and across the group, such as evaluating policy and ethics code. In September unacceptable events at our new market entry, analysing the we launched Speak Out, our new Medway facility in late 2015. risks of entering into major new and enhanced global whistleblowing Our group strategy underpinned by our values SERVICE FINANCIAL GROWTH EXCELLENCE DISCIPLINE OPERATIONAL EXCELLENCE INNOVATION Our employees Our financial performance is underpinned by recruiting, developing and deploying the best people. To do this we invest PEOPLE in building robust recruitment, & VALUES screening and vetting processes to underpin our commitment to delivering consistent service excellence and high standards of ethical and legal compliance. 10 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Employee engagement Anti-bribery and corruption the basis on which our other Overview Feedback from our global employees Following the launch of Speak Out, corporate policies and standards is an important method of assessing we will continue to reinforce will develop. how policies are being put into awareness and encourage I and my group executive colleagues practice throughout our operations. a workplace culture in which believe that our CSR strategy must It also helps us to measure our all employees will feel confident develop in line with our business employees’ understanding of the that they can raise any ethical objectives and are committed to group values and identify things concerns they may have in good ensuring that our CSR standards are we can do to improve the way faith without fear of retaliation. embedded within our organisational they feel about the company. Values processes and behaviours. In 2015, we undertook the most The introduction of our new We will focus on continuous recent of our global employee values will be supported by an improvement of our business surveys, based on our PRIDE model employee engagement programme practices to ensure that we meet (see www.g4s.com/pride for to ensure that they are embedded our high ethical and sustainability more information on the model). in our core processes for selecting, standards across the group. This survey, our fourth, was the hiring, on-boarding, training and largest to date and received developing of our colleagues around 449,000 responses, from around the world. They will also be a key 73% of all employees. element of how we assess the performance of our leaders and Ashley Almanza The survey data is very useful Group Chief Executive Officer in developing and enhancing our group-wide human resources and engagement strategies, but more N THE GLOBAL SECURIT importantly, because it can be analysed in depth at a local level, N I it provides our management and O S ITIO YM AR K RP supervisors with information on local issues so they can take action to address any concerns OU ET raised by our employees. Information on the key findings from the employee survey can be found on page 22. Priorities for 2016 Our core ethical and sustainability priorities will remain unchanged during 2016 – they continue to be the areas that will have the most impact on our sustainable performance and therefore will be the areas where we will focus our efforts. Developed markets Health and safety Emerging markets We will continue our relentless focus No presence on the safety of our employees and those in our care. We will continue to learn the lessons from incidents that have taken place and ensure OUR REGIONS that our systems are continually improved to prevent reoccurrence. Our goal is zero harm. North America UK & Ireland Asia Middle East* Services 24 % 23 % 21 % Security and facilities management Human rights Human rights will continue to Security systems and technology form an important part of our risk Care and justice services Revenue Revenue Revenue assessment and mitigation process, Specialist outsourcing with the implementation of a Cash solutions and secure logistics new control self-assessment for * From 1 January 2016, the Asia Middle businesses operating in high-risk Europe Latin America Africa East region was split into Asia Pacific 18% 8% 6% countries beginning in 2016. and Middle East and India. We will also continue to build awareness and understanding of our human rights responsibilities Revenue Revenue Revenue among our leadership. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 11 CSR Chair: Our approach to CSR and the role of the board AN INTEGRATED APPROACH TO SUSTAINABILITY Good CSR practice plays a vital role in successful, long-term business outcomes. In order to have the Clare Spottiswoode most impact on performance, CSR priorities must CSR Chair be integrated into everyday business actions. While some areas of sustainability new markets and assessing risks of understanding of safety risks and have always resided in our everyday doing business in certain customer the accountability for addressing operations – for example employee sectors and geographical regions. safety concerns. engagement and health and safety – The requirement of managers Human rights and other CSR risks we have seen an increasing trend to take direct responsibility for the form a significant element of of further CSR practices becoming safety of the staff in their care and our internal assurance and audit a key part of business decisionfor others with whom we come processes and are prioritised making and operational delivery. into contact has been enhanced following our annual review with safety objectives built into of human rights risks. Embedded CSR performance contracts and incentive Many of our internal processes schemes. Following an incident, Employee engagement have been enhanced in recent years managers are expected to play As an organisation that spans more and now incorporate important a direct role in understanding the than 100 countries and employs elements of CSR. CSR issues are causes of the incident and making 610,000 staff, we are acutely aware considered as essential in strategic changes to processes to help prevent that G4S can play an important role decision-making in areas such as them reoccurring. This has helped in societies across the globe. service line development, entering to improve the visibility and This applies in both developed countries where laws and standards set out clear expectations of sustainable performance and in emerging markets where we are ETHICS AND SUSTAINABILITY GOVERNANCE often responsible for setting voluntary guidelines and working with our Board key partners to ensure that we are raising industry standards. An essential part of reviewing Remuneration CSR Risk Audit Nomination whether CSR is having an impact Committee Committee Committee Committee Committee in our local markets is through feedback from our employees right down to those providing frontline Group Risk and operations. In 2015, our employee Group Executive Committee Audit committees engagement survey provided essential insight into how strategies Investment Regional Group and Regional Committee Executives Ethics Committee Group Risk & Internal Country/Business Unit Executives Audit Function 12 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 developed at the centre of the a prison and secure training centre Overview organisation are deployed on the to see for ourselves how practices CSR COMMITTEE ground. It also helped to provide are developing in line with enhanced feedback on the company values, CSR standards in the light of the fair treatment of employees, incidents that had taken place. local health and safety practices, Further information on recent and employee understanding on incidents can be found on pages 29 how to raise concerns or issues and 30. where they see behaviour that does not meet our standards. Our CSR priorities More information on the employee I would like to thank colleagues and Clare Spottiswoode survey can be found on page 22. other stakeholders for participating CSR Chair actively in our CSR materiality Stakeholder engagement review. Their insight forms an We welcome active engagement important element of our CSR with our key stakeholder groups strategic development and has on CSR matters. In addition to played a key role in confirming the everyday business engagement our priority areas for the future. carried out by our managers The materiality review findings which includes CSR issues, the are published on pages 20 and 21. CSR Committee also participates in discussions and debates about CSR performance and strategies. The CSR Committee Winnie Kin Wah Fok In 2015, I personally met with In 2015, the CSR Committee met Non-executive director socially responsible investment (SRI) on three occasions and received analysts and institutional investors to regular updates from members discuss elements of our CSR actions of the management team on key and governance. Presentation CSR issues such as health and material used for those briefings safety reports, CSR and human is published on our website at rights reviews of new business www.g4s.com/csr. opportunities, and progress against our plan to introduce new Operational incidents whistleblowing processes and case management systems. We expect our staff to behave Paul Spence in line with the company’s policies The committee participated in Non-executive director and practices on human rights and reviews of the group’s response other matters. We work hard to to operational incidents and the ensure that our colleagues are clear progress against our corporate 2015 membership about our expectations and the renewal programme, which was CSR Committee meetings requirements of our customers agreed with the UK Government are also attended by the group and know how to raise concerns in 2014. corporate affairs director, group if they believe others are not human resources director and Committee members participated meeting those standards. the regional president of the directly in the CSR materiality In any organisation, there are exercise and contributed to the UK & Ireland region. The meetings occasions when things go wrong review of group values that took are also attended by internal or when staff do not behave in place in 2015. and external experts as required. accordance with our policies and The committee will continue to practices. While the executive work with the executive management management will lead on analysing to ensure that good CSR practice the root causes of any incidents becomes further embedded and on identifying ways in which within the group. We will scrutinise future incidents can be prevented, CSR performance and ensure I am keen to make sure that, that the strategic priorities are from a governance point of view, being addressed. the CSR Committee is engaged in understanding the issues and in overseeing that appropriate management action is taken. In 2015, Paul Spence and I visited Clare Spottiswoode a G4S-managed prison and I visited Chair CSR Committee Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 13 Case study CARE AND REHABILITATION CONFRONTING AND ADDRESSING POOR BEHAVIOUR The Basic Intervention Group (BIG) is a new programme which aims to confront the behaviours of the most challenging prisoners at Oakwood THE G4S ETHOS Prison in England. Should the Our ethos is founded upon the philosophy of behaviour of any prisoner not meet fairness, respect for human rights and the personal expectation or certain standards required of them, they face the dignity of the people entrusted to our care. removal of certain earned privileges, such as access to in-cell television FAMILY INTERVENTIONS, TO BREAK designed to maximise their and eligibility to earn higher rates engagement. A range of group and of pay, and being returned to a ‘Basic’ THE CYCLE OF REOFFENDING individual intervention programmes regime. Experience has shown that The primary role of our colleagues are selected for the prisoners for some prisoners, this can become working in G4S-managed prison and their families according to the start of a deteriorating pattern facilities is to help prisoners to risk and need, and advice is offered of behaviour towards others and become better citizens when they on parenting issues, family debt, affect their rehabilitation. leave our care. benefits, health, and support to The BIG programme uses positive At Parc Prison in South Wales, access training and employment role models to intervene and the Family Intervention Unit and opportunities. prevent or address poor behaviour, our ‘Invisible Walls’ programme are Led by G4S, ‘Invisible Walls’ is a aiming to trigger a new cycle of among the successful measures multi-agency programme which behavioural improvement and we use to support prisoners and works with the families of prisoners cooperation. Prisoners are not their families to repair and maintain who are experiencing difficulties. guaranteed to be accepted onto healthy relationships – which in turn Each family receives tailored the BIG initiative and must reduces their risk of reoffending, mentoring support for up to a year demonstrate their willingness to reduces the risk of their children prior to the prisoner’s release change as part of the application following in their footsteps and and then for another six months process. Once accepted on the reduces the social exclusion of following release. The success of this programme, each prisoner will be families in their local community. programme has led to the model assigned a mentor who has a record Our Family Intervention Unit is being replicated in other prisons of excellent behaviour and is fully home to 62 male prisoners and across the UK and overseas. compliant with the prison regime. provides an environment which Following an 18-month accreditation The BIG programme encourages focuses on rebuilding positive and submission process, HMP and prisoners to confront the relationships between them, their YOI Parc has been awarded the consequences of their actions families and their children. Prisoners Investors in Families Charter Mark and repair damage done through are encouraged to speak regularly for its ground-breaking work to mediation and work. Through with their families, especially their reduce reoffending among prisoners the BIG programme, more than children, and the unit hosts and their families through innovative 100 mediations have been family-centred visits which are educational methods. undertaken between prisoners who had grievances against one another and which sometimes resulted in violent behaviour. There have been no recurrences of the behavioural problem. Work parties allow prisoners to repair any damage they have caused and demonstrate a willingness to change to other prisoners. Prison officers and the reducing reoffending team oversee the process and the progress of each BIG prisoner is reported back to the senior management team. The initiative is successfully addressing the behaviour of some of the most challenging prisoners. It has also built mentors’ skills, with third party agencies showing interest in offering employment post-release. 14 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 OUR APPROACH HT SUMM Overview RSIG FREQUENCY E AR OV MINISTRY Y PERMANENT P PRESENCE OF JUSTICE VARIED V FREQUENCY MONTHS 4 BETWEEN G4S EXTERNAL VISITS MOJ CONTROLLER MOJ AUDIT P & ASSURANCE V MOJ REGIONAL OFSTED INSPECTORS HM INSPECTORATE REVIEWS 12 V OF PRISONS 36 MOJ PRISON RATING MQPL SURVEYS** INDEPENDENT MOJ CONTRACT SYSTEM 12 24 MONITORING BOARD P REVIEW MEETINGS 4 G4S AUDIT ISO/OSHAS HEALTHCARE G4S MANAGEMENT & ASSURANCE P ACCREDITATION V PROVIDERS V REVIEW V BODIES CARE QUALITY THIRD-PARTY NON-GOVERNMENTAL IOCCO* COMMISSION V SERVICE PROVIDERS V ORGANISATIONS V V *Interception of Communications Commissioner's Office | **Measuring Quality of Prisoner Life G4S’ care and justice services are standards which are expected of not managed in isolation. In addition them. The graphic above represents to our own management and the various internal and external governance structures, we work bodies which are monitoring a with many different organisations typical G4S custodial or detention to ensure that our facilities are facility in the UK. closely monitored and meet the Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 15 Case study ‘SAFETY ON THE GO’ IN INDIA More than 900 employees across HEALTH AND SAFETY MANAGEMENT During 2015, G4S India ran a safety the country took part in this programme for employees using programme, which included a CRITICAL COUNTRY motorcycles, because they face training module on defensive driving. REVIEWS (CCRs) OF increased likelihood of being The programme was reinforced HEALTH AND SAFETY: involved in an incident. The aim of by an extensive communication CCRs are commissioned the programme was to raise safety campaign. New personal protective awareness as well as ensuring by the group director of equipment was introduced to compliance with the G4S Driving health and safety, on behalf improve the visibility of motorcyclists Force Rules. and other security officers who of the Group Executive work in close proximity to vehicles. Committee (GEC). SAFETY FATALITIES AND LIFE-THREATENING OR PERMANENTLY DISABLING INJURIES: FOCUS The group is formally notified within 24 hours of an incident by the relevant managing director. 16 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Overview SAFETY TRAINING IN NETHERLANDS G4S Netherlands provides safety and emergency response training to government and industry at our six specialist facilities. This training uses a mix of classroom and scenario – based environments covering firefighting, first aid and evacuation. Our trainers will also carry out situation-based training and testing of emergency response and evacuation effectiveness at our customers’ sites. FIREARMS Regular refresher training, In some markets it is a requirement appropriate screening of employees for G4S security staff to carry and ongoing maintenance and firearms as a means of additional repair of firearms ensure the safety protection for themselves and their of both employees and the firearms customers. Therefore, we have a they use. comprehensive policy on firearms The implementation of this policy covering a range of issues relating is reviewed through a process of to firearms safety, including their compliance audits and review, both control, procurement, storage by the local businesses and by and transportation. Group Internal Audit. Countries are selected The reviews also provide assurance The health and CCR The based on risk exposure to the GEC that recommended safety processes reports recommended and performance, actions stemming from serious and practices are actions from particularly the occurrence incidents are implemented. in the business reviewed the review are of work-related fatalities. are reviewed by all GEC formally tracked The reviews are conducted by a and root cause members. by the regional The objectives of the review senior person who has a significant analysis is health and safety are ‘to help businesses level of health and safety expertise carried out manager, on identify and take actions and who is not in the line of to identify the behalf of their to prevent or mitigate management of that business. root cause regional leader. the workplace risks to A specialist in a particular risk of any serious the lives of our people’. area often also takes part. incidents. Within 24 hours, a An Within The A lessons The regional preliminary set of actions investigation 28 days, an investigation learned health and safety is completed. Apart from team is formed investigation and root cause note is manager will the emergency response, and an report is analysis is sent out by formally track the this includes gathering investigation submitted reviewed by the group implementation the relevant information, is carried out, to the group’s the director and/or of recommended contacting the relevant usually within director of health and region. actions from authorities and attending 14 days. of health safety for the investigation. to the needs of the and safety. the group. next of kin. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 17 Case study BUSINESS FOR PEACE In 2014, G4S became a signatory MINE ACTION • contribute to the socio-economic development of South Sudan by to the UN Global Compact’s Business G4S Ordnance Management enabling contaminated land to teams support humanitarian and for Peace initiative. reconstruction programmes around be cleared of landmines and the world through stockpile control, released to local communities The initiative aims to help businesses bomb disposal and the removal for agriculture or commerce implement responsible practices while of landmines and unexploded The children of local communities remnants of war. are particularly at risk from operating in high-risk and conflictlandmines which may be laid across Our personnel are recognised as affected areas. It also aims to help experts in the location, identification land previously used for farming or could be collected by them for ensure that companies bring about and safe removal of landmines and scrap and recycling value. We are other ordnance and the destruction a positive change to the regions in of conventional weapons and supporting our sustainable legacy in which they are operating by promoting stockpiled munitions. South Sudan, by delivering education programmes to children and adults stability, beneficial development and Since 2006, G4S has been on the danger posed by landmines the advancement of peace. supporting the United Nations and other unexploded ordnance. Mine Action Service (UNMAS) throughout South Sudan. In this Since 1997, our specialist teams As a socially responsible company, role, our primary objectives are to: have located and destroyed more G4S reinforces its commitment to • contribute to the reduction than 200,000 landmines and over 20 million items of unexploded Business for Peace through working of the threat and impact of ordnance around the world. In alongside governments and landmines and other remnants the process, as well as saving lives, of war created by the ongoing G4S teams have returned over non-governmental organisations in conflict in South Sudan and the 1,000 square kilometres of land to high-risk environments to support legacy of the civil war in preproductive use, either for commerce independence Southern Sudan or agriculture, and cleared more humanitarian, stabilisation and than 40,000 houses, allowing people • contribute to the protection economic reconstruction efforts. of civilians by improving safe to return to their homes. access for humanitarian groups to the communities affected by the conflict SUPPORTING INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT For over a decade, G4S has provided integrated security platforms, as well as specialist training, advisory and other services to the UK’s Foreign Office, Department for International Development and other key agencies and partners. Enabling them to achieve their objectives relating to the stabilisation and reconstruction of difficult post-conflict environments such as Afghanistan, Iraq and Somaliland. 18 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Overview Key initiatives bring peace and stability CIALS EY OFFI K OF ON CTI TE MANNED SE CLO CUR SE ITY PR AND O FAC ILI ENT GEM ANA SM TIE COMMUNITY MINE ACTION ENGAGEMENT SUPPORTING PEACE AND STABILITY ON SUL INING TAT ION TRA C RAISING STANDARDS RAISING STANDARDS The development of a governance and oversight mechanism for the G4S is a founder signatory to the International Code of Conduct for Code led to the launch of the Private Security Providers (2010). International Code of Conduct WE SUPPORT The Code was developed by Association (ICoCA), a non-profit representatives of the security body established to ensure the industry (including G4S), civil accountability, accreditation and society and the Swiss, US and UK compliance of its members. governments. Based on international G4S Risk Management became human rights standards, the Code a member of the ICOC Association sets out the principles for security at its launch in 2013. Since its operations in so-called ‘complex launch, a growing number of state environments’ – areas experiencing and non-state customers have or recovering from disaster or recognised the benefit of engaging unrest and where governments and with accredited members of the rule of law are weak. It covers the ICoCA when operating recruitment, vetting and training in high-risk environments. of staff; the use of force by security officers, including the handling of firearms; health and safety; and reporting and complaints handling. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 19 Stakeholders and materiality CSR MATERIALITY Working in partnership with In the interviews, we sought a team of independent experts, their views and opinions on which we reviewed and identified the issues present the greatest risk or REVIEW ethical and sustainable issues and opportunity to the organisation’s trends which may have the potential performance, strategy and reputation. to have an impact on our business, The results of the review are our stakeholders and the wider presented in our materiality matrix, security industry. These formed which compares the priority of the basis of 26 issue areas grouped each issue relative to the concerns under six broad themes. In order to ensure that G4S’ approach of the stakeholder group. The closer to CSR remains focused on the areas Together with our external partners, each issue is towards the top-right we conducted a series of telephone corner of the matrix, the higher that are of most relevance to the interviews during November the priority placed upon it by business and its stakeholders, we and December 2015, surveying stakeholders and the more material the executive and non-executive it is to G4S’ business performance carry out a wide-ranging materiality members of G4S senior management and sustainability. review of ethical and sustainability and a broad range of external stakeholders, including sustainability issues every two years. analysts, industry bodies, customers, suppliers, NGOs and legislative bodies. The materiality matrix confirmed three core priority ethics and sustainability areas for the group during 2016 and 2017: Our priority areas HEALTH HUMAN ANTI-BRIBERY AND AND SAFETY RIGHTS CORRUPTION The safety of our employees and Our respect for human rights We will continue to develop and those in our care is one of our is core to the sustainable success encourage a workplace culture corporate values and remains of our business and continues to in which all employees will feel a key priority for the group. be an important part of our risk confident that they may raise assessment and mitigation process. any ethical concerns. IF YOU SEE OR SUSPECT WRONGDOING… …do the right thing and speak out! 01234 123456 www.g4s-speakout.com IT IS SAFE TO SPEAK OUT! SPEAK OUT is for reporting serious You are encouraged to report any serious wrongdoing. Any other concerns (such issues without fear of retaliation. All concerns as pay queries, uniform issues or general raised in good faith will be taken seriously and employment grievances) should be directed treated with respect. to your line manager, or HR for a quick resolution. Securing Your World 20 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Overview 2015 materiality matrix HIGH Health, safety and protection of employees and people Human rights under G4S care Anti-bribery Transparency and corruption Labour relations IMPORTANCE TO STAKEHOLDERS Corporate governance Government relationships Employee standards Employee recruitment and behaviours and screening Value and developing Risk employees management Legal and regulatory Data protection and Customer trust compliance information security and delivery Promoting industry standards Secure and stable communities Technology and innovation Emerging market growth Economic GHG emissions impact Diversity and inclusion Responsible procurement and Tax supply chain management Community Environmental engagement Resource use management and waste LOW HIGH Ethics IMPACT ON G4S Environment Economic Community Geo-political Employment Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 21 Stakeholders and materiality continued Employee engagement Overall, the feedback was positive Offering interesting and challenging Our employees are one of our and all questions had a favourable roles continues to be seen as most important stakeholder groups. response rate in excess of 76%, a huge attraction to working with In order to deliver on our goals in with a number, including those the group, with a significant number such a people-based business, we relating to fair treatment, personal of senior managers confirming that need highly motivated and engaged development and effective this is the most important factor employees who believe in the communications, showing an influencing their decision to stay company and do their best to increase in favourable responses with G4S. Of the concerns raised, provide our customers with since 2013. Levels of engagement leadership development and pay 82% great service every day. remain high, with 80% of employees and reward were the most significant, confirming their intention to stay both of which the company has During 2015, we conducted a global with the company and that they taken steps to address with the employee engagement survey to would recommend G4S as an launch of the new regional leadership assess whether we are delivering employer. In spite of these positive programme and a review of the our commitments to our employees overall responses, there were also favourable alignment of incentives. and maximising their levels opportunities for improvement of engagement. score in 2015 Both the employee and senior identified in areas such as health and management surveys included The feedback from the survey is safety and managerial feedback in questions on the group values to vital in shaping our engagement relation to employee performance. establish whether these are fully plans for the future so every effort Following communication of the understood and whether they help is made to ensure that as many results, businesses have been shape employees’ behaviour at employees as possible have the developing their action plans work. From senior managers there opportunity to participate. for implementation in 2016. was positive feedback about the 90% The questions in the most recent Having leaders who are inspired by introduction of the new ‘Safety first’ survey were based on our employee the group aims and who strive to value, and in the wider employee engagement model called PRIDE, develop their businesses to meet engagement survey it was encouraging which sets out how we will Protect, these aims is critical so, in addition to see 90% of respondents confirming Respect, Involve, Develop and to the global employee survey, they are clear about how to behave Engage our people. As this was the employees senior managers were invited to confirmed in accordance with the group values. fourth global engagement survey, participate in a separate survey Embedding our new values in the results tracked improvements understanding in order that we could gauge core processes will be a key and also provided feedback from their specific views in more detail. of company focus for 2016. employees on new questions on Participation levels and favourable values the company values. scores from senior managers were high, with over 86% of leaders responding and three-quarters of them doing so positively. Overall favourable scores for the employee engagement survey (%) P rotect their basic needs 100 R espect them as individuals 80 80 82 82 I nvolve them in the business 60 D evelop their skills and potential 40 E ngage them fully 20 0 11 13 15 % of responses in 2011, 2013 & 2015 22 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Overview CSR REPORT 2015: STAKEHOLDER TABLE Our stakeholders and why we engage Examples of how we engage CUSTOMERS During 2015, we have continued to invest in embedding a rigorous approach to strategic account and customer …can be sure that they are working with a good company, service management. We have implemented a Net Promoter which has high ethical standards and makes a positive Score model to measure and respond to customer impact on society, not just as a result of the service it offers, satisfaction ratings and we continue to invest in strategic but also because of the way it behaves. account managers to ensure that we anticipate and meet They can be confident that we will always operate to the our customers’ needs. highest standards and will not compromise their reputation as a result of unethical conduct. They will know that we have systems and processes in place to ensure that employees operate to the highest ethical standards. PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS Our ethical and sustainability standards have been integrated into our key business processes, including …can be confident that any business venture entered our supplier code of conduct which was reviewed into with G4S will be carried out on the basis of strong and relaunched in 2015. ethics and that any form of unethical behaviour will not be tolerated. (See our website: www.g4s.com/suppliercode) They will be sure that G4S employees will not compromise the reputation of a supplier or partner as a result of unethical conduct, and they will be clear about our expectations of them as a partner or supplier to the group and our zero tolerance policy in terms of unethical transactions or behaviour. EMPLOYEES Since 2008, we have had an ethical employment partnership with UNI, a global union federation. This agreement provides …can be sure that they are working with a good a framework for businesses and unions to engage locally for company and be clear about the expectations that the the purposes of union recognition and collective bargaining. group has of them in terms of behaving ethically and (See page 28) representing the G4S brand in an appropriate way. In 2015, we launched Speak Out, a new and enhanced global Our employees have an important role to play in helping whistleblowing process and case management system. to maintain a healthy, respectful and productive working (See pages 31 to 32) environment. They will feel able to report any concerns about unethical behaviour within the group and can be Also in 2015, we conducted our fourth and largest global confident that their concerns will be investigated and employee survey to date. Overall feedback was positive, acted upon in confidence. however we are continuing to analyse the results and implement action plans based on the feedback received. Employees will also have the confidence to speak out (See page 22) if they witness behaviour that is not in line with the company’s values or that puts colleagues or others at risk of harm. They will know that their concerns will be taken seriously and that they will be treated fairly for reporting any such conduct. INVESTORS AND SRI ANALYSTS We have strong relationships with the general investor community and investment analysts. …can be confident that they have invested in a company that has high ethical standards which provide an important We host investor meetings aimed specifically at socially differentiator for the group and help to build a sustainable responsible investors and ethical investment advisors. reputation, business performance and market/share We respond to ad-hoc requests for information price value. throughout the year and also proactively seek feedback on specific CSR-related issues as they arise. Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 23 Stakeholders and materiality continued CSR REPORT 2015: STAKEHOLDER TABLE CONTINUED Our stakeholders and why we engage Examples of how we engage COMMUNITIES AND NON-GOVERNMENTAL We make an important contribution to the communities in which we live and work through our payment of tax ORGANISATIONS and employment of 610,000 people. ...can be sure that G4S will behave ethically in all of its dealings with stakeholders in the community, Where particular concerns or complaints are made, we will such as employees, customers, partners and governments. seek to engage with relevant bodies, and stakeholders can They can be sure that we will have a positive impact be sure that their concerns will be taken seriously and dealt on the local community and bring shared value with appropriately at the right level of the organisation, to the members of that society. or if necessary, by independent experts. INDUSTRY BODIES Many G4S managers and employees play an active role in industry bodies and associations across the world, such as the We work with industry bodies to establish strong Confederation of British Industry (CBI) or UN Global Compact. benchmarks wherever we operate and play a pivotal role in raising standards in the wider industry and Since 2010, G4S has been directly involved in the development society as a whole. and success of the International Code of Conduct for Private Security Providers (ICoC). G4S was a founder signatory of the code, and in 2013 G4S Risk Management became a founding member of the ICoC Association the compliance and oversight body for the code. MULTILATERAL ORGANISATIONS As a leading global business, G4S participates in consultations regarding industry-specific issues AND GOVERNMENTS and broader legislative programmes. …can be confident that we will support regulation that is designed to improve standards. It is important We also host or participate in events at which we may to ensure that legislative developments do not create demonstrate our expertise on security-related issues, unfair competitive environments or unnecessary burdens such as our Security and Intelligence Forum in the UK. on business activities. In addition to this, governments are also some of the group’s largest customers and we strive to maintain good customer relationships. INDEPENDENT EXPERTS We work with independent experts on specific topics to help the group ensure that its policies and practices Where criticisms or complaints are made, stakeholders are aligned with best practice. can be sure that they will be taken seriously and dealt with appropriately at the right level of the organisation G4S has engaged with and sought the expertise of recognised or by independent experts if necessary. specialists on a number of specific issues. For example, in 2015 G4S commissioned an independent expert on offender management and vulnerable children to review a G4S managed secure training centre in the UK, and the Ethics Steering Group selected Navex Global, an independent provider of whistleblowing hotline and case management expertise to support the development and implementation of Speak Out, the new global whistleblowing service. Customers Communities and NGOs We are investing in a more rigorous We conduct social and economic impact approach to customer satisfaction assessments of G4S businesses in key markets monitoring and relationship management Industry bodies Partners and suppliers We aim to raise standards through membership We have strengthened our risk and of industry bodies such as the CBI and ICoCA internal audit systems and processes STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Multilateral organisations and governments Employees We participate in relevant consultations and We engage with our employees through support events at which we may demonstrate a global employee survey our expertise on security-related issues Investors and SRI analysts Independent experts We proactively seek feedback from We seek independent expertise on key issues such socially responsible investment analysts as the development our new whistleblowing policy 24 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Our priority areas: Health and safety HEALTH HEALTH AND SAFETY AND SAFETY The safety and wellbeing of our employees and those in our care is one of our key priorities. Our goal is zero harm. Health and Safety The nature of our work and the health and safety management 2015 priorities environments we work in means system and relevant operational that security and safety present scenarios, was completed by Extended mandatory a strategic risk to our business. more than 1,000 managers health and safety training We believe that setting the highest in 2015. It focused on the role to the wider management of the leader in improving standards for health and safety population, with more than performance, positively influencing across our industry helps to keep 1,000 managers completing safety culture and raising our colleagues safe and builds loyalty the training programme and commitment to G4S from our awareness of significant safety during 2015 employees. Leading by example and risks across the organisation Implemented a harmonised having expertise in health and safety • a project to harmonise our approach to recording gives not only our employees, but approach to recording injuries injuries across the group also our customers and other across the group was initiated Implemented themed stakeholders, confidence in the during 2015 safety programmes that behaviour of the company they • ‘Safety first’ bulletins were used target common risk areas, are dealing with. to share the lessons learned such as road safety We recognise that our businesses following the investigation of Continued to develop operate in different contexts and serious incidents. The lessons the group’s health and face varying levels of risk. The group were further embedded by safety management system health and safety strategy sets the revising the group’s health and framework and provides a vision safety standards to better address Complete Ongoing of how each business can progress the risks that led to these incidents from a level of compliance with • themed programmes were health and safety regulation to implemented, targeting risk areas a level of differentiation where that are common to many of our we lead the industry in health and businesses. As road safety policy safety. All businesses within the remains the largest category of group assess their performance fatal incidents, a G4S road safety against a set of core health and policy was issued to businesses safety standards. Compliance is in 2015. This follows on from the monitored and periodically audited implementation of the Driving with reviews of performance at Force Rules the previous year. regional, group and board levels A number of businesses also ran via the CSR Committee. local programmes on topics such as speed management and Progress in 2015 motorcycle safety The process of building capability • the health and safety management to continuously improve our system was further developed, by management of health and safety providing guidance to businesses issues, eliminating fatal incidents on topics relevant to G4S lines and potentially fatal risks, continued of business, for example guidance during 2015: on the analysis of serious safety • after the introduction of incidents related to attacks on mandatory health and safety security officers. training for senior leaders in 2014, During 2015, 46 of our colleagues training was extended to the lost their lives in work-related wider management population. incidents, principally as a result of This online course, which was attacks by third parties and road developed based on the G4S traffic incidents. This is a tragic loss Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 25 Our priority areas: Health and safety continued for their families, friends and Priorities for 2016 Work-related fatalities by region colleagues and reminds us of the Our main health and safety priorities importance of our efforts when during 2016 are to continue to drive 50 it comes to health and safety. behaviour change so colleagues 46 across the organisation take personal 40 41 All fatal and permanently disabling incidents are reported and responsibility for role modelling investigated through a standardised good health and safety behaviours 30 process, which is led by the managing and for ensuring compliance with 22 director of the business unit the operational procedures designed 20 to keep them safe. We will do this by: 16 15 concerned. The implementation 12 10 10 of action plans to prevent further • conducting interventions to 7 incidents in countries where there support selected businesses in 3 1 1 0 have been multiple fatalities is delivering improved health and monitored through in-depth visits Africa Asia & UK & Europe North Latin Total safety performance, including Middle Ireland America America and senior management follow-up more involvement by the director East as part of critical country reviews. of health and safety for the group, 2014 2015 Each G4S business is expected increased monitoring of progress to have a process for reporting with improvement plans as well and investigating workplace injuries. as follow-up visits and critical Improvement targets are set at country reviews where necessary Work-related fatalities by category business level and are based on • issuing additional formal guidance 50 factors such as the business’s risk to businesses on managing risks 46 profile and local statutory reporting pertinent to our industry 40 41 requirements. During 2015, the • introducing further training group’s lost time incidents was 0.36 modules on selected health 30 per 100,000 hours worked, based and safety risks and controls on reporting that covered 88% that reinforce the responsibilities 20 20 19 of employees. 17 everyone has for ensuring these 14 During 2015, there have been two are complied with 10 9 8 non-natural deaths in custody at • including health and safety control G4S-managed prisons. All deaths 0 self-assessments as part of the in custody are investigated by the Attack Non-attack Road Total group risk and compliance relevant authorities, which make a • completing the next phase of the 2014 2015 determination of the cause of death. online incident management project. One death has been classified 0.36 6 as self-harm by the authorities. Pronouncement on the cause of the second death, whether it was due to natural causes or not, will be made by the coroner following completion of their investigations. lost time incidents critical country per 100,000 reviews of safety working hours in high priority businesses Case study – Driver safety, Philippines Armoured cash vehicles in Philippines have historically encountered numerous road traffic incidents where the limited view of the driver has been established as a root cause. During 2015, a programme was undertaken to install additional convex mirrors to improve the drivers’ peripheral view. Over 50% of the fleet has now had the additional mirrors installed, helping to eliminate driver blind-spots and therefore reduce the number of incidents caused by this issue. 26 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Our priority areas: Human rights HUMAN HUMAN RIGHTS RIGHTS G4S’ human rights policy and its related framework are based on the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and support the continued development of an ethical and sustainable business model that encourages the improvement of standards, job creation, community support and broader beneficial impacts on societies around the world. In many ways, our business can • continued to raise awareness 2015 priorities contribute positively to the of human rights issues and realisation of human rights by responsibilities within company Embedded human rights the range of services we offer to communications and processes standards and awareness protect people and which enable • integrated a new human rights into key business policies them to enjoy their rights. control self-assessment for and processes, including the group’s risk and We also recognise that we have businesses operating in high-risk Human rights compliance systems a duty to ensure that we are not countries into the group’s risk at risk of violating human rights and compliance platform. Integrated a new human through the services we provide, The first of the new control rights control self-assessment the customers we work with, the self-assessment will be carried for businesses operating out in the first-half 2016 suppliers we use, or through the in high-risk countries into unfair or inappropriate treatment • engaged with the Australian and the group’s risk and of our own employees and others UK OECD National Contact compliance platform who are in our care. Point’s (NCPs) in relation to two Commenced a gap analysis complaints. Further details on the of existing policies, standards Progress in 2015 actions taken and the findings of and business processes the OECD NCPs can be found Since the launch of our human rights to help ensure that we do on pages 29 and 30 policy in 2013, we have continued not allow modern slavery to implement our human rights • commenced a gap analysis review to exist within our business framework and embed its standards of our existing policies, standards or supply chain and awareness into our business and business processes to help policies and processes. ensure that we do not allow Complete Ongoing modern slavery to exist within During 2015, we have: our business or supply chain • embedded human rights standards • conducted our annual review and awareness within key business of our human rights heatmap. policies and processes, including: The 2015 review covered –– business ethics policy 111 geographic regions and –– human resource minimum determined that G4S businesses standards currently operate in 47 geographic –– risk assessment and regions in which human rights management may be at high or very high risk. –– internal audit and The risks within these environments compliance systems may commonly include the local –– supplier code of conduct attitude to labour rights and –– whistleblowing policy and standards, restrictions on civil speak out hotline and liberties, high levels of bribery case management and corruption, and ongoing or recent conflict. Further information on our commitment and approach to human rights can be found online at: www.g4s.com/ humanrights Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 27 Our priority areas: Human rights continued Case study – Ethical employment partnership, Global Since 2008, G4S has had an ethical employment partnership with UNI, the global union federation. G4S was the first UK company to enter such a partnership, which drives improvements in employment standards across the global security industry, while helping to ensure that employee and union rights are respected throughout the company. 111 The findings of this review are 2016 priorities integrated into our risk and During 2016, we will continue compliance processes and may to implement our human rights trigger enhanced levels of framework and further develop our assessment and internal audit human rights approach in line with human rights where necessary. emerging good practice. We will: reviews • commissioned or carried out • complete a review of our policies, conducted seven human rights risk assessments standards and business processes as part of relating to major business to help ensure that we do not allow our geographic opportunities for review by the modern slavery to exist within heat-map group investment committee our business or supply chain assessment • as part of our global risk • continue to build awareness management process, a broad of human rights issues and assessment of operational and responsibilities across the business other business issues has been • conduct an annual review of carried out against our ‘risk human rights risks across the universe’, which includes human group and update our human rights and other CSR risks, at least rights heatmap twice annually by all business units. • conduct human rights control self-assessment for businesses operating in high-risk countries • carry out human rights risk assessment in key business areas. 28 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 AN OPEN APPROACH TO ADDRESSING HUMAN RIGHTS ISSUES The nature of our business means that we can sometimes be subject to complaints from external organisations and those in our care. We take all complaints seriously and engage fully in addressing concerns that are raised. UNITED KINGDOM (a qualified social worker with extensive experience of working with undertaking a review of internal and external reporting. The police Occasionally other issues On 30 December 2015, G4S vulnerable people) was appointed. and LADO investigation continues. Human rights Children’s Services (UK) referred of this nature Inspectors from the Office for This matter was discussed in detail are raised in a number of serious allegations of Standards in Education, Children’s by the CSR Committee and the connection with inappropriate staff conduct at the Services and Skills (Ofsted) have board, who made enquiries about the activities of Medway Secure Training Centre visited Medway STC and have the root causes of these incidents, our businesses. to Medway’s Local Authority spoken directly with children as well as the appropriateness and Whilst our Designated Officer (LADO) for residing in the centre. The Children’s completeness of the remedial action goal is always safeguarding children, the Youth Commissioner’s teams have visited plan, and considered how the to be open Justice Board for England and Wales all three Secure Training Centres learnings from this event could and transparent and the Ministry of Justice (MoJ). (STCs) managed by G4S. drive an improvement of the control about such The allegations centred on the environment across the organisation. matters, unnecessary use of force and the We have reinforced the standards The board was satisfied that, pending sometimes use of improper language. expected of all employees, the outcome of the police investigation contractual reminded them of the group’s The LADO, in conjunction with the and the conclusions reached by the relationships whistleblowing facility Speak Out, police and other relevant authorities, Independent Improvement Board, with our implemented a series of improved commenced an independent appropriate remedial action has customers and/ processes around rotation of staff investigation into the allegations. been taken to strengthen the or restrictions and accelerated the process to control environment, prevent the imposed by law, The G4S regional president for UK implement body-worn cameras for re-occurrence of such events and regulation or & Ireland convened a G4S Response our employees in STCs. Refresher ensure that the group’s values are a court may Programme Board to oversee training for all staff on Minimising adhered to and their importance prohibit us from immediate changes to processes and and Managing Physical Restraint reiterated across the organisation. commenting on procedures at Medway and to work (MMPR) has been conducted. with the various external agencies them publicly. The wellbeing and education The MoJ has appointed an appointed to review the issues of young people in our care has Independent Improvement Board raised in relation to the conduct of remained our key priority whilst the to review the issues raised at G4S staff. At the time of publication, various reviews and investigations Medway – G4S management and this programme is ongoing. are underway. staff are giving them their full support. As a result of these allegations, seven This review is expected to be staff were immediately suspended completed by the end of March and five of those employees 2016 and the findings are not have now had their employment available at the time of this report terminated. A new centre director being published. The MoJ is also Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 29 Our priority areas: Human rights continued ISRAEL The UK NCP considers that there is evidence that G4S has leverage, PAPUA NEW GUINEA The group has a business unit based and could take action such as: In February 2014, an incident took in Israel, which provides manned lobbying immediate business place at the Manus Island Regional security and security systems for partners and/or government and Processing Centre (an immigration businesses and other organisations legal representatives, sharing best centre for housing of unauthorised across the country. This business has practice (with business partners, asylum seekers attempting to enter been criticised by pressure groups stakeholders and the wider sector), Australia by sea) in Papua New for its contracts to service security and committing to new practices Guinea, during which a transferee systems used in prisons in Israel and in regard to future contracts. was tragically killed and a number for servicing scanning equipment of other transferees and members The NCP made three located on the barrier between of staff were injured. recommendations in regard to Israel and the West Bank. demonstrating that the company Following the incident, the Australian There have been a number of is addressing the human rights Government, responsible for the independent reviews of the business impacts of its business relationships: offshore processing of transferees in Israel, the latest of which was in the region, commissioned two • Work with business partners commissioned in 2014. That review reviews. G4S engaged fully with to address the adverse impacts concluded that the company has both reviews. raised in the complaints no causal or contributory role in Across our countries of operation The findings of the first review, human rights violations. For more we engage with customers, conducted by Robert Cornall, information visit www. g4s.com/ business partners and other can be found at: www.g4s.com/ israelreview2014 stakeholders on a variety of manuscornall2014 At the group’s annual general matters. Our business in Israel Materials relating to the second meeting in June 2015, the chairman is no different and undertakes review, conducted by the Australian reconfirmed decisions made constant dialogue with its key Senate Committee for Constitutional previously by the company in stakeholder groups. and Legal Affairs, can be found via: relation to specific contracts: • Communicate to stakeholders www.g4s.com/manussenate2014. that they would not be renewed the actions it has taken in These include submissions made and when they expire. regard to the issues raised evidence given to the committee by In the UK, we engaged with the in the complaint G4S and the findings of the review. UK NCP for the OECD over We always aim to be as open as In June 2015, the Australian NCP a period of 18 months in relation we can about factors that affect for the OECD published a statement to a complaint made about G4S our business, but we are often conveying its decision not to accept in Israel. subject to the confidentiality for investigation a complaint made After an extensive assessment, requirements of our customers. in relation to the Manus Island during which it received submissions In its Final Statement, the NCP Regional Processing Centre. from G4S, interviewed representatives identifies that G4S is bound by More information can be found of the UK Foreign & Commonwealth the confidentiality requirements via: www.g4s.com/ncpmanus2015 Office, examined evidence from of its customers and that this ‘may We continue to support the NGOs and reviewed material unduly limit the company’s ability authorities in Papua New Guinea provided by Lawyers for Palestinian to act effectively if it cannot in their local investigation into Human Rights, the NCP published communicate openly about its the incident at the centre. its Final Statement in June 2015. actions with stakeholders and For more information visit business partners.’ This assessment www. g4s.com/ncpisrael2015 is accurate in relation to the In its Initial Assessment published in contracts and business units which June 2014 the NCP concluded that have been under review during there is no evidence that any G4S the NCP process and therefore equipment or services cause or we are unable to provide specific contribute to adverse human rights detail regarding the actions of our impacts and that the company businesses other than that which carries out extensive due diligence have been disclosed during the and ongoing review of the potential NCP’s review. human rights risks of its business. • Implement a contract approvals In its Final Statement, the process that includes an NCP states: assessment of human rights risks and mitigations The UK NCP does not find any Note: In March 2016, G4S announced We have implemented a human that as part of its on-going review of its general failure by the company rights policy across the business portfolio of businesses, it had commenced to respect the human rights of a process to sell four additional businesses and embedded human rights into the people on whose behalf the to those which had previously been identified our group risk and mitigations complaint is made or any failure by the group for sale. These included assessments, details of which can to respect human rights in regard G4S Israel and G4S Children’s Services (UK), be found on pages 27 and 28 of comprising children’s homes and Secure to its own operations. this CSR Report. Training Centres. 30 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 Our priority areas: Anti-bribery and corruption ANTI-BRIBERY ANTI-BRIBERY AND CORRUPTION AND CORRUPTION Being a responsible business partner, employer, customer and supplier is an important part of our strategy and forms an essential foundation on which we carry out our business. In our view, the ethical behaviour • ensure that all employees are 2015 priorities of corporations should not be just aware of their obligations under a reaction to regulation or legal the policy, through various Completed a review of compliance, but a means of doing communications channels, compliance and assurance business that gives customers, including induction and other resources across the group, employees, partners and training, notice boards, employee integrating employees with communities the confidence that magazines, etc a significant audit role into they are working with an ethical the central risk and internal • provide specific training to all organisation that is not prepared managers and supervisors on audit department to compromise on its integrity to business ethics and preventing Worked with PwC to achieve its objectives or to make bribery and corruption through ensure that our end-to-end money. That is why we ensure that a bespoke programme available in risk control and audit our business ethics and anti-bribery a variety of formats and languages process is coherent and corruption programmes are and effective embedded within our organisation • reinforce the importance of Integrated control selfand are the responsibility of every ethical behaviour through induction, assessments and internal manager across the group. employment contracts, staff handbooks, training and audit systems into We believe that high standards of communications practices. our group risk and ethical conduct provide a market compliance platform differentiator and those organisations Progress in 2015 Initiated a review of the with the highest ethical standards Every G4S employee has a group’s anti-bribery and will have the most positive impact responsibility to ensure that they corruption policies to on the lives of those around uphold our core values, adhere Anti-bribery and corruption ensure that they are in line them and, ultimately, will be to the law and deliver against the with current best practice the most successful. important commitments set out Launched Speak Out, a We have a group-wide business in our business ethics policy and new global whistleblowing ethics policy that clearly defines ethics code. One of the key process, supported by an what we consider to be acceptable methods of ensuring that we integrated case management and unacceptable business practices. maintain high standards of ethics tool and wide network We demand compliance with this and integrity is to ensure that of trained investigators policy from all managers and employees are able to report Continued to build employees across the group. concerns that they may have about awareness of Speak Out and the business, or the activities In order to ensure that everyone encourage an environment of individuals, that they believe in the group understands their in which employees are contravene our ethics code. obligations in relation to this policy, confident they can raise we do the following: Following a review of our ethical concerns whistleblowing policy in 2014 by • update and strengthen the G4S a specially formed Ethics Steering Complete Ongoing business ethics policy periodically, Group, we launched our new and incorporating evolving standards enhanced whistleblowing process Further information on how we and legislation and evaluating any in September 2015. Hosted by an safeguard our integrity, including our risk to the group’s integrity business ethics policy and code, risk independent specialist hotline and management and internal audit, • distribute the policy to managers case management provider, Speak whistleblowing policy and approach and request that all managers Out allows all G4S employees and to anti-bribery and corruption, can be review the policy and personally former employees to raise ethical found online at www.g4s.com/ethics sign up to playing their part in matters of concern online or ensuring its implementation and via a free telephone service. therefore the group’s compliance Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 31 Our priority areas: Anti-bribery and corruption continued Both channels are available 24 hours Types of issues investigated by the group internal audit function and actions resulting include: a day, seven days a week and are Alleged unethical behaviour by All issues are investigated and in proven cases action taken completely confidential. management, including abuse against management, including disciplinary action up to and Accompanying the launch of of position and fraud including dismissal. Speak Out, we have developed a In the case of serious issues such as fraud, the group has a range of communication materials zero tolerance approach and reports such cases to the local to raise awareness and encourage police and wherever possible will seek criminal prosecution. employees to report any concerns or wrongdoing. The new case This applies to all types of fraud whether internal or external. management system enables Concerns regarding Investigations with regional management to ensure us to better record, manage and operational procedures that G4S standards are being followed properly. report on whistleblowing cases. This integrated system gives us greater visibility of the issues 2016 priorities Risk management and what, if any, are the common themes. It offers employees greater • complete the global Our risks, including ethics and visibility of the status of their case implementation of the Speak Out sustainability risks, are captured in and any investigations. whistleblowing hotline and case a global risk reporting information management system system. These risks are formally Another area that has been • continue to create an environment reviewed at least annually by every improved is the way we select in which G4S colleagues can be business unit and shared service and appoint the people who carry confident that they can Speak function. The principal risks (see out investigations. In addition to Out and raise concerns and pages 48 to 54 of the Annual the internal audit team, we have that they will be taken seriously Report) to the group as a whole appointed a wider network of without fear of retaliation are discussed in depth at the Group investigators (all of whom have Executive Committee. The board received additional training) with • conduct annual control Risk Committee reviews the most the integrity and expertise to deal self-assessments of key issues, significant risks on a regular basis, with confidential matters relating including business ethics, health and the board regularly reviews the to financial issues, ethical issues, and safety, and human rights, overall impact of these major risks bribery issues, or issues relating using the group risk and on the group’s activities. to any of our policies as they arise. compliance system • complete our review of the During 2015, the regional risk The ethics steering group will and audit committees have driven group’s anti-bribery and corruption continue to oversee the successful improved risk management policies to ensure that they are implementation of Speak Out, processes in the operating units, in line with current best practice monitoring its caseload and carrying monitoring the quality of risk and to implement any changes out regular reviews of cases being registers and the progress against as appropriate. reported, investigation progress planned mitigating actions. The and resulting actions. new Governance Risk and Control During 2015, the internal audit (GRC) information system has been function carried out eight implemented and the previous risk investigations into issues raised management system retired. through existing whistleblowing channels. Other investigations The G4S Ethics Code covering less serious matters BEING SAFE AND SECURE BEING HONEST AND TRUSTWORTHY IF YOU SEE OR SUSPECT were carried out by regional • Putting health and safety first • Always following the law WRONGDOING… …do the right thing and speak out! management with the results • Protecting the security of our • Reporting any wrongdoing and recommendations from customers, the public and those • Never offering or taking a bribe those investigations being shared in our care • Avoiding any conflict of interest • Carefully following rules with the group director of risk and procedures • Being open and honest with and audit. customers, colleagues and others with whom we deal The internal audit team meets regularly with PwC, our external 01234 123456 auditor, to ensure that there is www.g4s-speakout.com strong cooperation and to minimise BEING FAIR AND CONSIDERATE BEING PROFESSIONAL AND PROUD IT IS SAFE TO SPEAK OUT! You are encouraged to report any serious SPEAK OUT is for reporting serious wrongdoing. Any other concerns (such issues without fear of retaliation. All concerns as pay queries, uniform issues or general any gaps in audit coverage. • Showing respect and consideration • Doing the best job you can raised in good faith will be taken seriously and treated with respect. employment grievances) should be directed to your line manager, or HR for a quick for others • Looking smart and behaving resolution. Securing Your World • Treating people fairly professionally • Considering our local communities • Being a good role model • Respecting the environment • Safeguarding and promoting the G4S name 32 G4S plc Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 ABOUT This report and our collective sustainability reporting framework were published in April 2016. Together, they represent the CSR activity of G4S plc and its subsidiaries, THIS associated undertakings and joint ventures for the year ended 31 December 2015 and follow our 2014 CSR Report published in April 2015. The audited Integrated Report and REPORT Accounts of G4S plc for the year ended 31 December 2015 contains further information about the company and should be seen as the definitive source for investment decisions. No significant changes from previous reporting periods have been made, including the boundaries and measurement methods, unless stated. Reporting frameworks Disclosures and their location Carbon Disclosure Project within our sustainability reporting Since 2009, G4S has reported on framework is available to view the progress of its Climate Action online at: www.g4s.com/gri Programme through the Carbon UN Global Compact Disclosure Project (CDP). G4S plc became a signatory to In the latest CDP report, Global the UN Global Compact in 2011. Climate Change – At The Tipping Point, The world’s foremost CSR initiative, G4S achieved a CDP score of 94(B), the Global Compact sets out an improvement of 6% from our 10 universal principles to which score of 89(B) in 2014. businesses must adhere across the areas of anti-corruption, The CDP scores companies based labour relations, human rights and on their climate change disclosure; the environment. G4S is proud to high scores indicate good internal data reaffirm its commitment to these management and an understanding principles, which continue to be of climate change-related issues reflected in our family of CSR policies affecting the company. and our core values. G4S is a signatory Reporting to the CDP shows of the Business for Peace initiative that companies are aware of their and remains active within the greenhouse gas emissions, allowing UK Network of the UN Global for reduction targets to be put Compact – continuing to participate in place, as well as addressing the as a member of the governing risks and opportunities that are Advisory Group. associated with climate change. Within our collected sustainability Global Reporting Initiative reporting framework we have Our sustainability reporting described the actions we have framework for 2015 contains undertaken to build upon and a number of Standard Disclosures further integrate the Global Compact from the Global Reporting and its principles into our business Initiative Sustainability Reporting strategy, culture, values and daily Guidelines. A list of these Standard operations during 2015. UN Global Compact: Communication on Progress Index About this report CSR framework pages Statement of continued support by CEO 8 Human Rights: Principles 1 & 2 2, 10, 11, 13, 14, 15, 18, 19, 20, 21, 27, 28, 29, 30 + www.g4s.com/humanrights Labour: Principles 3, 4, 5 & 6 2, 6, 7, 10, 11, 20, 21, 22, 23, 25, 26 + www.g4s.com/people + www.g4s.com/humanrights Environment: Principles 7, 8 & 9 3, 20, 21 + www.g4s.com/cap Anti-corruption: Principle 10 2, 10, 11, 15, 20, 21, 31, 32 + www.g4s.com/ethics Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2015 G4S plc 33 SUSTAINABILITY Our sustainability reporting framework is led by our Integrated Report and Accounts and this ONLINE Corporate Social Responsibility Report. These documents are supported by our website, which contains a greater range of information and data on wider ethical and sustainability issues. This includes our climate action and greenhouse gas reporting, labour relations, employee diversity and other human resource minimum standards, community investment, economic impact and much more. A full index of sustainability-related issues can be found online at www.g4s.com/csrindex Visit: www.g4s.com for more information G4S plc Printed by Park Communications on FSC® certified paper. 5th Floor, Park is an EMAS certified company and its Environmental Southside, Management System is certified to ISO 14001. 105 Victoria Street, 100% of the inks used are vegetable oil based, 95% of press London, chemicals are recycled for further use and, on average, 99% SW1E 6QT of any waste associated with this production will be recycled. United Kingdom This document is printed on Cocoon 50 Silk; a paper containing Telephone: +44 (0) 20 8770 7000 50% recycled fibre from genuine waste paper and 50% virgin fibre Email: csr@g4s.com sourced from well managed, responsible, FSC® certified forests. Registered in England No. 4992207 Designed and produced by Black Sun Plc.
