January 29, 2016 H. E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Mr. Secretary-General: Sauer Energy, Inc. remains committed to supporting the United Nations Global Compact and are in complete compliance with the 10 principles of the Global Compact regarding human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We continue to implement and practice each principle in every applicable facet of our company as well as continuously strive to find new ways to incorporate these principles within our organizational strategy. To date, our main focus has been turbine development and streamlining processes. Currently our turbine, the WindCutter™, is being reviewed for certification. Once certified, we will move into the manufacturing and distribution phases. The WindCutter is able to provide customers with an energy alternative that competes with other small wind turbines while providing energy savings and performance. Ease of installation, low wind capture and long term survivability have been the main focus of the design. We are looking forward to manufacturing and distributing our products, and by extension, having the opportunity to participate to a greater degree in the goals of the United Nations. As we enter the global arena, we are committed to focusing on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development and its seventeen goals in the areas of people, planet, prosperity, peace and partnership. Sauer Energy seeks to advocate openly and actively regarding responsible business practices to all we come in contact with including our suppliers. This is an exciting time at Sauer Energy and we look forward to impacting the world with both our products and our corporate culture. We are very passionate about wind energy and the rippling effects it will have on the environment and further, the changes in lifestyle that bringing electricity can make in places where there is none now. We can positively impact the world with our global endeavor. With respect to environmental responsibility, we will be able to make great strides to further global awareness of the critical need to follow these principles. Sauer Energy strives to positively impact the global environment by becoming an example of the principles which we already embraced even before joining the United Nations Global Compact as any responsible corporate citizen should. This annual Communication on Progress (COP) describes our implementation of the ten principles. As a publicly traded company, we support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress according to the Global Compact COP policy. Respectfully submitted, Dieter Sauer CEO and President 1620 Emerson Avenue  Oxnard, CA 93033 +1 888.829.8748  info@SauerEnergy.com  www.SauerEnergy.com Human Rights Principle 1 Support of Human Rights We have deep-rooted respect for human rights. We create a cohesive work environment in which more work is achieved because everyone is at ease and confident. All new workers receive a Code of Conduct and a Code of Ethics to be read, acknowledged and signed by each. We work together as a team at Sauer Energy, with regard for each other, so that we can achieve the maximum level of excellence. There is no limit to what can be accomplished when everyone feels respected. When we formed our team, recognition and appreciation were key and our teammates all truly care for one another. The possibilities are endless if your team loves what they do and who they do it with… everyone benefits. Principle 2 Human Rights Abuses Sauer Energy has no room for abuses, either domestically or worldwide. We choose not to deal with anyone who we know, or become aware of, that engages in these types of abuses. We also refuse to become complicit in any way to advancing this practice, either by action or omission of action. We promote a safe workplace with a positive corporate culture where respect levels are utmost. The opportunity has not ever arisen with regard to these abuses in our daily operations, but our attitudes and our minds are set against any form of them. This type of negative activity hinders productivity, and then… no one benefits. Labour Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Right to Collective Bargaining Workers and mangement are allowed to freely associate themselves with organizations of their own choosing. Each has the right to do so without interference from the other at Sauer Energy. Collective bargaining enables workers to negotiate their needs to the management for a benefit to both parties. Our good faith ensures that we enter into constructive negotiations for the strengthening of mutual relations. As Sauer Energy grows, this may become an issue but does not present a problem. We plan to stay in alignment with each other and management plans to stay approachable. Principle 4 No Forced or Compulsory Labour Sauer Energy does not, nor will we ever, condone or benefit from compulsory and forced labor, neither domestically or internationally. There is no profit in this practice, as humanity loses when this is the case. Each worker is treated as the unique individual they are and has the right to exercise their rights as an employee. Principle 5 No Child Labour Sauer Energy will, in no case, ever exploit child labour. We expect the opportunity will arise to distribute our wind turbines globally. Our employees will be of proper working age as applicable by law, and will continue to be compliant with the rules and regulations of domestic and international labour standards. Further, if there arises the possibility to the contrary, and it is not against laws and/or standards, we will stay true to our principles and not engage in such practices. Children are gifts… not a profitable commodity. Principle 6 No Discrimination Sauer Energy does not engage in or allow any type of discrimination. We have created a working environment free of bias, harassment and, including but not limited to, discrimination. Our team is comprised of members working toward a common goal. We look at diversity as a blend to promote unity, as each individual brings unique talents and aptitudes to the Sauer Energy team. Environment Principle 7 Support Precautionary Approach to Environmental Challenges Our product is a small wind turbine that puts the solution to our environmental issues in the hands of the individual. We have made it our mission to empower individuals to diminish the adverse environmental effects that now plague our planet. In this process, ordinary people can diminish their carbon footprint and the effects of it. We feel that the more people you get to use renewable energy, the greater the impact will be on the environment for future generations. We can do this… one building, one town, one city at a time. Principle 8 Initiatives to Promote Greater Environmental Responsibility Sauer Energy is proud to declare that the work we undertake so vividly aligns with this principle. It Is the core concept of our business. We feel that the individual can greatly affect the environment. Sauer Energy promotes environmental responsibility through educating our customers, workers, stakeholders and the general public on ways to reduce their own environmental footprint and the personal and global benefits of utilizing renewable wind energy. Principle 9 Development and Diffusion of Environmentally Friendly Technology Our innovative technology is completely based on this principle at Sauer Energy. We have gone to great lengths to develop environmentally friendly technology. The materials and methods we implement are carefully chosen, paying strictest attention to producing the cleanest possible technology. Our turbines pose no threat to birds or wildlife. Further, we will do our best to equip the world to improve the environment. In February, 2012, Sauer Energy was awarded the most coveted and prestigious Project of the Year award from the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE), Buenaventura Section, California. This award goes to the company that has demonstrated technological achievement in engineering innovation development and promise. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 No Corruption Anything that is in violation of this principle or domestic or international laws and standards will be met with firm disciplinary measures. We adhere to strict compliance against corruption in any form. Senior management will continually be working with auditors to ensure Sauer Energy remains in full compliance. Further, Sauer Energy continues to educate its workers on ethical standards. In our business dealings, we hold ourselves to the highest standard. Our Vision Goals The Sauer Energy Team has specific rules and regulations to be observed. The Corporate Board strives to anchor on awareness for ethical and lawful conduct throughout the company, including outside business partners. We intend to be among the top suppliers of products to create a solution by harnessing wind energy, along with future development into technology for additional usages. Sauer Energy wind turbines serve the goal of assuring environmentally compatible design systems. All Sauer Energy products will be safe to the environment and compatible as a fundamental prerequisite for future sustainability. Our goals stipulate that we assure the environmentally friendly compatible design of our turbine will provide a solution for individuals to reduce emissions on a global scale. Furthermore, participation in humanitarian efforts is very much a future goal at Sauer Energy. Education One of the areas that Sauer Energy is devoted to is educating the public about wind energy and how they can, as individuals and groups, become an integral part of improving the global environment for generations to come. We believe that once people can realize that renewable energy opportunities are within reach for them, they will learn that their decisions can count for them as well as for the global community. This small revelation will spur them on to want to participate on a larger scale to continue to have a positive impact on the environment. We are at a pivotal place in history where it would take little effort to get individuals to understand how important they are and that through their action exists an opportunity to act responsibly and create an impact on generations to come. From there, they shift from merely being a part of the problem to becoming a part of the solution for the greater good. This type of unification is a powerful weapon in the environmental battle. We feel this to be one of our greatest contributions to humanity, and we take this responsibility to heart. We strive for people to spread the word and to educate others on how they can do their part in making our earth more “green”. Our Commitment Our Environment We all use electricity, and this basic need has no boundaries or limits. As elementary as this concept is, it is the cornerstone of our business. The technological advancements during the last 50 years alone have completely changed the way we communicate, learn, travel, eat and most things we do. The products we use every day, like refrigerators, computers and hairdryers, are likely unconsidered when we think of electricity consumption. Exactly that attitude is what we feel got us in the present global environmental situation in the first place. Sauer Energy’s aim to raise awareness that action, or omission of action today, will affect future generations. The only question is: What kind of impact and impression will we leave? Management, Employees, Partners, Vendors and Stakeholders Management bears the ultimate responsibility for setting the pace of our day-to-day operations. We are acutely aware that we must exhibit integrity in all things. If we lead by example, our staff can trust and follow us. These are the people who help us achieve the highest level of excellence. If our relationship with each other is positive, courteous and contributory, it will trickle to our treatment of our stakeholders, customers, partners and vendors. We are ever vigilant that our goals are able to be planted in the fertile soil of contribution, patience, understanding and tolerance. The fruits we bear in this manner are the most valuable for long lasting relationships anyone can hope ever to obtain and keep. Conclusion In the grand scheme of things, we are all on the same Earth at the same time and it is up to each of us, as individuals and in groups, how our decisions today are going to affect the future of all. We are exceedingly cognizant of the fact that each of us matters because we are all connected. Our goal is to reignite a global consciousness to think in terms of global citizenship. We must make things happen with real actions. It is said that each of us has a sphere of influence of approximately 250 people. Those are individuals that we know well enough to make an impact upon. By becoming an example, we can inspire others to change and to educate their circles of family, friends and associates on how to make changes so that we can all succeed together and leave our planet better than we found it.
