Sustainability Report 2015 Patent wall, ST Crolles, France Reader’s Guide Scope Stakeholder engagement Indicators and use of symbols This annual Report describes our ST interacts with many different Each of our Sustainability priorities Sustainability performance in the stakeholders and conducts specific has a dedicated section within this calendar year 2015. It covers all of approaches with each of them such Report which sets out the objectives STMicroelectronics’ activities and as employee engagement surveys, relating to that priority and the sites unless otherwise stated. You will customer surveys and requests, performance indicators showing our find details about ST’s structure and supplier evaluations and audits, progress. We also include additional countries of operations on page 4. Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) performance indicators at the end I G4-3 I G4-17 I G4-28 I G4-30 I analyst and agency questionnaires, of each section in response to our At the end of 2014 we closed our industry coalition’s memberships, stakeholder’s expectations and Longgang (China) site. Most activities local associations and educational interests. were transferred to our Shenzhen partnerships. These different Progress updates for each objective (China) site and we also offered approaches are reported on page 14 can be found in the ‘Objectives’ employees the possibility of a transfer and wherever relevant in this Report. tables and are clarified with the to this site. following symbols: Alignment with GRI and the The environmental, safety and social data have been updated accordingly. UN Global Compact Target achieved I G4-13 I G4-23 I This Report is prepared and There is no restatement of presented in line with the Global In progress information provided in previous Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 No progress/not achieved Reports. I G4-22 I sustainability reporting principles and guidelines to be ‘in accordance’ No data available Report content with the Core option. Throughout Our Sustainability strategy and this Report, disclosure labels denote New objective for 2016 priorities provide the basis for the which GRI indicators are relevant to information we report. Consequently, the text and data, where applicable. Assurance this Sustainability Report refers to References to GRI-G4 indicators and DNV GL (Det Norske Veritas our material aspects and discloses corresponding pages are disclosed Germanischer Lloyd) has been our performance, intentions and in the GRI Content Index on pages appointed to provide assurance objectives, as well as the progress we 92, 93 and 94. The GRI Content services to STMicroelectronics made and the challenges we face. Index Service confirmed that the on content and data and on the I G4-18 I GRI G4 Content Index of the Report adherence to GRI G4 requirements We also present examples of is accurate and aligned with GRI corresponding to the ‘in accordance’ concrete actions deployed at ST General Standard Disclosure. I G4-32 I Core option. In order to do so, DNV sites and include interviews from We have been a signatory of the GL reviewed and validated ST’s our stakeholders, enabling them to United Nations Global Compact data reporting process to provide express their view on our programs. (UNGC) since 2000, which commits assurance of this year’s Report. I G4-26 I us to fulfilling its ten principles. ST Foundation information and This Report describes actions we data were not part of the external Material aspects have taken to implement these verification driven by DNV GL. In 2014, we conducted an extensive principles and serves as our 2015 DNV GL’s assurance statement can materiality exercise to identify the communication on progress. be found on page 97. I G4-33 I top material aspects according The International Standards Index to the impact of our business on on page 95 shows the correlation Accessibility the environment, economy and between ST’s Sustainability Report, Our Sustainability Report is society, and the expectations of our the ten principles of the Global accessible on the web in PDF format stakeholders. The materiality exercise Compact, the ISO 26000, the GRI G4 at www.st.com/company-reports process and results are detailed on corresponding material aspects and along with last year’s Report that was page 10 of our 2014 Sustainability related boundaries. I G4-15 I published in June 2015 and previous Report (www.st.com/companyyears’ Reports. Printed copies are reports). available on request. I G4-29 I ST’s Sustainability strategy is based on three pillars and supports 13 Sustainability priorities. Detailed information about each Sustainability priority, as well as our management Feedback approach can be found in this Report We value your feedback and encourage contributions and debate and on our website at from all stakeholders. www.st.com/st-approach-toYou can email us at sustainable.development@st.com sustainability. or write to us at our headquarters I G4-5 I G4-31 I I G4-19 I Corporate Sustainable Development Group STMicroelectronics International NV 39, Chemin du Champ-des-Filles – C.P. 21 CH-1228 Geneva Plan-Les-Ouates Switzerland 2015 Edition Content This report has been prepared by: ST at a glance............................................................... 4 Director of publication: Jean-Louis Champseix Editors in chief: Sheila D’Annunzio, Focus 2015..................................................................... 5 Dominique Tagarian Editorial team: Graziella Barbusse, Value Chain.................................................................. 6 Catherine Baudru, Julia Genovini, 2015 Significant Events................................................. 7 Catherine Pélissonnier Editorial services: Stratton Craig Ltd Foreword by our President and CEO............................ 8 Graphic designer: Diane Ollivier, Valérie Méalin, ST graphic agency Company.................................................................... 10 Printer: ProCo-Print Governance.......................................................................................10 Special thanks to: Manik Bansal, Céline Berthier, Monica Bianchi, Gerard Cronin, Nelly Dimey, Paolo Sustainability Strategy........................................................................12 Epigrafi, Franck Freymond, Wendy Hudry Allen, Ethics and Compliance.....................................................................16 Abhishek Jain, Stephanie Joubert, Philippe Laffargue, Philippe Levavasseur, Claudia Levo, Iris Lo, Giulia Risk Management..............................................................................19 Mancini, Maximilien Roche, Pascal Roquet, Tait Sorensen, Damien Tisserand. Business....................................................................... 22 Thanks to: Antonio Alvarez, Benoit Astier, Financial Performance.......................................................................23 Cheng-Lay Ang, Elizabeth Beronio, Sabine Birnstein, Innovation...........................................................................................27 Francois Bonnot, Claude Boumendil, Denise-Ann Buhagiar, Linda Cadore, Claudia Caputo-Saleh, Customer Relations............................................................................30 Isabelle Catot, Denis Cazala, Juliette Cellier, Moh Business Indicators.............................................................................34 Chern Chin, Hc Chew, Didier Dedeurwaerder, Alberto Della-Chiesa, Bertrand Denis, Philippe Dereeper, People.......................................................................... 35 Christine Deudon, Edwin Dobson, Karen Duhart, Jean-Luc Estienne, Romain Fouqueray, Kevin Development and Engagement.......................................................36 Gagnon, Hervé Gaillard, Christopher Galea, Louis Health and Safety...............................................................................40 Gatt, Laurent Gay, Christine Gombar, Federica Grotto, Vincent Hugues, Hakim Jaafar, Trina Lang, Labor and Human Rights...................................................................45 Rick Lau, Olivier Leenhardt, Ulrike Leger, Eric Levalet, People Indicators...............................................................................49 Veronique Livache, Stephane Magaton, Laurence Maricot, Francois Martin, Marion Mc Devitt, Brian Environment & Operations......................................... 54 3 Mielewski, Adeline Oliva, Huilan Ong, Joseph Ong, Laurent Orsati, Daniel Orsatti, Serge Palmieri, Davide Environmental Efficiency Energy .......................................................55 Pandini, Manisha Piyush, Philippe Quinio, Pascal Environmental Efficiency Water .........................................................58 Ribot, Paolo Ruffino, Rosario Sanfilippo, Yvonne Environmental Efficiency GHG Air Emissions ....................................61 Seah, Ms Sivakumar, Alan Smith, Edmond Soon, Beatrice Tamas, Daniel Tan, Lee Ngor Leah Tan, Environmental Efficiency Waste ........................................................65 WD Dennis Tan, Tw Toh, Shahrom Tumin, Davide Environmental Efficiency Chemicals.................................................68 Turriciano, Stacia Vigne, Graeme Wyborn, Roma Zaborowska. Sustainable Technology ....................................................................71 We also would like to thank: Supply Chain Responsibility ..............................................................75 • Everyone who kindly agreed to be quoted in this Environment & Operations Indicators...............................................79 report and provide testimony of their collaboration with ST, Local Communities..................................................... 83 • Everyone who kindly agreed to have their pictures published in the report, Local Communities............................................................................84 • Our interfaces on ST sites, SE coordinators, LBG Local Communities Indicators...........................................................87 coordinators, EHS teams, HR who support our Local Initiatives.......................................................................................... 88 activity all year round, • Site Directors and HR Managers, Awards........................................................................ 90 • The teams audited in Crolles, Muar and Bouskoura for their availability. GRI Content Index....................................................... 92 International Standards Index.................................... 95 Glossary....................................................................... 96 This report has been prepared following External Assurance Statement................................... 97 the GRI G4 Guidelines. It represents a balanced and reasonable presentation of our organization’s economic, environmental and social performance. It also demonstrates our commitment Although reasonable efforts have been made to ensure the consistency of the summary financial information for the year 2015 in this report with ST’s financial reporting, reliance should only be placed upon the complete financial reporting to the UN Global Compact, to which we contained in ST’s Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2015, as filed with the SEC on March 16th, 2016, which can be found at www.st.com. Some of the statements contained in this report that are not historical have been a signatory since 2000. facts are statements of future expectations and other forward-looking statements (within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 or Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, each as amended) based on management’s current views and assumptions and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results, performance or events to differ materially from those in such statements. Certain such forward-looking statements can be identified by the use of forward-looking terminology such as ‘believes’, ‘may’, ‘will’, ‘should’, ‘would be’ or ‘anticipates’ or similar expressions or the negative thereof or other variations thereof or comparable terminology, or Carlo Bozotti by discussions of strategy, plans or intentions. Some of the relevant risk factors are described in ‘Item 3. Key Information President and CEO – Risk Factors’ included in our Annual Report on Form 20-F for the year ended December 31, 2015. We do not intend, and do not assume any obligation to update any information or forward-looking statements set forth in this report to reflect subsequent events or circumstances. ST at a glance I G4-6 I G4-9 I France (Crolles, Rousset, Tours) Italy China (Agrate, Catania) Front-end manufacturing sites Morocco Malta Back-end manufacturing sites Malaysia The Philippines Singapore • A global semiconductor leader • 11 manufacturing sites • Advanced research and development • A leading Integrated Device • Over 75 sales & marketing offices centers around the globe: Manufacturer • ~ 15,000 patents • Listed: NYSE, Euronext Paris and • ~ 9,000 patent families 4 • 2015 revenues of US$6.90Bn Borsa Italiana, Milan • More than 500 new filings in 2015 • Approximately 43,200 employees • ~ 8,300 people working in R&D worldwide Where you find us I G4-4 I G4-8 I Making driving safer, greener Making homes smarter, for and more connected better living, higher security, and less waste Enabling the evolution of Making everyday things industry towards smarter, safer smarter, connected and more and more efficient factories and aware of their surroundings workplaces Enabling cities to make more of available resources Sustainability Report | ST at a glance Focus 2015 Zoom1 on ST Singapore Operations were established in Singapore in 1969 by SGS, one of the founding companies of ST. Since then, the Company’s Singapore operations have grown significantly, cementing ST’s place as a major industry player in Asia Pacific – the fastest-growing semiconductor market in the world. Today, ST has three locations in Singapore, involving almost all the Company’s activities, ranging from manufacturing to logistics. Ang Mo Kio • Front-end manufacturing and Electrical Wafer Sorting (EWS) • Business Headquarter (BHQ) Greater China & South Asia sales and marketing operations • Integrated Circuit (IC) Design and Research & Development Toa Payoh • Headquarters of the Packaging and Test Manufacturing organization • Corporate Packaging and Automation • Electrical Wafer Sorting Loyang 5 • Logistics hubs and warehousing RESPECT OF THE ENVIRONMENT AND CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY OUR EMPLOYEES ST’s technical, marketing, and manufacturing strengths are further enhanced by an unwavering commitment to sustainable excellence. The Company’s support and contributions towards Singapore’s environment, economy and community are regularly • Headcount: 4,581 recognized by the Government and cited as an example of excellence. • Split by gender: 2015 MAJOR SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES • Education: helping to design the nationwide Institute of Technical Education’s 62% men curriculum in order to meet industry standards and needs. • Social: community involvement programs including Home Aid, Give for Good, Back-to-School Project and other outreach programs. These are designed to help 38% women disadvantaged members of society, such as low income families, children and the • Split by job category: elderly, to improve their living conditions, opportunities and quality of life. • Environment: reforesting parts of the Singing Forest, a nature reserve in highly exempts2 urbanized Singapore. Volunteers from ST who are also qualified Bird Watch Guides take the public on bird watch tours in the Singing Forest. 42% 58% non-exempts MARKETS SERVED MANUFACTURING AREA 37.9 years 51,200 square meters clean area • Average age: CERTIFICATIONS ISO 14001, ISO 9001, ISO 50001, EMAS, ISO/TS 16949, OHSAS 18001 1. Each year we focus on different sites or regions to present their profile and activity in a more detailed way. 2. Exempt: refers to employees who hold positions normally requiring graduate or post-graduate education and who are not eligible for overtime compensation. Sustainability Report | ﻿| Focus 2015 Value Chain l G4-12 l MAIN STEPS IN OUR VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT OF OUR IMPACTS Suppliers We implement the EICC standards in our supply chain and require ISO and OHSAS certifications to address We purchase silicon ingot, raw materials, ethics, social, environmental, health and safety risks. equipment, energy, gas, chemicals and services We participate in the Conflict-Free initiative. from many suppliers and subcontractors. R&D concept and design Through our Sustainable Technology program we design products systematically taking into consideration the New products are created in a multi-step environmental impact of the device during its whole life process including architecture conception, cycle, including raw materials, transportation, electrical layout, electrical and logic simulation, manufacturing, usage and end of life. chip layout and generation of the mask that will be used to etch the design in silicon. Manufacturing Front-end (FE) FE manufacturing requires large quantities of water and some ST sites are located in water scarce regions. Manufacturing chips requires around 400 Through our water management programs we are separate stages, starting with a plain silicon continually reducing our water footprint through reuse wafer, and resulting in the etching of several and recycling. 6 hundreds to thousands of die. We implement our Code of Conduct and the EICC standards in all our sites to mitigate our ethics and labor and human rights risks. Although most of our FE production is based in Europe, we also have FE and BE manufacturing located in Asia where risks can be higher. We do regular assessments of our production sites. Electrical Wafer Sorting We ensure the health and safety of our employees through advanced management systems and Dies on the wafer are electrically tested. certification. This step is known as wafer sort or probe. We manage our direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions from all our operations, including Perfluorinated Compounds (PFCs) which have a very long atmospheric lifetime and high Global Warming Potential. Consequently, even if our consumption of PFCs is relatively low, their impact is significant and Assembly line and final requires actions to reduce the CO2-equivalent emissions Back-end (BE) that they produce. The dies are cut from the silicon wafer We minimize the environmental, health and safety risks before being assembled in a package. The chips related to the chemicals and materials used in the are then tested prior to delivery to the customer. manufacturing process, by basing the selection, handling and substitution on the precautionary principles. Product use and end of life Our products are designed to minimize the carbon footprint and consume as little energy as possible in the We offer a large portfolio of products end-application. for a wide range of applications, which are We also develop innovative products to help our developed by our customers. customers develop new energy-saving applications. ST products are not subject to WEEE but our management of hazardous substances minimizes the impact of disposal and facilitates recycling. Outside ST Inside ST Sustainability Report | Value Chain 2015 Significant Events March May September The Supervisory Board resolved The Annual General Meeting ST’s President and CEO, that the dividend distributions, more of shareholders was held in Carlo Bozotti joined 100 chairmen recently decided on a semi-annual Amsterdam, The Netherlands. and CEOs of international basis, will now be decided on an Nicolas Dufourcq was appointed as companies and nine organizations, annual basis at the Annual General a new member of the Supervisory in signing the “Business Proposals Meeting of Shareholders. Board, for a three-year term, in for COP 21”, a business-led initiative replacement of Mr. Jean d’Arthuys sponsored by Global Compact, ST closed the whose mandate terminated as of showing the global awareness of agreement signed the 2015 AGM. top Executives on climate change on July 22, 2014 Ms. Martine Verluyten was issues, thus confirming ST’s with Enel Green reappointed as a member of the engagement to minimize Carbon Power to transfer Supervisory Board, for a three-year emissions. our equity stake in 3Sun. As a term. result, ST paid €11.5 million to Enel Ernst & Young Accountants LLP Green Power in exchange for our was appointed as the external full release from any obligations auditor for the 2016-2019 financial concerning the 3Sun joint years, an eight-year audit firm venture and Enel Green Power. In rotation period. addition, ST forgave its €13 million outstanding shareholder loan to the 3Sun joint venture. 7 ST agreed with November IBM to end its Among 5,500 companies worldwide participation in the evaluated by the Carbon Disclosure IBM Technology Project (CDP) committee in 2015, Development Alliance, at the end of ST was invited to ceremonies the second quarter. in Paris and Milan as one of the July companies with the best overall ST, together with the French Institute score. of Materials, Microelectronics and Nanosciences in Provence, announced the official launch of a new joint research laboratory, the Radiation Effects and Electrical December Reliability (REER) Joint Laboratory, ST announced to develop the next generations its collaboration of high-reliability, ultraminiaturized with Semtech electronic components. The REER to scale LoRa® Joint Laboratory is a multi-site Technology to research establishment that will meet high volume demands of bring together teams from the Internet of Things applications. IM2NP Institute, based in Marseille and Toulon, and specialist engineers from the ST facility in Crolles. Sustainability Report | 2015 Significant Events Foreword by our President and CEO I G4-1 I The success of the Paris agreement on Climate change (COP 21) made 2015 a historic year for sustainability, although much work lies ahead to implement the decisions taken. ST, who had signed the business-related proposals of COP 21, also made significant progress. After the full review of our sustainability strategy to address the most material issues for our business and our stakeholders in 2014, we started the implementation phase in 2015, with positive results across our three pillars: Business, People, and Environment & Operations. A new strategy enabling smart sustainability Today, ST focuses on serving two strategic areas: first, what we call Smart Driving, and second, the Internet of Things (IoT) and its very broad range of applications. Smart Driving is about making cars and other means of transportation greener, safer 8 and more connected, and is supported by the major shift influencing the automotive industry today: the progressive electrification and digitalization of all in-vehicle systems. Serving the IoT market is about enabling the creation of new devices with associated applications and services. It is also about the evolution of the environments in which we live and work: doing things in a more sustainable manner with greater efficiency and flexibility, with a safer and better experience for everyone, at home, in the city, in factories and workplaces. Making progress Our business made financial progress in 2015, with improved operating and net income1 and the highest level of free cash flow we’ve recorded in the past five years. We also maintained a solid capital structure, in both our net financial position and in total liquidity. We continued to focus on product innovation, spending 21% of our net revenues on R&D and product design to build the future. The efforts of our 8,300 employees in this domain were reflected in the filing of approximately 500 original new patent applications. ST’s 500-strong Technical Staff community (our most senior engineers) is driving the Company’s most advanced R&D projects, which coordinate activities focused on incubating innovative, cross-functional projects on sensors, smart power and automotive, healthcare, and IoT applications. We made significant steps forward at the product design level to ensure a consistent, sustainable-technology approach across the company. We have rolled out strong Eco-design guidelines that, at the design stage systematically account for our products’ environmental impact during their whole life cycle; Product Compliance rules that cover the respect of legislation and customer requirements on REACH, RoHS and the use of conflict-free minerals; and, our Responsible Products framework, which identifies and delivers innovative products that provide clear environmental and social benefits, on top of the immediate customer and end-user benefits. 1. Excluding the catch-up of R&D funding in 2014. For employees, on top of new leadership and talent-management programs, our new strategy focused on Smart Driving and IoT meant adjusting priorities. In 2015, we deployed a new Learning-Needs Analysis process, based on strategic organizational priorities aligned to business objectives and local plans. As a result, we delivered over 2 million hours of training, with a focus on R&D and leadership training. And our “Grow Your Career” initiative, aimed at expanding employee skill-sets and cultural diversity, has already encouraged 65 employees to broaden their horizons by transferring between geographies. Our Health and Safety results and actions continued to progress in 2015. We increased our focus on non-manufacturing sites for domestic accidents prevention. For ten years, ST has been strongly committed to its goal of achieving zero accidents in the workplace through formal safety programs identifying trends to help us better anticipate risks and 9 take precautionary actions. This resulted in our recordable-case rate decreasing by 2% compared to 2014, and our best-ever annual result. In its manufacturing operations, ST made a strong effort to reduce energy consumption and our associated carbon footprint through additional energy efficiency and conservation programs, by purchasing power from CO2-free and renewable sources, and by recycling and reusing water. In 2015, approximately 23% of the energy ST purchased was produced from renewable sources, compared to 7.4% in 2012 and we intend to go further. In 2015 we reached the level of 45% of our water consumption being recycled and reused. We also continued to support the ST Foundation with its Digital Unify program, which has been successfully spreading the benefits of digital technology during 2015. Our work has empowered more than 327,000 people globally since its inception, leveraging the contributions of ST employees. With ST’s encouragement, our employees also played an active role in their local communities, contributing to about 338 initiatives from 24 sites in 14 countries. Our people volunteered their time and energy and ST added more than 130,000 hours of Company time to these efforts. All of these actions were compounded by a number of changes and monitoring programs being updated, signed and implemented, including the latest, more stringent version of the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code. Looking forward We have much to be proud of in our achievements at ST. Still there is much to do. This is why we are committed to turning 2016 into another year of progress for our sustainability efforts across our strategic pillars: people, business, environment & operations, continuing to deliver on our vision to be everywhere microelectronics make a positive contribution to people’s lives while building sustainable growth. Carlo Bozotti President and CEO COMPANY Governance ST headquarters, Plan-Les-Ouates, Geneva, Switzerland Corporate Governance 10 STMicroelectronics N.V., our parent company, is registered in the Netherlands and has its corporate legal seat in Amsterdam. Its shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), Euronext Paris and Borsa Italiana. Our headquarters and operational offices are managed through our wholly-owned subsidiary, STMicroelectronics International N.V., and are located in Plan-Les-Ouates, Geneva, Switzerland. Our operations are also conducted through our various subsidiaries, which are organized and operated according to the laws of their country of incorporation and consolidated by STMicroelectronics N.V. | G4-7 | G4-17 I In accordance with Dutch law, we have a two-tier governance structure pursuant to which our management is entrusted to our Managing Board under the supervision of our Supervisory Board. Our Corporate Governance policies and practices are outlined in our Corporate Governance Charter and Supervisory Board Charter (updated in May 2015), which are available in the Corporate Governance section of our website, at http://investors.st.com. Supervisory Board Our Supervisory Board advises our Managing Board and supervises its policies and actions as well as the general course of our affairs and business. Our Supervisory Board is composed of nine members appointed by our Annual General Meeting of Shareholders for a three-year term. This term may be renewed one Supervisory Board or more times in accordance with our Articles of Association, upon the non-binding Charter updated proposal of our Supervisory Board. In accordance with the Profile and the Charter adopted by our Supervisory Board in 2015 (available at http://investors.st.com), the members of our Supervisory Board are carefully selected on the basis of certain criteria. These include their specific business, financial, technical and/or legal expertise, prior professional experience, soundness of judgment, ability to make analytical enquiries and willingness to devote the time needed to adequately perform their activities as Supervisory Board members. The Supervisory Board has also determined the following independence criteria for its members, in accordance with the corporate governance listing standards of the NYSE: Supervisory Board members must not have any material relationship with STMicroelectronics N.V., or any of our consolidated subsidiaries, or our management. Sustainability Report | Company | Governance A ‘material relationship’ can include commercial, industrial, banking, consulting, legal, accounting, charitable or familial relationships, among others, but does not include a Sustainability Governance relationship with direct or indirect shareholders. In May 2015, Mr. Nicolas Dufourcq was appointed as a new member of our Our Corporate Vice President, Human Resources Supervisory Board, for a three-year term, replacing Mr. Jean d’Arthuys whose mandate and Sustainable Development, Philippe terminated as of the 2015 Annual General Meeting of Shareholders (AGM). Ms. Martine Brun, reporting to the Chief Strategy Officer, Verluyten was reappointed for a three-year term, expiring at the 2018 AGM. Georges Penalver, has overall responsibility for The biographies of each of the nine members of our Supervisory Board can be found sustainability. Part of his remit is to chair the Sustainability Council and update our senior in the Corporate Governance section of our website at http://investors.st.com. management, including our President and CEO, at The Supervisory Board met nine times in 2015. Full details of the attendance rate at quarterly corporate staff meetings. our Supervisory Board and its Committee meetings can be found on page 59 of our Our Sustainability Council comprises 12 Vice Form 20-F annual report which is available on our website at http://investors.st.com. Presidents, representing Human Resources, Compliance and Ethics, Sales and Marketing, Supervisory Board Committees Purchasing, Investor Relations, Manufacturing, In performing its duties, our Supervisory Board is advised and assisted by four Product Groups, Communication and Quality. The committees, as follows: the Audit Committee, the Strategic Committee, the Council validates the strategy and ensures that the Compensation Committee, and the Nominating and Corporate Governance means are in place for each department and site Committee. The four standing committees are independent from the Managing Board to deploy the related corporate programs. and senior management. The Supervisory Board Charter governing the duties and At the corporate level the Social Responsibility responsibilities of each of those committees was updated in May 2015. It is available and Environment, Health and Safety groups are responsible for deploying our Sustainability on our website and can be found in the Corporate Governance section at strategy and programs. They are supported http://investors.st.com. by a network of over 100 local Sustainability Coordinators who deploy the programs and Managing Board monitor our performance in all sites and In accordance with Dutch law, our management is entrusted to our Managing organizations. Board under the supervision of our Supervisory Board. Mr. Carlo Bozotti, who was Our main sites also have Sustainability Steering reappointed in June 2014 for a three-year term to expire at the end of our 2017 Annual Committees, chaired by the local Sustainability General Meeting of Shareholders, is currently the sole member of our Managing Board Coordinator. These Committees manage the with the function of President and Chief Executive Officer (CEO). He has held this local governance and take decisions related to position since March 2005. deploying the strategy. I G4-34 I Our Managing Board is supported in its management by our senior managers, without ST has been a signatory to the United Nations 11 prejudice to our Managing Board’s ultimate responsibility. Global Compact since 2000 and a full member In accordance with our Corporate Governance Charter, the sole member of our of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition Managing Board, as well as the Chief Operating Officer and our senior management, (EICC) since 2005. In addition to adhering to these standards, we also adhere to the may not serve on the board of a public company without the prior approval of our following international guidelines and standards: Supervisory Board. | G4-34 | International Labor Organization Conventions; United Nations Global Compact Principles; Independence of the Corporate Audit function United Nations Guiding Principles on Business The Corporate Audit function is strictly independent from corporate and local and Human Rights; Organization for Economic management. Cooperation and Development Guidelines for The mission of Corporate Audit, as defined in the ST Internal Audit Charter, is Multinational Enterprises; EICC Code of Conduct; consistent with the Institute of Internal Auditors Standards and was approved by the ISO 26000; OHSAS 18001; ISO 14001; EMAS; Chair of our Audit Committee and our President and CEO. It is as follows: ISO 50001; ISO 14064; and QC 080000. • Corporate Audit is an independent function designed to provide objective assurance l G4-15 l G4-16 l and consulting activity, which adds value, improves ST’s operations at all levels, and evaluates and promotes compliance with ST’s Standard Operating Procedures and policies. • Corporate Audit helps ST accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the effectiveness of risk management, Sustainability Council control and governance processes. comprises • Corporate Audit is a major component of ST’s governance framework and assists 12 Vice Presidents the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board and the Company’s certifying officers in their fiduciary duties. Our Chief Audit and Risk Executive, Franck Freymond, is the head of Corporate Audit. He reports directly to the Audit Committee of our Supervisory Board, attends Audit Committee meetings, has direct interactions with the Chair of the Audit Committee Signatory to the throughout the year and attends executive management quarterly meetings. The Global Compact since current functional reporting line and the practices in place ensure the head of 2000 Corporate Audit the appropriate level of organizational independence and unrestricted access to executive management and the Supervisory Board. ST Corporate Audit performs its activity in conformance with the International Standards for the Professional Practice of Internal Auditing (including the Definition of Internal Auditing and the Code of Ethics), released by the Institute of Internal Auditors. Sustainability Report | Company | Governance COMPANY Sustainability Strategy Embedded in our everyday business activities, sustainability at ST is about creating value and minimizing risks for customers, investors, employees and partners through effective management of our economic, environmental and social impacts to ensure long-term business success. Governance, Ethics & Risk Management People Business Environment & Operations • Health & Safety • Innovation • Environmental Efficiency • Development & Engagement • Customer Relations • Supply Chain Responsibility • Labor & Human Rights • Financial Performance • Sustainable Technology Local Communities Our approach to sustainability Sustainability has been a guiding principle within STMicroelectronics for more than 12 20 years. Today, sustainability is integrated throughout our entire business, allowing us to maximize opportunities in areas such as Sustainable Technology and Innovation, as well as helping us to predict and mitigate risks in our operations and business performance. As a full member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) we participate in the collective efforts of the industry to find solutions to our biggest sustainability challenges, such as conflict minerals, environmental protection, social issues, health and safety. Our values are set out in our Company’s Code of Conduct and our Sustainability strategy ensures that our programs are aligned with our business priorities and our vision to make a positive contribution to people’s lives. Our Sustainability priorities and strategy 13 key Our materiality exercise, conducted in 2014, collected inputs on stakeholders’ Sustainability priorities expectations and the impact of our activities (refer to 2014 Sustainability Report). I G4-25 I These insights led us to identify and select the most pertinent sustainability topics for our organization and our internal and external stakeholders. The resulting strategy was fully deployed in 2015. We focused on anchoring and promoting our strategy and its priorities to increase awareness and to engage our employees in the sustainability journey. Throughout the year, we organized calls with our Sustainable Excellence network, which plays an essential role in raising awareness about our programs and performance. We distributed communication kits to managers to share with all employees and created posters that were translated and adapted to the local culture of each of our major sites. To ensure our strategy and Sustainability priorities remain focused on the core material topics, at the end of 2015 we conducted a review of external trends such as semiconductor industry regulations and standards, extra-financial analysts questionnaires (DJSI, CDP), and research on social and environmental issues. Based on this review we reconfirmed our 13 key Sustainability priorities defined in 2014, which form our Sustainability strategy for the coming years. I G4-23 I This report is structured according to these Sustainability priorities, and specific programs and objectives are detailed in the following sections. Sustainability Report | Company | Sustainability Strategy Materiality matrix I G4-19 I G4-27 I High Prioritized topics Ethics & Compliance Customer Relations Governance Risk Innovation Stakeholder importance Management Sustainable Technology Health & Safety Supply Chain Responsibility Environmental Efficiency Labor & Human Rights Local Communities People Development Financial Performance & Engagement Medium Medium Business impact High Engaging with our stakeholders 13 Our stakeholders are employees, customers, suppliers, investors, organizations and other entities that can affect or be affected by ST’s programs, strategies and policies. Maintaining an open dialog with our stakeholders is essential to understand their interests and expectations. Each site conducts specific actions depending on its activity, size, location and culture but all ST sites have regular exchanges with major local stakeholders, such as local authorities, schools and universities. These exchanges are orchestrated by site management and local Sustainable Excellence Coordinators. I G4-24 I EHS Seminar FOCUS in Malta ST Kirkop’s (Malta) engagement with stakeholders Our Kirkop (Malta) site’s Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Week 2015: EHS for Today and Tomorrow, proved a hit not only with ST employees but also with external stakeholders, who are still reaping the benefits. The highlight of the week was a seminar for environmental practitioners, organized by our Facilities Department. The seminar was attended by around 50 environment practitioners from industry, government agencies and academia, as well as ST employees. During the seminar, three main topics were shared: the revision changes for ISO 14001, green procurement, and good environmental practices at ST. The seminar included a much anticipated site tour around our Kirkop facilities, where visitors were shown around the compressor room, substation, new microfiltration plant, emergency response room, fire pump room, gardens, waste hut and the water-based ecosystem in the quarry. After this, attendees enjoyed a fruitful networking session over lunch. They could also see a display of stunning photos with the theme of ‘Nature and ST’. The attendees found it to be a well-organized and engaging initiative. Sustainability Report | Company | Sustainability Strategy Sustainability FOCUS photo contest Sustainability photo contest In 2015 we ran a company-wide photo contest asking employees to submit photos of “what sustainability means in ST”. Denise Ann Buhagiar, Environmental Champion of the Kirkop (Malta) site, won with her picture symbolizing all the pillars of our Sustainability strategy: People, Business, Environment & Operations and also Local Communities. “The photo illustrates a local plant of the Maltese Islands, Medicago arborea, which grows at the ST Malta site in Kirkop, and I chose it for a number of reasons,’’ Denise Ann explained. “ST employees planted this endemic plant in the Kirkop site in January 2015. It was part of an activity to remove alien and high-water uptake Acacia trees and replace them with endemic and indigenous species for the Maltese Islands, which are more adapted to dry conditions. In this way, ST Malta is helping to conserve the Maltese Islands’ natural resources and natural capital (economic aspect). We are replacing alien plant species with local species (environmental aspect). We have involved ST employees in this project and they can now enjoy the vivid colors even from the office and enjoy delicate scents during their lunch break (social aspect).’’ Stakeholder engagement I G4-24 I G4-26 l G4-27 l Stakeholders* Key Sustainability Engagement/Communication channels Benefits priorities** Employees Health and Safety Seminars, conferences, forums Engagement Ethics and Compliance VP or group leader communication meetings Loyalty and retention Supply Chain Responsibility Recognition, awards, contests Contribution to company’s success Intranet, internet, news, emails Training, workshops 14 Employee surveys Application week, EHS week Customers Customer Relations Trade shows Open dialog Health and Safety Conventions, technical seminars Transparency and credibility Supply Chain Responsibility Audits and site visits Knowledge sharing Joint seminars, conferences, Technodays, workshops Meetings Investors & Analysts Governance Investors and analysts day, face to face meetings Reputation Risk Management Annual reports Trust Sustainable Technology Extra-financial questionnaires Secured ability to operate Suppliers Supply Chain Responsibility Meetings Transparent and attractive Ethics and Compliance Audits Supply Chain Financial Performance Suppliers’ trainings Low risk supply Surveys Knowledge sharing EHS week Promote Labor and Human rights Technical roadshows Industry international Ethics and Compliance Memberships in Public-Private Partnerships, European Knowledge sharing associations Innovation Associations, EICC, ESIA Strengthening industrial Sustainable Technology Participation in consortiums, in working groups of Electronic competitiveness industry associations Early adoption of new regulations Meetings, conferences, seminars Academic and People Development Internships, scholarships, PhDs Adoption of new technologies, Laboratories Local Communities Joint R&D projects, Joint laboratories driving innovation Environmental Efficiency Conferences, Technical seminars Talent cultivation and attraction Site visits Reputation National and local Ethics and Compliance Partnerships with municipalities Contribution to society authorities People Development Meetings, conferences, seminars Promote our activities, credibility Environmental Efficiency Annual reports Compliance with national and local Site visits regulations Local Partners Ethics and Compliance Partnerships Community involvement Governance Conferences, Conventions, meetings People engagement Labor and Human Rights Site visits Responsible behavior Donations, trainings, volunteerism, local initiatives * As a multinational company, we have daily contact with most of these categories of stakeholders ** Top 3 priorities retained by each group of stakeholders in our 2014 materiality exercise Sustainability Report | Company | Sustainability Strategy How do you think Sustainability contributes to ST’s business? Jean-Louis: Sustainability has been a guiding principle in ST for more than 20 years, and the level of maturity we have reached in recent years now means that it is a significant business driver, creating value and reducing risks for all our stakeholders. It motivates our employees, drives innovation and people living near ST are proud of our presence. Edwin: It has also contributed to making our factories more efficient by reducing our energy and water consumption and improving our air and water emissions. And ultimately, it has led us to design products that bring a competitive advantage to our customers in low-power applications, applications that reduce energy consumption for the final user, and applications that contribute directly to the safety of the end user, especially in automotive. What are your main success stories of 2015? Edwin: In 2015, four of our Front-end factories were audited by a major customer as part of a global program on the water management of their suppliers. Two of our factories were ranked in the top 10 best-in-class, the other two also scoring well. Overall ST was confirmed as a significant leader in this area. This was welcome Jean-Louis Champseix recognition of our long-term commitment to reduce our environmental footprint. Group Vice President, Another success was integrating the Eco Design and Responsible Product part of Learning & Development, our Sustainable Technology program into the new formal product introduction and Social Responsibility and HR Management Systems design flow tool so that from 2016 onwards we capture all the efforts of our product groups in this area. Edwin Dobson Jean-Louis: Sustainability is so embedded in all ST processes, that it is difficult to Senior Director, pick just a few. Corporate Environment, In terms of people management and engagement, on top of our continuous Health and Safety, improvement of our EICC audit scores, ST has introduced and deployed a very Front-end Facilities comprehensive update of our own Code of Conduct. We have also deployed a new performance management process putting the emphasis on feedback and 15 development. Increasing demand from our customers and stakeholders encourages us to enhance our monitoring of suppliers and subcontractors, and support them to improve their procedures and performance. We have an important role to play when outsourcing and in 2015 we extended our Supply Chain Responsibility program to our local suppliers. What are the future challenges? Edwin: In spite of our advance, legislation is continually evolving and we need to keep ahead. We need to continue to be proactive regarding the impact of our activities, find new ways to further improve our factories’ EHS performance and deliver added value to our customers with sustainable and responsible products. Jean-Louis: We are working to sustain our growth and leadership. 2016 is a year where we will exploit our leadership and innovation models to increase our share in the booming market of Internet of Things. We will take advantage of our low-power environmentally-competitive technologies and products, and our leading robust solutions for the coming smart driving revolution. On the whole we will continue with our pioneering spirit for sustainability to ensure we are recognized as an attractive partner in a world that is justifiably more demanding in managing risks and creating value for all. Sustainability Report | Company | Sustainability Strategy COMPANY Ethics and Compliance At ST, we are committed to conducting our business with the highest standards of ethics and integrity, as outlined in our Company Code of Conduct. 16 Code of Conduct Our vision speaks for itself: we want to be everywhere microelectronics brings a positive contribution to people’s lives. This must be reflected in everything we do and how we do it. At ST we respect and follow both the spirit and the letter of the law, everywhere we operate. Business ethics, the respect of human rights and a sense of responsibility to all our stakeholders and to the environment are a matter of personal integrity for each of us. Our Company Code of Conduct is all about our values, which have been part of ST’s DNA for more than two decades. Commonly held values and principles are shared Code of Conduct throughout our organization and represent our corporate culture, the continuity of updated in 2015 our history, and guide each of our employees in facing our future challenges and opportunities. Integrity: we conduct our business with the highest ethical standards, honor our commitments, deliver on our promises, are loyal and fair and stand up for what is right. People: we behave with openness, trust and simplicity; we are ready to share our knowledge, encourage everyone’s contribution, develop our people through empowerment, teamwork and training; each one of us is committed and personally involved in the continuous improvement process. Excellence: we strive for quality and customer satisfaction and create value for all our partners; we are flexible, encourage innovation, develop our competences, seek responsibility and are accountable for our actions; we act with discipline, base our decisions on facts and focus on the priorities. Sustainability Report | Company | Ethics and Compliance E-signature of Business Conduct and Ethics Policy* (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 90 93 93 91 95 * Percentage of eligible exempts. From 2015 onwards the Business Conduct and Ethics Policy is replaced by our Code of Conduct. In 2015, our former Business Conduct and Ethics policy and Principles for Sustainable Excellence were merged into a single document, our Code of Conduct. Although our values remain the same, the goal of the new document is to describe them in easy-to-read language, and provide real-world examples on how to act and behave in various working environments and situations at ST. It also promotes a speak up culture, which invites our employees to seek advice (at local or corporate level) and report their concerns without fear of retaliation. This new document is a key pillar of our Compliance Program. Our updated Code of Conduct, which is available in nine languages, was released in the second half of 2015. In 2016 each employee will receive a paper copy of the Code of Conduct and an e-Learning program will be deployed to exempt employees. As our managers have a special responsibility to lead by example and guide those that they supervise, each year they are required to sign and certify their understanding of, and compliance with our Code of Conduct. With the replacement of the policy and the deployment of the new code, the signature will be extended to all of our exempt employees in 2016. | G4-56 | G4-DMA | Bribery and corruption ST has a zero tolerance approach towards bribery and corruption, regardless of the identity or position of the originator or recipient of the bribe. In ST it is also strictly forbidden to use ST funds or assets to make a political contribution. In addition to a dedicated section in our Code of Conduct we have a specific Antibribery and Corruption policy which was reviewed in 2014 and deployed throughout the Company in 2015. It provides clear definitions regarding instances of bribery and corruption and offers a detailed description of the Company rules for engaging with 17 third parties. Furthermore it explains how to report violations or suspected violations and outlines the potential disciplinary actions and legal consequences of noncompliance. In 2015, the Company started to conduct a yearly Fraud Risk Assessment by following a structured approach across various Company locations and organizations. The assessment conducted in 2015 specifically focused on the risk of corruption. I G4-DMA I Anti-bribery and Speak up & misconduct reporting Corruption ST’s framework, aiming at encouraging employees and interested third parties to report allegations or suspicions of misconduct, was significantly updated in 2015 policy with the release of a new Standard Operating Procedure on the subject. The new framework is communicated to all employees in the ‘speak up’ section in our Code of Conduct. At ST we promote a ‘speak up’ culture among employees, encouraging everyone to express, in good faith, any concern they might have that Company executives, managers or employees might not be adhering to the Company’s high standards of business ethics. ‘Speak up’ Employees are invited to share their concerns with someone who can address them culture properly. In most cases, the employee’s manager is the best person to address such a concern. Alternatively, employees can also address their concerns (depending on their nature) to their local Human Resources, Legal Department or Site Manager. All concerns raised in good faith by employees are taken seriously and proper and timely feedback is provided. Employees can also choose to report their concerns at corporate level, by contacting the Corporate Vice President Human Resources, the General Counsel, the Chief Compliance Officer or the Chief Audit & Risk Executive. Contact details are available on the ‘speak up’ page of the Company’s intranet. For employees who feel uncomfortable addressing their concerns directly at local or corporate levels, the Company has established a Misconduct Reporting Hotline, which can be used by any Company employee or interested third party, to raise a concern. Sustainability Report | Company | Ethics and Compliance All reports received through any of the available channels are strictly confidential and we ensure that no employee who reports a concern in good faith suffers retaliation in the form of harassment, adverse employment or career consequences. ST also openly communicates internally on the way reported allegations and suspicions are processed, through a dedicated Standard Operating Procedure, released in September 2015. The procedure contains a section describing the rights and obligations of employees subject to an internal investigation. Dedicated procedure Employees are informed that they are the subject of an internal investigation after an assessment phase is completed and they are given an opportunity to discuss the for internal investigation’s findings before any disciplinary measure is considered. investigations Employees under investigation are also obliged to fully cooperate with the internal investigators by making themselves available for interviews, by providing all of the requested evidence and by keeping all communications confidential. Information is provided at least quarterly to the Audit Committee of the Supervisory Board, the Corporate Ethics Committee and the Certifying Officers, which enables them to follow up on the progress and conclusion of investigations. Corporate Ethics Committee Our Corporate Ethics Committee (CEC) was formed in 2007 and currently comprises nine senior managers appointed by the President and Chief Executive Officer. The CEC was established to provide support to the Company’s management in its efforts to foster a business ethics culture consistent across regions, functions and organizations. The CEC’s roles and responsibilities include: • discussion and evaluation of ST’s Code of Conduct, other procedural documents or initiatives related to business ethics as well as ethical breaches, allegations and related investigations, • issuing guidance on ethical dilemmas, Corporate and • coordination of the network of local ethics. local ethics In accordance with its mission and scope, the CEC may issue recommendations to the relevant organization. 18 committees In addition to the CEC, Local Ethics Committees covering individual countries or regions meet on a regular basis. Their roles, responsibilities and organizations are defined locally based on guidelines issued by the CEC. Non-compliance/Ethical breaches reporting | G4-SO5 | 2015 Number of incidents under review as of January 1st 3 Number of incidents reported or identified during the year 13 Actual fraud cases identified through audit or management review 0 Incidents closed by a formal investigation report 5 Number of confirmed external fraud cases 1 Number of confirmed internal fraud cases 1 which lead to employees being dismissed or disciplined 1 which lead to terminating or not renewing contracts with business partners 1 Incidents closed after preliminary assessment 9 Incidents still open at year end 2 Number of public legal cases regarding corruption brought against ST or its employees 0 Objectives Status Comments Objectives Improve the integration process between Completed by two procedural documents on allegation reporting and investigation “Reporting of misconduct” and “Management and management. reporting of internal investigations”. Objective discontinued. Strengthen the Ethics Committee network Activities were discussed during Corporate Ethics by formalizing the links and reporting lines Committee. The Code of Conduct deployment will between the Corporate Ethics Committee and improve visibility. Local Ethics Committees and by communicating on this updated framework to ST employees. Design and implement a structured approach Yearly Fraud Risk Assessment. to assess the risk of fraud globally. Objective discontinued. Modernize whistleblowing channels by creating an online misconduct reporting platform. Sustainability Report | Company | Ethics and Compliance COMPANY Risk Management Our goal is to be recognized by our stakeholders as among the best companies for risk management and business continuity, by meeting and exceeding customer requirements, local and international legal requirements, and international standards. Enterprise Risk Management The purpose of Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) at ST is to manage risks and seize opportunities in order to achieve the Company’s objectives and enable sustainable growth. In this context the ERM systematically, consistently and effectively identifies, evaluates and manages all types of risk across the Company, including establishing effective risk mitigation action plans for identified key and top priority risks. Risks are grouped into the following categories: Governance, Strategy, Innovation & Execution; Intangible Assets; Operations; Products; Market Environment; External Events; Legal, Regulatory & Compliance; People, Skills & Organization; Finance; and ERM process Information Systems. The risks are assessed in terms of impact, likelihood and room for improvement. is aligned with Our Chief Audit and Risk Executive is responsible for: ISO 31000 • leading the development and maintenance of the ERM framework • overseeing the execution of ERM processes, procedures and infrastructure to ensure that the ERM activity is aligned with Company objectives and that it serves as a key enabler for achieving the organization’s business objectives in growth and sustainability. Our ERM process is aligned with the principles and guidelines of the ISO 31000 standard. It applies a holistic approach and is designed to address both top-down and 19 bottom-up perspectives. It is built on a comprehensive risk universe, comprising generic risk areas that allow consolidated and comparative analysis across ST, and is articulated along the activities described in the graph. Top-down Top-down risk map update campaign: Action plans to be elaborated/implemented/ streamlined process leveraging on Risk followed up on (Corporate level Risk Owners’ inputs (action plan follow-up) & Owner/ERM Champion coordination) targeted interviews with Corporate Staff members Objectives/top-priority risks Feedback/consolidation 3 Prioritization 2 4 Risk scenario Risk map Mitigation action plans/ assessment Control procedures 1 Risk identification Bottom-up risk maps Action plans to be elaborated/ (ERM Champion coordination) implemented/followed up on (Risk Owner coordination) for priority risks highlighted in risk maps Bottom-up* * ST organizations Sustainability Report | Company | Risk Management ERM Governance Supervisory Board • ERM process assurance reviews (requests • Annual ERM review for information/corrective actions) • Periodic updates (especially priority • Requests to investigate on specific risk risks/mitigation action plans) management topics • Analyses addressing specific requests Managing Board Corporate ERM function Support Corporate Risk Owners Independent audit reviews Annual top-down/corporate-level risk map Quarterly follow-up on mitigation action plans Ad-hoc analysis & meetings as required • Top priorities/risk mitigation objectives • Annual consolidation • ERM implementation objectives • Quarterly reporting (priority risks & action plans) • Early warnings ERM Champions/Risk Owners Manufacturing & Technology Marketing & Sales R&D Operations Bottom-up risk maps/ mitigation action plans Product Groups Corporate Functions 20 2015 achievements Our Supervisory Board Charter provides information regarding the respective duties and responsibilities of our Supervisory Board and Audit Committee in terms of risk management. It was updated in May 2015 and is available on our website in the Corporate Governance section at http://investors.st.com. Top-down We conducted a review of our top-down risk assessment with executive management. The output from this exercise was a risk map, including top-priority risk areas. Risk owners were appointed for each of these risk areas in order to develop risk mitigation action plans, which will be reviewed by executive management on a periodic basis. Bottom-up risk Bottom-up The bottom-up approach aims to embed risk identification, evaluation and assessment management activities at the most effective level within each organization. We throughout the deployed the bottom-up risk assessment approach in organizations throughout the Company Company (including Marketing & Sales, Product Groups, Manufacturing & Technology, Research & Development and Corporate functions such as Human Resources and Sustainability). ERM tool We deployed a Risk Management Information System (RMIS) supporting the ERM, which allows us to easily capture and consolidate data from across the Company, follow up and monitor the ERM action plans and provide reports to executive management and our Supervisory Board. Risk reporting We reported on ERM activities to executive management and the Supervisory Board. Sustainability Report | Company | Risk Management Sustainability risk management Corporate Sustainability is part of our bottom-up process. The priorities defined in our Sustainability strategy are subject to risk mapping, where risks are identified and risk analysis then evaluated according to the likelihood of the event, the severity of impact and the margin for improvement. Corrective actions are then defined to mitigate the identified determines sites risks. Some of our sustainability impacts and related actions for each step of our value to be audited chain can be seen on page 6. A specific annual corporate risk analysis also determines which of our sites will be selected for internal Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) audits and similarly which sites will be selected for labor and human rights self-assessments and Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition audits. In addition to our own operations, we also conduct risk assessments for our supply chain. This includes the social, ethics and EHS risks for our key corporate subcontractors and suppliers as well as local suppliers, such as canteen, cleaning, gardening and security services. For more information see page 76. In 2016 we plan to work on a more detailed mapping of social and ethics risks for each of our major sites, taking into account the local context and specific local risks. Business continuity ISO 22301 Securing our business continuity by managing the risks in our operational processes and supply chain is fundamental to providing top-level customer service and training and satisfaction. In our business continuity program each site and organization is responsible for assessing risks, identifying both internal and external events which may gap analysis be critical for business continuity, and developing and implementing a plan to mitigate done for our 16 most identified weaknesses. Our Corporate Security Group coordinates and harmonizes the important sites various local approaches to risk assessment, prevention and recovery. Announced in 2014, our program to formalize our business continuity with the ISO 22301 certification continued as planned in 2015, with a training and gap analysis completed for our 16 most important sites. We are currently reviewing the documentation and are on track to complete the final audit and certification phase by 21 the end of 2016. Sustainability Report | Company | Risk Management ST Technoday and Innovation Night, Paris, France Business 512 • Application strategic focus on Smart Driving and patents filed in 2015 the Internet of Things • ST is certified for ISO 9001 company-wide 21% of net revenues invested • 8,300 employees dedicated to R&D in R&D • A portfolio of over 15,400 patents in more than +US$ 9,400 different patent families 104 million net income I G4-DMA I BUSINESS Financial Performance Our commitment to sustainability is a key enabler of long-term business success and improving financial performance. Our actions to drive sustainable progress are designed to improve our financial performance, decrease risk, and support and improve our reputation among stakeholders as a long-time pioneer in our industry. I G4-DMA I Company Financial Performance In 2015, despite making progress in a number of financial metrics, our performance was limited due to a weak semiconductor market, particularly in the second half of the year, and some changes in customer plans did not allow us to grow revenues as we had expected. ST registered net revenues of US$6.90 billion in 2015, a decline of 6.8% on a year-over-year basis, impacted by unfavorable currency effects and the progressive wind down of legacy ST-Ericsson product revenues. Excluding these two factors our revenues declined by 3.3%. 33.8% Our 2015 gross margin was 33.8% of net revenues, increasing by ten basis points compared to the prior year. This was primarily due to manufacturing efficiencies as well gross margin as favorable currency effects, net of hedging, and a favorable product mix largely offset by price pressure. During 2015, the important progress ST made from a financial performance perspective included: • Operating income before impairment and restructuring charges was US$174 million, improving US$13 million on a year-over-year basis (excluding the US$97 million of R&D funding included in the 2014 operating income but related to 2013). US$104 • Net income was US$104 million; a significant turnaround from the US$500 million loss incurred in 2013. 23 million net income • Free cash flow again increased significantly to a positive US$327 million, reaching the highest level the Company has recorded in the past five years. In addition, ST continued to make progress in terms of the mix of Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM) customers and distribution. Revenues from distribution were 32% of net revenues in 2015 compared to 31% in 2014. We are encouraged that this trend will continue, as we advance on our strategy to strengthen our mass market programs. US$327 In the course of the year, ST paid dividends to shareholders totaling US$350 million million free cash flow and used US$200 million of cash for long-term debt repayment. As a result, ST ended 2015 with a solid capital structure, with a positive net financial position of US$494 million and total liquidity of US$2.1 billion. Product Group Performance During 2015, we increasingly focused our R&D and Sales and Marketing efforts on two areas: Smart Driving, enabled by car digitalization and electrification, and the Internet US$350 of Things (IoT), including portable and wearable systems as well as smart home, city and industry applications. Our products, technologies and system application million of dividends paid competencies are optimized for these areas, which we address with our products for automotive and industrial, our microcontrollers and digital ASICs, our analog and power portfolio as well as our MEMS and specialized image sensors. Revenues from our Microcontrollers, Memories and Secure MCU (MMS) Product Group increased more than 7% in 2015 compared to 2014, driven by our general purpose STM32 family. This growth was possible thanks to a combination of new innovative products, now totaling over 600 part numbers, as well as a strong customer base expansion. Our STM32 series are at the heart of many IoT applications and they now serve over 40,000 customers worldwide. Sustainability Report | Business | Financial Performance ST key figures | G4-9 | G4-EC1 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Application-specific focus Net revenues (US$m) 9,735 8,493 8,082 7,404 6,897 on Smart Driving and the IoT Gross profit (US$m) 3,574 2,783 2,614 2,498 2,332 Gross profit as a percentage of sales (%) 36.7% 32.8% 32.3% 33.7% 33.8% Net earnings (US$m) 650 (1,158) (500) 128 104 Earnings per share (diluted) in (US$) 0.72 (1.31) (0.56) 0.14 0.12 Market share versus TAM (%) 3.21% 2.87% 2.60% 2.20% 2.06% (Total Available Market) Operating income and cash flow | G4-EC1 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Operating income (US$m) 46 (2,081) (465) 168 109 Net operating cash flow (US$m) (278) 34 (179) 197 327 Net revenues by location of order shipment | G4-8 | G4-9 | G4-EC1 | Japan-Korea 13% Over 7% growth EMEA 26% 24 in microcontrollers Greater ChinaAmericas South Asia 16% 45% Another area of solid performance was our Automotive Product Group (APG), which, after growing by 8% in 2014, was stable year-on-year in 2015, excluding currency effects. Strong progress with both our individual products and our complete system solutions was key to this success. During 2015, seven out of ten ADAS-equipped cars on the road had our system on board. Our Industrial and Power Discrete Product Group (IPD) was the group most affected by the market slowdown, driven by an industry correction in the channel leading to a sales decrease of 6% in 2015, excluding currency effects. At the same time, we moved forward during the year, seeding our future growth with a strong pipeline of new products, well focused on the fastest growing applications such as Smart Driving and the Internet of Things. ST leading in Our Analog, MEMS and Sensors (AMS) group continued to go through a difficult revenue transition in 2015. However, during the year, we made progress in building ADAS a more diversified portfolio and broader customer base that should ultimately allow a solutions gradual return to growth. In Digital ASICs, we strengthened our position in the networking market, with record billings in optical modules and a strong ramp-up of ASICs in leading-edge CMOS technologies. And in our imaging business, we started to demonstrate success with our refocused strategy of specialized image and photonic sensors. In fact, our FlightSense technology was integrated in over 20 phones during 2015 and we passed the milestone of 50 million units shipped. I G4-8 I Sustainability Report | Business | Financial Performance Company Organization Following an extensive review of our Digital Products Group, in January 2016 we New announced that we will discontinue the development of new platforms and standard products for set-top box and home gateway. The slower than expected market organization adoption of leading-edge products and increasing competition on low-end boxes, combined with the required high level of R&D investment, has led this business to with three product groups generate significant losses in the course of the last years. This difficult decision is consistent with our strategy to only participate in sustainable businesses. At the end of January 2016, ST changed its organization, to align with the company’s strategic focus on Smart Driving and on Internet of Things applications. Three product groups have been established. The first group, Automotive and Discrete (ADG), includes all of our automotive ICs, both digital and analog, and our discrete products, which are increasingly important in the growing segment of car electrification. The second group, Microcontrollers and Digital ICs (MDG), includes our general purpose and secure microcontrollers, our EEPROM memories and all of our digital ICs outside of automotive. The technical synergies between microcontrollers and the other digital ICs will benefit ST in terms of technology leadership and time to market. The third group, Analog and MEMS (AMG), includes our low-power analog ICs, smart power products for industrial and power conversion and all of our MEMS activity. The Technology and Manufacturing organization is now under the leadership of our Chief Operating Officer. Tax Member of DJSI ST acts with integrity in all tax matters and operates under a policy of full transparency with the tax authorities in all countries in which we operate. Europe In forming our own assessment of the taxes legally due for each of our businesses around the world, we follow two important objectives: to protect value for our shareholders, in line with our broader fiduciary duties; and to fully comply with all relevant legal and regulatory obligations, in line with our stakeholders’ expectations. Our overall approach is to pursue clarity and predictability on all tax matters wherever 25 feasible. We enter into commercial transactions only where the associated approach to taxation is justifiable under any reasonable interpretation of the underlying facts, as well as compliant in law and regulation. Extra-financial Performance Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) rating agencies, analysts and investors regularly request detailed feedback on a wide range of Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) topics to evaluate our Corporate behavior and performance. While we endeavor to reply to each request, investors and analysts can also find comprehensive information in our annual Sustainability Report which is designed to communicate our ESG performance to all our stakeholders. Our report is complemented by our Company website, which provides detailed descriptions of our policies and actions on a more regular basis. We continue to maintain a strong presence in the major sustainability indices including the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) Europe and the Financial Times Stock Record score of Exchange’s index FTSE4Good. As well as the ESG sustainability indices, each year we 96B for CDP carbon also reply to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) and in 2015 we achieved our best ever score with 96B for carbon, which is significantly above the average of 84C (for more information see page 63). Participating in these evaluations gives us an opportunity to assess our performance within a wider context, benchmark ST against our peers and identify areas for further improvement. It also enables us to monitor investment trends and identify new risks and opportunities. Sustainability Report | Business | Financial Performance How did ST perform during 2015? In 2015, our Microcontroller and Automotive businesses performed well again, thanks to all the efforts we placed on innovation management to drive competitive new products. Our Analog, MEMS and sensors business saw a continuation of the transition experienced in 2014, despite the positive initial results of our diversification strategy both in terms of products and applications. The Industrial and Power business was the most affected by the industry correction, while the Digital Product group saw a strong decline overall. Carlo Ferro Globally, we managed to slightly improve operating income, to consolidate a Chief Financial Officer net profit and to expand free cash flow generation. Thanks to the engagement of our employees, and sustainable efficiency initiatives, we also demonstrated a solid control of our cost; net operating expenses remained well on track with our objective while keeping an R&D effort of about 21% of sales to sustain future growth. So some progress was made but we are not satisfied as the level of profitability generated in 2015 does not reflect the potential of the Company. This is due to two major factors: a low level of revenues compared to our cost structure and the significant losses of our Digital Product Group, mostly due to the structural deficit of our set-top box business. What actions have been taken to improve the Company’s performance? We conducted an extensive review of the possible options to fix the Digital Product Group losses in a sustainable way for all stakeholders. It translated into the difficult decision to discontinue our presence in platforms and standard products for set-top box and home gateway. This decision, however, does not significantly impact the overall presence of the Company in the markets we serve, nor our commitment or the value we can extract from our digital technologies which represented about US$2.8 billion in revenues in 2015. We are dedicating 60% of our R&D to digital technology to translate the unique competences of our people into growth in 26 microcontrollers, digital automotive, digital ICs and specialized image sensors. What are the priorities for 2016? We are entering 2016 with a renewed focus on revenue growth centered on two core segments: Smart Driving and Internet of Things. Our strategic focus indeed now adresses the fast growing segments of the semiconductor industry and positions ST with its unique set of broad technologies and competences to capture the mega trend of electronics. We have reshaped our organization, now simplified into three product groups and three regional marketing and sales organizations to move faster in capturing opportunities. We are engaging all our employees in leading these rapidly expanding markets with adapted innovative solutions to shape the evolving world. Our portfolio of products and technologies, together with our system and application approach, is particularly well adapted to offer eco-designed, responsible products for the low-power, safety and advanced mobility applications used by the billions of customers of our customers. Our ambition is clearly to transform the capital, the massive knowledge and potential we have built into a sustainable growth in terms of revenue, income, cash generation, people investment and recognition, and share value. Sustainability Report | Business | Financial Performance BUSINESS Innovation We aim to contribute to a sustainable world by fostering innovation wherever microelectronics can positively impact people’s lives. 27 Smart lighting stand, ST Technoday and Innovation Night, Paris, France Our approach to innovation is a strong reflection of our life.augmented vision. Through innovative product design and advanced technologies, we are positively impacting people’s lives and providing users with an enhanced experience. Through our Sustainable Technology program, described on page 71, we also constantly strive to reduce the energy consumption of our products, limit the use of chemicals and produce responsible products. To encourage and sustain our innovation, each year we invest a significant percentage of our revenue in Research and Development (R&D). In 2015 our R&D investments totaled US$1.43 billion, representing about 21% of our net revenue. We currently have 21% of our net 8,300 employees dedicated to R&D and product design. revenues spent on R&D Innovation management Effective innovation doesn’t just depend on having the right resources available; the innovation management process is equally important. Among other things, it facilitates and supports cross-functional involvement of resources, particularly for new disruptive, innovative projects or multiple applications of the Internet of Things (IoT). In 2015, ST Updated refined the innovation management process, involving leaders, experts and executives innovation of the Technical Staff. framework The purpose of updating this process is to ensure shared understanding and principles of innovation at ST, and to align organizations and geographical regions so they have the same approach, from knowledge to value. Our work on the process has already given us the opportunity to promote and share local and organizational innovation management successes in areas such as: knowledge management, disruptive innovation change management and university and research laboratory collaboration. Sustainability Report | Business | Innovation 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ST patents filed This updated framework will also help us refine our innovation key performance indicators and highlight efficiency improvement opportunities in our product development process. The metrics have deteriorated in 2015 (see table) due to the 700 wave of reorganizations that followed the ST-Ericsson wind-down and a project mix 602 598 that is gradually evolving towards more sophisticated products. 553 516 512 In 2016, we will continue to develop and deploy our framework, setting up workshops 525 with our Technical Staff to advance our reflection on how to best meet future challenges. 350 Intellectual Property and patents Intellectual Property (IP) is a key aspect of innovation management at ST, as we 175 frequently buy and license-out IPs. We have an active patent licensing program which provides third parties access to many of our patents and enables them to make wide use of ST technology. Increasingly, such licensing activities help create a model of 0 close and long-lasting partnerships where technology and IP flows are fluid. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Since our inception, ST has amassed a portfolio of over 15,400 patents in more than 9,400 different patent families. In 2015 we shifted our focus from the quantity of patents filed to the quality, and consequently revised our objectives downwards, setting a new target of 480 filings for 2015. We surpassed this revised target by a wide margin, filing 512 new patents applications in 2015. More importantly, we implemented several programs to improve the quality of ST’s intellectual property portfolio. This included a worldwide patent committee review of all inventions, a continuation program, the consolidation of patent translation firms, prior art searches and the revision of our inventor incentive awards. We also promote patent walls to recognize the achievements of our inventive employees, share expertise and encourage further exchanges and contributions. The latest patent wall in our Crolles site (France) displays more than 450 local inventions that resulted in at least one patent filing in the past four years. Innovation FOCUS Booster 28 ST Innovation Booster Initiative for startups for startups Our Innovation Booster Initiative for startups went from strength to strength in 2015. The program was initiated in 2014 by our European Sales team to build a bridge between startups, small companies, our customers and our development ecosystems. In 2015, the initiative spread and by the end of the year there were already 11 startups working on five different ST sites in France. In addition to favorable conditions for office space, the startups receive access to ST technology and products, such as the developer kits and supporting software tools from our broad STM32 ecosystem, which helps reduce their development time. We also provide technical support and put them in contact with technical consultants, sub-contractors and fab labs to ensure their projects make swift progress. Several of the startups were present at the Consumer Electronics Show in Las Vegas in January 2016. Smart & Blue (Hydrao), a startup created following the STM32 design contest and hosted on our Grenoble site, France, won an award for their intelligent shower. For more information, see page 72. This initiative has already delivered benefits for ST. It gives us valuable feedback on our products and development ecosystems, and promotes our products in the field of Internet of Things. It also creates a dynamic and novel atmosphere Some of the startups hosted by ST in 2015 at our sites, which inspires and motivates our own employees. As the startups grow, the initiative will also bring us significant new business opportunities. Technical Staff 560 During 2015, ST’s technical teams and individual experts once again demonstrated significant active participation and commitment. For many years, ST’s worldwide Technical Staff Technical Staff community has played an instrumental role in bringing experts together to collaborate and share knowledge, developing this fundamental and critical asset for the Company. The community currently assembles 560 technical experts and leaders who are actively involved in the most advanced R&D projects. Sustainability Report | Business | Innovation Objectives Status Comments Objectives In 2015, file 550 patents for innovation. Results 512 see article. Objective discontinued. Increase efficiency of product development: Reduce Increased to 20 months see article. average age of development projects to 14 months. Objective 2016: 18 months. Increase efficiency of product development: Increase Decreased to 27% see article. proportion of projects less than one year old to 40%. Objective 2016: 30%. Internal design Our Technical Staff members coordinate activities focused on incubating new, innovative projects. These projects cover areas spanning sensor-driven architectures contest and applications, smart power and automotive, healthcare and biomedical, design leads to startups methodologies for ASICs in FD-SOI technology, and the IoT. Given the potentially disruptive nature of such projects, they are managed by cross-divisional teams in a flexible and agile structure, which facilitates an effective innovation incubation. When ready, they are then transferred to the relevant product teams for exploitation and commercialization. Innovation activity 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Median age of immature projects (months) 15 18 15 15 20 % of immature projects* younger than 1 year 35 28 39 37 27 % of projects* maturing within year 33 30 41 25 17 * Project: product development project, defined in accordance with IFRS criteria, measured in asset value, not yet at Maturity 30 at the end of the year. Innovation events Stephane Jaubertou Chief Operating Officer and Each year, ST organizes and participates in a number of events to promote innovation, Cofounder, Sevenhugs including design contests, exhibitions and award ceremonies. Here are some examples of events held in 2015. Sevenhugs was founded in 2014 29 STM32 internal design contest with the objective of creating For the first time, our STM32 internal design contest led to the creation of several products that reinvent the way startups in 2015. families experience technology This annual contest invites our engineers from around the world to use their in their home. When we started imagination and passion for innovation to create the next big thing for the IoT, using designing our first product, our STM32 family of microcontrollers and other associated ST components. the hugOne sleep tracker, we In 2015, an ST jury selected 14 projects based on their innovation, feasibility, selected numerous ST products functionality, usefulness and technical merit. More than 930 ST employees then voted for the design. It was then that online to select the following winners: our distributor told us about the program and in 2014 we became • Mathieu Behaghel with TapTapControl for the Innovation category the first startup to join ST’s offices • Gabriel Della-Monica, Didier Chollat-Namy and Philippe Rochette with Hydrao for in Paris. the Usefulness category The privileged access to ST’s • Fabien Holin with BeeZbee for the Technical Value category technology and the technical and Two of the selected teams have since created startups to turn their designs into logistics support we have received, commercialized products, and a third startup is planned for 2016. including access to ST’s partners, Technoday and Innovation Night have been key to our rapid In September we held our eighth ST Technoday and Innovation Night in Paris. development. In just one year we The event showcased a vast array of innovative applications made possible by ST have gone from 4 to 17 people and products. With over 100 demonstrations from ST, startups and small companies as have successfully commercialized well as eight innovation awards, we illustrated how ST helps our partners create a our first product. We are now smarter world. working on launching our second product, the Smart Remote, which Maker Faire in Rome is based on a patent pending In October we presented at the Maker Faire in Rome, which was our first participation technology, and again uses ST in this type of event. With 90,000 visitors and 600 exhibitors, the Maker Faire in Rome products. is the biggest event of its kind in Europe. 2016 is going to be a busy year More than 7,000 hobbyists, teachers, professionals and people from fab labs and for Sevenhugs and we are looking universities visited our booth, where we presented demonstrations based on STM32 forward to continuing our close Nucleo boards and expansion boards. These showed how easy it is to bring a project partnership with ST. to life with ST products and the STM32 Open Development Environment, comprising boards and software tools. Sustainability Report | Business | Innovation BUSINESS Customer Relations We maintain a continuous and open dialog with customers to ensure we meet their expectations in all respects, including quality, service and timely delivery. 30 Mobile World Congress, Barcelona, Spain ST’s success depends on our ability to build strong and trusting relationships with our customers, to serve them effectively and to satisfy their needs. In 2015, we carried out various initiatives and launched a number of targeted programs to improve our sales processes and customer support. Satisfying our customers Strong relationships drive increased customer loyalty. Following the launch of the new version of our online platform in 2014, we continued our efforts to improve the quality New customer of our customer support. As part of this, in July 2015 we opened a Support Center at our Coppell (USA) site. There, a dedicated team handles calls, emails, and web support center requests from customers across the world. It has radically improved our technical support standards, especially for our mass market customers and those who have no personal contacts within ST. The systems now in place enable us to track requests by customer, by region and by enquiry type, and their analysis helps us to provide a better-quality service. With the aim of improving product knowledge and hence customer service, we launched compulsory weekly technical product training for our Sales & Marketing personnel in the Americas Region. Sustainability Report | Business | Customer Relations Measuring overall customer satisfaction and identifying areas for improvement are both essential in order to remain focused on customer needs. While we did not carry out a large-scale survey in 2015, we were able to evaluate customer satisfaction and expectations through a number of different means. These included dedicated meetings, site audits, business-quality reviews and the analysis of metrics such as complaints, customer scorecards and quality returns. New customer The mass market, which we serve through our distribution channels, represented classification 32% of our sales in 2015. It is one of the key areas that we are targeting for growth. To improve our support in this area, we strengthened the quality of our local marketing activities and sales teams across all regions, particularly in Asia. We plan to improve this set of competencies further during 2016. In November 2015, we held a successful Distribution Sales Convention in Singapore, which brought together 356 participants from across our Greater China & South Asia region (see Focus). To improve coverage and respond better to changes in the market place, we took the decision in 2015 to restructure how we segment our customer base. The simplified customer classification that resulted will be in place in 2016. Quality | G4-PR5 | Q4 2011 Q4 2012 Q4 2013 Q4 2014 Q4 2015 Customer complaints 100 97 87 86 101 Cycle time to process failures analysis 100 112 113 112 104 Customer Quality returns 100 46 48 49 37 Baseline 100 in 2011. On time delivery 105 31 100 95 Delivery date in line with ST commitment 90 Delivery date in line with customer request 85 80 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Baseline 100 in 2011. Strengthening business FOCUS relationships Distribution Sales Convention in Singapore Sales via distributors in ST’s Greater China & South Asia (GC&SA) region represent about half of ST’s total distribution sales and 70% of ST’s sales in the region. It is therefore important to strengthen our relationship with those regional distribution partners who make such a large contribution to our success. We held our 2015 GC&SA Distribution Sales Convention in November in Singapore. The event’s 356 participants included personnel from 19 different distributors and value-added resellers. ST President and CEO Carlo Bozotti, as well as his executive management team, attended the event. Our guests stated their high appreciation of the event, thanks to the valuable exchange of internal and external feedback and a good mix of business and networking activities. Sustainability Report | Business | Customer Relations Reinforcing tools and procedures Efficient tools and procedures are important assets in strengthening customer relationships. We implemented two new sales tools in 2015, to improve our Customer Relationship Management practices and so ensure that customers benefit from accurate and timely responses: Maintaining trust • Salesforce.com which allows the sales organization to track all actions associated with the customer demand, accelerate design activity and improve and dialog project management. This application is designed to monitor and ensure on-time completion of actions associated with customer needs and therefore to improve the customer’s experience with ST. • ModelN Channel Sales is being used to closely monitor inventories in the Distribution Channel for mass market customers. The use of this tool allows ST to better monitor and meet customer demand. Customer Change Notifications Maintaining dialog with customers is essential to retaining their trust and satisfaction. That is why in 2015, we improved the tool we use to manage how we notify customers of any changes. Called NOTICE (NOTification & Information to CustomErs), the system enables our sales teams to track changes to products and processes. More importantly, it also allows them to inform customers of these changes and gain feedback before implementation. In parallel, we implemented a new internal system that will help us improve how we track changes for better traceability, discipline, and risk assessment. Using this system will enable us to reduce the number and severity of quality excursions that our customers may experience. Customers and sustainability Increasing During our 2014 materiality exercise, our customers ranked Health and Safety and Supply Chain Responsibility, including Conflict Minerals, among their top priorities. interest in This was once more confirmed in 2015, when we received over 1,000 requests for our sustainability information relating to sustainability (up from 800 in 2014). The number of different 32 performance customers contacting us also increased, with four times as many customers compared to 2014. Enquiries relating to Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) issues, which represented 59% of all those we received, are primarily related to the legal compliance of products. In 2015, our customers expressed increased interest in reporting on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and water. Although 80% of all EHS requests were linked to product compliance, the number linked to GHG emissions and water grew to 10% of nonproduct-related requests. Every year since 2010, we have responded to the Carbon Disclosure Project’s supply chain program questionnaire. In this, we transparently show our customers how we manage the climate-change and water challenges and risks we face. Customer requests on Sustainability Conflict Minerals 32% Social Responsibility EHS 9% 59% Sustainability Report | Business | Customer Relations Another 32% of requests related to our management of Conflict Minerals. We answered these with the regularly updated information we provide in the Conflict Minerals Reporting Template (CMRT), developed by the Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative (CFSI). For more information, see page 77. Nine percent of the information requests we received from customers in 2015 related to social responsibility. We are a full member of the Electronics Industry Citizenship EICC risk Coalition (EICC). As such we are committed to the EICC Code of Conduct, and we carry out EICC risk assessments and third party EICC audits at our sites worldwide. assessments We transparently share results with our customers, both upon request and through and third-party the EICC-ON online platform, which manages and shares sustainability data. In 2015, we recorded 99 links on EICC-ON, corresponding to the number of requests from audits our customers to access the social responsibility results of our operations. This helps us to pursue our aim of providing our customers standardized answers. For more shared with our customers information, see page 45. In 2015, we made efforts to improve how we respond to customer enquiries regarding sustainability and the legal compliance of our products. In July, we opened a Regional Support Center for our Americas region sales team in order to centralize all of the product-related documentation and information that customers require. In addition, in October we held a seminar in Agrate (Italy), to launch the Hazardous Substances Program Management (HSPM) initiative (see page 70). This gave the attending sales teams the opportunity to learn more about ST’s sustainability programs and how to answer more easily customers’ questions. Over four days, ST subject experts informed them about the management of hazardous substances, legal EHS compliance, material declaration, conflict minerals management, supply chain and social responsibility. Feedback was positive, highlighting how the event increased awareness of these issues. Our customers ask us to demonstrate that we manage the economic, environmental 33 and social impact of our activities in a responsible manner, and that we are compliant with the highest standards. We regularly receive requests for information about our social responsibility practices, our management of hazardous substances and conflict minerals as well as the legal compliance of our products. Attending the HSPM seminar in Agrate (Italy) was a great opportunity for me to better understand the roles and responsibilities of everybody involved and to create a ‘Sustainability’ network. The 20 participants who came from all over the world happily shared their Marc Coronel current practices and experience. The presentations by subject experts were very Field Quality Support clear and detailed, providing the support we need to better answer our customers’ EMEA Sales & Marketing questions. At ST, for social responsibility, we favor standardized answers using EICC standards. During the workshop, I learned more about the benefits to promote common standards within the industry. Objectives Status Comments Objectives Just in Time on committed rate superior to 90%. 85.1% end 2015 gaps on specific product families. Objective discontinued. Delinquency on requested date to be at 0.35 week 0.34 of sales. Reduce customer complaints per million units by High increase due to a manufacturing excursion 6% by Q4 2015 compared with a 2011 baseline. shared with our customers and fully contained by end 2015. Sustainability Report | Business | Customer Relations BUSINESS Business Indicators This section includes indicators and GRI Standard Disclosures. Dividends paid Net revenues by location of order shipment* (%) | G4-EC1 | | G4-8 | G4-9 | G4-EC1 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Dividends (US$m) 327 355 346 354 350 EMEA 24 25 24 26 26 Americas 14 15 15 15 16 Greater China South Asia 45 42 42 45 45 Japan Korea 18 19 19 14 13 ST sales by market channel* (%) * Net revenues by location of order shipment are classified by location of customer invoiced or reclassified by shipment destination in line with customer demand. For example, products ordered | G4-8 | by U.S.-based companies to be invoiced to Greater China South Asia affiliates are classified as Greater China South Asia revenues. Furthermore, the comparison among the different periods may 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 be affected by shifts in shipment from one location to another, as requested by our customers. OEM 77 78 74 69 68 Distribution 23 22 26 31 32 * Original Equipment Manufacturers (OEM) are the end-customers to which we provide direct Taxes marketing application engineering support, while Distribution customers refers to the distributors | G4-EC1 | and representatives that we engage to distribute our products around the world. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 34 Tax expense for the year (US$m) 205 79 72 67 75 ST inclusion in the main sustainability indices in 2015 Sustainability Report | Business | Business Indicators ST showroom, Grenoble, France People ST recordable case rate • 18 of our sites are OHSAS 18001 certified, including 0.17 all our manufacturing operations • 100% of our manufacturing sites and our three major Average of design sites are covered by EICC programs 42 hours training per employee • 90% of employees have a yearly individual performance review 15 ST sites • 62,577 medical examinations, screening tests and subject to immunizations practiced in 2015 human rights assessments l G4-DMA l PEOPLE Development and Engagement We strive to develop and engage all employees. We aim to cultivate our employees’ competencies, foster leading technical expertise, and provide continuous learning and career opportunities. Key to this is a culture where talents are proactively developed, performance management is effective and recognition, pride and trust are the norm. 36 36 Workshop, ST Calamba, the Philippines An effective learning delivery, aligned with business and people needs In 2015, we deployed a new Learning Needs Analysis process, based on strategic organizational priorities aligned to business objectives, business needs and local plans. 100% To be consistent with ST’s global strategy and to support its core business, in 2015 we focused on product Research and Development and leadership training families. organizations covered Training hours for these domains increased by 30% and 18% respectively, compared to 2014. To ensure we deliver training hours that meet each organization’s priorities, we monitor the adherence to the Learning Needs Analysis. We also systematically measure the 2.1 million hours of effectiveness of strategic courses and assess their impact during individual annual training delivered performance reviews. Results on strategic courses show that 63% of managers observe changes in line with, or better than expectations after only four months. I G4-DMA I Sustainability Report | People | Development and Engagement A ‘total learning’ approach and culture To further increase learning effectiveness, we continue to promote our blended learning offer and our longstanding talent development ‘boosters’ programs. Beyond the typical education framework, our ‘total learning’ approach includes methods and tools for: • distance learning (e-learning, webinars, Massive Open Online Course, etc.) • one-to-one learning (coaching, mentoring, tutoring, etc.) • self-learning (videos, audio/podcasts, documents, etc.) • custom learning (workshops, assessments including 360°, collaborative projects, etc.) On-the-job learning remains a critical aspect of our educational strategy in all our job functions. I G4-DMA I To promote custom learning, we started an innovative program relying on internal Increase of 28% accredited coaches trained to facilitate co-development groups. This provides e-learning and employees with the opportunity to learn from each other and improve their practice. 7% workshop hours Individual and group reflection is encouraged through a structured consultation exercise which addresses problems that participants experience. The key benefit is for non-manufacturing to develop professional and managerial efficiency by sharing professional practices employees and co-coaching techniques. It also aims to strengthen change management in current and future professional situations. This initiative started in 2015 in our Grenoble (France) and Rousset (France) sites and is in the process of being deployed to all ST regions. ‘Coaching at ST’ is another growing ‘total learning’ initiative. Launched in 2013 to answer specific performance and business needs, it helps individuals or teams facing changes. This initiative is now in effect at main ST sites. Local HR teams coordinate this development program through a structured process with managerial support. These internal coaching programs target ST employees who are volunteers. Coaches are accredited by a recognized external coaching school. Performance management and feedback In 2015, we implemented a revised Individual Performance Management (IPM) > 700 managers process. The objective is to better empower managers for performance reviews and give more time and transparency for individual, qualitative feedback and development 37 trained on coaching skills plans in line with our leadership model. As part of this initiative, we significantly improved: the clarity of annual goals (both in terms of initial ambitions and quarterly results); alignment with company strategy; consistency across organizations; simplification of variable schemes; and effective overall reward differentiation. After one full IPM cycle, we conducted a survey with panels of managers and employees worldwide. Around 80% of respondents were very satisfied or satisfied with the way their performance was managed in 2015 and felt that the revised process enabled them to better understand how their performance is assessed. Ninety percent of respondents also had a favorable perception of the new online tool supporting the process. Employee yearly Individual Performance Management (%) | G4-LA11 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Operators 71 Female 76 Male 68 Non-exempts 90 91 91 83 Female 89 80 Male 91 84 Exempts 96 98 98 97 93 Female 97 91 Male 97 93 Total of employees 89 93 92 93 90 Female 93 87 Male 93 91 Sustainability Report | People | Development and Engagement Leadership and engagement In line with our leadership model, which was revised in 2014, we develop leadership at every level of the company to enhance alignment, accountability, robustness and engagement. One of our most significant leadership programs of 2015 was developed by the Americas Region (see focus below). A core objective of ST’s leadership development is to support the ‘lean’ approach as a driver to enhance people development and engagement. Leaders are encouraged to go onto the shop floor in order to promote teamwork and empower people to solve problems. First implemented in 2008, lean practices are now deployed in all Back-end and Frontend manufacturing sites. In 2015, numerous technology and product development teams and support functions also adopted this approach, experiencing its benefits. 77 sessions of Lean adds value for the customer by consistently improving the efficiency and quality leadership/management of activities and processes. By focusing on a flow approach, silos and waste are development held identified and reduced. in 2015 As part of our continuous improvement approach, each organization and site worldwide completed the action plan from the 2014 employee survey. These actions aimed to simplify our support processes and associated tools, develop organizations’ autonomy in defining and running specific business workshops, and better connect employees to our Company strategy. A local example is the applications week that took place in Crolles (France) based on other sites’ previous experience (see interview on page 39). The next employee survey is scheduled for the last quarter of 2016, where we will monitor employees’ engagement together with their perception of organizational alignment and agility. 38 Developing FOCUS our leaders America’s Leadership Program In July 2015, the first group of the Americas Region Leadership Program celebrated the successful completion of their 18-month investment in the program with a recognition dinner held in Boston. This program, designed by America’s Human Resources, addresses high potential, new, experienced, senior and executive leaders. It seeks to provide the basis for organizational transition towards a culture of higher performance and stronger commitment to excellence, through the support, development and enhancement of core leadership competencies. Participants can benefit from external coaching support or internal mentors identified within the region, across multiple disciplines and organizations. “Investing in leadership skills is a prerequisite for developing a highperformance organization,” said Bob Krysiak, Executive Vice President and President, Americas Region. “The results of the first wave of attendees are visible: employees are more confident, motivated and striving for higher levels of performance – both from themselves and the people they lead.” The third leadership program group kicked off in October 2015. Sustainability Report | People | Development and Engagement Looking forward to 2016 Our focus moving forward is to make ST a leading, innovative company with a learning culture where speed and results are emphasized and feedback, collaboration and leadership behaviors are visible everywhere. To this end, we will pursue further leadership development in 2016, supporting managers and employees in change management, and promoting manager-coach behaviors and advanced innovation practices. Objectives Status Comments Objectives Ensure that all eligible* employees have qualitative 90% with performance feedback, 51% with performance feedback, and the majority have development plan. a development plan related to their annual Objective 2016: Ensure that >90% eligible* performance. employees have qualitative performance feedback, and >50% have a development plan related to their annual performance. Increase the percentage of open positions for 29% of jobs filled internally for exempts. We exempts filled by internal candidates to exceed have a high turnover in Asia and so need to hire 50% in 2015. externally. Objective 2016: Increase the percentage of open positions for exempts filled by internal candidates to exceed 35%. Continually increase the engagement level, and Excluding operators, voluntary turnover rate was keep voluntary turnover within 10% worldwide 7% in 2015. (excluding operators). Ensure a worldwide average of 35 hours of learning 42 hours average in 2015. per employee. * Exempts and non-exempts. The first ‘applications week’, organized in Crolles (France) in November 2015, aimed to create a stronger connection between employees’ daily work and ST’s business 39 strategy. The event gave employees the opportunity to watch demonstrations showing the latest applications made with products designed, developed and manufactured in Crolles. The initiative satisfied employee expectations to gain greater understanding of, and proximity to, these finished products, and to better understand their contribution to ST’s business. Emmanuel Verleyn Along with 32 other volunteers and eight start-ups, I participated in more than 27 Equipment Engineer Front-end hours of demonstrations, to an audience of around 1,650 employees. Manufacturing & Technology R&D It was a great opportunity to share my passion for drones with Crolles employees. Crolles (France) Using educational support material, including a video specifically made for this event, I was able to show employees how ST products like the STM32 microcontrollers are embedded in such machines. Next year, I’d be happy to repeat this experience fostering employee exchanges, and hope that I’ll get more time to discover the other applications presented by my colleagues. Sustainability Report | People | Development and Engagement PEOPLE Health and Safety We are committed to protecting the health and safety of employees, contractors and visitors by providing a safe working environment, preventing work injuries and illnesses, and providing access to healthcare. 40 10 Safety Golden Rules video, ST Ang Mo Kio, Singapore Management approach For ten years, ST has been committed to its goal of achieving zero accidents in the workplace, through formal safety programs such as Safety First. Today, 18 of our sites are OHSAS 18001 certified, including all our manufacturing operations. All our sites are engaged in reporting and improving their safety performance. We are committed through our Corporate Environmental, Health and Safety (EHS) Decalogue to providing voluntary health promotion programs to enhance employees’ well-being. We remain focused on reducing hazards and risks, and improving our practices, results and all 18 sites are OHSAS associated indicators. Health and safety are closely linked, and when we conduct site audits, we assess health and safety together. When addressing health or safety, 18001 certified risk prevention is crucial for achieving better results, and ST relentlessly pursues this approach wherever possible. I G4-DMA I Health We aim to expand and promote employees’ health and well-being through the ST Health Plan program, while also leveraging local initiatives and specific medical and wellness campaigns. The Plan ensures that employees can benefit from medical services and advantages, even in countries where no legal obligation prevails. Sustainability Report | People | Health and Safety Health Plan Medical examinations Exam type 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Medical examinations 70,480 60,216 43,411 49,310 47,278 Screening test 13,097 8,837 12,438 13,564 13,693 Immunization 3,019 2,234 2,153 1,721 1,606 Total services provided 86,596 71,287 58,002 64,595 62,577 Trend analysis Identifying trends helps us to anticipate risks and enable actions. In 2015, the overall number of medical check-ups remained at a reasonable level; the deployment rate stood at 72% of the covered individuals over an 18-month rolling period. This level of Identification of high uptake was due to good coverage in most large sites and was primarily driven by legal requirements in the host countries, especially those in Europe. risks factors The global volume of screening examinations has been stable over the last five years, although the deployment rate varies across regions, primarily due to local and corporate budget cuts. Bio-monitoring and vaccination levels are also satisfactory. However, the number of preventive medical examinations has decreased in some regions. Prevention Preventive health assessments are based on voluntary participation by employees. During check-ups, medical staff members capture at least six indicators, including smoking habits, blood pressure, diet and obesity, exercise, and cholesterol levels. The New Health Plan aim is to identify high-risk factors and use this information to prioritize local prevention campaigns, such as stopping smoking or promoting healthy eating and sport. During the past two years, we have collected data on more than 15,000 risk factors from volunteer employees. Our reporting highlights the risk parameters for each site and enables comparisons between sites and regions. While at some sites all indicators are green, a few others demonstrate risks associated with smoking, obesity and low levels of physical activity the three main areas on which we need to focus for our local preventive campaigns. 41 Based on such analysis, we created a Health Plan working group at the end of the first quarter of 2015. The working group launched a worldwide mapping of medical examinations and preventive-health activities to identify potential improvements, taking country-specific factors and priorities into account. The variation in coverage from country to country following budget cuts was confirmed. Preventing FOCUS stress Health day dedicated to stress prevention and back care in ST Munich Following recent research, more health risks in the working environment have been identified in the areas of mental health and back problems. For a sales and marketing site like ST Munich (Germany), it is therefore crucial to be aware of such risks and to minimize them for employees. This was the premise which led the local HR department in Munich to implement a regular health and prevention day for employees. The biennial event, which was sponsored by a medical insurance company, took place in July 2015 with the focus on stress prevention and back care. Throughout the day, employees could participate in a range of presentations, medical checks and workshops at the ST office to increase their knowledge and awareness about the health risks and to learn how to respond to and prevent them. In response to employees’ widespread and constructive feedback, it is planned to repeat the health day in 2017 with a focus on the same topics. Sustainability Report | People | Health and Safety A proposed new scheme and principle for deployment in 2016 (Health Plan #2) has been submitted to and agreed by Company management. This aims to standardize practices across most sites, creating realistic targets tailored by region. It will be financed locally, with an additional corporate budget allocation to promote and support local initiatives in prevention programs that demonstrate the Company’s involvement in protecting employee health. Safety Our global management approach is to strengthen the Company’s safety culture Alain Fonters through training, audits, publications, communication and sharing best practices. Lieutenant-Colonel East group Above all, we continue to urge managers to take ownership of safety matters and leader SDIS (Service Départemental d’incendie et de Secours des adopt a proactive attitude, demonstrating leadership on the ground through their Bouches du Rhône, France) visible involvement. We also monitor the implementation of the various programs and key points with a set of safety KPIs (Key Performance Indicators). I G4-DMA I As a member of the chain of This approach continues to deliver results: our recordable case rate decreased by 2% command in the fire and rescue compared to 2014 to achieve our best ever annual result, and our structured analysis service in the Bouches du Rhône with management of root causes rose to 98%. We have also significantly improved the region of France, I visited the analysis of recordable cases and first-aid interventions, while we conducted more than STMicroelectronics Rousset 43,000 field safety visits, including 13,000 done by the management. manufacturing site in November Turning to our manufacturing sites, we are particularly proud of our Kirkop (Malta) 2015. I was very impressed by the site, which has had no accident for over eight years, and of our Calamba (Philippines) cleanliness and high-tech nature of and Agrate R2 (Italy) sites, which have had no accidents for over 18 and 14 months the industrial plant. respectively. This is due to the rigorous deployment of our safety programs and special This visit took place in the context awareness initiatives, some of which are illustrated in our focus on our Calamba and of a wider collaboration, between Shenzhen (China) sites. the fire and rescue service and However, despite all our efforts, in 2015 we had a tragic accident following the STMicroelectronics Safety team, accidental explosion of a portable cryogenic liquid nitrogen container at our Muar which has been in place for more (Malaysia) site. One subcontractor was fatally injured and one ST employee was than 15 years. seriously injured. We immediately carried out a root cause analysis, which resulted in To intervene as efficiently as the implementation of containment, preventive and corrective actions and the creation 42 possible in the event of a disaster, of a taskforce to ensure the deployment of these actions across all sites. it is essential for us to know the We 0.35continue to deploy our Ergonomics Program, through which we aim to control, 4.50 companies we cover and build a measure and decrease the levels of risk within our operations, optimizing working strong relationship with them. It is 0.30 conditions 0.29 for our employees and removing unnecessary tasks or those that add no also important to be able to trust 0.27 3.75 value. We want to strengthen the integration of ergonomics into our current working each other and working together at 0.25 practices, preventing injuries and illnesses. 0.21 0.21 3.00 different levels ensures this trust is We have completed gap assessments and sites are working on actions to further 0.20 effective. improve their approach and address priorities. 0.17 2.25 At an operational level, formal 0.15 intervention plans are built in 1.50 advance and the teams have 0.10 regular exercises on site. They also 0.05 0.75 meet regularly to know each other better and understand each other’s 0.00 0.00 internal rules, protocols and the Recordable 2011cases2012 rate* 2013 2014 Severity 2015 rate* complementarity expertise of the | G4-LA6 | | G4-LA6 | teams. ST went a step further in 2015 0.35 4.50 4.20 by inviting our decision makers to 0.30 0.29 3.75 visit the plant, which helps us to 0.27 understand the specific industrial 0.25 3.10 issues and priorities. This is of great 0.21 Target 2016: 3.00 0.20 2.60 2.50 importance to ensure our mission 0.20 2.40 0.17 0.17 2.25 which is the safeguarding of people, Target 2016: goods and the environment. 0.15 2.30 1.50 0.10 0.05 0.75 0.00 0.00 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 * Work-related injuries and illnesses per 100 employees per * Number of days lost per 100 employees per year as defined year as defined by OSHA-US regulation. by OSHA-US regulation. Sustainability Report | People | Health and Safety More effort required The severity rate decreased by 4% compared to 2014, but this was still slightly above 9 internal our target (2.5 versus 2.3 targeted). This was mainly due to the increase of on-site domestic accidents. One domestic Corporate EHS accident in particular, due to a slip on a slight slope, caused a much longer period of audits days lost than usual (159 days). Our severity rate target for 2016 remains at 2.3, with the aim of driving further improvements in employees’ behavior and working conditions. We will ensure this through our safety programs at site level, with a continued focus on the most important gaps. We will continue to focus on inspiring proactivity through training and the early detection of hazards and unsafe actions and conditions. We have clear goals to reduce accidents and to analyze every recordable case, first-aid incident and significant event, and to define and implement adequate actions to prevent recurrence. Audits and certifications In 2015, we carried out nine internal Corporate EHS audits. Undertaken by two 10 Safety auditors, these ranged in duration from one to three days, depending on the site’s Golden Rules performance and risks (three days for manufacturing sites). In total, we have 18 OHSAS 18001, 15 ISO 14001 and 13 EMAS certifications. These three certifications cover all of our manufacturing sites, as well as our largest nonmanufacturing sites such as Castelletto (Italy) and Grenoble (France). Training and awareness At 5.4 hours, we exceeded our target of an average of four hours training and awareness per employee. We also increased by 20% the number of ST employees trained. The deployment continued of two e-learning courses on safety management and leadership which started in 2013, reaching more than 9,000 managers trained by the end of 2015. In addition, 85% of ST employees were involved in evacuation drills, and we continue 43 to push sites to improve coverage and reach the ST goal of 100%. The deployment of safety videos and the 10 Safety Golden Rules awareness program is ongoing and will be completed by mid-2016. We plan to deliver it to about 80% of the ST population, mainly covering people working in manufacturing sites. We aim to ensure that all employees are constantly reminded of our focus on safety. We engage them through a four-minute video presenting the 10 Safety Golden Rules with a concrete illustration for each rule, making essential safety messages accessible to all. Increasing FOCUS awareness Calamba EHS week Our Calamba (the Philippines) site celebrates an Environment, Health and Safety week each year, to make employees more aware of the importance of EHS issues to themselves and to the Company. This was held in August, with the theme: ‘My Earth, my Shelter, my Home: One Direction towards sustainability, a Safe ST and a Healthy Family’. With the involvement of the General Manager, the Management Team, Employee Clubs and guest speakers, and with the active support of EHS Committee members, this was a fun and educational event. Activities included the introduction of an Adopt-A-School Program and a window tour of our manufacturing plant for the Buntog Elementary School, the school selected to benefit from among 52 nominated by the Department of Education. Exciting games and other events included: a Spot-the-Ergo Hazard test; safety and environmental videos refreshing employees on the 10 Safety Golden Rules; and an Emergency Response Team (ERT) Fire Fighting Competition. Sustainability Report | People | Health and Safety Objectives Status Comments Objectives Reduce the main on-site subcontractors Lost Work 0.4 a 25% reduction compared to 2014. Day Cases rate to 0.5 or less. Objective 2016: 0.38 or less. Update the Company-wide standard for medical Preventive measures will be done in Q1 2016. visits and preventive measures. Deploy the new Company-wide standard for medical care and preventative health initiatives. Maintain our Recordable Cases rate 0.17 in 2015. at 0.2 or less. Reduce our Severity Rate to 2.3 or less. 2.5 a reduction of 4% compared to 2014. Ensure ST employees have an average of four 5.4 hours per employee in 2015. hours of training and awareness per year on environment, health and safety (EHS) topics. Subcontractors Our subcontractors’ accident rate, the Lost Workdays Cases Incidence (LWDC) rate, Subcontractors LWDC rate decreased by 25% from 0.54 in 2014 to 0.40 in 2015, which is below the target of 25% vs 2014 0.50. Tragically, one of our subcontractors was victim of a fatal accident during the year following the accidental explosion of a portable cryogenic liquid nitrogen container at our Muar (Malaysia) site. In order to continue to improve and involve our subcontractors in our whole Safety First program, we have set the 2016 target for the subcontractors’ LWDC rate at 0.38. 44 Lost WorkDays Cases Incidence rate (LWDC rate) Subcontractors* | G4-LA6 | 2014 2015 Lost workdays cases per 100 FTE (Full time equivalent) employees 0.54 0.40 Target 2016: 0.38 * ST considers subcontractors as independent contractors working on-site for more than 3 months. Promoting FOCUS a safety culture Shenzhen safety training and awareness activities Our Shenzhen (China) site is working hard to enhance the safety culture across the whole plant, with the aim that everyone feels safe and cares for one another at all times. The local Guangdong Fire association has recognized the site in 2015 as best-in-class and as a model for the town of Shenzhen. The site’s high level of safety awareness, engaging a wide spectrum of participants through various activities, is fully aligned to the communication and training pillars of the Safety First program. Activities to promote a safety culture include an Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) week, a safety-management skills competition, exchanging safety methodology with external groups, field safety inspections and the reporting of hazards by safety guardians and managers in the workplace. There is a strong focus on Emergency Preparedness and Response Planning, and a competent Emergency Response Team (ERT), comprising around 60 members from different departments, covers all shifts and is at operational readiness around the clock. Each ERT member received an average of 36 hours of ERT training during 2015, and participated in ERT night exercises addressing incidents such as a chemical leakage and an electrical room emergency. Sustainability Report | People | Health and Safety PEOPLE Labor and Human Rights We ensure that all our employees are treated with respect and dignity, and that our business practices are aligned with the highest international, social and labor standards for the electronics sector. This includes promoting diversity and equal opportunities at all levels of our organization. 45 EICC audit, STS Shenzhen, China Human rights is part of our sustainability culture Promoting human rights is one of ST’s core values, guiding our behavior in all our business activities. We are committed to identifying and assessing the adverse impacts our operations can have on human rights. We do this through rigorous and continued monitoring of priority topics in our own operations, such as working hours, prevention of forced labor, freedom of association, minimum age requirements and fair wages, taking into account the associated risks of the regions in which we operate. In Labor and human rights addition to covering our own employees, we also address Labor and Human Rights in due diligence our supply chain. More information can be found in Supply Chain Responsibility, in our own on page 75. As a decade-long member of the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC), we operations have continually reinforced and adapted our human rights due diligence by according the highest importance to external stakeholders’ views, with specific attention to customers’ requirements. We have adopted a proactive strategy for our own operations based on a benchmark of the most stringent industry standards, such as the EICC Code of Conduct, as well as annual risk assessments and audits of our operations. We maintain a culture free from discrimination, where individuals are treated with respect and dignity, independent of gender, nationality, race, political opinion, sexual orientation, physical challenges or other characteristics. Diversity remains one of our biggest strengths and we enforce a zero-tolerance approach to incidents of discrimination or harassment of any kind. I G4-56 I Sustainability Report | People | Labor and Human Rights Promoting human rights We believe that human rights are nurtured through strong Company commitment. This includes fostering continued awareness and providing ongoing information to managers and employees. In 2015, we updated our ST Code of Conduct, using easyto-read language supported by links to relevant policies and other learning aids. ST’s Code of Conduct encourages a speak up culture. It invites employees to seek advice and report concerns through internal and external whistleblowing channels, without fear of retaliation. More information on ST’s Code of Conduct can be found in Ethics and Compliance, on pages 16 and 17. ST Our new Corporate Social Responsibility Policy further supports our high level of commitment to labor and human rights. The Policy defines labor and human Code rights, transparency on our social performance, and the integration of stakeholders’ of Conduct expectations as the key principles of our Corporate Social Responsibility strategy. In several of our Asian sites, in particular Calamba (the Philippines) and Ang Mo Kio (Singapore), we developed annual refresher training. These courses were designed to train employees on ST and EICC standards and provide in-depth information about their rights. Addressing our risks Our pyramid approach to human rights risk management enables us to adapt due diligence measures to the criticality of the risk in our operations: • All our sites have committed to respect ST’s Code of Conduct and the EICC Code of Conduct, and to participate in our annual social reporting campaign, where we track the application of main labor and human rights principles (fair wages and benefits, reasonable working hours, freedom of association, etc.). • Our 15 major sites (those with more than 1,000 employees and all manufacturing sites) perform annual self-assessments. Within this scope, in 2015, we covered 90% of our employees. This includes our Design & Engineering workforce in India and Europe, but also small manufacturing sites that perform specific steps of our process, like smart card embedding in Marcianese (Italy). • Finally, we conduct voluntary third party audits in our six high risk sites, namely 46 in regions where risks are higher or in sites where workers have lower average academic qualifications, which increases their vulnerability to potential violations. In 2015, the sites covered by third party audits represented 44% of our total headcount. Audit scores Our continuous effort to reduce global risk levels through sustainable corrective actions and encourage knowledge sharing between sites, led to particularly good results this increased from year. The increase of our average scores in terms of year-on-year self-assessment 175 to190/200 and audit results shows the sustainable value of our actions. Our average audit scores in 2015 increased from 175/200 to 190/200 in 2015. We achieved this despite our adoption of the new, more stringent, EICC standard Version 5.0, which is fully aligned to the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. Identifying risks and non-conformance gives us the opportunity to empower our community of local coordinators and partner organizations, to build large-scale programs that take into account the local and corporate contexts. More specifically, in 2015, we focused on ensuring all our employees in China receive a day of rest per week and on managing the risk of forced labor in our operations. I G4-DMA I 6 sites 44% of employees 15 sites 90% of employees 3rd PARTY AUDITS All sites 100% of employees ASSESSMENT RISK COMMITMENT TO CODE OF CONDUCT Sustainability Report | People | Labor and Human Rights EICC Audit program results Major non-conformances | G4-HR9 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of audits 2 4 5 4 7 Major non-conformances Working hours 2 4 4 2 2 Wages and benefits 1 1 1 2 Occupational injury and illness 3 1 1 Freely chosen employment 1 1 Child labor avoidance (Young Workers) 1 1 Occupational safety 1 1 Wastewater and solid waste 1 Emergency preparedness 2 1 Hazardous substances 1 1 Supplier responsibility 1 Non-discrimination 1 Machine safeguarding 1 Protection of identity 1 Freedom of association 1 Total of major non-conformances 7 14 7 9 4 Average major NC/audit 3.5 3.5 1.4 2.25 0.57 Day of rest We strictly monitor the working time of all our operators in our manufacturing sites to ensure compliance with the EICC’s working hours and day of rest standards. All of our manufacturing sites reached full compliance before 2014 with the exception of STS Shenzhen in China where the complex economical context of the electronic sector encourages worker turn-over and overtime. 47 In 2014, we reached full compliance with the weekly 60-hour working limit in STS Shenzhen, placing ST in the 10% of companies complying with the EICC standard in China. However we encountered difficulties in achieving more than 70% compliance with the day of rest. In 2015, we ended the year with 85% compliance for the day of rest, achieved through constructive coordination between production and human resources. In 2016, we aim to reach 95% compliance. Risk of forced labor We continue to increase our control over labor agencies to ensure foreign workers ‘Zero are fully protected against excessive fees or other aspects of forced labor – from their recruitment country of origin until their arrival in the country of employment. Sub-tier agencies in the country of origin are now audited directly by our local teams. fees’ policy In 2015, we implemented a ‘zero fees’ policy to prevent these workers from having to pay external recruitment and hiring fees out of their salaries. Instead, ST now pays 100% of foreign workers’ fees. This concerns our Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) and Muar (Malaysia) sites, the only sites where we have foreign migrant workers. We first implemented this policy in our Muar site, where we have the highest risks of forced labor. I am a 27 year-old Chinese Operator in Ang Mo Kio Front-end Manufacturing site in Singapore. I have been working for ST for 1.5 years. Before my departure from China, ST provided me with a very comprehensive pre-departure briefing including my salary, benefits and job scope. This gave me the confidence to accept ST’s job offer. In 2015, I completed the Annual Refresher Training for the ST and EICC Code of Conduct organized by my site. I think receiving that kind of information is important for employees as it allows us to understand ST’s expectations on ethical behavior and makes us aware of our rights and how to report any concerns. Meng Lu Lu Operator – Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) Sustainability Report | People | Labor and Human Rights Objectives Status Comments Objectives Ensure that 100% of major and minor Achieved in 2 sites. 1 site closed 81% of its non-conformances are closed during the closure audit. non-conformances and improved its performance in the remaining areas by the end of the year. Ensure 100% of ST Asian and Back-end sites are audited 100% of eligible sites have received 3rd party every two years versus the EICC Code of Conduct. audits over the 2014-2015 period. In Ang Mo Kio, in response to a customer’s demand, we reimbursed all workers for any external recruitment or hiring fees they paid in 2015. Not only did we apply this measure to workers employed for this customer’s production, we also extended it to all the foreign workers to ensure equal treatment for all employees. More information on management of labor agencies can be found in Supply Chain Responsibility, on page 75. Creating value from our diversity As a large international company present in more than 30 countries worldwide, diversity has a prominent place in our culture. ST has been able to leverage this broad ‘Women in cultural diversity to create additional value in supporting our employee development and strategy. Leadership’ A recent example focused on the gender diversity initiative which was launched in program 2015. The ‘Women in Leadership’ program started as a pilot workshop in Grenoble (France), gathering new female managers from 12 different nationalities. The session was structured around making the necessary shift in mindset to: become a leader regardless of gender; understand how different genders can strengthen a workforce; and devise innovative ways to drive and develop mixed gender teams. Additional sessions of this workshop are scheduled for 2016 in Agrate (Italy) and Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) to build communities and support local initiatives on the topic. Other programs leveraging cultural diversity include our flagship program ‘Grow your Career’, which encourages managers and engineers to pursue their career and 48 develop new competencies and skills in the US or Asia over a three-year period. Since the start of the program in 2014, 65 employees have benefited from this fantastic opportunity to experience a new culture. I G4-DMA I Promotion ratio female/male by category and by region (%) 2015 | G4-LA12 | Operators Non-exempts Exempts Female Male Female Male Female Male Americas NA* NA* 3 0 15 13 Asia-Pacific 5 6 9 4 17 15 Japan NA* NA* NA* NA* 8 15 Europe 13 7 14 11 14 11 Mediterranean 9 5 18 8 30 28 * The company has no manufacturing sites in these regions. Disability FOCUS programs My difference is not a handicap Since 2005, ST has been engaged in disability programs with the objective of supporting the employment of disabled people. Each site is responsible for managing programs for integrating disabled employees according to their local context. In France, this work led to a new collective agreement signed in 2015, delivering significant social benefits for disabled people, such as training, increased employment potential and measures to accommodate disabilities within the workplace. ST France received an award in 2015 for the integration of people with disabilities – see awards on page 91. In 2016, ST will develop partnerships with other companies to diversify our training offer and create more opportunities to recruit people with disabilities into various job functions. Sustainability Report | People | Labor and Human Rights PEOPLE People Indicators This section includes indicators and GRI Standard Disclosures. Headcount evolution by region Hires by job type | G4-10 | | G4-LA1 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Americas 1,176 1,158 967 870 839 Operators 5,154 6,833 8,013 7,748 6,906 Female 202 190 Female 2,723 3,073 Male 5,025 3,833 Male 668 649 Non-exempts 1,728 1,716 1,586 2,094 2,297 Asia Pacific 19,757 19,652 18,910 17,699 17,115 Female 411 525 Female 7,129 7,132 Male 1,683 1,772 Male 10,570 9,983 Exempt 2,563 2,721 1,770 1,578 1,397 Europe 18,724 19,346 20,789 20,308 20,327 Female 356 374 Male 1,222 1,023 Female 4,932 4,925 Total 6,882 8,549 11,369 11,420 10,600 Male 15,376 15,402 Female 3,490 3,972 Mediterranean 4,348 4,349 4,493 4,550 4,697 Male 7,930 6,628 Female 2,478 2,563 Male 2,072 2,134 Newcomers induction program (%) Japan 207 208 202 204 205 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Female 51 50 Newcomers who participated in a formal induction session (e.g. 49 Male 153 155 97 98 72 93 78 newcomers seminar) during their Total 44,212 44,713 45,361 43,631 43,183 first year of employment Female 14,792 14,860 Male 28,839 28,323 Worforce by employment type (% of employees) | G4-10 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Gender split by category (%) Full time contract 98 97 97 97 97 | G4-10 I G4-LA12 I Female 93 93 2014 2015 Male 99 99 Operators Part time contract 2 3 3 3 3 Female 58 56 Female 7 7 Male 42 44 Male 1 1 Non-exempts Female 23 23 Male 77 77 Workforce by employment contract (% of employees) Exempt | G4-10 | Female 21 22 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Male 79 78 Regular contract 97 98 96 95 96 Female 95 96 Male 95 97 External hires in manufacturing (%) Temporary contract 3 2 4 5 4 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Female 5 4 Percentage of jobs filled Male 5 3 90 95 98 97 96 externally vs overall jobs filled Remuneration (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Employees below the ST minimum salary scale in their job grade 13 14 19 15 14 (exempts) Employees covered by annual 97 98 92 89 81 individual salary increase Sustainability Report | People | People Indicators Benefits, bonus & Unvested Stock Awards (USA) Average employee age by category | G4-EC1 | 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Operator 32 33 33 34 % of eligible (exempt >JG 11) Non-Exempt 36 37 38 38 21 22 22 26 26 employees receiving USA Exempt 40 41 42 42 Average employee age (years) 36 37 38 38 Number of employees rewarded 3,390 3,570 3,920 4,620 4,730 Number of nationalities in the headcount by region* Age group split by category (%) 2015 | G4-LA12 | | G4-LA12 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Under 30 30-50 Over 50 Europe 74 78 76 74 76 years old years old years old Americas 26 25 25 23 19 Operator 41 51 8 Mediterranean 16 17 17 21 25 Non-Exempt 23 67 11 Asia Pacific 36 36 36 37 38 Exempt 9 72 20 Japan NA 4 5 5 4 * Expatriates and assignees are counted in host country. Women in management Number of nationalities in Corporate staff | G4-LA12 | | G4-LA12 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Women in experienced 14 14 14 15 15 Different nationalities management (% JG15 and above) 7 6 7 8 8 represented in the corporate staff Women in senior management 10 10 10 11 11 (% JG17 and above) Women in executive 10 9 10 9 8 Gender split by region (%) management (% JG19 and above) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Women on the Board (value) 1 2 3 3 Male 75 75 75 76 76 Europe Female 25 25 25 24 24 Male 79 78 78 77 77 Americas Female 21 22 22 23 23 Disabled employees 50 Male 43 44 44 46 45 | G4-LA12 | Mediterranean Female 57 56 56 54 55 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Male 57 58 58 60 58 Disabled people employed as % Asia Pacific 1.1 1.3 1.3 1.5 1.5 Female 43 42 42 40 42 of total workforce Male 76 75 76 75 76 Japan Female 24 25 24 25 24 Career length and voluntary turnover rate (%) Employees survey Engagement rate | G4-LA1 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015* 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Overall participation rate (%) 86 87 NA 84 NA new hires (below 2 yrs) 53 52 72 74 66 employees from 2 to < 5 yrs 28 24 23 32 19 Individual Engagement index 0.33 0.32 employees from 5 to < 10 yrs 8 8 10 11 11 Individual Engagement index (%) NA 64 NA 66 NA employees from 10 to < 20 yrs 2 2 4 3 4 Organization Agility Index (%) NA NA NA 58 NA employees above 20 yrs 1 1 7 5 4 Goal Alignment Index (%) NA NA NA 68 NA * No survey conducted in 2015. Average turnover rate (%) | G4-LA1 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Average turnover rate 18.5 15.6 15.9 14.0 14.2 Employees with a formal individual development plan (%) | G4-LA11 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015* Average turnover rate by gender, by category and Non Exempts 19 17 16 16 41 by region (%) 2015 Female 20 44 | G4-LA1 | Male 15 40 Operators Non-exempts Exempts Female Male Female Male Female Male Exempts 45 27 22 23 55 Americas NA NA 2.5 6.6 7.7 6.1 Female 25 56 Asia-Pacific 35.0 73.4 17.3 40.6 9.7 10.7 Male 22 54 Europe 0.3 0.2 0.6 0.5 1.4 1.5 * Figures increased in 2015 due to a new performance management system with an integrated Mediterranean 2.5 7.7 0.5 3.7 12.4 11.2 development plan. Operators are managed through a different process. Sustainability Report | People | People Indicators Career development (%) Unplanned absenteeism (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 l G4-LA6 l Employees with a promotion 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 16 16 15 11 10 in the year Unplanned absenteeism 2.77 2.82 2.93 2.45 2.95 Employees with a job function % by region 25 15 20 6 4 change in the year Americas NA* 0.00 Asia-Pacific 1.27 2.96 Europe 3.45 3.53 ST population recognized through the technical Japan 0.21 0.00 ladder* (%) Mediterranean 3.47 1.30 2013 2014 2015 % by gender Worldwide 2.4 2.8 3.0 Female 3.28 2.74 Asia Pacific 1.2 1.2 1.2 Male 2.00 3.34 Europe/Mediterranean 3.2 3.8 4.1 * Not tracked in 2014. * The specified path starts from job grade 14. Internal mobility for exempt positions (%) Collective bargaining | G4-11 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 % of jobs filled internally 23 26 40 25 29 Number of collective 33 45 38 39 39 agreements signed in the year % of people covered by collective 67% 75% Average training hours bargaining agreements | G4-LA9 | Number of people covered by 31,962 34,225 32,694 31,049 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 representatives Operators 78 70 70 79 65 % of people covered by Female 75 57 72% 76% 75% 72% representatives Male 84 75 Non-exempts 38 36 42 38 35 Female 45 27 Male 36 37 Average weekly working time in selected countries(1) 51 Exempts 31 29 30 22 22 (hours) Female 23 24 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Male 22 22 ST standard working time 40 40 40 40 40 Total* 50 46 48 47 42 China Overtime 5.0 11.4 5.7 3.7 5.5 Female 57 45 Male 41 41 ST standard working time(2) 38.5 38.5 38.5 38.5 38.5 France * Includes training on equipment and outside training. Overtime 0.3 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.1 ST standard working time 40 40 40 40 40 Italy Overtime 1.0 0.7 0.2 0.2 0.3 Employees enrolled in ST supported external education programs (%) Malaysia ST standard working time 48 48 48 48(3) 48 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Overtime 9.4 8.5 8.7 9.3 11.5 Operators 8.0 2.3 2.4 0.8 0.9 ST standard working time 40 40 40 40 40 Malta Non-exempts 7.6 1.0 0.9 1.7 1.6 Overtime 4.5 5.0 5.9 5.4 6.4 Exempts 5.3 1.7 1.8 2.2 1.5 ST standard working time 44 44 44 44 44 Morocco Overtime 1.5 1.1 1.8 1.7 0.3 North ST standard working time 40 40 40 40 40 Formal recognition and suggestion scheme America Overtime 0.6 0.9 0.1 0.1 2.0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ST standard working time 44 44 44 44 44 Number of people Singapore 48,606 33,823 39,629 25,178 15,899 Overtime 1.5 3.8 3.2 4.7 4.8 recognized* The ST standard working time 48 48 48 48 % of accepted Philippines Overtime 6.0 4.3 4.0 6.3 suggestions which 65 60 50 61 60 were implemented (1) For non-exempts and operators. * Can include more than one recognition per employee over the year. Trend is decreasing as we are (2) French standard legal working time is 35 hours, but ST has a collective agreement for concentrating more on individual recognition rather than recongnition of large groups. 38.5 hours. The figures have been corrected accordingly for the previous 4 years. (3) The 2014 figure of 44 was an error and has been corrected. Sustainability Report | People | People Indicators Working time and overtime hours Recordable cases rate benchmarks* 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 | G4-LA6 | Employees with regular worktime 100 96.3 96.0 96.0 96.2 US Manufacturing (Source BLS**) less than 48 hours per weeks (%) ALL US semiconductor (Source BLS**) ST Average weekly overtime 3.1 3.6 1.7 2.3 3.8 4.4 (hours per employee) 4.50 4.3 4 4 3.75 Fair wages (%) 3.00 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Percentage of employees paid up to 105% of the legal or 12.2 12.0 10.8 11.8 9.9 2.25 conventional minimum wage 1.50 1.1 1.2 1.2 1.1 0.75 ST sites subject to human rights SAQ & Audits 0.29 0.27 0.21 0.17 0.17 in 2015 | G4-HR9 | 0.00 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Self Major sites* Audits % workforce Assessment * Latest data available. 2015 Benchmark data not available at time of publishing. ** Bureau of Labor Statistics. High Risk Singapore Ang Mo Kio 10% The Philippines Calamba 4% Recordable cases rate* by gender and by region Malaysia Muar 9% | G4-LA6 | China Shenzhen 11% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Medium Risk Gender Morocco Bouskoura 6% Female 0.19 0.15 52 Male 0.16 0.18 Malta Kirkop 4% Region Low Risk Americas 0 0 0 0.00 0.00 India Greater Noida** 3% Agrate 10% Asia Pacific 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.10 0.12 Castelletto** 2% Europe & Italy 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.24 0.21 Mediterranean Catania 9% * Work-related injuries and illnesses per 100 employees per year as defined by OSHA-US regulation. Marcianise 1% Crolles 8% Grenoble** 4% Recordable cases rate Breakdown: France industrial/domestic Rousset 6% | G4-LA6 | Tours 3% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of sites that have Recordable cases industrial rate 0.19 0.17 0.13 0.11 0.12 been subject to human rights 15 6 assessments and audits Recordable cases domestic rate 0.11 0.10 0.07 0.06 0.05 100% high 100% major Percentage coverage and medium 90% sites* risk sites Breakdown of recordable cases by type of event, * Site with >1000 employees and all manufacturing sites. accident or exposure (%) ** Design centers. Other sites are manufacturing. | G4-LA6 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fall or slip 20 31 25 32 31 Struck by or against 41 26 40 36 30 Overexertion 9 7 11 5 6 Others 5 3 8 7 10 Caught in, under or between 7 10 5 5 7 Contact with chemicals 7 13 8 8 9 Bodily reaction from slip or motion 11 10 3 7 7 Sustainability Report | People | People Indicators Severity rate by gender and by region Lost WorkDays Incidence rate* (Subcontractor)** | G4-LA6 | by region | G4 LA6 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2014 2015 Gender Americas 0.0 0.0 Female 3.2 3.3 Asia Pacific 1.0 1.9 Male 2.4 2.2 Europe & Mediterranean 12.6 10.4 Region * Number of days lost per 100 employees per year as defined by OSHA-US regulation. Americas 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 ** ST considers subcontractors as independent contractors working on-site for more than 3 months. Asia Pacific 0.5 0.8 0.9 0.6 0.7 Europe & Mediterranean 6.5 7.8 4.1 4.5 4.1 Lost WorkDays (Subcontractor)* by gender (%) | G4 LA6 | Lost WorkDays Incidence rate (Subcontractor)* 2014 2015 | G4-LA6 | Female 19 54 Male 81 46 2014 2015 Lost workdays per 100 FTE (Full time equivalent) * ST considers subcontractors as independent contractors working on-site for more than 3 months. 8.5 6.8 employees Target 2016: 6.1 * ST considers subcontractors as independent contractors working on-site for more than 3 months. Health Plan Medical examinations Exam type 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Lost WorkDays Cases Incidence rate (Subcontractor)* Medical examinations 70,480 60,216 43,411 49,310 47,278 by region | G4-LA6 | Check up with a physician 35,689 34,604 19,645 22,042 21,978 2014 2015 Americas 0.00 0.00 Blood analyses (including 15,954 11,986 10,987 13,150 11,981 Asia Pacific 0.19 0.09 biomonitoring tests*) Europe & Mediterranean 0.73 0.64 Chest X rays 8,881 5,624 5,782 6,380 6,906 * ST considers subcontractors as independent contractors working on-site for more than 3 months. Colorectal cancer 966 310 277 412 436 immuocult test Lost WorkDays Cases (Subcontractor)* Electrocardiograms 5,497 4,682 4,427 5,489 4,194 53 by gender (%) | G4-LA6 | Mammography 1,094 1,026 760 573 626 2014 2015 Pap smear tests 1,586 1,572 1,198 890 766 Female 21 30 Male 79 70 Prostate cancer screening 813 412 335 374 391 * ST considers subcontractors as independent contractors working on-site for more than 3 months. Screening test 13,097 8,837 12,438 13,564 13,693 Immunization 3,019 2,234 2,153 1,721 1,606 Total services provided 86,596 71,287 58,002 64,595 62,577 * These tests are dedicated to employees working in manufacturing areas and on some specific maintenance operations. Injuries/Illness cost and savings (US$m) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Injuries/illness cost 2.37 2.94 1.83 1.94 1.59 Results without action 8.90 8.50 9.60 9.22 8.18 Savings* 7.14 5.80 7.80 7.28 6.59 * Savings around US$ 70M in 12 years. Fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions in 2015 No fines or non-monetary sanctions. Sustainability Report | People | People Indicators ST Agrate site, Italy Environment & Operations 91% of waste • 15 of our sites are ISO 14001 certified reused, recycled, recovered • 13 of our sites are EMAS validated 22.5% of energy • Our six Front-end manufacturing sites are purchased comes ISO 50001 certified from renewable sources • ST aligns its chemical management system with > 90% of key suppliers the IECQ QC 080000 HSPM standard committed to the EICC Code of Conduct l G4-DMA l ENVIRONMENT & OPERATIONS Environmental Efficiency Energy We reduce energy consumption and our associated carbon footprint through energy efficiency and conservation programs, and by purchasing CO2-free and renewable energies. In addition, we carefully monitor and anticipate developments in the energy market to mitigate business exposure to climate change. Although the power consumed by semiconductor chips has been reduced significantly, manufacturing semiconductors remains energy intensive as it requires an ultra-clean and stable production environment. At ST, we have considered and addressed the issues of responsibly managing energy and mitigating indirect greenhouse gases (GHG) under GHG Protocol scope 2 since our first Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) Decalogue published in 1995. In accordance with our fifth EHS Decalogue (2014-2020), we continue to set targets, take actions, and implement and monitor programs across all sites. This activity is primarily driven by our corporate EHS team, and site energy and environmental champions. I G4-DMA I EHS 5th Decalogue Energy management and performance 115 113 2015 results and trends 110 109 Regardless of the number of silicon wafers we produce, we need to maintain the 105 105 106 55 necessary conditions in our manufacturing environment, which means energy 105 requirements remain stationary. Therefore, fluctuations in our production levels can 100 significantly impact energy performance, as the ratio of energy consumption per 95 27 GWh production unit can quickly change. However, at ST we develop specific programs to 90 saved reduce energy consumption, independent of our production levels. In 2015, these energy saving programs were effective and contributed to 27GWh of 85 electrical and thermal energy saving. However, as wafer production decreased, the 80 consumption of energy per unit of production increased slightly over the same period. 75 ISO 50001 70 2011 Consumption 2012 of2013 energy 2014 2015All ST Front-end sites have been ISO 50001 certified since 2013. The benefits of implementing energy management systems, combined with our aim for continuous (per unit of production): improvement, have resulted in the decision to increase the number of ISO 50001 normalized values certifications. ST Grand Ouest (Le Mans and Rennes, France) began the certification | G4-EN5 | process at the end of 2014. The final reviews were completed at the end of 2015, and 115 ST Grand Ouest became the first Research and Development site of ST certified ISO 113 50001 in January 2016. This certification involves implementing a systematic approach 110 109 106 to energy management and helps us improve our energy performance. 105 105 105 100 Energy consumption, efficiency and conservation 95 ST strives to reduce its energy consumption and the carbon footprint generated by its 90 operations, through its energy efficiency and conservation programs. We adopted a Total Cost Of Ownership (TCOO) approach for all sites. The purchase 85 of any major new facilities equipment is done in line with this methodology, and the 80 total costs of acquisition, maintenance and energy consumption are assessed over 75 a ten-year period. Facilities and site service providers are required to comply with ST’s energy management obligations, and are made aware of energy efficiency and 70 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 renewable energy opportunities. Baseline 100 in 2010. Replacing equipment Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency Energy Replacing old equipment with more efficient models helps reduce our energy consumption. In manufacturing, compressors are used to heat and cool air to maintain Total Cost a stable temperature in the production environment. In 2015, our Muar (Malaysia) site Of Ownership replaced two screw compressors that had been in service for more than 20 years, (TCOO) with a single new centrifugal compressor. This resulted in greater energy efficiency and approach fewer maintenance costs. Consequently, the site expects to save 3,840kWh/day. Energy saving programs For more than two decades, we have been reducing our energy consumption and gaining efficiency by regularly upgrading existing equipment and optimizing manufacturing processes. Lean methodology and ISO 50001 standards are part of our culture and help teams to eliminate waste and develop efficient solutions. Energy savings can be achieved through optimizing settings and processes. All sites are requested to identify opportunities for improvement and put action plans in place. In 2015, various actions, such as free-cooling optimization, LED lighting conversion, heat recovery, exhaust balancing and inverter installations, were conducted leading to the above mentioned 27GWh of saving. Energy sourcing Reducing our carbon footprint is a key part of our Sustainability strategy. ST’s main source of energy is electricity, but as we know electricity produced by fossil fuels 22.5% impacts global warming, we are committed to sourcing CO2-free and renewable of purchased energy energies. Our sourcing department always considers both the financial and comes from environmental impact of each solution. Through selecting the most environmentally renewable friendly solution wherever possible, we are able to progress and demonstrate our commitment to sourcing energy responsibly. In 2015, 22.5% of energy purchased by energy ST came from renewable sources, compared to 7.4% in 2012. ST encourages sites to install photovoltaic panels for producing electricity. In 2015, the photovoltaic installations of Catania (Italy), Grenoble (France) and Geneva (Switzerland) produced 2.1GWh. 56 My daily activity of running the site services allows me to participate in ST’s challenging programs to save energy and preserve natural resources. On our journey to improve our energy efficiency in Agrate, we have been able to reduce the electrical consumption per unit produced (kWh/wafer out) by 80% over the past 25 years. In an effort to further improve the efficiency, the Site Energy Team has deployed a new challenging approach the ‘4-RE methodology’. The challenge is to RE-design, RE-value, RE-think and RE-engineer all the elements Claudia Sterlini in the electrical consumption chain from the identification of needs and tools to General Services Director recycling wasted energy: Agrate (Italy) • RE-design: identify and install high efficiency tools (inverter, high efficiency motors etc.) • RE-value: deploy processes and methods to re-value the wasted energy (heat recovery from cooling water) • RE-think: review needs versus effectiveness (clean room environmental conditions) • RE-engineer: adopt best practices and operative procedures to optimize infrastructure efficiency The Agrate site was the first ST site to receive its ISO 50001 certification in September 2010. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency Energy Objectives Status Comments Objectives Continually improve energy efficiency at equivalent production level (kWh per production unit) through See article. process and facilities optimization, conservation and building design. Yearly increase by 10% the quantity of green 22.5% versus 19.7% in 2014. energy used by the Company. By 2015, ensure that 100% of call for tenders from Criteria included in all contracts in 2015. 200 kUS$ include criteria on energy efficiency and Objective 2016: Changed to ‘90% of call for use of CO2 emission-free and/or renewable energy tenders’. regarding facilities and site services. Direct and indirect energy consumption by primary sources (%) | G4-EN3 | Electricity purchased from nuclear (CO2-free) 15.6% Other fuels 0.2% Green electricity purchased 22.4% Electricity purchased from Photovoltaic and thermal solar fossil fuel sources 53.6% electricity produced by ST 0.1% Natural gas 8.1% Breakdown of energy sources | G4-EN3 I G4-EN6 | 57 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Electricity consumption (TJ) 7,409 7,347 7,530 7,649 7,517 Natural gas consumption (TJ) 598 550 657 650 661 Others sources (TJ) 0 13.57 16.34 16.23 15.98 Total energy consumption (TJ) 8,006 7,911 8,204 8,315 8,193 Energy consumption due to electricity % 92.5% 92.9% 91.8% 92.0% 91.7% Reducing FOCUS energy Decreasing nitrogen consumption to reduce energy consumption consumption Nitrogen (N2) is extensively used in wafer manufacturing. In our Tours (France) site, an analysis of the use of power and gas identified N2 consumption as the second largest expense after electricity. N2 is produced on site through cryogenic separation with compressed air and, as air compressors are big energy consumers, N2 production represents 10% of the site electricity consumption. Consequently, the power and gas savings team (who work on our energy savings project) focused on improving their management of N2. Their aim was to reduce N2 consumption and save both costs and overall energy consumption. The team achieved these objectives through leakage inspections, flow settings, flow reductions and process optimization (through settings or N2 elimination). These actions reduced N2 consumption by 15% in two years and saved energy, while related costs were reduced by 27% compared to 2014. A similar project focusing on water consumption was simultaneously carried out and the initiatives were rewarded with an internal Gold Star Award, recognizing the team’s engagement and contribution to environmental responsibility. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency Energy ENVIRONMENT & OPERATIONS Environmental Efficiency Water We are committed to reducing water use and ensuring high standards of effluent and wastewater treatment. We also identify and manage water-related risks and opportunities, including the impact on local communities. 58 Water treatment plant, Rousset, France Climate change and population growth make water a critical resource for both businesses and communities. Manufacturing semiconductors requires a large volume of water and generates wastewater that can be harmful for the environment and local communities. Our approach to water management Tackling the challenges of water scarcity and wastewater treatment has been a Water footprint reduced fundamental part of our strategy since 1994. We have adopted a comprehensive by more than approach to this, including water stress assessments, conservation programs, 73% in 20 years wastewater treatment and initiatives with local communities to reduce water extraction, consumption and the risk of pollution. Through two decades of continuous efforts, we have succeeded in reducing our overall water footprint by more than 73%. However, it has become more challenging to improve on this reduction as our facilities are already optimized for efficiency. Nevertheless, we continue to responsibly manage our water use, and to identify and implement solutions to reduce it. We set targets as part of our Environmental, Health & Safety Decalogue, develop specific programs and monitor our performance throughout all our sites. Our emphasis on reducing water use is reflected in our key performance indicators of normalized consumption and the recycling ratio. I G4-DMA I Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency Water Water management performance 45% In 2015, for the first time ever, we achieved a rate of 45% recycled and reused water. of water recycled Our next step is to analyse the constraints of our sites and suppliers in terms of water and reused scarcity. Programs developed over the past years resulted in water savings of about 330,000 m3 in 2015. We achieved this result through optimizing water consumption and improving the efficiency of our reclaimed water systems. Water management is an increasing focus for our stakeholders. In 2015, one of our customers asked to inspect four of our Front-end manufacturing sites. Following these audits, ST was recognized as a ‘best in class’ supplier (see quote on page 60). Saving water saves energy too, as the more water we use, the more energy we require to treat it. Consequently, ST Tours (France) power and gas savings team (see the Energy focus on page 57) has worked to reduce the water consumption of wet 105 330,000 103 105 m 3 102 101 benches, which consume significant amounts of ultra-pure water. Through optimizing this process and adjusting tools, they were able to reduce water consumption by 25% 100 of water saved in two years. 96 95 Recycled and reused total water 90 | G4-EN10 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 85 Total water used (1,000m3) 29,113 28,315 30,967 30,421 29,022 80 Water recycled and reused rate (%) 40.5 43.0 43.5 42.8 45.1 75 70 Consumption of water Wastewater collection and treatment 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 (per unit of production): Preventing pollution is critical for ST and we pay special attention to reduce all risks normalized values related to water discharge and pollution. Before being discharged, wastewater is treated in treatment plants to remove polluting substances. When a sufficient level of 105 105 purity is obtained and any risk of pollution eliminated, it is discharged into the natural 103 102 environment. All our wastewater is treated internally with a dedicated wastewater 59 101 100 treatment plant or, when available, externally through a dedicated municipal treatment 96 plant. 95 We continue to improve wherever possible and in 2015, our Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) 90 site worked in partnership with Micron to install a new fluoride waste treatment plant. 85 Water risk assessment Identifying and mitigating major water-related risks is part of ST’s water management. 80 In 2014, we developed a water risk methodology in collaboration with Quantis 75 (www.quantis-intl.com), a sustainability consultancy. This methodology evaluates the risks and related impact due to a physical event such as drought, flooding, an extreme 70 climatic event or water pollution for each ST manufacturing site. The associated risk 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 assessment identifies the major risk factors, considering not only the impact on ST Baseline 100 in 2010. operations but also the possible impact on local communities where we operate. In 2015, we initiated the deployment of this methodology that enables our sites to perform their own risk assessment. Wastewater FOCUS treatment Ang Mo Kio’s initiative to improve wastewater treatment Rinsing and cleaning operations in semiconductor manufacturing generates wastewater containing fluoride. This has to be treated to remove the polluting substance. In 2015, our Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) site joined forces with Micron to set up a wastewater treatment plant dedicated to segregating and treating fluoride in a new way. Thanks to this new installation, the four process steps photo ? of the conventional precipitation process (coagulation, flocculation, sludge/ water separation and dewatering) are now combined into one by fluidized bed crystallization, resulting in a smaller footprint and less waste generation. Commissioned in May 2015, fluoride waste discharge decreased immediately, reducing the impact of our activities on the environment. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency Water Leadership A The guidelines and methodology are developed at corporate level but the availability and quality of water, as well as its related costs, risks and challenges, are typically AB considered at site level. Management BC Awareness CReporting through the Carbon Disclosure Project D Disclosure DFailure to respond F Responding to the Carbon Disclosure Project’s (CDP) water questionnaire helps ST to understand better the risks and opportunities related to water challenges. We have been responding to the water questionnaire since 2011. In 2015, 405 companies answered the questionnaire and ST scored B on a scale of A (highest) to F (lowest), demonstrating the maturity of our water management strategy and good performance. Objectives Status Comments Objectives Continually improve water efficiency at equivalent See article. production level through water saving programs and water recycling projects (cubic meters per production unit). Achieve an overall Company recycling rate of 45% 45.03% by 2015. Objective 2016: Remain among the best in class companies with a recycling rate of 45% or more. Water is one of the world’s most valuable resources. It is also becoming increasingly scarce and polluted. ‘To promote sustainable water use and prevent environmental impacts from process wastewater’ is the vision of the clean water program, a new water management audit system developed by one of our customers. In 2015, four of our Front-end manufacturing sites – Agrate (Italy), Catania (Italy), Crolles (France) 60 and Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) – were audited by our customer using this approach. The work of the Environmental and Facilities Corporate teams and the commitment of the local site managers largely contributed to the final outcome. Among 73 Alessandro Beretta facilities audited in 12 different countries, ST received a special mention as one of Water & Environmental Facilities the best suppliers, with our sites being ranked as ‘leading’ (Crolles and Agrate) and Manager – Agrate (Italy) ‘performing’ (Ang Mo Kio and Catania). For ST, this achievement validates our longstanding programs and confirms our leading position in the semiconductor industry in terms of water preservation and management, which is increasingly important for our stakeholders. The clean water program audit scheme is an effective way to evaluate and benchmark water management systems and our Back-end sites have decided to use it to pro-actively conduct self-audits. The adoption of this systematic and stringent approach will enable us to compare our water management performance internally and externally, and to decide future-focused actions for continuous improvement. Conserving FOCUS Water Conserving Malta’s water ST has always shown a keen interest in water conservation. Malta has a very limited supply of water as there are no mountains or rivers on the island. Around 50% of water is extracted from an aquifer and 50% is obtained from sea water through reverse osmosis plants. Because of this, water is a precious natural resource. Social responsibility and costs have driven ST’s Kirkop (Malta) plant to find solutions to reduce its use of raw water through implementing recovery systems that save and reuse water. This has been the case since the creation of the plant in the 1980’s. In 2015, our Kirkop site invested US$505,000 to increase its deionized water production and recovery capacity. This included a microfiltration plant with an ion exchange system and a mixed bed and filter press, which improved the site’s water recycling rate to 58%. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency Water ENVIRONMENT & OPERATIONS Environmental Efficiency GHG Air Emissions We aim to manage and reduce our direct and indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, including perfluorinated compounds (PFCs), from all our manufacturing and other business operations. 61 Scrubbers, ST Catania, Italy Climate change was an important topic of discussion in 2015 with the COP 21 conference in Paris. ST’s President and CEO, Carlo Bozotti signed the ‘Business Proposals for COP 21’, a business-led initiative sponsored by Global Compact, showing the global awareness of top Executives on climate change issues. In signing, COP21 Mr. Bozotti confirmed ST’s commitment to minimizing carbon emissions. We have been considering the impacts of ST’s activities on climate change for more PARIS than 20 years. Our EHS (Environment, Health and Safety) Decalogue sets targets for ST to reduce CO2 emissions related to energy consumption and transportation, and for reducing emissions of perfluorinated compounds (PFCs). We have implemented programs to achieve these targets across the whole company. We measure, manage and report our direct and indirect emissions in accordance with scopes 1 to 3 of the Greenhouse Gas GHG protocol and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards. I G4-DMA I Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency GHG Air Emissions Summary of net CO2 emissions (%) | G4-EN15 | G4-EN16 | G4-EN17 | Direct emissions Scope 1 39% Indirect emissions (purchased electricity) Other indirect emissions Scope 2 51% (transportation*) Scope 3 9% * The transportation emissions value is a global estimate of employees transportation and transportation of goods. CO2 emissions: (per unit of Mitigating our direct emissions (scope 1) production) normalized values We have made constant efforts to limit our impact on the environment since the early | G4-EN18 | 1990s, and reducing our GHG emissions is part of our Sustainability strategy. Since 1997, ST has been a member of the European Semiconductor Industry 110 Association (ESIA), which represents the European semiconductor industry in Brussels. 108 107 105 ST is directly involved with its Environment Health and Safety (EHS) committee and a specific working group that deals with PFC emissions. ST’s position is aligned with 100 ESIA’s own target of reducing normalized emissions by 30% by 2020 from the 2010 95 95 baseline. 95 94 Reducing our PFC emissions 90 Our direct emissions (Scope 1 of the GHG protocol) result mainly from PFCs that are 85 widely used in the semiconductor manufacturing processes. At ST, we encourage 62 all sites to adopt tools and optimize processes to develop greener manufacturing 80 techniques. We also encourage sites to find solutions to replace high global warming 75 potential (GWP) gases with lower or GWP-free alternatives. In 2015, our Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) site carried out a challenging project of replacing 70 a high GWP gas used in CVD (Chemical Vapor Deposition), which is used to clean 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 process chambers after the wafer deposition process. To deliver the strategy of Baseline 100 in 2010. reducing our GHG emissions, we created a team with the objective of finding alternatives to this scarce gas and reducing consumption without impacting product quality. Reducing PFC emissions by replacing the gas used in CVD (Chemical Vapor Deposition) to clean process chambers was a very challenging project. First the obstacle was the lack of process, as we were the first ST site to carry out this kind of action. No known clean recipe was available, there were no documents or references, and there was no OEM tool vendor to support us. The team had to go through several experimental runs to develop a working recipe, optimized with no impact on performance. The second major obstacle, on the hardware side, was the need to use the existing gas supply configuration that relied on one source to Joseph ONG supply up to 39 tools. The inherent low-pressure characteristics of this gas meant Project leader Ang Mo Kio it was hard to make it flow to all the tools, but we overcame this obstacle thanks to (Singapore) the strong determination and engineering mindset of the team. The success of this project has been recognized within ST and shared with other ST sites to benchmark the approach. To enable the reduction of PFC emissions in this way is a great achievement by the team. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency GHG Air Emissions The team identified a readily available gas with a lower environmental impact and minimal conversion costs. Team members developed the gas recipe and carried out simulations through their own analysis and brainstorming. Ensuring chamber cleanliness was a major challenge, and several trials were necessary to achieve the Process best recipe. We introduced the gas in a two-phase implementation, both to collect optimization sufficient data for fine-tuning and to minimize the impact on manufacturing during the switch-over. This project is the first of its kind in ST. Its results indicate the success of its implementation, with gas consumption down by 30%, PFC emissions reduced by more than 13% after six months. PFC annual emissions reduction is estimated at 26% and annual savings are estimated at some US$300,000. This innovative solution has been widely shared with other sites as an example of a best practice that could be replicated elsewhere. Decreasing our indirect emissions (scope 2) ST’s programs on indirect emissions, scope 2 of the GHG protocol, are detailed in the Energy page 55. Our approach to product and employee transportation (scope 3) One commitment of our EHS Decalogue is to reduce CO2 emissions resulting from the transportation and logistics of our employees and products. We report on three out of the 15 GHG Protocol scope 3 categories: employee commuting, goods transportation, and business travel. We have adopted several initiatives to decrease transportation emissions, including better loading of containers, optimizing the routes used, and changing the means of Green transportation (from air to road). transport We collaborate with local authorities to develop greener alternatives and promote mobility plans for our employees’ journey to work. Several green transport initiatives initiatives are deployed at our sites. They are promoted by communication and awareness campaigns, as well as incentives to use public transport, coaches, and car-pooling networks. For example, at our Agrate (Italy) site, there is a dedicated website connecting employees wishing to rent or buy bicycles, both for commuting and private 63 use. In 2015, we also installed two charging stations for electric vehicles. To reduce the CO2 emissions generated by business travel, ST continued to encourage employees to organize meetings via our video-conferencing network in 2015. ST is now equipped with 41 virtual conference rooms (up from 25 in 2013) in 36 sites, allowing employees to participate in face-to-face virtual meetings. The Carbon Disclosure Project Since 2004, ST has responded to the annual questionnaire issued by the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an initiative that provides a global system to measure, disclose and share information about carbon management. CDP’s climate change program works to reduce companies’ GHG emissions and mitigate climate change risk. Today, more than 5,500 companies disclose their 96-B environmental performances to the CDP, generating the world’s largest database of corporate environmental information, covering climate, water and deforestation risks. In 2015, we obtained our highest score for disclosure and performance on carbon management, recognizing the attention we give to climate change, adaptation and mitigation and the actions we take. We achieved 96-B1 for CDP carbon (compared to the average of 84-C), three points higher than our 2014 score. This is the result of many activities undertaken within the Company over the years, including the use of renewable energy, programs to reduce emissions related to energy consumption and transportation, and actions to reduce the emission of perfluorinated compounds (PFCs). Reporting to the CDP brings ST some significant benefits: it encourages us to take action on carbon management by identifying opportunities on global warming and climate change; it helps us to identify risks; and it enables us to adopt a long-term vision. Our participation in the CDP’s water and supply-chain programs is detailed in the Water and Customer Relations pages 60 and 32. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency GHG Air Emissions Objectives Status Comments Objectives Direct emissions (Scope 1): reduce PFCs emissions See article. (tons CO2 per production unit) by 30% in 2020 from 2010 baseline. Indirect emissions (Scope 2): decrease CO2 indirect Increased by 0.15%. emissions through our energy management programs. Transportation emissions (Scope 3): reduce CO2 Increased by 11.6% due to an increase of emissions (tons CO2 per production unit) from emissions from transportation of goods. transportation and logistics for our products, materials and employees. Compensation and reforestation To compensate for our remaining direct emissions, we have developed Companylevel reforestation programs in Australia, Italy, Morocco and the USA where the projects bring more benefits than just carbon sequestration. Indeed, in one project in Texas, ST bought the land, planted the trees and then donated the planted land to a local foundation2 . Since then, ST has been receiving carbon credits, while the >40% of local foundation benefits from the ‘living laboratories’ the forests provide, offering opportunities for academic activities that are crucial to the research and teaching of direct emissions natural resource management. compensated by In 2015, the 9,000 hectares of trees we planted in 2002 and 2003 sequestered our forests 227,962 kTons of CO2, compensating more than 40%3 of our annual direct emissions. At a local level, some sites are very active in regional reforestation programs. For example, ST Calamba (the Philippines) aims by 2020 to successfully plant or adopt 20,200 fully grown trees in the Caliraya watershed, a protected area. Despite a poor survival rate of 50%, efforts are continuing; ST Calamba employees have already planted more than 25,000 trees. They also carried out tree-tagging activities in 2015 to monitor the number and survival rate of the planted trees. The site will pursue its efforts 64 to ensure that the target is achieved by 2020. 1. The letters A to E represent the performance (mitigation, adaptation and transparency) while the numbers 0 to 100 represent the disclosure (comprehensiveness, data management, understanding and transparency). 2. Article published by the foundation in 2016 http://atcofa.sfasu.edu/index.php/id-category-blog/234-partnershipbetween-industry-and-natural-resource-management-benefits-the-environment-and-sfa-students 3. Internal calculation methodology Working FOCUS with the industry ST and ESIA: working in our industry’s interests ST is an active participant in ESIA (the European Semiconductor Industry Association), whose mission is to represent and promote the common interests of our industry in European Institutions. ESIA’s activities are varied, and include a focus on Environment, Safety and Health (EHS). ESIA also plays an important role as a member of the EHS Committee of the World Semiconductor Council (WSC), where the global semiconductor industry works together to collaborate on resource conservation and many other EHS issues. ST is represented in both the ESIA and the WSC PFC working groups by Francesca Illuzzi, Senior Member of Technical Staff. Within the scope of the latter activity, the semiconductor industry has successfully reached the agreed 2010 reduction goal. Currently the group is working on the 2020 reduction goal alongside the adoption of the best available technology and practices to minimize greenhouse gas emissions. Such objectives require the semiconductor industry to make significant investments as well as a considerable technical effort. So far we have achieved very positive results thanks to the collaboration with other European semiconductor companies, and it is important to continue to reinforce the European position inside the worldwide semiconductor industry. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency GHG Air Emissions ENVIRONMENT & OPERATIONS Environmental Efficiency Waste We continually reduce, reuse, recycle and manage waste streams from manufacturing sites, including hazardous substances, metals, packing, plastics and other non-biodegradable materials. 65 Waste sorting ‘Eco Island’, ST Agrate, Italy Waste is a focus of concern because of its potentially negative impact on the health and safety of employees and the environment. Managing waste requires a multidisciplinary approach based on waste reduction, reuse, elimination and treatment. Waste strategy For more than two decades, we have set ourselves ambitious targets through our Environmental Health & Safety (EHS) Decalogue to reuse and recycle materials, dispose of waste safely and minimize waste to landfill. Waste management is driven 91% of waste is by national or local regulations, but our EHS Decalogue requires that all sites meet reused, recovered or the most stringent of either national or local regulations, or Company procedures. sent for recycling Our waste management strategy covers all waste streams, from operations (such as metals, plastics and chemicals) to surrounding activities (such as offices and canteen) and products. We have established an integrated process to manage waste which involves compliance, monitoring the quantity of annual waste production, collecting data and reporting strict controls across all company activities. I G4-DMA I Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency Waste Objectives Status Comments Objectives Remain among the best in class companies with a reuse, recovery and sent for recycling rate of 90% or more. 91% in 2015. Remain among the best in class companies with 4.25%. landfilled waste rate of 3% or less. Waste in Tons | G4-EN23 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total hazardous waste 10,415 12,624 11,031 10,644 10,406 Total waste 38,592 37,511 36,091 34,472 34,571 Waste performance In 2015, we achieved our objective to remain a best-in-class company, as 91% of waste generated through our operations was reused, recovered or sent for recycling. Aware of the potential risks, we pursue our effort to reduce the amount of waste in landfill and to reach our target of 3% or less. Minimizing environmental impact and creating added-value Our waste management strategy covers all waste streams, and we implement specific programs to treat waste at the site level in partnership with local subcontractors. As potential secondary raw materials are present in waste streams, revalorizing waste can bring many benefits. We are taking steps toward a circular economy as it creates added-value, minimizes risks for people and the environment, and benefits local communities. 87% of hazardous For example, in Singapore, we have deployed a waste recycling program for both manufacturing and non-manufacturing sites since 2005. Implemented by the Global waste is reused, Purchasing Organization (GPO), this program benefits the environment because waste 66 recovered or sent for is properly handled and recycled, but it also benefits the Company through generating recycling revenue from its sale. Metal waste as well as trays, tubes, wafer boxes and stainless steel are collected for recycling. From offices, there are computers, paper boxes, used papers and metals. Hazardous waste management Hazardous or potentially hazardous waste, such as chemical substances or contaminated plastics, is generated from the various processes for manufacturing semiconductors. As hazardous waste can be harmful to people’s health and safety and to the environment, we need to handle, treat and dispose of all hazardous waste properly. At ST, we pay particular attention to this, and 87% of hazardous waste was reused, recovered or sent for recycling in 2015. The remaining waste is treated locally by specialized companies. Where local treatment is not possible, we transport hazardous waste safely to a location where it can be treated, in full compliance with the Basel convention. In 2015, 0.49% of ST’s hazardous waste was transported from Kirkop (Malta) to France and Italy and from Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) to Japan. Going FOCUS beyond Waste collection for employee household equipment our operations Following the best practice of ST Calamba (the Philippines) to go beyond the footprint of its operations (see 2014 Sustainability Report, page 54), in August 2015, ST Muar (Malaysia) decided to extend its WEEE management initiative to employees’ household equipment. Collection points were installed and an awareness campaign was conducted to change consumer behavior. The site ensures this waste is properly handled and managed by a sub-contractor who is licensed by Malaysia’s Department of Environment. Following the success of this initiative it will now be deployed to all our Back-end sites in 2016. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency Waste euse 10.5% andfill 4.3% Improving waste sorting We continually encourage all ST sites to improve waste management and to deploy overy 5.0% solutions to optimize waste treatment. Maintenance operations generate different kinds of waste that can be recycled, whether hazardous or not. ration 5.1% In Tours (France) in 2015, Environment Engineer, Romain Fouqueray, together with a working group, proposed to implement new solutions to encourage waste sorting of maintenance operations. Waste-sorting containers, chemical-resistant bags and Waste split (%) | G4-EN23 | a dedicated shelf to receive Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment, cables, Sent for metals and plastics, were installed in the cleanroom area. To make this initiative a recycling 75.1% success, awareness and training actions were conducted during weekly maintenance meetings and published in the local newsletter. The site can now confirm that all waste generated by maintenance operations is properly sorted, evacuated, disposed of or Reuse 10.5% recycled. This initiative achieves the objectives to reduce risks linked to hazardous waste handling and optimize waste sorting, and demonstrates that awareness and clear instructions lead to beneficial actions. Following this success, maintenance waste Landfill 4.3% management has now become a part of our internal environmental audits. Recovery 5.0% Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment – WEEE Incineration 5.1% As a supplier of components to the electronics industry, rather than a manufacturer of electronic equipment, ST is not directly affected by the European Directive 2012/19/ EU Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE), which requires manufacturers and importers in the EU member states to take back their products from consumers. However we do regularly dispose of electronic equipment resulting from our operations, such as scrap PCs and laptops, screens and dashboards. Considering the potential health and environmental impact of our electrical and electronic equipment, we implement specific programs to ensure correct handling and treatment of our WEEE. In 2015, we launched a large-scale initiative to reinforce the audit plan of our key WEEE disposal suppliers. Our aim was to conduct specific checks to ensure the WEEE reuse/recycle rate is correct and meets the declared value. This initiative applies to all our manufacturing sites, large non-manufacturing sites and 12 WEEE design sites. We defined a common methodology to conduct audits that would verify 67 disposal suppliers the different processes of recycling, the recycle rate and compliance with laws and audited in 2015 local regulations. Coordinated by the corporate EHS team, each site was asked to audit its local WEEE supplier and provide an audit report describing their results and processes for collecting and handling each type of waste. During 2015, 12 of the 15 eligible sites conducted audits on their local disposal suppliers. The results demonstrate that our electric and electronic waste is correctly dismantled and that on average 85% to 95% is reused through a raw material valorization process. The amount of waste that cannot be revalorized is generally incinerated and the produced energy is recovered. The three remaining sites plan to audit their suppliers in the first half of 2016. This initiative allows us to verify published information, gain visibility on WEEE management and ensure our waste is managed correctly. It also strengthens the close collaboration between ST and its local suppliers, and we intend to repeat this initiative over the coming years. As a specialized waste management company, Veolia is committed to providing its customers traceability of their waste, from collection to recovery. The request of STMicroelectronics to audit the plant of Triade in Chassieu (France), our subsidiary in charge of WEEE treatment, demonstrates an environmental policy based on waste control and monitoring. Through this process, carried out with transparency, strengths and opportunities for improvement have been identified. STMicroelectronics was particularly sensitive to our insertion program for people facing employment difficulties and to WEEELABEX (‘WEEE label of excellence’), a European labeling Mustapha HIDRA process currently being deployed. WEEELABEX focuses on collection, depollution Dauphiné Savoie Manager – Veolia and recovery of WEEE, with the aim to bring more transparency and homogeneity (standardization) to the recycling industries in Europe. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency Waste ENVIRONMENT & OPERATIONS Environmental Efficiency Chemicals We are committed to reducing and managing the environmental, health and safety risks of the chemicals and materials used in our manufacturing processes. We achieve this by basing their selection, handling and substitution on the precautionary principles. 68 Deposition process, ST Tours, France Many substances used for manufacturing semiconductors can be hazardous for the environment and people’s health and safety, particularly in Front-end activities. Since the early 1990s, ST has been engaged in the management and control of chemical substances and materials to protect both people and the environment from potential exposure, and to comply with legal and customer requirements. An approach based on precautionary principles A Site Chemical To comply with our Environmental, Health & Safety (EHS) Decalogue, all our Committee for each manufacturing sites have a Site Chemical Committee (SCC) to ensure that the site adopts an approach based on precautionary principles to assess the EHS impacts manufacturing site of new processes, chemicals, materials and their related-risks. All relevant site organizations, such as EHS, Purchasing, Facilities, Research and Development, and Physicians participate in the SCC. However, it remains the ultimate responsibility of the Site’s Management to ensure the whole process is properly applied. I G4-14 I We conduct regular EHS internal audits to ensure that conditions of use (defined by the SCC in line with ST procedures) are maintained. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency Chemicals Complying with the highest standards Across our manufacturing activities and supply chain, we implement the highest standards to ensure legal compliance with applicable Regulatory and Permit requirements for chemical handling and storage. ST adopts ISO 140011 and OHSAS 180012 management systems. Through our Material Declaration Process, we report externally on the chemical composition of all our products and track the presence of all substances, according to the IPC 17523 standard. Additionally, we evaluate chemicals using ST’s EHS-regulated substances lists (which Steven Wong Senior VP Marketing contains more than 2,500 substances) to identify potential handling issues or changing Heraeus Electronics Singapore legal requirements. In 2015, more than 4,600 chemicals were used and assessed across ST manufacturing sites. ST annually reviews and updates the EHS-regulated substances list to comply with Pursuing product excellence standards and regulations (REACH4, RoHS5, ELV6) and meet customers’ requirements. though sustainable, environmentally We communicate the list to all our suppliers and subcontractors, perform detailed conscious development has checks, and validate their compliance through certification, safety datasheets and been at the forefront of Heraeus written commitments. This ensures that they are aligned with the rules for chemicals Materials’ development efforts. At and hazardous substances use. Heraeus Materials, EHS legislations Substances may be identified with specific risks, for example, due to possible future are constantly monitored and the restrictions, or regulatory and customer requirements. If this happens, specific actions need for new products resulting are taken to reduce these impacts, ensure employees’ health is adequately protected from changes in EHS legislation and enable business continuation. is continuously factored into the product development roadmap. It ST exposure to Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) is our pleasure to collaborate with 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 STMicroelectronics in the search SVHC 71 138 151 161 168 for greener materials and solutions ST concern 8 18 20 21 22 for the next generation of products. ST concern Annex XIV 1 1 1 1 1 ST is actively driving changes Total replaced since 2008 4 5 5 5 6 to meet new EHS legislations and it is indeed our privilege to 69 be collaborating with a forwardCollaborating for improvements looking organization like ST to To ensure that sites and products are adapted to comply with European regulatory meet environmental challenges and requirements, ST proactively works with other semiconductor manufacturers to: customer needs. • assess the use of specific chemicals • identify alternatives where necessary • ensure manufactured products are compliant with regulations • help regulators develop sustainable regulations We also consult on the regulations applicable to the sectors (electric and electronic consumer goods and automotive) relevant for ST products. During 2015, ST contributed to the ELV and RoHS European Consultation to ensure hazardous substances are adequately controlled. Both of these directives focus on the presence of lead in components. 11 regulated Despite the considerable progress made since the initial RoHS directive took effect Substances, including in 2006, lead is still used for several processes in semiconductor manufacturing. Five SVHC, replaced semiconductor manufacturers, including ST, have created a consortium named DA5 (Die Attach 5). Together, we seek to identify alternatives to using lead as a solder since 2008 constituent to attach the semiconductor to its base. We have not yet identified leadfree solutions for all processes and, due to its characteristics, lead is still required for several specific processes and applications, such as die attach and in products with glass or ceramic materials. Substituting and eliminating substances 1. ISO 14001 = Environmental Management In 2015, ST continued to replace Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC); the DEHP Systems Requirements 2. OHSAS 18001 = Occupational Health and Safety replacement is almost complete. To ensure supply chain continuation in two European Management Systems Requirements sites, we began replacing Nonylphenol and HBCDD (HexaBromoCycloDoDecane), 3. IPC = Association Connecting Electronics two SVHC that will be restricted in the coming years. Industries® Nonylphenol is a component of a cleaning chemical used at our ST Tours Front-end 4. REACH = Registration Evaluation and Restriction of Chemicals manufacturing site. In order to be compliant with future regulation, elimination of this 5. RoHS = Restriction of Hazardous Substances substance was almost completed in 2015, thanks to a close cooperation within Tours’ 6. ELV = End of Life of Vehicle teams. Process engineers proposed an alternative chemical and tests started in 2014. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency Chemicals Objectives Status Comments Objectives Strive towards continuous control, reduction or Elimination of 1 substance completed in 2015. elimination of risks and of substances of concern in our processes and activities for an environmentally friendlier, safer and healthier working place. Adopt an approach based on precautionary principles New chemicals are constantly evaluated prior when assessing the EHS impacts of new operational to entering into ST premises, see article. processes, chemicals and materials. Once the proposed chemical’s qualification phase is complete at the beginning of 2016, Nonyphenol will be totally substituted. This new solution offers many benefits, including increased employee safety, compliance with REACH requirements, reduced Volatile Organic Compound emissions, cost savings and extended equipment operating life. HBCDD is a flux component used in the wafer level balling process which is performed to improve soldering between the semiconductor and its base. It ensures a robust interface between the ball and the pad, and also helps guarantee the reliability of the connection. At the Stockholm Convention in May 2015, the Conference of the Parties 29% selected (COP) listed HBCDD as a substance to be banned. It is also a candidate for inclusion in the RoHS Directive’s list of restricted substances. It was therefore critical to remove PFOA-related substances it from the manufacturing process to ensure site and product compliance. We have consumed vs 2014 looked for a new flux to replace the existing one and evaluated several candidates by verifying the main parameters of wetting capability, workability and solderability. We chose the new flux proposed by Heraeus after identifying it as the most suitable. The study took eight months from the benchmark to final qualification in production. In cooperation with some suppliers, ST is also engaged in a voluntary program to reduce PFOA-related substances, involving chemicals producers and the majority of ST Front-end sites. As a result, consumption of the selected PFOA-related substances decreased by 29% in 2015 compared to 2014. Once the program is completed, ST will continue to use some PFOA-related substances in very limited quantity. Managing hazardous substances 70 ST is aligning its materials management with HSPM1 systems requirements. A new system was deployed worldwide in 2015 to collect data and analyze, monitor and report the hazardous substances used in ST products. The data collected from all our materials suppliers is ready to be uploaded to assess the content of substances in each component, enhancing traceability and complying with customer demand. A fourday event gathering our domain experts, regional coordinators and sales force was organized in October to launch this initiative. The system will be fully deployed in 2016. 1. HSPM = Hazardous Substance Program Management Sustainable FOCUS cleaning Cleaning molds sustainably During assembly manufacturing, the die is protected from the outside with a polymer resin. One of the processes used to inject the resin onto the die is transfer molding. The resin is loaded into the equipment in pellet form, the pellets are melted at a specific temperature and pressure, and then injected onto the die through a mold. The mold’s cleanliness is important to enable it to release the products with ease and ensure the molded products are robust. It’s therefore necessary to clean the mold tool frequently and effectively. These cleaning materials require good workability and filling performance to remove stains and clean the mold cavities. While current cleaning materials are not confirmed to be hazardous, the cleaning process may release traces of hazardous components. Therefore, ST has been proactive in progressively reducing these molding cleaning materials, throughout all Back-end manufacturing sites. Our five Back-end sites have participated in testing and validating the new materials which can minimize the emissions in the manufacturing environment during handling while maintaining a good level of cleaning. In 2015, 50% of our production in ST Back-end sites used the new cleaning materials. However, it was not qualified for all the Back-end lines, due to an incompatibility with the design of the mold for specific packages. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environmental Efficiency Chemicals ENVIRONMENT & OPERATIONS Sustainable Technology We identify and promote innovative products that provide environmental and social benefits to society, for example, through reducing end-application energy consumption, saving resources, protecting the environment or providing solutions to improve the end-user’s quality of life. We also aim to design products, taking into consideration the environmental impact of their entire life cycle. 71 Mobile World Congress, Barcelona, Spain Sustainable Technology program The focus on sustainability-linked product characteristics today continues to gain external interest. In order to anticipate requests from the market and increase competitive advantage, ST launched the Sustainable Technology program in 2011. The program, which provides a common framework comprising all the elements that connect products with sustainability, has three main pillars: • Product Compliance: covering legislation and customer requirements regarding REACH, RoHS and conflict-free minerals • Responsible Products: identifying innovative products that provide clear environmental and social benefits • Eco-design: designing products systematically taking into account their environmental impact during their whole life cycle Customers and investors alike reconfirmed their interest in this program during a survey in 2014, by rating Eco-design and Responsible Products among their top five Sustainability priorities. I G4-DMA I In 2014, we started integrating the Responsible Product and Eco-design pillars of the Sustainable Technology program into the product development process. During 2015, the program entered a new phase where all Product Groups agreed and approved the process describing how to deploy the programs. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Sustainable Technology Product Compliance Our products are branded ECOPACK® and meet all applicable requirements such as REACH and RoHS. In the Chemicals pages of this Report page 68, we provide full details of the HSPM (Hazardous Substances Process Management) program we use in ST to eliminate forbidden chemical compounds from our manufacturing lines and products. Our Conflict Minerals policy and status is covered in the Supply Chain Responsibility on page 77. Regarding ECOPACK®, as shown in the table below, our products are becoming greener and greener. The journey towards meeting our internal objective of having 25% Gabriel Della-Monica of products graded Ecopack3 is progressing well. I G4-DMA I CEO & Founder Smart & Blue ECOPACK® products (%) Before I started Smart & Blue | G4-PR3 | I was an engineer working for STMicroelectronics in Grenoble. 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 While attending a brainstorming Non ECOPACK® 1.3 0.8 0.3 0.3 session on automation and ‘wireless in the home’, I imagined objects ECOPACK® 1: Compliant with the RoHS/ELV being active and informing users directives, second level interconnect lead 28.7 16.8 12.2 8.7 about their status. After I saw the free.* No data movie ‘A thirsty world’ dealing with ECOPACK® 2: as ECOPACK® 1, plus free of water wastage, I wondered how brominated, chlorinated and antimonyoxide 70.0 82.4 87.5 83.0 flame retardants. many liters I used for my last shower. I realized that saving hot water had ECOPACK® 3: as ECOPACK® 2, plus free of NA NA NA 8.0 an even larger impact on energy halogens with no RoHS exemptions. consumption. Globally water and * With adapted reliability for soldering at higher temperature, as some exemptions are necessary mainly for the automotive market energy are linked. You need water to regarding the RoHS Directive. produce energy and you need energy to carry or process water, that’s the water energy nexus. Responsible Products 72 Smart & Blue was founded in 2015 Our Responsible Product program ensures we identify and promote innovative to develop connected solutions for products that provide clear environmental and social benefits to society, such as smart water management. We have reducing the energy consumption of the end-application, saving resources, protecting already supplied 1,000 HYDRAO the environment, or providing new social solutions which improve the end-user’s smart showerhead units and have quality of life. 10,000 orders in the pipeline. This program is divided into three categories. The strength of HYDRAO comes Social products that provide new social solutions and improve the quality of life for from ST’s ultra-low-power STM32 end users (such as all medical and/or health-related products, safety applications and and BlueNRG Bluetooth low-energy social solutions for developing countries). ICs that allow the shower head to Energy Saving products that reduce energy consumption, enable our customers’ connect and function with only the applications to reduce their energy consumption or provide new environmental power generated from the water flow. solutions (such as smart grids and power-management solutions). 2-STAR FOCUS Responsible STM32L4: a powerful microcontroller using less energy Product ST has built a new microcontroller architecture to reach best-in-class, ultra-lowpower performance. The STM32L4 series of ultra-low-power microcontrollers, with a 32-bit ARM® Cortex®-M4 core, is a 2-STAR Responsible Product in the Energy Saving category. It adds a new dimension to the ultra-low-power world, and it achieved an industry-leading EEMBC score (the industry-standard benchmark for embedded systems, http://www.eembc.org/) for its performance. The combination of an excellent low-power performance and the high level of integration of memory and innovative peripherals is unique in the market. Thanks to this new technology, our customers create amazing products such as fitness trackers or smart watches with more features and innovations, while increasing battery life by up to 50%. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Sustainable Technology General Environment products that increase the ability to save resources and protect the environment (such as automotive start/stop systems and solutions lowering the use of water or chemicals, reducing emissions or generating renewable energy). In the Responsible Products program we evaluate our products and then award STARs to indicate their value to society. We award one, two or three STARs according to the product’s level of innovation. The awards are managed in our Project Management System (PMS). Eco-design Our Eco-design program ensures that we design our products systematically taking into consideration the environmental impact of the device during its whole life cycle, including raw materials, transportation, manufacturing, usage and end of life.This program encourages our designers and product development teams to implement Environmental impact green designs wherever possible and to track and share best practices, thus systematically taken minimizing our products’ impact on the environment. I G4-EN27 I Eco-design is integrated throughout the product development process via the PMS, into consideration in the as shown in the diagram below. design process The diagram shows that an Eco-design evaluation, which requires the completion of a checklist and a Responsible Product classification, is mandatory at the New Product Request (NPR) stage. It can optionally be reviewed at the Design Approval Certificate (DAC) stage. A final review is mandatory at the Product Qualification Certificate (PQC) stage for the Eco-design status to be awarded before the product enters production. SUSTAINABLE TECHNOLOGY THROUGH PRODUCT MATURITY LIFETIME MAT00 MAT10 MAT20 MAT30 73 Design & Engineering PQC Concept NPR DAC Qualification Production Validation Sustainable Sustainable Sustainable Technology Technology Technology evaluation review consolidation NPR: DAC: PQC: MAT: New Product Request Design Approval Certificate Product Qualification Certificate Maturity My primary responsibility relates to standardization. In this role, I manage the strategy and actions of my Group in standards organizations and industry alliances that are relevant to the group’s products. Among my other responsibilities, I joined the Sustainable Technology Working Group in 2014 to represent my Group. At that time, my main focus was on consolidating data for Responsible Products as well as for Eco-design. In 2015, we started to use a new tool to manage product development throughout the Company – the PMS or Project Management System. This was a major change, Daniel Orsatti and we were successful in including Sustainable Technology within this new tool. Standardization Director, To support the change, I helped to start the process by organizing training for Strategic Planning (Microcontrollers, Program Managers, Design Managers, System Architects and Marketing personnel Memories & Secure MCU) Group in the Group. Additionally, with the support of the Sustainable Technology Working Group, we used coaching to reduce the learning curve for those teams involved in preparing product-development milestones. This was to ensure the accuracy and relevance of all the Eco-design and Responsible Product data in the PMS. When available, the external communication of our products’ green and socially responsible attributes will provide an additional competitive advantage. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Sustainable Technology Objectives Status Comments Objectives 90% of new products to apply Sustainable 100%. Sustainable Technology criteria have Technology criteria within our Product been embedded in PMS (Project Management Development Process. System) from January 1st 2015. Systematically apply Sustainable Technology criteria during the product development process to identify Responsible Products. PMS implementation in 2015 The PMS (Project Management System) is the tool ST uses to manage the development of all new products. This made it the ideal system for supporting the deployment of our Sustainable Technology program. The Responsible Products and Eco-design pillars have been embedded in the PMS since January 2015. Until 2014, we collected information manually. Since Q2 2015, however, we have been able to extract information on all products under development in real-time from the PMS, both simplifying the process and increasing its robustness. By the end of 2015, we had identified 43 distinct products, contributing to a total of 89 STARs for innovation. We held face-to-face training sessions in eight ST sites in 2015, at: Catania, Agrate and Castelletto (Italy); Grenoble, Rousset, Sophia Antipolis, Tours (France); and Greater Noida (India). These reached around 240 people from our R&D (at Project/Program Manager level), Product Marketing, Design and Packaging Communities. The next step for the program is to create internal and external communication packages to develop the competitive advantage perspective. 89 STARs The STAR rating tracks the innovation of the products, in increasing levels from for innovation 1to 3-STARs. STAR classification for new products in 2015 | G4-PR3 | 74 Responsible Other products products 27% 73% 3 STARS 5% 2 STARS 13% 1 STAR 82% 1 STAR Incremental improvement to existing offer 2 STARS Significant improvement to existing offer 3 STARS New or dramatic improvement to existing offer Social and FOCUS Energy LSM6DS3 Ultra-low-power 6-AXIS inertial module Saving The LSM6DS3 is a system-in-package, featuring a 3D digital accelerometer and a 3D digital gyroscope, which operates with an ultra-low current consumption in Responsible high-performance mode. This enables low-power ‘always-on’ features that give Product consumers an optimal motion experience. Its highly effective power-management system is typically 20% more energyefficient in low-power mode than the best alternative system-in-packages, while still delivering outstanding performance. LSM6DS3 System-in-package The LSM6DS3 is ideally suited for indoor navigation, wearable fitness, healthcare and safety applications like motion, shock or fall-detection triggering automatic alerts, all of which provide social benefits. It has a 2-STAR ranking for innovation in the Social category. Its advanced energy-saving features and significantly extended battery usage time, means it also has a 2-STAR ranking in the Energy Saving category. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Sustainable Technology ENVIRONMENT & OPERATIONS Supply Chain Responsibility As part of their contract with ST, our suppliers are required to commit to ST and the EICC’s Social Responsibility standards, including conflict mineral and chemical requirements. In order to positively contribute to progress in the electronics supply chain, ST monitors supplier performance through regular assessments and audits. 75 EHS suppliers’ day, ST Bouskoura, Morocco A step further towards a responsible supply chain For more than a decade, accounting for the impact of our sourcing decisions has been fundamental to our sustainability culture. In 2015, by updating ST’s Code of Conduct and adopting the latest version of the Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code, we reinforced our commitment to only partner with suppliers who share our values and standards, and also to monitor their performance through assessment and audits. Through effective collaboration amongst our procurement, outsourcing, quality and sustainability organizations, we have progressively structured and formalized our > 85% of procurement approach to sustainability, based on EICC standards. Our Supply Chain Responsibility program has so far enabled us to monitor more than 85% of our procurement volumes monitored volumes. I G4-DMA I Increasing interest from our main stakeholders gives us an incentive to go a step further in our supply chain responsibility. For example, customers are focusing on social factors, recent regulations requiring supply chain due diligence, including conflict minerals and forced labor issues, and more specifically, new EICC standards are more stringent on supplier management. In 2015, we consequently focused on increasing the percentage of suppliers monitored, enhancing the level of compliance verification and developing local risk approaches. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Supply Chain Responsibility Managing risks in our supply chain We have structured our supply chain programs through a risk-based approach. We also successively implement actions in our various procurement segments in order to extend our due diligence and drive continuous improvement. We use three main criteria for our risk analysis: category of suppliers, business volume and in-region risks. They determine: • priority areas such as labor and human rights, health and safety, environment, ethics, management of hazardous substances and responsible sourcing of minerals, Jess Cheong • level of monitoring, from commitments embedded in contracts, to third party audits Senior Project Manager and corrective action plans Labor Agency Syarikat Perkhidmatan We continue to deploy these initiatives among our key suppliers and subcontractors in Awam CYS manufacturing procurement segments, who represent 75% of our spend. They include Front-end and Back-end subcontractors, and material, spare-parts and equipment CYS has supplied labor services suppliers, managed at the corporate level. to ST for about 14 years now, and In 2015, we closely collaborated with the corporate and local procurement I have worked with CYS for 3.5 organizations at all of our locations, including design and sales sites, with the aim years. We are regularly informed and to increasingly deploy these programs to indirect services, such as labor agencies, trained by ST on the EICC Code of dormitory management, canteen, cleaning and security. Our supply chain responsibility Conduct. This has led us to adapt program now covers more than 85% of our direct and indirect spend. I G4-12 I our recruitment, hiring and dormitory management practices to the latest Communicating on our standards and verifying compliance with our requirements. For example, we have set up flow charts to align our key suppliers practices and we have trained our We consider communicating with, and monitoring, our business partners as an staff to respect specific procedures. ongoing process based on ST’s Sustainability strategy and the evolution of industry We now have a Business Ethics and standards. In 2015, we requested 100% of our key suppliers and subcontractors to Labor Policy that all our employees renew their commitment to respect the newly-deployed Version 5.0 of the EICC Code. have to acknowledge. When we We also require all of them to complete a new self-assessment questionnaire (SAQ) were audited for the first time, we through the EICC online platform, except for equipment and spare-part suppliers were all resistant, as we thought where we have identified an eligible target according to procurement volumes. The 76 results progressed in both the number of SAQs completed and in the performance of interviews of the workers could be biased and could prejudice our our suppliers. They demonstrated an overall increase of awareness and understanding reputation. But we haven’t seen of corporate social responsibility issues, as well as a greater ability to address social major negative impact and we and environmental risks. even saw some improvements in ST’s overall SAQ supply chain score reached 91.8% (an increase of 2.8 % vs 2014). our practices, which are now more This indicates a reduced level of risk and exceeded the EICC low risk threshold of 85% structured and formalized. in the three main areas of Labor & Ethics, Environment, and Health & Safety. More One of the main challenges we face detailed information on scores by section can be found in our performance indicators. in our implementation is that audit standards and local government Suppliers facilities average SAQs scoring (%) standards are sometimes different. For example, buildings standards in Malaysia don’t require two fire Overall average exits, but EICC audits do. Another Health and Safety section challenge is the rising costs in Environment section 95 Labor and Ethics section maintaining the hostel standards, which has become the labor agency’s responsibility, and workers 90 now expect a lot more from us. The major difference we see is that 85 Low risk* workers are now more confident of voicing any grievances they have as 80 they feel more support coming from third parties. In terms of hiring, the new 75 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 regulations in Malaysia now require manufacturers to hire foreign migrant * EICC risk threshold workers directly from their country of origin, so we no longer hire them for ST, but still hire and supply local workers. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Supply Chain Responsibility In 2015, we added an indicator to transparently disclose the main risk areas identified (see below). Top 10 risks in our Supply Chain Number of Critical Questions for suppliers/subcontractors who scored <90% in SAQ Prevention of forced labor 43 Prevention of discrimination 38 Misconduct reporting 25 Prevention of child labor 17 Ethics management systems 14 Disciplinary measures 12 Labor management systems 11 Risk management 11 Management of hazardous substances 10 Ethics training 9 0 10 20 30 40 50 These risks are closely addressed with our suppliers through direct dialog and targeted corrective action plans until we are satisfied with the level of closure reached. We consider this a vital step to ensure a sufficient maturity of supplier management systems, and trust and transparency in our business relationships. Through the identification of risks, and in line with the critical areas of our business, we DJSI score of 90 identify the suppliers and subcontractors to engage in audits. Our priority is to verify for Supply Chain the practices of our strategic Front-end and Back-end subcontractors. Although 80% 77 Management of our Back-end subcontractors received third party audits in 2014, we ensure they pursue their efforts and renew their verification every two years. Following the first round of initial audits in 2014, this year we have conducted closure audits on the Frontend segment to verify the effectiveness of corrective action plans. With 100% of major non-conformances closed and an overall closure rate above 80%, results showed a major improvement on working hours and the prevention of forced labor. Our target for 2016 is to engage the top 50% of our Front-end subcontractors in audits. Our efforts have been recognized by the socially responsible investment community and in 2015, we obtained a record score in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index with 90 out of 100 for Supply Chain Management, compared to the industry average of 59. Conflict FOCUS Minerals Commitment to conflict-free sourcing The US Dodd Franck Act and related conflict minerals regulation adopted in 2010, has led companies to better identify the origin of metals contained in their products. In order to ensure that extraction of these raw materials doesn’t contribute to armed conflict and human rights violations, companies now collect data in their upstream supply chain and request third party certifications. We engaged the 139 smelters identified in our supply chain in the Conflict-Free Smelters (CFS) Initiative. Our aim was to ensure 100% of these smelters are CFS-validated (and remain so) by the end of 2015. We achieved this objective for more than 99.9% of our products, corresponding to 138 out of 139 smelters validated. The one remaining smelter impacts only one product line, which we sell to one specific customer and represents a very low volume in terms of our business and production. We are closely following this smelter, which is engaged in the process and should be CFS-validated in 2016. Detailed information of our progress is reported annually to the US Securities and Exchange Commission and published at www.st.com/conflict-free_minerals. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Supply Chain Responsibility OUR SUPPLIERS Focusing on local supply chains Procurement We also address working conditions and workers’ rights through local supply chain volume programs. Building on our previous years’ focus on recruitment and employment agencies for foreign migrant workers in Asia, we have extended visits and verifications to both ‘receiving country’ agencies in Malaysia, and ‘country of origin’ agencies in Indonesia, Nepal and Sri Lanka. At the end of 2015, 100% of new foreign migrant workers were directly hired by ST in order to reduce the risk of forced labor and illegal practices. This represents a significant achievement to prevent the violation of vulnerable workers’ rights. The Direct manufacturing testimony of a recruitment agency we have worked with for 14 years, illustrates the (Equipment, material, positive impact this approach has on our supply chain. See page 76. suppliers, subcontractors) Local initiatives in manufacturing sites, such as the supplier performance evaluation, which integrates environment and health and safety (EHS) criteria, and the suppliers’ EHS day, with more than 100 external participants in Bouskoura (Morocco), are other examples of good practice. These show the increasing integration of supply chain responsibility into procurement practices. One of our 2016 objectives is to deploy the Supply Chain Responsibility program to the remaining indirect services, such as dormitory management, canteen, cleaning and security, on all our sites. We will ask all identified eligible suppliers to commit to the EICC Code and then proceed to assess and verify compliance when necessary. To ensure a successful implementation we are launching worldwide communication Indirect services and training to develop the competency of both the procurement and sustainability (Canteen, dormitories, labor communities. agencies,…) As part of the commitment to the EICC Code, our suppliers are informed of our misconduct reporting hotline, described on page 17, which is open to all external third parties. Others (ICT, patents,…) Management of hazardous substances Another key supply chain consideration is the responsible management of chemicals. In 2015, we launched the innovative Hazardous Substance Program Management 78 initiative. This program aims to integrate the full traceability of substances, directly and automatically, in the final product genealogy. More information on Chemicals management can be found on page 70. Objectives Status Comments Objectives Create and implement a process to engage local suppliers in Sustainability programs including See article. audits. Get 100% of the smelters identified in our supply 98% of smelters CFSP compliant. Tantalum, Gold chain verified by a 3rd party as Conflict-Free by and Tungsten all 100%; Tin 98% (3 Tin smelters the end of 2015. are active in the CFSP verification but not yet compliant as of Dec 31 2015. Objective 2016: Maintain CFSP compliance for 100% of smelters in product supply chain and extend due diligence to evaluation boards. Deploy and control ST Hazardous Substance-Free Achieved via the deployment of the HSPM programs to suppliers and subcontractors. program. Ensure 80% of key suppliers are involved in the EICC program, and continuously improve their performance. Ensure 80% of all eligible local suppliers have signed an agreement to comply with the EICC Code of Conduct. Ensure 80% of all eligible local suppliers are audited by end of 2017. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Supply Chain Responsibility ENVIRONMENT & OPERATIONS Environment & Operations Indicators This section includes indicators and GRI Standard Disclosures. Our environmental data collection covers our 11 manufacturing SCOPE 2: sites representing more than 95% of the overall environmental • Indirect emissions due to electricity consumption: World impact of the whole company. Resources Institute (2014). GHG Protocol tool for stationary For CO2 emissions reporting, ST uses the following international combustion. Version 4.5 methodologies: SCOPE 3: SCOPE 1: • Emissions due to Goods transportation, Employee • PFC emission: 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National commuting and Employee business travels: Mobile Greenhouse Gas Inventories-Chapter 6 Electronics Industry Combustion GHG Protocol tool v.2.5 Emissions • Supplement to the Corporate Value Chain (scope 3) • Combustion emissions: World Resources Institute (2008)accounting and reporting standard GHG Protocol Calculation tool for stationary combustion v.4) For all the other environmental indicators, ST uses the • World Resources Institute (2004) methodologies described in internal Company procedures GHG protocol A Corporate Accounting And Reporting which are regularly reviewed during third party environmental Standard audits (i.e. EMAS, ISO 14001, ISO 50001). Environmental investments Consumption of electricity (per unit of production): 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 normalized values | G4-EN5 | 79 % of total company investments 0.50 0.85 0.21 0.73 0.70 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Consumption of electricity 105 114 105 106 109 Baseline 100 in 2010. Direct and indirect energy consumption by primary sources (%) Consumption of natural gas (per unit of production): | G4-EN3 | normalized values 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Green electricity Consumption of natural gas 100 101 108 106 113 8.6 7.4 17.6 19.7 22.4 purchased Baseline 100 in 2010. Photovoltaic and thermal solar electricity 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 produced by ST Total water discharge | G4-EN22 | Electricity purchased 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 23.2 22.1 17.8 17.4 15.6 from nuclear (CO2 free) Water discharge 13,650 12,444 13,422 13,457 13,053 Electricity purchased (1,000m3) 59.5 63.3 56.3 54.7 53.6 from fossil fuel sources Treated in ST wastewater 74 76 78 79 79 treatment plant (%) Natural gas 7.5 7.0 8.0 7.8 8.1 Treated in external wastewater treatment 55 54 58 62 58 Other fuels 0.0 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 plant* (%) * Part of this water has already been treated in ST wastewater treatment plant, meaning that 100% of water discharge is treated either internally, externally or both. Consumption: absolute values | G4-EN3 | G4-EN6 | Summary of net CO2 emissions (KTons) | G4-EN15 | G4-EN16 | G4-EN17 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Electricity (TJ) 7,409 7,347 7,530 7,649 7,517 Direct emissions Scope 1 626 561 554 626 575 Water (1,000m3) 17,314 16,151 17,484 17,386 15,940 Indirect emissions (purchased 903 828 815 778 748 Chemicals (tons) 17,076 17,792 19,713 19,170 19,125 electricity) Scope 2 Other indirect emissions Natural gas (TJ) 598 550 657 650 661 116 107 108 121 135 (transportation*) Scope 3 Total emissions 1,645 1,497 1,477 1,525 1,459 * The transportation emissions value is a global estimate of employees’ transportation and transportation of goods. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environment & Operations Indicators Carbon footprint of ST’s products per mode of Non Hazardous waste split (%) transportation (%) | G4-EN23 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2014 2015 Air <2,000km 0 11 11 12 14 Reuse 4.1% 3.7% Air >2,000km 1 89 89 86 85 Sent for recycling 88.8% 86.6% Road 0 0 0 2 2 Recovery 0.2% 0.8% Ocean <1% 0 0 0 0 Incineration 3.1% 4.1% Landfill 3.9% 4.9% Environmental burden: net values 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Emissions to air WEEE Global warming(1) As a supplier of components to the electronics industry (and 429,187 408,202 402,875 415,960 397,832 (MTCE) not manufacturers of electronic equipment), we are not directly Ozone depletion affected by the European Directive 2012/19/ EU Waste of 0 0 0 0 0.25 (kg R11 Eq) Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE). VOCs (Tons) 192 147 153 221 224 Atmospheric 41,525 34,456 42,181 45,610 34,170 acidification (Kg SO2 Eq) Photochemical oxidant 38,125 27,165 29,501 16,946 31,498 Consumption of chemicals (per unit of production): creation (Kg ethylene Eq) normalized values Air emission toxicity(2) 3,075 4,337 2,680 2,598 2,063 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Kg PH3 Eq Emissions to water(3) Consumption of chemicals 103 117 116 113 117 Eutrophication Baseline 100 in 2010. 378,339 330,993 326,918 261,468 259,428 (Kg (P+N)) Aquatic oxygen 667,146 529,623 565,693 452,943 474,486 demand (Kg COD(4)) Elimination of substances of very high concern Heavy metals to water (Kg Heavy metals) 9,796 6,458 6,446 5,710 6,022 (SVHC) Aquatic ecotoxicity 2013 2014 2015 4,032 4,109 4,437 4,795 4,097 (Kg Cu Eq) Total number of action plans* (1) Includes direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from our manufacturing plants and indirect 19 20 22 completed since 2008 80 emissions from energy consumption and transport, reported in Metrics Tons of Carbon Equivalence (MTCE). Does not include GHG emissions from controlled manufacturing sites, subcontractors and Action plans completed on time (%) for the foundries. elimination and reduction of hazardous substances 100 100 67 (2) Emissions of substances are considered only if they exceed the minimum threshold of 3ppm, including Substances of Very High Concern (SVHC) expressed in phosphine equivalent. For Volatile Organic Compounds, Atmospheric Acidification, Photochemical Oxidant Creation and Air Emission Toxicity the Particulate Matter is not covered. * One substance can be subject to several action plans to be eliminated from different ST processes. (3) Domestic wastewater is included. (4) Total Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD). Deployment of ST substances specification to key Waste under Basel Convention supppliers and subcontrators l G4-EN25 l 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Hazardous waste transported (as Response rate from key 0.00 0.00 1.33 0.87 0.49 100 100 100 100 99 a % of total hazardous waste) partners (%) Full commitment from key partners to ST substances 99 99 99 97 96 Waste split in tons specification (%) | G4-EN23 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total Waste 38,592 37,511 36,091 34,472 34,571 Fines and non-monetary sanctions in 2015 Reuse 2,414 3,427 4,690 3,567 3,634 Sent for recycling 32,973 30,044 27,105 26,535 25,969 The Philippines (Calamba) Plant power generator exceeded particle emissions limit of 150 mg/Ncm. Recovery 338 561 1,179 1,629 1,741 Administrative Fine: Php25,000 (US$532). Incineration 1,795 1,758 1,352 1,371 1,757 Landfill 1,072 1,721 1,764 1,370 1,470 Malta (Kirkop) € 1,165 paid in 2015 for failing to register as a Packing and Packaging Producer in 2012 base for year 2011. Hazardous waste split (%) | G4-EN23 | 2014 2015 Incidents in 2015 Reuse 24.3% 26.4% | G4-EN24 | Sent for recycling 50.6% 48.5% None Recovery 14.9% 15.0% Incineration 6.0% 7.4% Landfill 4.2% 2.7% Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environment & Operations Indicators Suppliers’ and subcontractors’ environmental and Phase 1 Introduction: Agreement to comply health and safety performance with EICC (%) | G4-12 | | G4-HR11 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of suppliers/sub-contractors Direct manufacturing Suppliers of materials 102 94 92 73 89 Suppliers of materials 95 82 97 96 95 Suppliers of equipment 40 40 40 40 40 Suppliers of equipment/ 99 93 97 97 93 facilities/IT Suppliers of spare-parts 38 39 44 43 40 Total 180 173 176 156 169 Suppliers of spare-parts 94 87 94 93 88 Subcontractors Back-end 59 51 59 60 55 Subcontractors Back-end 97 100 100 100 96 Subcontractors Front-end 22 19 19 17 16 Subcontractors Front-end 96 100 100 100 100 ISO 14001 certified/EMAS validated (%) Suppliers of materials 81 76 90 76 79 Indirect services Suppliers of equipment 80 83 78 55 70 Local suppliers NA NA NA NA 49 Suppliers of spare-parts 47 59 61 58 73 Local labor agencies NA NA NA NA 54 Total 74 74 80 66 75 Subcontractors Back-end 98 98 98 100 100 Subcontractors Front-end 96 100 100 100 100 Phase 2 Assessment: number of EICC self OHSAS validated (%) assessment questionnaires completed* Suppliers of materials 50 48 51 40 47 | G4-HR11 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Suppliers of equipment 21 18 18 25 18 Direct manufacturing Suppliers of spare-parts 16 18 18 26 33 Suppliers of materials 97 183 209 233 241 Total 36 34 35 32 37 Suppliers of equipment/facilities/ Subcontractors Back-end 62 67 64 66 67 0 13 18 19 51 IT Subcontractors Front-end 77 77 73 77 75 Suppliers of spare-parts NA NA NA NA NA Suppliers and subcontractors change from one year to another. The list is updated regularly which changes the reference perimeter. Subcontractors Back-end 23 42 49 37 51 81 Subcontractors Front-end 4 8 6 5 14 Number of Suppliers/Subcontractors targeted for EICC programs Indirect services | G4-12 I G4-HR11 | Local suppliers NA NA NA NA 12 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Local labor agencies NA NA NA NA 0 Direct manufacturing Suppliers of materials 102 102 92 76 91 * An SAQ is completed for each facility, so suppliers and subcontractors may complete multiple SAQs. Suppliers of equipment/ 87 87 86 86 85 facilities/IT Suppliers of spare-parts 35 35 33 33 40 Number of suppliers engaged in reporting EHS and social KPI’s Subcontractors Back-end 32 32 59 60 55 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of Front-end material suppliers 18 34 44 37 Subcontractors Front-end 22 22 19 17 5 Number of Back-end material suppliers 45 43 26 39 Indirect services Number of key FE & BE subcontractors’ plants 24 27 NA NA Local suppliers* NA NA NA NA 193 Local labor agencies** NA NA NA NA 63 Suppliers terminated as a result of a negative * Local supply chain program launched in 2015 services and on-site suppliers in the following Human Rights assessment in 2015 categories: canteen, cleaning, gardening, security, dormitory management, external students provider, on-site doctors and employee transportation. | G4-HR11 | ** Local labor agency: private Employment Agency, recruitment agent or any other third parties None involved in the recruitment, selection, hiring, transportation and management of migrant workers in their sending or receiving countries. Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environment & Operations Indicators Conflict minerals Number of suppliers/ subcontractors and smelters 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Number of materials suppliers and subcontractors involved 171 168 162 139 148 in the EICC-GeSI Due Diligence survey Number of involved suppliers and subcontractors associated 84 88 105 104 117 with at least one 3TG metal % of involved 3TG suppliers and subcontractors that have 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% completed the EICC-GeSI Due Diligence survey Number of smelters identified in 61 74 75 89 118 ST’s raw materials supply chain Number of smelters identified in 111 102 98 113 133 ST subcontractors’ supply chain Total number of smelters 119 139 identified in ST supply chain Conflict minerals inquiry results 2015 Tantalum Gold Tin Tungsten Number of smelters 20 57 47 15 Percentage of smelters which 100 100 97.9 100 are CFS validated (1) % of smelters which are active in the CFS Program but were not 0 0 2.1 0 CFS validated as of December 31 2015 (Active smelters) 82 % of active smelters which have declared sourcing from L1/L2 0 0 100(3) 0 countries or (ii) recycled or scrap souces (2) % of active smelters which have not provided a declaration 0 0 0 0 regarding country or origin of recycled or scraps sources (1) Based on EICC CFS program. (2) Based on information presented by suppliers and subcontractors. (3) L1 country declared is China. Other countries of origin could be concerned. Smelters which are CFS validated in (%) Tantalum Gold Tin 125 Tungsten 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 97.9 75 66 65 64 50 30 33 27 25 7 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Sustainability Report | Environment & Operations | Environment & Operations Indicators IRIS Photographers, Malta Funwalk in aid of Puttina Cares, ST Kirkop, Malta Local Communities 338 • Within the framework of our Community Involvement initiatives from 24 sites Charter we let our sites decide which initiatives worldwide correspond best to their local, operational and cultural context 7,680 employees • ST favors long-term partnerships with associations engaged in volunteering and local authorities, rather than one-off events • We proactively engage with industry and academic 157,281 bodies to fulfil our role as a responsible citizen and to direct beneficiaries ensure our long-term viability in a highly competitive market LOCAL COMMUNITIES Local Communities Our intention is to add value to the communities in which we operate – through local economic development, industry and academic partnerships, and community involvement initiatives. 84 Chinese New Year celebration with the elderly, ST Ang Mo Kio, Singapore Local communities are essential to ST Our culture and values Our wide-ranging engagement with the local communities around our sites all over the world is a strong aspect of our culture. Whether at corporate, site management or employee level, the many initiatives we launch or participate in year-round reflect our commitment to positively impact the local communities around our sites. I G4-DMA I We have been applying the London Benchmarking Group methodology to measure our engagement since 2012. This has helped us structure our reporting and improve the relevance of our investment. The ST Community Involvement Charter, formalized in 2013 and rolled out in 2014, enables the global deployment of our strategy to all sites, where the Sustainable Excellence Coordinator, in close relation with HR and site management, drives and reports on most of these initiatives. Where possible, we London favor activities in three main areas: community involvement, industry and academic partnerships, and local economic development. Most initiatives are site driven so that Benchmarking our sites can decide which initiatives correspond best to their local, operational and Group cultural context. As per our Charter, our main areas of involvement are: I G4-15 I • young generation and education methodology • social welfare and charity used • innovation and high technology • economic development • environmental involvement • supporting the ST Foundation Sustainability Report | Local Communities | Local Communities Direct beneficiary groups (%) 2015 Children/Teenagers 3% 7,680 Others 4% ST volunteers Developing country communities 8% People on low incomes/Unemployed 1% Students 84% 138,519 hours As in previous years, in 2015, education was our main driver. This is reflected in: • Our partnerships in education and our intent to highlight our industry, jobs and of company time activity. Indeed, our main sites regularly organize visits for schools, universities donated and associations. Our employees give lectures and our managers are proactively engaged with local educational authorities or associations. These activities all promote the variety of jobs that our industry offers to men and women. • The ST Foundation, which helps bridge the digital divide through its main program, Digital Unify. It sets up laboratories with recycled Company PCs and volunteers, including ST employees, to train local communities to use modern technologies. The majority of our activities are run in long-term partnerships with associations and local authorities, rather than one-off events. Activities held outside working hours are either driven by ST or by employees engaged in causes, who encourage their colleagues to participate through communication or logistic support from their site. In 2015, our contributions, totaling 338 recorded initiatives worldwide, included: • cash donations of US$601,516 • involvement of more than 24 sites in 14 countries 85 • 7,680 ST employees volunteering their time • 138,519 hours of company time dedicated to the community In addition, 7,647 hours were given to managing these initiatives, while 4,450 hours were contributed by employees outside work hours, either for employee or companydriven initiatives, benefiting around 157,281 individuals. Over the coming years we will increasingly focus our efforts on initiatives which simultaneously support several priorities of our Sustainability strategy. Innovation FOCUS Campus for Hackfest during Neapolis Summer campus – ST Naples (Italy) students Our Naples site hosted a weekend HackFest in September 2015, where students and associations took part in three challenges based on the STM32 Nucleo. The event was the conclusion of the second annual NeaPolis Innovation Summer Campus, which gives university students intensive handson experience of 32-bit microcontrollers. During the event participants used our hardware and software and their knowledge of C programming languages to develop applications based on the STM32 Nucleo board ecosystem. Each of the 15 teams then had four minutes to demonstrate their innovation. “The participants were full of enthusiasm, energy and ideas,” said ST technical staff member Giovanni Di Sirio. “Many of the teams even continued to work at home through Saturday night. In addition, five volunteer student tutors ensured that all teams successfully delivered a working project.’’ NeaPolis Innovation is a partnership between STMicroelectronics, Università di Napoli Federico II, Università di Salerno, Seconda Università di Napoli, Università di Sannio, Università di Napoli Parthenope, Confindustria Campania, Micron, ENEA and CNR. Sustainability Report | Local Communities | Local Communities In 2015 we organized calls throughout the year with our sustainability and internal communications networks to raise awareness on our Sustainability priorities. In addition, for each initiative we began to monitor the link to the three pillars: People; Business; and Environment & Operations. We also contribute to local economic development through direct and indirect employment, investments in local infrastructure and hiring local suppliers. ST Foundation The Foundation continues to bridge the digital divide throughout the world (the gap between those who have access to modern technologies and who do not), both in countries where ST is present and also in several others, especially in Africa. The program started in 2003, and has trained over 327,000 people in 23 countries since its inception. In 2015, as well as a cash donation, the Foundation received a range of support from ST, including: • PCs and other electronic and IT equipment • time from those employees engaged in the Digital Unify program, who gave courses or translated course materials • support from ST Management and Corporate External Communications to produce the Foundation’s activity report to external stakeholders and to organize the 100,000-trainee celebration in Morocco • support for the implementation of a real-time data collecting system to monitor the Digital Unify courses held worldwide For more information, please visit the ST Foundation website www.stfoundation.org. Sharing FOCUS our knowledge ‘Dream Class’ comes true – ST Greater Noida (India) and values Employees at ST India are always extremely keen to serve the community, so it took just a brief discussion by a group of self-motivated people to come up 86 with the idea of ‘Dream Class’. The project is now benefiting 100 pupils from Class 6 at a local school for underprivileged children. Under the scheme, our employees visit the school at least twice a month to impart values-based education to the children through videos, open discussions, quizzes and games. Topics have included India’s national heroes, the environment, the importance of good hygiene, a clean India and more. Classes also cover subjects such as Mathematics and General Science. The children eagerly look forward to these visits. As well as our employees visiting the school, the children have also had two opportunities to visit our site. The first of these was for a Sports Day to celebrate Indian Independence Day, during which our employees relived their childhood by participating along with the children. The second occasion was just ahead of Diwali, the festival of lights, for an event called the ‘Gift of Education through Gift of Time’. Employees teamed up with the children to create handicraft items, which were then put up for sale. US$4,500 was raised within just a few hours, and is now being used to refurbish the school’s computer lab. Every step in this journey has been truly memorable for our volunteers. As one of them rightly commented: “Dream Class – a dream come true”. Objectives Status Comments Objectives Local initiatives and communication 100% aligned Communication plan done throughout the year. with new strategy (main sites). Indicators in place (initiatives linked to pillar). All sites to report their local community initiatives in the CSR tracking tool throughout the year. Support ST Foundation’s activities. Cash, PC, volontary time. For the mid-to-long term: raise young populations’ Objective discontinued. employability by providing access to PhD, apprenticeships and internship experience. Sustainability Report | Local Communities | Local Communities LOCAL COMMUNITIES Local Communities Indicators This section includes indicators and GRI Standard Disclosures. Data consolidated according to the London Benchmark Group (LBG) methodology. Community involvement Inputs Geographical spread of contribution* (%) 2015 | G4-SO1 | G4-EC1 | 2012 2013 2014 2015 Asia 22% Number of community 374 385 312 338 involvement activities Africa 3% Europe 54% Total contribution (evaluated 8.5 11 6 7 in US$M) Worldwide 21% Type of contribution break down 2012 2013 2014 2015 Cash donations (%) 31 14 15 9 Staff time volunteering (%) 57 78 75 83 In-kind (%) 4 3 5 2 * There is no historical data as the LBG changed the classification of the beneficiary regions in 2015. Management costs (%) 8 5 4 6 87 Number of employees engaged 4,515 9,944 8,655 7,680 Community involvement Outcomes in volunteering | G4-SO1 | G4-EC1 | Number of hours contributed 100,972 177,610 99,761 138,520 2013 2014 2015 inside company time Number of beneficiary organizations 826 1,204 1,832 Domains of involvement* (%) Number of direct beneficiaries 34,495 121,166 157,281 2012 2013 2014 2015 79 75 76 84 Young generation and education ST Foundation Environment 3 2 2 1 | G4-SO1 | G4-EC1 | 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Social welfare and charity 6 6 5 2 Total trainees 36,444 28,307 42,257 53,127 55,333 Innovation and high technology 8 8 5 2 Total trainees from 148,136 176,443 218,729 271,856 327,189 beginning of program Economic development 3 1 3 0 ST Foundation 0 5 9 9 Other 1 3 0 2 * Among initiatives classified as young generation and education, we notice some also related to economic development and Innovation and high technology. Motivation for contribution (%)* 2012 2013 2014 2015 Community investment 87 85 97 88 Charitable gift 5 10 2 10 Commercial initiative 8 5 0 1 * The sums may not add up to 100% due to rounding of the figures. Sustainability Report | Local Communities | Local Communities Indicators LOCAL COMMUNITIES Local Initiatives We often organize activities to increase our employees’ team spirit or engagement and their awareness of sustainability issues and programs. We are proud that our employees regularly participate in activities and events in their local communities, which our sites support and promote. GRENOBLE CROLLES RENNES All Sites-USA TOURS AGRATE-CASTELLETTO NAPOLI/MARCIANISE ROUSSET CATANIA SHANGHAI BOUSKOURA KIRKOP SHENZHEN TAIPEI GREATER NOIDA CALAMBA ANG MO KIO-BHQ TOA PAYOH 88 MUAR LOYANG Local stakeholder engagement Many win-win partnerships are initiated at local level with stakeholders such as trade associations, industry organizations, schools and universities. Employee engagement Initiatives for ST employees’ families such as site visits, internal musical contest, Valentine Day celebration, eat-with-your-family day, ‘book for one books for all’ are events that reinforce ST employee proudness and engagement. Environment ST volunteers participate in green initiatives, including tree planting, gardening, awareness campaigns on energy consumption and waste reduction, to spread and develop environmental-friendly practices. Employee initiatives for others Employees are proud to launch or participate in initiatives to raise funds for charities such as cooking and baking contests, sport tournaments, cooking meals for the homeless, collecting and distributing food and spending time with children in hospital. Sustainability Report | Local Communities | Local Initiatives Here we have chosen to highlight a few of our many initiatives which have a positive impact on our employees and the communities around our sites. An ST relay team in the Milan marathon More than 250 employees, relatives and friends of STMicroelectronics attended the 2015 Milan Marathon in April. Through ST’s membership of the Marathon Charity Program, we contribute to the entry fees of our competing athletes – ten solo runners and 64 teams of four relay runners. Our employees collected donations for AGPD, a local charity for people with Down’s syndrome and their families. One relay team included Pietro Palella (retired president of ST Italy), Domenico Rossi and his son, Paolo Murari and Mattia Oltolino from AGPD. Local stakeholder engagement Employee engagement Employee initiatives for others More than 80 employees from In many sites, ST organizes family ST Kirkop (Malta) employees ST Crolles and Grenoble (France) days to spread awareness of the organized a large number of events participated in the Sport2Job event, industry jobs and working conditions. to collect funds for charities. One 89 which combined sports competitions example was the Christmas cake with recruitment meetings for more competition, where ST employees than 40 disabled people seeking brought in their home baked cakes employment. to be judged on the taste and decoration. The cakes were then sold to colleagues and the proceeds given to charity. Environment The EHS week in ST Calamba (the In November, 260 employees from ST Ang Mo Kio (Singapore) Philippines) was an opportunity to our Shenzhen (China) site attended employees participated in a local plant trees on the site, continuing the a 10km walk organized by the local ‘Home aid project’ which helps sites longstanding commitment to community to promote environmental disabled people with household environmental protection. protection and health. repairs or building furniture. Sustainability Report | Local Communities | Local Initiatives Awards Each year we receive external recognition for our sustainability practices. Here is an overview for 2015. Business OSCAR MASI PRIZE FOR FORTUNE WORLD’S MOST ADMIRED STA311B RECEIVES INDUSTRIAL INNOVATION COMPANIES 2015 CES INNOVATION ST has been recognized by FORTUNE AWARD In May 2015, our STLUXTM digital lighting controller family received the Magazine as being among the Most The STA311B single chip audio 2014 Oscar Masi prize for Industrial Admired companies globally. amplifier solution was honored with Innovation from AIRI (Italian association FORTUNE asked thousands of a CES Innovation Award in the for industrial research) in the innovation companies across 59 industries to Home Audio/Video Components and section. STLUX has brought identify the businesses that enjoy Accessories category at the 2015 internationally patented innovation to the strongest positive reputations. International Consumer Electronics the market. It is able to intelligently Consolidating input from thousands Show (CES) in Las Vegas, Nevada. manage the lighting conditions of of executives, and with input from The prestigious annual competition the surrounding environment, thus competitors, customers, suppliers, recognizes technology manufacturers’ reducing consumption and improving and industry observers, FORTUNE and developers’ outstanding design cost-efficiency. rewarded ST with recognition for being and engineering efforts in consumeramong the Most Admired companies electronics products. globally. 90 CHINA’S AUTOMOTIVE ELECTRONICS INDUSTRY LEADER RECOGNIZES PHILIPPINES PRESIDENT ST AS AN EXCELLENT SUPPLIER RECOGNIZES ST CALAMBA’S ​Desay SV gave OUTSTANDING QUALITY AND ST an Excellent BUSINESS EXCELLENCE Supplier Award for our outstanding contribution ST EXECUTIVE VICE-PRESIDENT in 2014. ST BENEDETTO VIGNA AWARDED IEEE passed Desay FREDERIK PHILIPS AWARD SV’s rigorous In March 2015, Benedetto Vigna, Vendor Rating System on quality, Executive Vice President Analog, delivery, service, technical support, MEMS, and Sensors Group, was and cost. awarded the Frederik Philips Award, presented by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) for In September 2015, the President of leadership in conceiving, developing, the Philippines, Benigno Aquino III preand commercializing micro-electrosented ST Calamba with the Philippines ST WINS BEST PARTNER AWARD mechanical systems. To date, ST has Quality Award (PQA) for Proficiency in FROM HITACHI AUTOMOTIVE shipped more than 9 billion MEMS, Quality Management. This prestigious SYSTEMS IN JAPAN sensors, and actuators to customers award recognizes organizations that In April, at for consumer, automotive, and are considered as benchmarks for the Hitachi industrial applications. having achieved the highest level of Automotive quality and business excellence. Systems partner President Aquino praised ST for being: day in Tokyo, “an example of an institution that ST received places the highest importance on their the 2014 Best workforce – utilizing a learning developPartner Award. ment system to enhance the skills of Hitachi, a major Japanese Automotive their employees”. Parts manufacturer, gave this award in recognition of remarkable service. Sustainability Report | Awards People 1ST PRIZE AS SUSTAINABLE ENTERPRISE ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AWARD IN SHENZHEN (CHINA) As Vice President TOP EMPLOYER RECOGNITION Company of The French magazine Capital has Futian District ranked ST number six Best Employer in Shenzhen the High-Tech sector. Capital surveyed Environmental 10,000 people working in more than Protection 1,600 midand large-sized companies Industry (with more than 500 employees) to ST Kirkop (Malta) was awarded 1st Prize Association, STS Shenzhen received establish the 400 best employers in in the first edition of the Sustainable an award for the achievements in France. Positive employee responses Enterprise Award organized by the energy-saving and pollution prevention and a solid reputation for employee Ministry for the Economy, Investment & control and actively participating in all relations earned ST a number six and Small Businesses (MEIB) kinds of environmental activities. position after Amadeus, Orange, in conjunction with the Cleaner Google France, Microsoft and EMC2Technology Centre, University of Malta. France in the high-tech category. The aim of this award is to recognize, promote and reward local business organisations that have made a significant contribution to the different aspects of sustainable development, Local Communities APPRENTICESHIP TROPHY namely economic, environmental FOR DISABLED and social sustainability. ST Malta In recognition was assessed on its formalization of our of commitment towards sustainable apprenticeship development, the results achieved FRENCH INDUSTRY PRIZE FOR THE program for the in performance improvement, ‘CONNECT PME’ PROGRAM disabled, ST organizational effort, long-term viability received an and the replication potential. ‘F d’or Handicap’ award at the Handicap Trophies ceremony in Paris organized by OPCALIA in partnership with l’Agefiph. EMAS CEREMONY IN GERMANY 91 This trophy recognizes years of collaborative work between many On the occasion engaged partners including managers, of the 20th ST Crolles and Grenoble (France) doctors, temporary labor agencies, anniversary of won the 2015 Industry prize for employees, and Human Resources. the European Eco-Manaorganizing ‘Connect PME’ events gement and to bring together small and medium Audit Scheme enterprises, ST trainees and PhDs (EMAS), the students and recruitment agencies. Environment EU’s environmental management instrument, an international conference was held at the new European Central & Operations Bank (ECB) premises in Frankfurt in November 2015. At the end of the conference, EMAS honored organiVALUED PARTNER OF CARE CORNER FAMILY SERVICE CENTRE sations that were among the first to ST Toa Payoh and ST CALAMBA RECEIVED PEZA register with the scheme and for the Ang Mo Kio ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE frontrunner companies of each member (Singapore) AWARD FROM THE PRESIDENT state. All our EMAS certified sites were honored and ST Malta was honored as received the In April 2015, award of Valued the frontrunner organization from the ST Calamba Partner from country of Malta. received the Care Corner the 2014 Family Services charity for the donation Outstanding of time and gifts to the charity’s proEnvironmental gram for needy families.​ Performance ST HONG KONG RECOGNIZED FOR ITS Award during the Philippine Economic COMMITMENT TO ENVIRONMENTAL Zone Authority’s (PEZA) award PROTECTION ceremony. After rigid screening and ST’s Hong Kong a tough validation audit by PEZA, ST office received the RED CROSS AWARD Calamba realized its long-time dream Wastewi$e Label For the 16th consecutive year, of receiving this prestigious award Class of Excellence ST Calamba (Philippines) received after receiving many others from other Award for commitan award from the Red Cross for environmental and safety government ment to environmental ‘Outstanding support and contribution institutions in the past. protection and waste reduction. to the Safety programs and activities’. Sustainability Report | Awards GRI Content Index I G4-32 I General Standard Disclosures General Standard External Page Location Disclosures Assurance Strategy and analysis G4-1 CEO Foreword (page 8) yes, p 97 Organizational profile yes, p 97 G4-3 Reader's Guide (page 2) yes, p 97 Where you find us (page 4) G4-4 yes, p 97 Company information at www.st.com G4-5 Reader’s Guide (page 2) yes, p 97 G4-6 ST at a glance (page 4) yes, p 97 G4-7 Governance (page 10) yes, p 97 Where you find us (page 4) G4-8 Financial Performance (page 24) yes, p 97 Business indicators (page 34) ST at a glance (page 4) Financial Performance (page 24) G4-9 yes, p 97 Business indicators (page 34) 2015 Annual Report (20F) at http://investors.st.com, pages 4, 21, 22, 39, 45, 51, 52, 56, 57, 70, 73 G4-10 People indicators (page 49) yes, p 97 G4-11 People indicators (page 51) yes, p 97 Value Chain (page 6) G4-12 Supply Chain Responsibility (pages 76 and 78) yes, p 97 Environment & Operations indicators (page 81) G4-13 Reader’s Guide (page 2) yes, p 97 92 Chemicals (page 68) G4-14 yes, p 97 EHS decalogue in Sustainability Strategy section at www.st.com Reader’s Guide (page 2) G4-15 Governance (page 11) yes, p 97 Local Communities (page 84) Involvement in Industrial and International Organizations in Sustainability section at www.st.com/web/en/about_st/involvement/html G4-16 yes, p 97 Governance (page 11) Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 2015 Annual Report (20F) at http://investors.st.com, pages 21, 22, 24 and 25 yes, p 97 Reader’s Guide (page 2) G4-18 yes, p 97 Material Aspects and Boundaries (page 95) Reader’s Guide (page 2) G4-19 Sustainability Strategy (page 13) yes, p 97 Material Aspects and Boundaries (page 95) G4-20 Material Aspects and Boundaries (page 95) yes, p 97 G4-21 Material Aspects and Boundaries (page 95) yes, p 97 G4-22 Reader's Guide (page 2) yes, p 97 Reader’s Guide (page 2) G4-23 yes, p 97 Sustainability Strategy (page 12) Stakeholder engagement Sustainability Strategy (page 13 and 14) G4-24 yes, p 97 Stakeholder Engagement in Sustainability section at www.st.com Sustainability Strategy (page 12) G4-25 yes, p 97 2014 Sustainability Report (page 12) in Sustainability section at www.st.com/company-reports Reader’s Guide (page 2) G4-26 Sustainability Strategy (page 14) yes, p 97 Stakeholder Engagement in Sustainability section at www.st.com G4-27 Sustainability Strategy (page 13 and 14) yes, p 97 Report profile G4-28 Reader's Guide (page 2) yes, p 97 G4-29 Reader's Guide (page 2) yes, p 97 G4-30 Reader's Guide (page 2) yes, p 97 G4-31 Reader's Guide (page 2) yes, p 97 Reader’s Guide (page 2) G4-32 yes, p 97 GRI Content Index (pages 92, 93 and 94) Reader’s Guide (page 2) G4-33 yes, p 97 Assurance statement (page 97) Sustainability Report | GRI Content Index I G4-32 I General Standard Disclosures General Standard External Page Location Disclosures Assurance Governance G4-34 Governance (page 11) yes, p 97 Ethics and integrity Ethics and Compliance (page 17) G4-56 Labor and Human Rights (page 45) yes, p 97 ST’s Code of Conduct at www.st.com Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Explanation for External Page Location Identified omission(s) Reason(s) for omission(s) Indicators omission(s) Assurance Category: Economic Material aspect: Economic performance Business (page 22) G4-DMA yes, p 97 Financial Performance (page 23) Financial Performance (page 24) Payments to government The information is subject Confidential information Business indicators (page 34) by country to specific confidentiality People indicators (page 50) constraints G4-EC1 yes, p 97 Local communities indicators (page 87) 2015 Statutory Annual Report on http//:investors.st.com page 110 Category: Environmental Material aspect: Energy Environment & Operations (page 54) G4-DMA yes, p 97 Energy (page 55) Energy (page 57) G4-EN3 yes, p 97 Environment & Operations indicators (page 79) Energy (page 55) G4-EN5 yes, p 97 Environment & Operations indicators (page 79) Energy (page 57) G4-EN6 yes, p 97 Environment & Operations indicators (page 79) Material aspect: Water 93 Environment & Operations (page 54) G4-DMA yes, p 97 Water (page 58) G4-EN10 Water (page 59) yes, p 97 Material aspect: Emissions Environment & Operations (page 54) G4-DMA yes, p 97 GHG, Air emissions (page 61) GHG, Air emissions (page 62) G4-EN15 yes, p 97 Environment & Operations indicators (page 79) GHG, Air emissions (page 62) G4-EN16 yes, p 97 Environment & Operations indicators (page 79) GHG, Air emissions (page 62) G4-EN17 yes, p 97 Environment & Operations indicators (page 79) G4-EN18 GHG, Air emissions (page 62) yes, p 97 Material aspect: Effluents and waste Environment & Operations (page 54) G4-DMA yes, p 97 Waste (page 65) G4-EN22 Environment & Operations indicators (page 79) yes, p 97 Waste (page 66) G4-EN23 yes, p 97 Environment & Operations indicators (page 80) G4-EN24 Environment & Operations indicators (page 80) yes, p 97 G4-EN25 Environment & Operations indicators (page 80) yes, p 97 Material aspect: Products and services G4-DMA Sustainable Technology (page 71) yes, p 97 No quantitative report The Standard Disclosure Cannot provide quantitative G4-EN27 Sustainable Technology (page 73) or part of the Standard data due to the nature of our yes, p 97 Disclosure is not applicable products Category: Social Sub-category: Labor practices and decent work Material aspect: Employment People (page 35) G4-DMA yes, p 97 People Development and Engagement (page 37) G4-LA1 People indicators (pages 49 and 50) yes, p 97 Material aspect: Occupational health and safety People (page 35) G4-DMA yes, p 97 Heath and Safety (pages 40 and 42) Sustainability Report | GRI Content Index I G4-32 I Specific Standard Disclosures DMA and Explanation for External Page Location Identified omission(s) Reason(s) for omission(s) Indicators omission(s) Assurance Category: Social Sub-category: Labor practices and decent work Material aspect: Occupational health and safety Subcontractors working Starting from 2016, The information is currently G4-LA6 Health and Safety (pages 51, 52 and 53) on-site less than 3 months we are collecting data for yes, p 97 unavailable are not part of the reporting all subcontractors Material aspect: Training and education People (page 35) G4-DMA yes, p 97 People Development & Engagement (page 37) G4-LA9 People indicators (page 51) yes, p 97 People Development & Engagement (page 37) G4-LA11 yes, p 97 People indicators (page 50) Material aspect: Diversity and equal opportunity G4-DMA Labor and Human Rights (page 48) yes, p 97 Labor and Human Rights (page 48) People indicators (pages 49 and 50) G4-LA12 yes, p 97 Corporate Governance at http://investors.st.com Sub-category: Human rights Material aspect: Assessment People (page 35) G4-DMA yes, p 97 Labor and Human Rights (page 46) Labor and Human Rights (page 47) G4-HR9 yes, p 97 People indicators (page 52) Material aspect: Supplier human rights assessment G4-DMA Supply Chain Responsibility (page 75) yes, p 97 G4-HR11 Environment & Operations indicators (page 81) Sub-category: Society Material aspect: Local communities G4-DMA Local Communities (page 84) yes, p 97 94 G4-SO1 Local Communities indicators (page 87) yes, p 97 Material aspect: Anti-corruption G4-DMA Ethics and Compliance (page 17) yes, p 97 G4-SO5 Ethics and Compliance (page 18) yes, p 97 Sub-category: Product responsibility Material aspect: Product and service labeling G4-DMA Sustainable Technology (page 72) yes, p 97 Sustainable Technology (pages 72 and 74) G4-PR3 Material declaration in Quality and Reliability yes, p 97 section at www.st.com Customer satisfaction page 30 of 2013 Sustainability report at G4-PR5 yes, p 97 www.st.com/company-reports Customer Relations (page 31) Sustainability Report | GRI Content Index International Standards Index The following table shows the correlation between the STMicroelectronics Sustainability Report/priorities and • ISO 26000:2010 standards • United Nations Global Compact 10 principles • GRI G4 material aspects • Related boundaries. I G4-18 I G4-19 I G4-20 I G4-21 I ISO Global Corresponding GRI G4 Boundaries Boundaries ST Sustainability priorities 26000:2010 Compact material aspect Inside ST Outside ST clauses 10 Principles Governance 6.2, 7.4.3 General Standard Disclosure All sites and organizations Ethics and Compliance 4.4, 6.2, 6.6.3 Principle 10 Anti-corruption All sites and organizations Relations with suppliers Customers and business partners Risk Management General Standard Disclosure All sites and organizations Financial Performance 6.2, 6.8 Economic performance All sites and organizations Shareholders Investors Communities where we operate Innovation 6.6.7 No corresponding G4 material Product and manufacturing Local communities aspect organizations Customers Customer Relations 6.7 Product and service labelling Product organizations Customers 95 Sales & Marketing Central functions Development and 6.4, 6.4.3, Principle 6 Employment All sites and organizations Engagement 6.4.4, 6.4.5, Training and education 6.4.7 Labor and Human Rights 4.8, 6.2, Principles Human rights assessment All sites and organizations 6.3.3, 6.3.4, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 Diversity and equal opportunity 6.3.7, 6.3.10, 6.6.6 Health and Safety 6.4.6, 6.8.8 Occupational health and safety All sites On-site suppliers and sub-contractors Environmental Efficiency 6.5.3, 6.5.4, Principles Water Manufacturing sites Local environment (GHG, Water, Energy, Waste, 6.5.5 7, 8, 9 Emissions Chemicals) Effluents and waste Energy Product and service labelling Local Communities Supply Chain Responsibility 4.8, 6.3.3, Principles Product and service labelling Purchasing organizations Suppliers and sub-contractors 6.3.4, 6.6.4, 2, 3 Supplier human rights 6.6.6 assessment Sustainable Technology 6.5.3, 6.7.4, 7, 8, 9 Products and services Product and manufacturing Customers 6.7.5 Product and service labelling organizations Local Communities 6.3.9, 6.5.2, Principle 1 Local communities All sites Local communities 6.5.3, 6.8 and partners Reader's Guide 6.2, 7.5.3 CEO Foreword 6.2, 7.2 Sustainability Strategy 4.5, 5.2, 5.3, 6.2.3, 7.3.2, 7.3.4 Awards 6.2 GRI Content Index 7.6.2 External Assurance Statement 7.6.2 Company People Business Environment & Operations Local Communities Sustainability Report | International Standards Index Glossary 20-F Annual report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission HSPM Hazardous Substance Program Management 3TG Tantalum, tin, tungsten and gold IC Integrated Circuit ADASIECQ International Electrotechnical Commission Quality equipped Advanced Driver Assistance System cars IoT Internet of Things AGM Annual General Meeting of Shareholders IP Intellectual Property APG Automotive Product Group IPC Association connecting electronics industries ASICs Application-Specific Integrated Circuit IPD Industrial Power Discrete Back-end Second phase of manufacturing during which the silicon chip is (BE) mounted in a package KPI Key Performance Indicator Bi-CMOS Bipolar-CMOS LBG London Benchmark Group CDP Carbon Disclosure Project LEC Local Ethics Committee CEO Chief Executive Officer LWDC Lost Workdays Cases Incidence CFS Conflict-Free Smelter MEMS Micro-Electro-Mechanical Systems CMOS Complementary MOS (Metal Oxide Semiconductor) MMS Microcontrollers, Memories & Secure MCU CMRT Conflict Minerals Reporting Template MTCE Metric Tons of Carbon Equivalent DEHP Di(2-ethylhexyl) phthalate 96 OECD Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development DJSI Dow Jones Sustainability Indices OEM Original Equipment Manufacturer ECOPACK® ECOPACK® Lead-free labelling for RoHS-compliance OHSAS Occupational Health & Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS 18001) EHS Environmental, Health & Safety PFCs Perfluorinated Compounds EICC Electronics Industry Citizenship Coalition PFOA Perfluorooctanic acid ELV End of Life Vehicles PMS Project Management System EMAS Eco-Management and Audit Scheme R&D Research & Development EMEA Europe, Middle East & Africa REACH Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals ERM Enterprise Risk Management RMIS Risk Management Information System ESG Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance RoHS Restriction of Hazardous Substances ESIA European Semiconductor Industry Association SAQ Self-Assessment Questionnaires EWS Electrical Wafer Sorting SCC Site Chemical Committee Fab Semiconductor fabrication plant SE Sustainable Excellence FD-SOI Fully Depleted Silicon-On-Insulator SRI Socially Responsible Investment Front-end First phase of the production cycle involving the manufacturing of (FE) circuits on a silicon wafer SVHC Substances of Very High Concern GHG Greenhouse Gases UNGC United Nations Global Compact GPO Global Purchasing Organization WEEE Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment GRI Global Reporting Initiative WSC World Semiconductor Council GWP Global warming potential Sustainability Report | Glossary l G4-33 l 97 © STMicroelectronics May 2016 Printed in England All rights reserved. The STMicroelectronics corporate logo is a registered trademark of the STMicroelectronics group of companies. All other names are the property of their respective owners. Reference: BRSTREPORT2015 For more information on ST products and solutions, visit www.st.com
