SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ABOUT THE REPORT Through the sustainability reports we included in the report; this report was ed by or in cooperation with third have been publishing ceaselessly since prepared in accordance with the “core” parties such as our suppliers, dealers, the year 2010 we offer a comprehenoption criteria of GRI G4 Guidelines. distributors, and sales points were sive portrait of our activities in their In addition to these performance indiincluded in the report content. social, environmental, ethical, and cators identified in the GRI G4 GuideThe information shared within the economic dimensions. We establish a lines and its sector-specific guidances reporting is prepared in alignment to communication based on the principles befitting our materiality portfolio, the the operational scope of Anadolu Efes. of honesty, transparency, and accountset of Communication on Progress Therefore, information about each ability with our stakeholders through (CoP) principles defined by UN Global operation is published in considerthese reports, whereby we share our Compact (UNGC) and UNGC CEO ation of the years during which they sustainable business objectives, our Water Mandate, which we adopted made part of Anadolu Efes operationpolicies and systems, projects we conin 2011, have also been taken into al boundary. Hence, data pertaining to duct, and the performance we achieve. consideration in the preparation of the operations in Russia and Ukraine, The information disclosed in Anadolu the report. which we overtook from SABMiller in Efes Sustainability Report 2015 covers This report covers all our brewery op2013, were only included in the report the period between January 1st and erations in Turkey, Russia, Kazakhstan, in relation to the period subsequent December 31st 2015. GRI G4 Reporting Georgia, Moldovia, and Ukraine. Unto 2013. Guidelines, published by the Global less particularly specified, information Sustainability practices and perforReporting Initiative, were followed in pertaining to our subsidiaries, such mance outcomes regarding Coca-Cola determining the sustainability goals as Coca-Cola İçecek A.Ş. and Tarbes, İçecek A.Ş., a subsidiary of Anadolu of Anadolu Efes, which constitute the operating in business lines other than Efes, can be found in corporate rebasis of the report content, as well as brewery are not included in this report. sponsibility reports published on the in the preparation of the information On the other hand, activities conductwebsite www.cci.com.tr. 1 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-6, G4-17, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-23, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-32 SUSTAINABILITY PROGRESS CHART* PROTECTING WATER RESOURCES ENVIRONMENT & CLIMATE Priorities & Commitments Priorities & Commitments We are producing more beer using We are reducing our carbon footprint by using less water. energy resources more efficiently. Achievements Achievements Compared to 2008; Compared to 2008; we consumed 11% less We consumed 23% less water in beer production energy and generated 8% less CO2 emissions and 24% less water in malt production. per unit product in beer production. We generated 29% less wastewater in beer We reduced 43 TJ of energy use, 3,213 Tons production and 25% less wastewater in malt CO2 of GHG emissions in 2015. production. We recovered 96.6% of solid wastes and We published Anadolu Efes Water Policy. by-products. We published Anadolu Efes Environmental Goals Policy. In 2020 we will reduce water consumption We published Anadolu Efes Energy and per unit product in breweries by 30 percent Climate Change Policy. compared to 2008. We will reduce wastewater discharges in line Goals with water consumption reduction targets. In 2020, we will reduce energy consumption and We will continue developing water saving and emissions per unit product in our breweries by recovery projects. 17% compared to 2008. We will cooperate with regional and We will increase waste recovery rate towards our international initiatives related to the protection zero waste goal. of water resources. We will continue generating new ways of more efficient material consumption. We will cooperate with regional and international initiatives for combating climate change. * All commitments, achievements, and targets indicated on this chart have been calculated and disclosed within the limits of country operations in the reporting scope. In upcoming periods, these indications may vary according to possible changes in the reporting scope. 2 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-2 VALUE CHAIN PARTNERSHIPS PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Priorities & Commitments Priorities & Commitments In order to generate more added value, we We are working to create a consumer base are enhancing our value chain. that enjoys beer responsibly and is familiar with beer culture Priorities & Commitments Priorities & Commitments We continued business development efforts through the value chain. We continued our responsible consumption campaigns in country operations. We published Anadolu Efes Supplier Code of Conduct. We published Anadolu Efes Marketing Communication Policy. We started supplier audit practices. We increased ISO22000/HACCP certification We continued our agricultural support coverage to %100. programs in Turkey and Moldova. Goals Goals We will continue our business development We will carry out studies to increase quality efforts together with suppliers, dealers, and systems certification rates across all distributors. operations. We will continue our agricultural support We will continue to improve our practices with programs in Turkey and Moldova. regard to promote responsible consumption. WORKPLACE COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT Priorities & Commitments Priorities & Commitments In order to be a reliable neighbor, we conduct We care about the expectations of the safe and environmentally friendly operations. communities in which we operate and support their development. Achievements Achievements We decreased lost day rate by 27% to 11.45 In 2014, local procurements accounted for 93% compared to 2014. by operation, and 81% by expenditure. We published Anadolu Efes Occupational We continued our community development Health & Safety Policy. projects and sponsorships in various fields such as environment, education, health, arts & culture We revised Anadolu Efes Code of Conduct. and sports. We organized 26.4 hours of trainings per employee. Goals Goals We will continue to develop our local We will continue our operations with a target procurement practices. of zero accident. We will continue to conduct projects We will continue to provide our employees to increase the quality of life for the with broader development opportunities. communities in which we operate. 3 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-2 ANADOLU EFES BREWERY OPERATIONS Anadolu Efes, ranks as Europe’s sixth and the world’s 12th largest brewer with 20,7 mhl of beer sales realized in 2015. As of 2015, Anadolu Efes has an annual production capacity of 39.5 mhl of beer and 248 thousand tons of malt, with its 15 breweries and six malteries in six countries. Our products meet millions of consumers in over 70 export markets and under more than 40 beer brands. MARKET OUTLOOK In the year 2015, we continued our mission of being the most admired beer company in the markets in which we operate, and of bringing people together so that they may share their happiest moments while enjoying our products responsibly. During the period, a shrinkage was experienced in the markets where we operate due to developments such as the increase in the excise tax combined with various geopolitical and economic problems, this state also reflected on sales figures. Anadolu Efes preserved its position in markets where it leads, except in Ukraine, through practices such as running risk management systems against cost increases, and brand practices. 6th Europe 12th World In the year 2015, we continued our mission of being the most admired beer company in the markets in which we operate, and of bringing people together so that they may share their happiest moments while enjoying our products responsibly. 4 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-4, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9 ANADOLU EFES TURKEY With a share of 68%, Anadolu Efes leads in the Turkish market, where annual beer consumption per capita is 12 litres. Anadolu Efes Turkey operates four breweries, two malteries, and one hops processing facility. 4 2 1 ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA Russia is an important market with regard to brewery operations with its annual beer consumption per capita of 47 litres. Anadolu Efes Russia, which is the largest operation of Anadolu Efes in terms of sales volume, carries out its operations with six breweries, four malteries, and one preform production facility. 6 4 ANADOLU EFES KAZAKHSTAN Kazakhstan is among the most important markets of the region with an annual beer consumption per capita of 26 litres. Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan carries out its operations in two breweries and holds market leadership with a share of approximately 57%. Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan also offers products to export markets, primarily Kyrgyzstan, besides its local market. 2 ANADOLU EFES MOLDOVA Anadolu Efes Moldova is the largest producer of the market, where annual beer consumption per capita is around 31 litres, with the production operations it conducts in one brewery. Anadolu 1 Efes Moldova is the undisputed market leader, having achieved a market share of approximately 80% in 2015. ANADOLU EFES GEORGIA Georgia is a strategic market with potential for Anadolu Efes, with its annual beer consumption per capita of 28 litres. Anadolu Efes Georgia, which carries out its operations in one brewery, held on to market leadership in 2015, with a share of 56%. 1 ANADOLU EFES UKRAINE Ukraine is one the largest beer markets in the world, with its annual beer consumption per 1 capita of 47 liters. Anadolu Efes Ukraine has one brewery. 5 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-4, G4-6, G4-8, G4-9 CEO MESSAGE D ear Stakeholders, To bring people together to share moments of life by enjoying our brands responsibly We consider enabling people to get together and share happy moments of life by enjoying our brands responsibly; and we structure our activities accordingly. As a result of activities we conducted in line with our vision to be the most admired beverage company in markets we serve, today, we rank as Europe’s 6th and the world’s 12th largest brewer. Today, the community lays various responsibilities regarding economical, social and environmental challenges on different stakeholders. Within this equation, the main expectation from the companies is not to be the part of the problem but to develop business models which generate solutions. It would be wise to predict that companies which understand these expectations correctly and embrace them will grow their success in future; unfortunately, the companies in counter discourse will face serious existence challenges. Therefore, as Anadolu Efes, we appreciate sustainability as the cornerstone of our way of doing business, strategies and practices. ENTREPRENEURSHIP, PROFESSIONALISM, COLLABORATION, SUSTAINABILITY, PASSION AND PRIDE ARE THE KEYSTONES OF OUR GOVERNANCE CULTURE. THROUGH THESE PRINCIPLES WHICH WE DO NOT COMPROMISE, OUR CREDIT ON BEHALF OF STAKEHOLDERS INCREASE AND ENABLES US TO REALIZE BOLD MOVES THAT WILL CARRY US TO THE SUCCESS. 6 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-1, G4-2 Robin Goetzsche Beer Group President and Anadolu Efes CEO In 2011, we launched Anadolu Efes Positive Imcompared to 2008. We reduced waste water pact Plan in order to develop a responsible, smart discharges per unit product by 29% in brewery and profitable business model which will meet operations and 25% in maltery operations. Thanks the future business success of Anadolu Efes with to our efficiency investments and projects, energy development expectations of the community on consumption per unit product decreased 11% a common ground. We triggered a rapid chanwhile GHG emissions reduced by 8% compared ge in accordance with the goals we set within to 2008. the plan which we accomplished today the first During the period, we enhanced our practices five-year period. During this period, we made regarding occupational health and safety, empmajor changes in our management tools, corpoloyee development and training. We increased rate policies and practices regarding our business our support to local economies through local processes. For instance, we have updated our procurement, agricultural R&D and contractual policies in various aspects such as water managebarley and hops purchasing, development of beer ment, energy and climate, responsible marketing, culture and community development projects. business ethics, environmental management and We will continue working for sustainable developsupplier code of conduct. ment of our company as well as the communities Negative changes occurred in market conditions we live in in line with the goals we set for the years the we encountered last few years restrain us 2016-2020, the second period of Anadolu Efes from fulfilling some of the goals we set in 2011. Positive Impact Plan; and sharing performance Especially, market shrinkage had a significant outcomes with you. With this occasion, I place my impact on our goals on some aspects in which gratitude for all our stakeholders who made our we monitor performance per unit product. Resuccess possible with their trust and support. gardless of how the conditions were, we kept our pace and tried to achieve best possible results; hence we recorded significant successes by 2015 which is the final year of 5-year objective plan. For example, by 2015, we reduced our water consumption per unit product 23% in brewery operations and 24% in maltery operations when 7 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-1, G4-2 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT WE KEEP INCREASING OUR POSITIVE IMPACT THROUGH DEVELOPING OUR PRACTICES REGARDING OUR STRATEGY OF MAINTAINING ROBUST AND SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS MODEL AND COOPERATING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS. 8 T he principle of sustainability constitutes the basic foundation of our activities. We define sustainability as supporting both the growth of Anadolu Efes and the development of the societies in which we exist through a business model that respects the human and environment. In accordance, we produce new ideas in order to promptly adapt to the changing conditions of our day and meet the expectations of our stakeholders more appropriately. In 2011, we designed “Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan” in order to help ensure the future of both our company and the society with a responsible, smart, and profitable business model. In line with this plan, which we developed within the framework of our sustainability priorities that we shape with the motto “Sustaining a Better Life”, we achieved a significant improvement both in our management approaches and our performance in social, economic and environmental areas. We will continue developing together with the society without compromising our sustainability vision and goals in this second five-year period leading to 2020. An important element of our sustainability management works is our principle of acting together with local and international initiatives. In this regard, UN Global Compact, of which we became a signatory in 2011, and its extension UNGC CEO Water Mandate, which we were the first Turkish company to endorse, are the main initiatives we abide by. On the other part, the Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) launched during the reporting period are also among the joint action platforms we support within the context of our activities. es porate Policies, S lu Co r ys Va te m s Co rp d or Social an at Protecting e Development Water Resources ce Pro s se s Environment Anadolu Efes Stakehold and Positive Impact Climate e People Plan r En Product Value Chain ga Partnerships Responsibility g em t en PERFORMANCE EVALUATION We conduct performance measurement, evaluation and reporting activities regarding material issues that we manage within the Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan in accordance with indicators defined by GRI G4 Reporting Framework. We share the outcomes with our stakeholders through our corporate website, sustainability reports and various other publications. Most of these indicators that we monitor also make part of the main components of our corporate performance evaluation process. Therefore, sustainability targets, which are drawn upon within the scope of the performance based remuneration system, play a significant role in individual and corporate performance evaluations. You may find detailed information about Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan and sustainability management on www.anadoluefes.com. 9 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 PROTECTION OF WATER RESOURCES WE CONSIDER PROTECTION OF WATER RESOURCES AS ONE OF THE MAIN RISK FACTORS WITHIN OUR CORPORATE RISK MANAGEMENT MODEL AND AS A CONTINUOUS DEVELOPMENT ASPECT IN LINE WITH ANADOLU EFES WATER POLICY. 10 W ater is the essential source of life. For this reason, uninterrupted access to clean water resources is a global human right. Yet access to water, which is a limited natural resource, is threatened by the rising world population and global warming. Accordingly, access to clean water resources figured in the sixth article of 2030 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG 6). On the other hand, water is our basic raw material, which is used in all the stages of our value chain, from barley and hops production to beer production and packaging, and constitutes the majority of our product content. Due to both its social and operational significance, we evaluate the issue of the protection of water resources among main elements of risk within the framework of our corporate risk management model, we consider it to be an area of continuous improvement within the scope of Anadolu Efes Water Policy. The main strategic trend we adopt in this regard is to be able to produce more product by consuming less water resources; to support works for the protection of water resources. To this end, we develop water efficiency projects, as well as support local and international initiatives. UNGC CEO Water Mandate, which we signed in IN 2015 TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION IN 2014 in this context, is a global entity that brings together interBEER PRODUCTION HAS BEEN REDUCED TO national companies actively carrying out works for the conser8.7 MILLION m3. vation of water resources. Water management policies, systems, and processes are developed, works aimed at the preservation of water resources are conducted, and the achieved performance is shared with the public through sustainability reports, within the framework of the principles set forth by this initiative. On the other hand, Anadolu Efes leads the Water Working Group as a member of the Business World and Sustainable Development Association of Turkey. Collaborations are also developed in our country operations in line with common objectives with parties involved in the issue, as part of works conducted on a local scale. You can access more detailed information about Anadolu Efes water management works on www.anadoluefes.com OUR TARGET: TO REDUCE OUR WATER CONSUMPTION AND WASTEWATER DISCHARGE VALUES BY 30% COMPARED TO 2008, BY THE YEAR 2020. In the first period of Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan, we aimed to reduce water consumption per product and wastewater discharge at breweries by 35% as against 2008 values. Even though we have achieved a significant performance, changes that were experienced in the market structure during the period negatively impacted our targets. In spite of this situation, as of 2015, we have realized our water consumption target by 68% and our wastewater discharge target by 86%. In line with newly emerging market conditions, we have set our water consumption and wastewater discharge target for the year 2020, as 30% of reduction in comparison with 2008 values. 11 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 WATER CONSUMPTION In 2015, the total water consumption in beer production operations decreased to the level of 8.7 million m3. This decline took place mainly because of the reduced production. This would normally result in an increase in the value of water consumption per product. Because reduction in production does not result in a proportional decrease in water consumption. However, thanks to water efficiency works conducted throughout the year, the value of water consumption per product also receded decreased to the level of 4.2, maintaining its downward trend. While there is no significant change in the total water consumption of Anadolu Efes malteries in comparison with the previous year, the water consumption per product was reduced by 5% as against the previous year and realized at the level of 6.3 m3/ton. WATER EFFICIENCY PROJECTS The water efficiency projects conducted by our country operations during the year contributed greatly to the reduction in the value of water consumption per product. For instance, an annual savings of 13,000 m3 was achieved through the replacement of the open loop cooling systems of vacuum pumps with closed loop systems at the Istanbul Brewery of Anadolu Efes Turkey. The annual water savings achieved by Anadolu Efes Russia, WATER CONSUMPTION TREND WATER CONSUMPTION TREND IN BREWERIES IN MALTERIES 2008 2012 2013 2014 2015 2008 2012 2013 2014 2015 1.1 1.1 8.7 1.3 10.1 1.6 11.6 10.7 12.5 2.1 5.5 8.3 4.5 4.5 4.3 4.2 6.6 6.4 6.2 6.3 Total Water Consumption (million m3) Total Water Consumption (million m3) Specific Water Consumption (hl/hl) Specific Water Consumption (m3/tonne) 12 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 by using more efficient cooling towers at the PET blowing unit air compressor at Kazan Brewery, reached 33,000 m3. An annual water savings of 12,000 m3 was achieved at Almaty Brewery of Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan, thanks to the practice of using a dry lubrication system instead of the wet lubrication system in bottle line conveyors. On the other part, an annual water savings of 3,000 m3 was achieved with the project actualized by Anadolu Efes Moldova aimed at recovering the water used in the bottling line vacuum pump at Vitanta Brewery. Considering the many other projects carried out throughout the year, the total amount of achieved water savings exceeds 150 thousand m3. WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT The primary objective of our wastewater management is to reduce the volume and the pollution load of wastewater at the source through high water efficiency and recovery; to keep wastewater volume and pollution load below the limits determined by legal regulations. In this way, we both improve our water efficiency and our environmental impact. In 2015, the water discharge per product for Anadolu Efes breweries remained flat at 3.0 hl/hl, while the water discharge per product at malteries was realized at the level of 4.9 m3/ton. The wastewaters generated by our production processes are run through treatment facilities, before being discharged by minimizing their negative impact on the environment. In this way, it is ensured that the wastewater discharge process does not have any negative impact on the biodiversity value of water resources. WASTEWATER DISCHARGE TREND WASTEWATER DISCHARGE TREND IN BREWERIES IN MALTERIES 2008 2012 2013 2014 2015 2008 2012 2013 2014 2015 1.7 9.4 8.2 7.1 1.3 7.4 6.1 1.0 0.3 0.9 4.1 6.5 3.2 3.2 5.3 3.0 3.0 5.0 4.9 4.8 Total Wastewater Discharge (million m3) Total Wastewater Discharge (million m3) Specific Wastewater Discharge (hl/hl) Specific Wastewater Discharge (m3/tonne) 13 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE IN ALL OUR OPERATIONS WE REDUCE OUR CARBON FOOTPRONT BY EFFICIENT USE OF ENERGY RESOURCES. ENHANCED ENERGY EFFICIENCY POSITIVELY CONTRIBUTES TO SUSTAINING A BETTER LIFE. 14 T he pressure on environmental resources and the climate is increasing in parallel with the growing world population. In face of this situation that was emphasized at the Paris Summit, held in 2015, many stakeholders involved in the issue, primarily the business world and governments, decided to play a common active role. Due to their sensitivity, these issues were also included among Sustainable Development Goals as the 13th, 14th, and 15th priorities. As Anadolu Efes, we also work to minimize the impacts of our operations on the environment and climate. There are three principal documents we refer to in the management of environmental and climate issues. These are Anadolu Efes Codes of Conduct, Environmental Policy, Energy and Climate Policy. These documents determine all responsibilities and principles of action of Anadolu Efes, primarily the implementation of legal regulations in these areas. The works we carry out in this scope are undertaken in line with ISO14001 and ISO50001 standards. As of 2015, 56% of our operational facilities are certified according to ISO14001 standard, and 50% according to ISO50001 standard. We annually invest in the management of environmental and climate issues and in the improvement of our related processes and AS OF 2015, 56% OF OUR OPERATIONAL FACILITIES ARE practices, in order to enhance our corporate performance. In the reporting period, we have CERTIFIED ACCORDING TO ISO14001 STANDARD, AND 50% allocated over 4.1 million USD to environmenACCORDING TO ISO50001 STANDARD. tal management and necessary improvement investments. On the other hand, the adoption of these practices and of the culture of environmental protection by our employees is also as significant as investments for the enhancement of our performance. For this purpose, we continued our training activities as in the previous years and we organized a total of 7,929 of environmental training with the participation of 700 employees, in 2015. Full compliance with legal regulations, mitigation of energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, sorting of wastes at the source and their maximum recovery are ensured within the scope of environmental and climate management. In this regard, besides in-company works we conduct as part of our operations, we also provide support for initiatives and joint works developed by related parties. In this context, the UNGC, of which we are a signatory, and the Declaration of Energy Efficiency in Buildings published by the Business World and Sustainable Development Association (SKD) are initiatives that bring together companies conducting works in these areas. OUR TARGET: TO REDUCE ENERGY CONSUMPTION AND GHG EMISSIONS PER UNIT PRODUCT IN BREWERY OPERATIONS BY 17% COMPARED TO 2008, BY THE YEAR 2020. In the first period of Anadolu Efes Positive Impact Plan, between 2008 and 2015, we aimed to reduce energy consumption and emissions per product at breweries by 25% as against 2008 values. Despite achieving a significant performance, changes that were experienced in the market structure during the period negatively impacted our targets. In spite of this situation, as of 2015, we have realized our energy consumption target by 51%, and our greenhouse gas emission target by 32%. By 2020, we aim to reduce energy consumption and greenhouse gas emission per product produced at our breweries by 17% in comparison with 2008, and to increase the rate of reuse, recovery, or elimination as byproduct for wastes. 15 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Energy, emission and climate change manageproduction, total energy consumption for the ment policies, systems and processes are develyear increased by 6% due to increased producoped; efficiency studies are carried out and the tion, whereas energy consumption per product achieved performance is shared with the public was realized at the level of 979 kWh/ton, with a through sustainability reports within the framedecrease of 3%. work of the principles set forth by this initiative. In 2015, our greenhouse gas emissions also Anadolu Efes is also a member of SKD Energy changed in parallel with energy consumption valEfficiency Work Group and Energy Efficiency in ues. The rate of emission per product increased Buildings and Industrial Energy Efficiency Work by 7% as against the previous year and was realGroups, which are its subgroups. In addition, colized as 10.3 kg CO2e in brewery operations, while laborations are developed in line with common the rate of greenhouse gas emission per product objectives, with parties involved in these issues, was reduced to the level of 233 kg CO2e with an within the context of locally conducted works in improvement by 2% in malteries. our country operations. Energy efficiency works carried out in our counYou can reach more detailed information regardtry operations have the greatest impact on the ing Anadolu Efes environment and climate works mitigation of energy consumption and greenon www.anadoluefes.com. house gas emissions. For instance, Anadolu Efes Russia operation achieved an annual energy savings of 2,000,000 kWh and greenhouse gas ENERGY AND EMISSIONS emission reduction of 404 ton CO2e by preventing heat losses in the heating systems of Kazan Brewery. As for Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan operaDuring the reporting period, with the impact of tion, an annual energy savings of 3,500,000 kWh reduced production, total energy consumption was achieved by first relocating the boilerhouse, for brewery operations decreased by 12% as and subsequently performing improvements in against the previous year and was realized at the the water and vapor heaters, along with maintelevel of 2,764 TJ, while energy consumption per nance and cleaning works at Karaganda Brewery. product rose to the level of 37.5 kWh/hl, increasing by 6% due to the reduced production. In malt ENERGY CONSUMPTION TREND ENERGY CONSUMPTION TREND IN BREWERIES IN MALTERIES 2008 2012 2013 2014 2015 2008 2012 2013 2014 2015 592 629 2,966 2,764 748 3,147 3,453 3,558 926 950 42.4 1,050 38.3 37.5 1,013 36.7 995 1,004 35.3 979 Total Energy Specific Energy Total Energy Specific Energy Consumption (TJ) Consumption (kWh/hl) Consumption (TJ) Consumption (kWh/tonne) 16 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Anadolu Efes Moldova operation achieved an 2012 2013 2014 annual energy reduction of 180,000 kWh and Total Energy Reduction (TJ) 112 94 43 greenhouse gas mitigation of 86 ton CO2e by Total Emission Reduction (ton CO2) 7,683 5,888 3,213 installing air recovery systems on PET blowing machines at Vitanta Brewery; while Anadolu In the year 2015, a total of 43 TJ of energy savings Efes Turkey operation reduced its annual enerand 3,214 ton CO2e of greenhouse gas emission gy consumption by 70,400 kWh and its annual reduction was achieved annually through the greenhouse gas emission by 36 tons through the practices of process optimization and efficient optimization of air compressor coolant pumps equipment use across our country operations. and condensate pumps at Ankara Brewery. EMISSION TREND EMISSION TREND IN BREWERIES IN MALTERIES 2008 2012 2013 2014 2015 2008 2012 2013 2014 2015 250 11.2 247 10.1 10.3 238 238 9.8 9.6 233 253 63 63 260 237 50 221 211 42 39 Total Emissions Specific Emissions Total Emissions Specific Emissions Trend (Ktonne CO2e) Trend (kg CO2e/hl) Trend (Ktonne CO2e) Trend (kg CO2e/tonne) 17 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ENERGY EFFICIENT COOLERS For our products to preserve the preferred level of quality and to be consumed with an ideal taste, it is important that they are stored at a certain temperature at points of sales and consumption. The coolers used to achieve this purpose are among sources of environmental impact, due to the energy they consume. Even though our coolers are being used by points of sales and consumption, we replace our old coolers with new generation energy efficient and climate friendly models that utilize environmentally friendly coolant gases, in order to reduce Scope 3 environmental impacts generated by this source. We conveyed this important message to our customers through the specially designed stickers placed on the coolers. Anadolu Efes is fully engaged in sustainable cooler management and is one step away from reaching 100% environmental friendly cooler procurements. In addition to cooler portfolio, Anadolu Efes is working closely with manufacturers and other 3rd party collaborators in further developing its coolers performance and management. Several joint projects have been initiated in 2015 and achievements are planned to be realized for procurements in 2016 and following years. Within the last three years, we mostly renewed our cooler inventory across our operations through our investments in new generation devices. The successful performance we obtained as a result was also manifested in the reporting period. 99% of all coolers procured in 2015 were environmental friendly. Thus, in the reporting period, we reduced the total number of coolers in our inventory by 7% in comparison with 2014, and the total energy consumption of coolers by more than 20% through renewal processes. Hereby, we have succeeded in reducing the average energy consumption of our coolers by approximately 15% as against the previous year. our breweries and malteries. A mere 4.5 ktons of PACKAGING AND WASTE MANAGEMENT the amount of generated solid waste is categorized as hazardous waste. The recovery rate, which was 95.6% in 2014, was increased to 96.6% in the reporting period. We believe every waste that is not recycled to be a resource wasted. Hence, the main objective The most important factor ensuring that we offer we adopt in our waste management works is our products to our consumers safely and at the to ensure sortation at the source and maximum desired taste and quality is packaging. Packages recovery. are also an important channel for communicating our corporate messages to the consumer. Yet, In 2015, approximately 60 ktons of solid waste once used, packages become waste and generand 402 ktons of byproduct were generated at ate an environmental impact. For this reason, we WASTE RECOVERY RATE SOLID WASTES BY TYPE (KTON %) 2008 2012 2013 2014 2015 %7 4.5 95.6 95.6 96.6 94.2 94.6 %93 55.5 Nonhazardous Wastes Hazardous Wastes 18 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 EFFICIENCY IN DISTRIBUTION The distribution of our products is a business process where a significant part of the total energy consumption in our value chain occurs. In parallel, a significant portion of our total greenhouse gas emission inventory is generated by the distribution process. For this reason, we constantly work to limit climate impacts by improving energy efficiency in this process through the simplification of our handling processes, route planning, logistics optimization, and improvements. At this point, our general objective is to render forklift movements in handling processes more efficient in order to load and unload more product per unit fuel and to increase the volume of product transported per kilometer. We have enhanced our performance compared to the previous year through works we actualized in this regard. We improved our forklift movement performance which was 0.08 kg/hl in 2014, reaching the level of 0.07 kg/hl in 2015. Similarly, we also improved our distribution performance which was 3.44 km/hl in the previous period, reaching the level of 3.41 km/hl. In this way, we have both reduced our environmental impact and achieved savings in a significant component of our operational costs. work to increase reuse and to recycle packaging gard, the most comprehensive waste recollection that we are unable to use. channel within our countries of operation is in Turkey. The waste packaging materials collected While there was no fundamental change in the packaging types used in the sales we performed through the agency of ÇEVKO Foundation, which in 2015, the share of products that were sold in we have helped found, accounts for approximatePET bottles in the previous period regressed, to ly half of the total consumption. This amount also the advantage of returnable glass bottles and constitutes the majority of the amount of waste mostly aluminum cans. The share of PET botpackaging collected throughout our operations. tles, which was 31.5% in 2014, fell to 26.8% in The amount of one-way packaging waste recy2015, while the share of returnable glass botcled by licensed institutions after being collected tles increased from 14.0% to 14.9% and that of in 2014 exceeds 23 ktons. Of this amount, 16.4 aluminum cans from 17.7% to 21.6%. Turkey is the kton consists of glass, 3.9 kton of metal, and 2.1 country operation with the highest sales share of kton of paper and cardboard packaging wastes. reusable packages, such as steel keg and glass bottles, with a share of 57%. On the other hand, we also continued works for the lightening of our packaging materials SALES VOLUME SHARE BY PACKAGING TYPE and the mitigation of material consumption. For example, Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan conducted a study whereby the weight of 500 ml Efes bottles Aluminum was reduced from 350 gr to 295 gr. Anadolu Efes Russia succeeded in reducing 38.3 gr preforms to %21.6 the level of 36 gr during the year. As for Anadolu Can Efes Moldova, 23 mkm strech wraps used for Returnable secondary packaging were reduced to 17 mkm, and 70 mkm shrinks to 60 mkm. During the year, %14.9 material reduction works were also carried out Glass Bottle in the painting applications used in packaging. For instance, Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan replaced PET the metallic labeling practice for certain products %26.8 Bottle with paper labeling. Anadolu Efes Russia simplified its packaging coloration applications thereby reducing the amount of paint consumption in One-way %28.3 Glass Bottle many product and packaging types. One-way packaging materials are recycled subsequent to consumption through waste recollection Steel Keg systems that differ by country. The efficiency of %8.4 these systems differs in each country. In this re19 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 VALUE CHAIN PARTNERSHIPS FROM OUR SUPPLIERS TO OUR DEALERS AND DISTRIBUTORS, BY ESTABLISHING LONG LASTING PARTNERSHIPS WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS WHO INVEST IN THE FUTURE OF ANADOLU EFES, WE INCREASE AIM TO INCREASE THE VAUE WE GENERATE. D esigned in accordance with the objective of constituting a profitable and sustainable business model for all business partners, the value chain system of Anadolu Efes also underlies its continuous success since its establishment. In this regard, long termed business partnerships are formed with stakeholders investing in the future of Anadolu Efes, from suppliers to dealers, distributors, and sales points, aimed at enhancing the created value. In order to achieve this, various development activities are conducted for business partners to improve in terms of working principles and operation conditions, alongside their business success. The improvement aimed by the constituted value chain system, with its various implementation areas, serves not only the development of Anadolu Efes and its business partners but also the Sustainable Development Principles. These works of Anadolu Efes contribute to improvements aimed at objectives such as clean water (SDG6), employment and economic growth (SDG8), combating climate change (SDG13), and aboveground life (SDG15). SUPPLIER AND DEALER DEVELOPMENT PRACTICES In the reporting period, there were more than 7,000 product and service suppliers, over 100 barley and 400 hops suppliers in Anadolu Efes supply chain. Long term relationships based on mutual benefit are developed with suppliers, thereby increasing the achieved value added. IN THE REPORTING PERIOD, THERE WERE MORE THAN 7,000 PRODUCT AND SERVICE SUPPLIERS, OVER 100 BARLEY AND 400 HOPS SUPPLIERS IN ANADOLU EFES SUPPLY CHAIN. LONG TERM RELATIONSHIPS BASED ON MUTUAL BENEFIT ARE DEVELOPED WITH SUPPLIERS, THEREBY INCREASING THE ACHIEVED VALUE ADDED. 21 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-12 Anadolu Efes expects all of its suppliers to support its objective of contributing to the society, environment, and economy, hence to conform with Anadolu Efes values and principles in their own operations and other business relations. In result of the study started in the previous reporting period to emphasize the significance of this expectation and determine its framework, Anadolu Efes Supplier Working Principles was published in 2015. This policy states the main principles that Anadolu Efes suppliers are required to follow in their operations and emphasizes the responsibilities suppliers must assume in social, environmental, and economic areas. Supplier audits are organized to verify the compliance of suppliers with these principles. Within the context of this study that was conducted for raw material and primary packaging producers, 28 supplier audits were completed in the reporting period. Anadolu Efes Supplier Working Principles can be accessed on www.anadoluefes.com. Anadolu Efes Russia operation organized trainings Anadolu Efes products meet customers through aimed at dealer and distributor managers in the more than 500 dealers and distributors, tens of regions of Irkutsk, Chelyabinsk, and Volgograd, in the thousands of on-trade and off-trade sales points on reporting period. Following the trainings involving a large geography with over 300 million consumers. subjects such as basic characteristics of brewing, The success of business partners in sales channels is quality components, production, and storage also the impetus of the success of Anadolu Efes. For conditions, dealer and distributor warehouses were this reason, we help them enhance their business audited for compliance with Anadolu Efes standards. success by conducting programs aimed at increasDealers were provided with improvement suggesing their technical and managerial competence and tions in accordance with audit results. enhancing their business performance. Country operations organize these studies by evaluating the needs of their stakeholders. SUPPORT FOR AGRICULTURE Anadolu Efes Turkey launched Efes Talimhane AND FARMERS platform in order to support the development of its dealers and distributors. Efes Talimhane serves as a common development platform to all its stakeholdProduction continuity, preserving product quality ers for sustainable success. Within the scope of the and taste are elements of critical importance for platform, dealers and distributors are offered trainings brewing operations. As a product based on agriculsuch as Family Constitution Incentive Package, Mantural raw materials production of which depends ager Development Program, Dealer Sales Team Career on several external factors, it is extremely hard to Trainings, Excellent Service Program for Distributors. prevent these elements from becoming risks. For Besides, Anadolu Efes Turkey offers dealer managthis reason, establishing close relations with producers an eight-day training package, including stress ers of barley and hops, the primary raw materials for management, creative drama, effective decision brewing operations, enhancing their productivity making and problem solving, law, customer deand business value are of great significance for the velopment and innovative leadership, and creative sustainability of Anadolu Efes operations. For this thinking modules, with the support of Boğaziçi Unipurpose, Anadolu Efes has been conducting the versity Lifelong Learning Center. Sales management Agricultural R&D Program since 1982, providing teams of dealers are offered Satisfied Customer, support to barley and hops producers through the Happy Salesman Training in order to improve sales Contractual Purchase System. and customer relations skills. 22 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-12 Agricultural R&D Program through the R&D studies of Anadolu Efes is revealed in the raw material and brewing processes. Within the context of Anadolu Efes agricultural R&D Program, barley and hops varieties are being develAgricultural production is extremely sensitive oped since 1982. In consequence of these studies reto climate, biodiversity, and similar conditions. lying on natural methods, Anadolu Efes has developed Besides, resources, such as water, energy, pesand registered 15 new barley and 7 hops varieties. ticides, and fertilizer, are used in the production process. For this reason, agricultural activities are There are a few primary purposes for the barley and among fields of operation that are both affected hops variety development studies of Anadolu Efes. by climate change and cause climate change. The Using particular barley and hops varieties provides new R&D development studies of Anadolu Efes are a great benefit for maintaining the consistency of focused on developing drought resistant varieties production and product quality. On the other part, requiring less water, energy, pesticide, and fertilizer consistency of taste, which is very closely related to use, fertile in production but natural, and with the raw material used in brewing, is also essential. reduced environmental impacts. The registered Fulfilling these purposes through its own registered barley and hops varieties of Anadolu Efes generate varieties provides added value for Anadolu Efes. Yet, a significant performance in production in terms of the benefits of developing registered new species resource consumption and environmental impact, are not limited to this. The greatest contribution of in view of the successes achieved throughout the the malting barley and hops varieties developed BEER CULTURE DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES The promotion of beer culture among consumers plays a significant role in the development of the sector and related sectors. In an environment where a refined beer culture is fostered, the added value of the brewery industry will also increase. Anadolu Efes operations, except for Anadolu Efes Turkey operations where regulations do not allow, supports the development of beer culture in its markets through various practices. For instance, many country operations provide support for businesses in many fields, ranging from decoration to ambience, to the menu to presentation, at consumption points. Practices aimed at informing our relevant stakeholders about beer and beer production are conducted at our operations. For example, Anadolu Efes Russia provided many stakeholders with first-hand information about beer production with the factory tours it organized, reaching out to more than 4,000 stakeholders through this practice in 2015. 23 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 BARLEY AND HOP VARIETIES DEVELOPED Efes Pazaryeri HOP Aroma 2001 Ege Erciyes TARBES 99 2005 2007 Anadolu 99 1992 Güney 2001 1998 1999 1997 2003 Atılır 2006 Yıldız 2011 Efes 3 Çumra 2001 Fırat Durusu BARLEY Efes 98 Meriç Anadolu 98 Angora Çatalhöyük Erciyes Akdane Başgül Toprak years. For instance, by the use of Atılır and Fırat or pesticide to achieve productivity or fight against varieties registered by Anadolu Efes, 12 to 24% on plant diseases and pests. In this way, a natural electricity consumption, 18 to 22% on fuel conproduct is obtained at the desired quality and exsumption, and 40 to 47% on water consumption pected amount, both the farmer and Anadolu Efes (depending also on external environment and opgenerate added value by means of the achieved erating conditions) is saved when compared to the savings, while the environmental impact generated most common barley variety produced in Turkey. by agricultural products is significantly reduced. Thanks to the qualities of these varieties, farmers Anadolu Efes takes initiative regarding the most are not required to use high amounts of fertilizer efficient production of registered products, works ESTABLISHING CLOSE RELATIONS WITH PRODUCERS OF BARLEY AND HOPS, THE PRIMARY RAW MATERIALS FOR BREWING OPERATIONS, ENHANCING THEIR PRODUCTIVITY AND BUSINESS VALUE ARE OF GREAT SIGNIFICANCE FOR THE SUSTAINABILITY OF ANADOLU EFES OPERATIONS. 24 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 together with farmers, and conducts continuous conducted to provide technical counselling regardsupport activities. The organized implementation of ing production processes, throughout the year. the support activities being conducted is ensured Due to the success of the Contractual Purchase through the contractual purchase model developed Model in Turkey, it was decided to be implemented by Anadolu Efes. in other suitable country operations, and trial plantContractual Purchase Model ings were started in the Moldova operation in 2012. In result of the conducted studies, it was observed One of the primary activities carried out within the that winter barley varieties give better results in the framework of Anadolu Efes works for supporting climate conditions of Moldova and the trials were agriculture and farmers is the Contractual Purchase focused on these varieties. Started on 350 hectars Program. Barley and hops producers are supported in 2012, production was expanded in time, with financially, operationally, materially, and in terms 5,128 tons of barley production realized in 2015. of information through the Contractual Purchase This amount meets 40% of the malt production Program implemented as an extension of R&D that Anadolu Efes Moldova operation will require in studies. Approximately 8,000 farmers are reached 2016. The goal is for all production to be realized through this model. This practice, which was with locally produced barley, by the year 2017. started in the Turkey operation, was implemented in Moldova as of 2012. By supporting varieties developed through R&D studies with the Contractual Purchase Model, Within the context of the Contractual Purchase a great increase in productivity was achieved in Model, first, production targets suitable for their barley and hops production and the added value fields are set together with producers. The approof local agricultural activities was enhanced. The priate variety of seed for the location is supplied improvement in hops production is particularly free of charge, in return for production. Financial striking. Local hops, whose production is subsisupport is provided for farmers to cover producdized with the initiative of Anadolu Efes in Turkey, tion costs. On the other hand, farmers, especially meets a majority of Anadolu Efes Turkey’s dehops producers, are also provided with other mamand. The objective of the hops support works terials they will use in production, free of charge. In of Anadolu Efes is both to be able to supply all its addition to material and in kind supports, the modraw material demand from local producers and to el also aims to raise the knowledge and awareness transform hops, an agricultural product with added level of farmers and provide technical advice. For value, into an export product, contributing to the this purpose, Anadolu Efes experts provide traindevelopment of the local economy. ings to farmers, field days and technical surveys are 25 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 OUR PEOPLE WE STRIEVE TO BECOME AN EMPLOYER OF CHOICE BY PROVIDING A FAIR AND SAFE WORKPLACE WHERE PRODUCTIVITY AND CREATIVITY ARE SUPPORTED. A nadolu Efes aims to become an employer of choice by ensuring a fair and safe working environment where talents are developed, productivity and creativity are promoted; and regards workplace practices as an indispensable part of sustainability performance. Anadolu Efes emphasizes the value attributed to the diversity and equal opportunities, and its support to the promotion of human rights by UN Global Compact, signed in 2011 and Women Empowerment Principles, signed in 2014. On the other hand, development of workplace practices continued in 2015 which resulted in 26.4 hours of training per employee and lost workdays rate by 27%. As a corporation with 6,386 employees in six countries as of 2015 yearend, Anadolu Efes aims to increase its success together with its workforce WE EMPHASIZED OUR DEVOTION TO THE DIVERSITY AND EQUAL consists of creative, hardworking, well-educated, OPPORTUNITIES BY SIGNING UN GLOBAL COMPCACT IN 2011 and talented individuals. AND WOMEN EMPOWERMENT PRINCIPLES IN 2014. IN 2015, WE PROVIDED 26.4 HOURS OF TRAININGS PER EMPLOYEE. HUMAN RIGHTS WE REDUCED LOAST WORKDAYS RATE BY 27%. In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Code of Business Conduct and Ethics, which is the basic policy document regarding human rights and related practices, was renewed in consideration of local and international norms, stakeholder expectations, and corporate commitments. In addition to this document, which is binding for all our country operations and employees, UN Universal Human Rights Declaration and relevant International Labour Organization (ILO) regulations are also among regulations that Anadolu Efes supports and complies with to protect human rights at its workplaces. UN Global Compact and Women’s Empowerment Principles are also commitments that emphasize the support given for the protection and reinforcement of human rights. In 2015, 1,019 Anadolu Efes employees were provided with 2,551 person*hour of human rights training in order to enhance human rights practices and awareness throughout the company. You can access Anadolu Efes Code of Business Conduct and Ethics on www.anadoluefes.com. DEMOGRAPHIC STRUCTURE OF ANADOLU EFES EMPLOYEES Employee Employee Employee Employee Breakdown by Breakdown by Breakdown Breakdown by Gender Operation by Age Groups Status 75% 4,759 26%-1,674 60%-3,805 44%-2,791 7%-472 6%-368 42%-2,662 6%-392 25%-1,600 22%-1,419 40%-2,581 25%-1,627 9%-590 12%-763 1%-47 Female Male Kazakhstan Turkey Georgia 18-30 31-40 41-50 Blue Collar White Collar Moldova Ukrayna Russia 51-60 60+ 27 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-10 The diversity implied by being a multinational and the laws in effect in our countries of operation, multicultural company is a characteristic which Anadolu Efes offers opportunities such as childenriches the corporate culture. For this reason, there care support to facilitate the process of returning is no discrimination based on religion, language, to work. Thanks to this approach, in 2015, 67% of race, ethnic identity, gender, or any other personal employees who took their birth leave returned to characteristic or cultural difference at Anadolu Efes, work thereafter. in no case and under any circumstances. As of 2015, Anadolu Efes does not tolerate child labor and 19% of Anadolu Efes senior management consists of compulsory labor practices in any way. All Anadolu expats and 18% of female executives. 1,627 female Efes employees in country operations where union employees account for 25.5% of total workforce. organizations exist, can freely exercise their rights The share of female employees is 10.1% in the to collective bargaining, organization and unionblue-collar category, and 35.8% in the white-collar ization, while the unions of which they are memcategory. bers can freely organize in operation locations. As Anadolu Efes offers equal opportunities to all emof 2015 yearend, 2,240 employees are subject to ployees without making any discrimination. Merit collective bargaining agreements. Thanks to the and objective factors are considered in human positive dialogue established with unions, no case resources processes, especially in the issues of of labour loss dues to industrial disputes has been remuneration, determination of social benefits, experienced. Anadolu Efes also expects its suppliand performance management. Gender is not ers and business partners to show the same sensitivity in such human rights issues. considered a determining factor in any way. While the period of birth leaves differs in accordance with 1,627 FEMALE EMPLOYEES ACCOUNT FOR 25.5% OF TOTAL WORKFORCE. THE SHARE OF FEMALE EMPLOYEES IS 10.1% IN THE BLUE-COLLAR CATEGORY, AND 35.8% IN THE WHITE-COLLAR CATEGORY. 28 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-11 managers in a changing and challenging working EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT AND environment. AELP2020 Program aims to establish PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT and empower a common corporate language that will become the driving power of highly impactful initiatives, by relating new leadership trends. The All employees excluding those covered by the program provides managers with the tools, technicollective bargaining agreement are subject to cal and professional competences that they need an annual evaluation process based on objective for fulfilling their tasks and responsibilities and criteria within the framework of the performance achieving a common leadership approach. Within management system. As part of the process, the the context of AELP2020, employees are working performance rate of individual and corporate on Action Learning Projects that ensure improveperformance targets, including sustainability prioment in business results and improve corporate rities, are taken into account. The obtained results and individual talents. are taken into consideration in career planning works, determining developmental needs, and performance based remuneration processes. All OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY employees are provided with feedback regarding their annual performance assessments, development and career plans. Ensuring the health and safety of employees is Leadership, competence and talent development an indispensable part of Anadolu Efes working programs, special training programs, foreign lanculture and business strategy. Anadolu Efes senior guage, orientation training and in-service training executives emphasize occupational health and programs are offered to employees of every level. safety as a strategic target for our business at leaIn the reporting period, a total of 168,703 perdership and strategic business plan meetings. Our son*hour of training was offered to Anadolu Efes general objective regarding occupational health employees, while the average hour of training per and safety is zero work accident and occupational employee was at the level of 26.4 hours. disease. Anadolu Efes Leadership Pathway 2020 In all facilities, business processes to be conduc(AELP2020) is a corporate leadership development ted are designed in line with the requirements of program designed to support mid-level and senior OHSAS 18001 management standard. Conformity 29 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 of OHSAS 18001 standard practices through certiwhich involves evaluation criteria complying with fication and independent audits; and the scope of ILO Directives, GRI indicators, Anadolu Efes Code the certification expands each year. As of the year of Conduct, and local regulations. By means of 2015, 78% of Anadolu Efes facilities are certified these systems, incidents and near misses are with OHSAS 18001. Preventive measures are imimmediately reported, root-cause analyses are proved in line with the risk assessments. Anadolu carried out by relevant managing bodies in order Efes Golden Safety Rules, involve office and road to prevent the recurrence of the situation, and safety issues alongside production areas, adoprequired measures are swiftly implemented. In ting a broad perspective on occupational safety. order for all country operations to benefit from each others’ experiences, these evaluation reports Anadolu Efes relies on occupational health and and cases are published in the four major languasafety trainings to form a culture of occupational ges spoken in our countries of operations. safety throughout our workforce and to enhance During the reporting period our injury rate, which the awareness and technical knowledge of empcounts frequency of injuries, increased while lost loyees. In this regard, we provided Anadolu Efes day rate, which counts frequency of workday losses, employees with a total of 26,885 person*hour of reduced. This is simply because better reporting of OHS training in the reporting period. minor incidents which does not cause lost days. Performance assessment, incident reporting and All Anadolu Efes employees regularly undergo analysis play a significant part in the improvement medical examinations. Besides, expert healthcare of occupational health and safety performance. teams provide consultancy services to employees In order to guarantee this, we established the and carry out awareness raising works. On the otEfficient Event Notice and Assessment system, Lost Day Rate 2012 2013 2014 2015 Injury Rate 1.22 1.63 1.33 1.89 Lost Day Rate 18.25 12.82 15.62 11.45 Injury Rate: Total number of injuries x 200,000 / Total work hours. Lost Day Rate: Total number of lost days x 200,000 / Total work days. 30 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 her hand, employees are provided with do sports committees involve union representatives, forein convenient facilities or with discounts for gym men, and employee representatives, alongside memberships, as well as trainings such as stress the senior management, workplace doctors and management, breathing techniques and yoga. occupational safety experts. In this way, employee Within the scope of studies increasing workplaviews are also directly expressed. These commitce ergonomics, there are practices devoted to tees convene monthly to investigate causes of lighting, improving indoor air quality, optimizing incidents that have occurred, discuss existing risks noise, humidity and temperature levels, and rehaand determine measures to be taken. The results bilitating the equipment being used. As a result of of these analyses are regularly reported to the these studies, there were no cases of occupatiosenior management. nal disease across our operations in the reporting The collective agreements we sign with unions period. Works to improve employee health also also play a significant role in OHS management. have a positive impact on the general absenteeWhile they slightly differ in different countries, ism rate. In this regard, in 2015, we have reduced collective agreements include regulations reour general absenteeism rate by 21% as against garding issues such as responsibilities of empthe previous year. In the reporting period, no fatal loyees and the employer, shared management, accidents occurred in any of our operations. employee OHS Committees, personal protective Occupational Health and Safety Committees, equipment, OHS regulations, rules, standards and where both employees and the management are certification processes, OHS audits and investirepresented, have been established at Anadolu gation, employee training, sanitary regulations, Efes operation facilities. While they vary according health and safety support and physical examinato the regulations of different countries, these tions. ALL ANADOLU EFES EMPLOYEES REGULARLY UNDERGO MEDICAL EXAMINATIONS. BESIDES, EXPERT HEALTHCARE TEAMS PROVIDE CONSULTANCY SERVICES TO EMPLOYEES AND CARRY OUT AWARENESS RAISING WORKS. 31 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY WE BELIEVE THAT OUR PRODUCTS ADD POSITIVE VALUE TO SOCIAL LIFE, AND STRIVE TO DEVELOP CONSUMER EXPERIENCE WHEN ENJOYED RESPONSIBLY. F or Anadolu Efes, product responsibility is a fundamental way of creating positive value for stakeholders. The main principles of generating value with the understanding of product responsibility are producing high quality beer and acting responsibly in marketing processes. Main promise of our products is to bring people together and enable the sharing of happy moments of life, thereby adding value to social life. For this reason, we both offer high quality products that meet consumer expectations and conduct works to enhance the culture of conscious consumption. You can access Anadolu Efes Quality Policy on PRODUCTION QUALITY www.anadoluefes.com. Quality beer is obtained through quality raw mateCUSTOMER SATISFACTION AND rials and processes. For this reason, Anadolu Efes INFORMATION processes high quality barleys and hops developed by its own R&D studies, at its facilities equipped with the latest production technologies. Anadolu Efes Anadolu Efes offers its products appealing to follows Food Safety Management Systems such quality and taste expectations to its customers as ISO22000 and HACCP, as well as international under more than 40 brands, aiming for them systems and standards such as ISO9001 Quality to have a superior experience. While constantManagement System, to guarantee the quality of its ly developing new tastes in order to enhance production processes. It is registered through audits customer satisfaction, it is also ensured that taste conducted by independent institutions that produccontinuity and consistence are preserved in existtion is carried out in the facilities in compliance with ing products. Product practices are developed in these standards. As of the year 2015, all the producall markets based on the data acquired through tion volume of Anadolu Efes was produced in facilithe careful examination of market and customer ties certified with food safety management systems satisfaction surveys conducted on the basis of such as ISO22000 or HACCP, while the share of brand and product. facilities certified with ISO9001 Quality ManageAnadolu Efes, which believes in the importance ment System was increased from 89% to 94%. of the complete information of customers about In 2015, Anadolu Efes published Anadolu Efes products in terms of generating satisfaction, Quality Policy in order to institutionalize its quality deems this to be a fundamental consumer right. understanding developed throughout the years In order to achieve this, information is offered to and to improve it in subsequent periods. 33 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 customers through product labels, websites and regarding products and convey their suggesconsumer support lines. Product labels involve tions and complaints by calling the support lines content details that go beyond the criteria deindicated on product labels, in all countries. All termined by local regulations. Product labels are demands conveyed to relevant managers of meticulously prepared in order to inform conAnadolu Efes through this channel are carefully sumers about the alcohol content of the prodevaluated and answered. uct most accurately. Product packages contain information such as the alcohol percentage of the product, warnings about responsible consumpRESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION tion and recycling, production facility, product amount, and expiration date. We believe that a responsible consumption Different additional information specific to country culture is made possible by producers adhering may also be included on the labels in line with to responsible marketing principles and we fulfill consumption habits, local regulations and inthe responsibility we bear in this regard. We have dustrial structure. For instance, while product published Anadolu Efes Marketing Communicalabels include the “18 years old” sign, “selling beer tion Policy, which is a concrete manifestation of to minors is prohibited” and “excessive alcohol this understanding, prepared in order to guarconsumption is harmful to health” inscriptions antee that marketing communication works are at our Anadolu Efes Russia operation, product conducted within the framework of the principle packages contain the “21 years old” sign and “drink of responsibility, in the reporting period. responsibly” message at our Anadolu Efes Moldova You can access Anadolu Efes Marketing Commuoperation. In the year 2015, the message “do not nication Policy on www.anadoluefes.com. drink and drive” was added on the labels within the The alcoholic beverage industry is an extremescope of the responsible consumption approach. ly regulated area of activity in terms of how Except for Anadolu Efes Turkey operation, where marketing communication works should be product related websites are prohibited by local conducted. Anadolu Efes complies with rules regulations, stakeholders in all other countries of determined by sector initiatives, in addition to operation can access product information on the existing laws in its marketing communication corporate websites or product websites. Besides, activities. As per its marketing communication our stakeholders can obtain detailed information understanding, Anadolu Efes avoids the use of 34 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 marketing contents that might encourage conKaluga with the participation of more than 200 sumers to irresponsible behaviors, be considered volunteering employees. During these visits, store political or discriminatory, or offend the value employees were provided with information in judgments of the society or a specific commuorder to enhance their awareness regarding the nity. Anadolu Efes ensures that its products are responsible sales of alcohol products. only sold at sales points complying with regulaAnadolu Efes Moldova tions and that they are not sold to minors. Anadolu Efes Moldova improved and continued Anadolu Efes operations conduct various projits “Don’t Drink and Drive” campaign, which was ects to inform consumers regarding the risks of also conducted in previous years, in the reporting irresponsible alcohol consumption and to raise period. This year, visual contents were broadcast awareness on the issue of responsible consumpin the restrooms of popular restaurants in the tion. Responsible consumption is encouraged city of Chisinau, as part of the campaign. The through practices differing by country, due to contents that were broadcast for three months, cultural differences. were viewed 300,000 times. Besides, for the Anadolu Efes Russia campaign to provide actual support to consumers Anadolu Efes Russia carried out a “Don’t Drink and in addition to being informative, a website named Drive” campaign in collaboration with national “bettertakeataxi” was launched. Consumers are and international health and education authorencouraged to call a cab subsequent to alcohol ities, in 2015. As part of the campaign that was use through the page which is accessible on all voluntarily participated by more than 50 employdigital devices. ees, 2,300 students were provided with awareAnadolu Efes Kazakhstan ness raising trainings. Billboards reading “Don’t Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan continued its “Drink ReDrink and Drive” were placed on the main streets sponsibly” campaign in its third year. As part of the of Moscow and Ulyanovsk. campaign, mini alcoholmeters were distributed to Anadolu Efes Russia conducted a responsible consumers to assist in preventing excessive alcomarketing campaign together with Association of hol consumption. In addition, messages encourRussian Beer Producers, on Global Beer Responaging responsible consumption were transmitted sibility Day. Within the scope of the campaign, through billboards placed on the main streets of around 5,000 sales points were visited in the Almaty. cities of Ufa, Kazan, Vladivostok, Ulyanovsk and 35 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT WE MAINTAINED OUR SUPPORT FOR COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT THROUGH PRACTICES CONTRIBUTING TO THE LOCAL DEVELOPMENT AND WORKS IN THE AREAS OF TOURISM, SPORTS, AND CULTURE & ARTS. W e seek to contribute to the enhancement of the prosperity level of the communities in which we operate with the projects we conduct and to generate a positive impact on social development through the added value we create. In our day, the social, economic and cultural development of societies is the responsibility of the business world as much as it is that of public and nongovernmental organizations. For only developed societies can build the infrastructure necessary to form developed economies. This responsibility is also framed within the scope of the articles SDG1, SDG2, SDG3, SDG4, and SDG8 of the Sustainable Development Goals. For this reason, we pursue policies that will contribute to the local economy in our activities, we produce projects that support economic and sociocultural development in our operational geography. CONTRIBUTION TO LOCAL DEVELOPMENT Employment is a significant source which has the impact of invigorating the local economy. Especially the brewery sector, as a sector with a very high multiplier effect in terms of employment, is an important employment source due to the side businesses it supports, primarily service industries that mostly rely on labor, besides the direct employment it provides. The local character of this employment creates further economic value. For this reason, local employment is among the primary components of our human resources policy. Accordingly, the majority of the workforce employed at Anadolu Efes operations consists of local employees. Due to our characteristic of being a multinational company, including local workforce among the senior management also constitutes a significant indication of contribution to local economy. In 2015, the share of local senior executives throughout our country operations was at the level of 81%. One of our most important areas of contribution to local economy is the implementation of our purchasing operations for product supply through local channels. In the reporting period, 93% of our more than 7,500 suppliers, from whom we purchased products, were local suppliers. On the basis of expenses, purchases made from local suppliers accounted for 81% of the purchasing operations we conducted. We both contribute to economic development and prevent foreign-source dependency through our local supply practices. The culture & arts events and projects we conduct in various cities every year are also effective in terms of livening the local economy. In addition, we increase employment opportunities and contribute to the enhancement of the productivity and profitability of small businesses through projects we carry out for the development of the value chain. ANADOLU EFES RUSSIA: CITY LANDSCAPING PROJECT Anadolu Efes Russia operation aims to shape urban areas, maintain good relations with the local community and reinforce the volunteerism of employees through the City Landscaping Project. Within the context of the project, many volunteer activities were organized, over 200 employees contributed to the structuring of more habitable areas for citizens in the cities of Kaluga, Ulyanovsk, Novosibirsk, Kazan and Ufa. In 2015, over seven tons of wastes were collected and more than 100 trees were planted. 37 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ANADOLU EFES TURKEY: FUTURE IS IN TOURISM ‘Future is in Tourism’ Project was started in Own Butterfly” project from Adana Saimbeyli, 2007 as Eastern Anatolia Tourism Development and “Local Tastes of Edremit with Nar Kadin Project (EATDP) in collaboration with the Turkish (Pomegranate Lady)” project from Balıkesir EdreMinistry of Culture and Tourism and the United mit were supported. Nations Development Programme (UNDP), aiming to create a tourism oriented local development model at Çoruh Valley. Within the scope of the project, more than 20 boarding houses were founded, many NGOs devoted to tourism were started, cycling and walking routes were built, local festivals such as rafting or bird watching were organized, and the interest of local and international tourists in the area was increased thanks to all these investments. Uzundere district was declared a tourism center with a decree of the Council of Ministers in 2013, ensuring the permanence of the sustainable tourism model that was formed in the region. Within the scope of the program, tourism trainings were offered in 27 provinces in cooperation with Boğaziçi University Lifelong Learning Center and more » Lavender Smelling Village than 5,000 people received a tourism certificate, between the years 2007 and 2012. As part of the project started by Keçiborlu Assistance, Solidarity and Education Foundation, in After five years of regional experience, Fucooperation with Keçiborlu Village Delivery Serture is in Tourism Project was implemented vice Union and Kuyucak Village Headpersonship, at the national level. Future is in Tourism it is planned to stimulate rural tourism in Isparta, Support Fund was founded for tourism to be eswhere most of the lavender production in Turkey tablished as an alternative sustainable developtakes place. With this project, it is aimed to enment means in Turkey, constituting local models sure product variety for the lavender produced by incentivizing entrepreneurship and contributin Keçiborlu district and Kuyucak village and to ing to tourism by bringing the public and private mobilize the employment and entrepreneurship sectors, universities and civil society together. potential in the region. Through the developWe provide practical support such as training, ment of tourism, a significant added value will be planning, technical support, communication, generated for the regional economy. and consultancy, alongside funding support for three projects every year, ensuring the feasibility » Discover Your Own Butterfly and sustainability of the projects. With the project realized by Adana Toros FedIn 2013 and 2014, the first two periods of ‘Future eration of Associations, in collaboration with is in Tourism’, “Lets be a Misian”, “Mardin Saimbeyli Municipality, Çukurova University İpekyolu Guesthouse”, “Traditional Kitchen of Faculty of Arts and Sciences Department of Seferihisar” “Stonemasonry at Göbeklitepe, Biology, Saimbeyli District Governorship, Ministry the Oldest Temple of the World”, “Heritage of of Forestry and Water Affairs 7th Region Adana Malatya: Arslantepe”, and “Souvenirs of SafranBranch Office, it is planned to transform Adana’s bolu” projects were selected and supported. In Saimbeyli district, which is one of the 10 major the reporting period, “Lavender Smelling Village” butterfly fields in Turkey, into a significant niche project from Isparta Keçiborlu, “Discover Your tourism center. As part of the project, it is aimed 38 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 a home reflecting the traditional culture of Edremit. The project, which constitutes a model for sustainability in tourism, also aims to contribute to the economic empowerment of women. to develop ecotourism with butterfly watching, to increase the low level of income in the district, to preserve nature and biological diversity, and for the field in the region to acquire natural park status. ANADOLU EFES VOLUNTEERS In 2015, we realized two activities of volunteerism in Bursa Misi Village and in Mardin, from among Future is in Tourism Project regions, through the “Anadolu Efes Volunteers” platform, which is based on volunteerism and can be attended by all employees on the basis of activities. As part of “Mardin İpekyolu Guesthouse” project, our volunteers collected a total of 590 books and 420 toys to be donated to Mardin Nursery School. The donating volunteers delivered the toys and books » Local Tastes of Edremit with Nar Kadin to Mardin Nursery School, where a total of The project, carried out by L.L. Nar Kadin Envi200 children will benefit from them. Within ronment Culture and Management Co-operative the context of “Lets be a Misian” project, and started with the collaboration of Edremit Anadolu Efes Volunteers visited the womMunicipality, was implemented for the purpose en of Misi on International Women’s Day, of drawing attention to and branding local tastes March 8th, both to help them with their made with olive oil in Balıkesir’s Edremit district daily tasks and to mentor them in their and supporting gourmet tourism. It is planned areas of expertise, such as marketing, fito offer personal and professional development nancial affairs, and social media. These two trainings for women in the region, thereby activities of volunteerism were attended by transforming the local products they produce 138 employees in total. into touristic products and presenting these in 39 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 ANADOLU EFES MOLDOVA: THE HEART OF MOLDOVA PROJECT Anadolu Efes Moldova aims to boost tourism and reinforce social engagement by presenting citizens with a different Moldova, following the demographic crisis environment that arose due to migration, with the project it started in 2015. As part of the project, a series of 10 videos introducing Moldova were prepared and offered for the use of the Ministry of Culture and tourism agencies. Visitors are encouraged to pick Moldova as a touristic destination with this broad range of videos. Koraç Cup, 12 Turkish League Championships, 10 COMMUNITY INVESTMENTS Turkish Cups, 10 Presidential Cups as of December 2015. Besides Anadolu Efes is the first Turkish Club to transfer a player to the NBA. Raised By considering social expectations and needs in countless basketball stars in its infrastructure, its operating countries, Anadolu Efes supports every year Anadolu Efes introduces new faces to various programmes regarding sports, arts and Turkish Sports and maintains its practices to push culture. Contributing to the projects for the basketball in Turkey even further. development of sports for 39 years, cinema for Besides Anadolu Efes Turkey, in 2015, our Anado28 years, theatre for 23 years, tourism for 8 years, lu Efes Georgia operation also provided support Anadolu Efes Türkiye also maintained its support for sports by undertaking the sponsorship of during the reporting period. Georgia National Rugby Team and National Bas» Sports ketball Team. As for Anadolu Efes Moldova, it has supported Moldova Special Olympics team. The Anadolu Efes Sports Club, which was established team, who participated in the Special Olympics in 1976 and celebrated its 40th year during 2015World Games Los Angeles with the support of 2016 season, is our paramount social investAnadolu Efes Moldova, won four medals. ment in the area of sports. Given Turkish people moment full of joy with its success, Anadolu Efes » Culture & Arts became the first Turkish Club achieving a EuroAnadolu Efes plays a pioneer role for supporting pean Cup in professional sports and brought 1 arts and culture in the regions it operates. 40 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 Since the very first day of its support to the cinema, the Bridge Platform during İstanbul Film Festival Anadolu Efes Turkey supports İstanbul Film Festival for the 3rd time and presented Anadolu Efes Speorganized by İKSV to meet with art-enthusiasts. cial Award to the movie which came first during İstanbul Film Festival, 34th of which was organized Production Phase Workshop, to be used for proin 2015, aims to support development of the cinmotion of the movie. Moreover, during the year, ema in Turkey and to promote Turkish cinema in two Masterclass events were organized together international scale. Anadolu Efes Turkey has been with the famous director Reha Erdem. supporting İstanbul Film Festival for last 28 years Started supporting theatre in 1992, for the 23rd year, as the theme sponsor for Turkish Cinema and NaAnadolu Efes Turkey maintained its contribution tional Contest. Anadolu Efes Jury’s Special Award to major theatre companies in Turkey. Anadolu is given in memory of Onat Kutlar to the director of Efes Turkey’s journey as the biggest supporter of the movie selected by the jury in National Contest. theatre companies in Turkey continues with more Movies supported by Anadolu Efes Turkey through than 700 plays, and by Anadolu Efes support, these this award have also won more than 100 awards plays meet with thousands of viewers. from festivals organized in Turkey or abroad. Moreover, Anadolu Efes Turkey supports Sadri In order to contribute the development of Turkish Alışık Theatre and Cinema Actors and Actresses cinema, Anadolu Efes Turkey takes side with Awards which is the only organization in Turmovie-makers, especially with young movie-makkey rewarding both theatre and cinema actors ers, during project development and production and actresses. Anadolu Efes Theatre Agenda, phases; through Masterclass events brings cinema published every week during the season, helps enthusiasts together with famous directors. In art-lovers to follow weekly schedules of the the2015, Anadolu Efes Turkey supported Meeting on atre companies easily. ANADOLU EFES GEORGIA AND KAZAKHSTAN’S SUPPORT FOR THE COMMUNITY In the reporting period, Anadolu Efes Georgia supported children lacking parental care through the Natakhari Fund, by helping them receive education and providing employment opportunities. Anadolu Efes Kazakhstan made contributions in the areas of health and education by assuming the sponsorship of Karagandy Autistic Children Center and Astan Youth Initiatives Center. 41 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 PERFORMANCE CHARTS OPERATIONAL & ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE* 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Beer Production (Mhl)** 22.9 29.1 25.3 24.2 20.0 Malt Production (kton) 257 251 208 164 178 Beer Sales (Mhl) 23.0 28.4 25.5 24.5 20.4 Malt Sales (kton) 0.3 0.2 Beer Production Capacity (Mhl) 35,2 43,7 43,7 38,8 39,5 Malt Production Capacity (kton) 290 294 294 245 248 Net Sales (1,000 TL) 4,761,266 4,319,725 9,195,773 10,021,383 10,205,146 Beer Sales 3,006,106 4,291,363 3,978,641 4,000,899 3,440,946 Others 1,755,160 2,125,471 5,217,132 6,020,484 6,764,200 Profit From Operations (1,000 TL) 605,120 540,350 743,854 916,176 928,877 Profit From Operations Margin (%) 12.7 12.5 8.1 -9.3 -9,3 Net Income (1,000 TL) 341,175 341,175 609,811 -512.233 -197.759 Net Income Margine (%) 7.2 14.1 28.4 -5.1 -1.9 EBITDA (1,000 TL) 953,416 908,313 1,494,687 1,702,376 1,746,459 EBITDA Margin (%) 20.0 21.0 16.3 17.0 17.1 Total Assets (1,000 TL) 6,420,709 10,381,556 22,366,984 20,113,805 22,044,090 Net Financial Debt / EBITDA 1.2X 0.5X 2.0X 0.4X 0.5X Earnings per Share (TL) 0.758 1.0765 4.4062 -0.8651 -0,334 Local Procurement (%) By Expenditure 78 78,4 81,01 By Number of Suppliers 88,8 93,2 92,73 * Operational figures are calculated with the scope adopted for financial statements. However, when calculating specific performance figures disclosed in various sections of this index, sustainability reporting scope is adopted. ** 1 Mhl=1,000,000 hl; 1 hl = 100 liters ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Specific Energy Consumption in Breweries (kWh/hl) 36.8 36.7 38.3 35.3 37.5 Total Energy Consumption in Breweries (TJ) 3,037 2,966 3,558 3,147 2,764 Total Direct Energy Consumption in Breweries (TJ) 1,905 1,869 2,315 2,196 1,945 Natural Gas 1,772 1,724 2,071 1,951 1,707 Fuel Oil 126 138 240 240 231 Diesel 7 8 4 5 7 Total Indirect Energy Consumption in Breweries (TJ) 1,132 1,091 1,237 951 819 Electricity 845 830 1,013 919 796 Steam 287 262 224 32 23 Specific Energy Consumption in Malteries (kWh/ton) 1,074 1,051 998 1,004 979 Total Energy Consumption in Malteries (TJ) 996 950 748 592 629 Total Direct Energy Consumption in Malteries (TJ) 706 663 516 501 533 Natural Gas 704 661 515 500 357 Fuel Oil 0 0 0 0 5 Diesel 2 2 1 1 1 Others 0 0 0 30 170 Total Indirect Energy Consumption in Malteries (TJ) 291 287 232 91 95 Electricity 135 128 116 91 95 Steam 156 159 117 0 0 Specific GHG Emissions in Breweries (kton CO2e) 9.8 9.8 10.1 9.6 10.3 Total GHG Emissions in Breweries (kton CO2e) 225 221 260 237 211 Direct 113 112 139 133 118 Indirect 111 109 121 104 93 Specific GHG Emissions in Malteries (kton CO2e) 254 250 238 238 233 Total GHG Emissions in Malteries (kton CO2e) 65 63 50 39 42 Direct 40 37 29 28 30 42 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-9 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Indirect 26 25 21 11 12 Total Energy Saved (TJ) 112 94 43 Total Emission Saved (Ton CO2e) 7,683 5,888 3,213 Distribution Distance per Sales Volume (km/hl) 3.5 3.6 3.4 3.44 3.41 Forklift Energy Consumption per Sales Volume (kg/hl) 0.07 0.08 0.08 0.07 0.07 Specific Water Consumption in Breweries (hl/hl) 4.6 4.5 4.5 4.3 4.2 Total Water Consumption in Breweries (million m3) 10.6 10.1 11.6 10.7 8.7 Ground Water 5.4 5.0 5.0 4.9 4.5 Municipal Water 5.2 5.0 6.6 5.8 4.2 Specific Water Consumption in Malteries (m3/ton) 6.9 6.4 6.2 6.6 6.3 Total Water Consumption in Malteries (million m3) 1.8 1.6 1.3 1.1 1.1 Ground Water 1.7 1.4 1.2 1.1 1.1 Municipal Water 0.1 0.2 0.1 0 0 Specific Wastewater Discharge in Breweries (hl/hl) 3.3 3.2 3.2 3.0 3.0 Total Wastewater Discharge in Breweries (million m3) 7.6 7.1 8.2 7.4 6.0 Sewage System 6.5 5.8 7.1 6.5 5.2 Surface Water Body 1.1 1.3 1.0 0.9 0.8 Specific Wastewater Discharge in Malteries (m3/ton) 5.4 5.3 5.0 4.8 4.9 Total Wastewater Discharge in Malteries (million m3) 1.4 1.3 1.0 0.8 0.9 Sewage System 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.4 0.5 Surface Water Body 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 Total Amount of Waste (ton) 64,171 59,928 Hazardous 4,497 4,455 Nonhazardous 59,674 55,473 Total Waste Disposal (kton) 447 439 557 514 462 Recycle* 421 419 527 492 446 Others 24 19 30 23 16 Recycling Ratio (%) 94.2 95.6 94.6 95.6 96.6 Total Environmental Expenditures (million USD) 8.4 6.1 4.1 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 2013 2014 2015 Employee Trainings-Number of Participants 12,564 24,435 20,397 Blue Collar 7,595 12,007 10,735 White Collar 4,969 12,428 9,576 Female 5,065 5,780 Male 19,370 14,617 Employee Trainings-Total Training Hours (person*hour) 164,725.30 194,543 168,702 Blue Collar 67,264 72,868 60,873 White Collar 97,461.80 121,675 Female 48,018 48,291 Male 146,525 120,411 Average Training Hours per Employee 24.4 26.46 26.40 Blue Collar 17.7 24.62 23.63 White Collar 19.81 27.7 Female 25.91 29.68 Male 26.65 25.3 Human Rights Training-Number of Participants 42 1,019 Human Rights Training-Total Training Hours (person*hour) 289 2,551 OHS Training-Number of Participants 3,749 6,118 4,415 OHS Training-Total Training Hours (person*hour) 22,362.96 14,259 26,885 43 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 2013 2014 2015 Çevre Eğitimi-Number of Participants 829 788 700 Environmental Training-Total Training Hours (person*hour) 8,554 9,218 7,929 Total Hours Worked 16,464,369 15,066,558 14,037,567 Injury Rate* 1.63 1.33 1.89 Occupational Disease Rate** 0 0 0 Lost Day Rate*** 12.82 15.62 11.45 Absentee Rate**** 3,775 5,127 4,144 Fatalities 0 0 0 Fatalities by Road Accidents 0 0 0 Injuries by Road Accidents 6 8 3 * Injury Rate= Total number of injuries x 200,000 / Total work hours: The factor 200,000 used in calculations derived from 100 employees X 40 work hours X 50 weeks as indicated in GRI Framework. ** Occupational Disease Rate= Total number of occupational disease cases x 200,000 / Total work hours *** Lost Day Rate= Total number of lost days x 200,000 / Total work days “**** Absentee Rate= Total number of missed days x 200,000 / Total work days – Absences emerged from all incapacities of any kind preventing employees to work such as work related injuries, diseases and etc. are included in the calculation except for permitted leave absences as a part of employees’ legal rights such as annual leaves and maternity/paternity leaves. EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 6,227 5,918 8,720 7,352 6,386 Total Number of Employees Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female 4,743 1,484 4,472 1,446 6,485 2,235 5,499 1,853 4,759 1,627 Employees by Status Blue Collar 2,414 269 2,341 237 3,344 456 2,661 299 2,317 264 White Collar 2,329 1,215 2,131 1,209 3,128 1,792 2,838 1,554 2,442 1,363 Employees by Contract Type Indefinite Contract 4,674 1,419 4,447 1,426 6,388 2,186 5,431 1,835 4,718 1,595 Temporary Contract 69 65 25 20 96 50 68 18 41 32 Employees by Employment Type Full Time 4,743 1,484 4,472 1,446 6,485 2,230 5,490 1,839 4,749 1,624 Part Time 0 0 5 23 25 Employees by Education Level University and Higher 2,123 1,020 2,208 1,091 3,693 1,709 2,856 1,339 2,533 1,239 Other 2,620 464 2,264 355 2,206 370 2,643 514 2.226 388 Employees by Age Groups 18-20 9 2 5 1 21-30 1,619 590 1,220 448 31-40 2,272 672 2,035 627 41-50 1,108 391 1,059 360 51-60 444 196 402 188 61+ 47 2 43 4 New Hires 697 240 583 234 1,110 375 799 253 412 204 Employees Left 426 666 759 257 1,434 537 1,513 554 1,136 420 Employees on Parental Leave 138 16 61 138 75 133 86 184 76 131 Employees Returned after 125 156 152 146 75 64 Parental Leave Senior Managers 47 6 41 4 151 65 141 51 55 12 Local 33 28 124 65 117 51 42 12 Expat 20 17 27 24 0 13 0 Disabled Employees 60 29 60 31 56 13 57 17 17 23 Average Seniority (year) 32.76 34.22 6.86 7.84 4.95 3.90 7.73 11.16 8.76 9.14 Employees Covered by 1,831 1,882 2,498 2,672 2,240 Collective Labor Agreements Share in Total Workforce (%) 29.40 31.8 28.65 36.34 35.07 Share in Blue Collar Employees (%) 68.25 73 65.74 90.27 87.09 44 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-9, G4-10, G4-11 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI UNGC Description Omissions Indicators Indicators General Standard Disclosures G4-1 CEO Statement (p.6-7) Sustainability Progress Chart (p.2-3); CEO Statement (p.6-7); Sustainability Management (p.8-9); G4-2 www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= G4-3 Contacts (inside back cover) www.anadoluefes.com/dosya/kurumsal-politikalar/anadol-efes-marketing-communicationG4-4 policy.pdf G4-5 Contacts (inside back cover) G4-6 About the Report (p.1); Anadolu Efes Brewery Operations (p.4-5) www.anadoluefes.com/index. G4-7 php?gdil=in&gsayfa=hk&galtsayfa=ortaklikyapisi&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= G4-8 Anadolu Efes Brewery Operations (p.4-5) G4-9 Anadolu Efes Brewery Operations (p.4-5); Performance Charts (p.42, 44) G4-10 Principle 6 Our People (p.27); Performance Charts (p.44) G4-11 Principle 3 Our People (p.28); Performance Charts (p.44) G4-12 Value Chain Partnerships (p.21-22) G4-13 www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=yi&galtsayfa=hyi&gicsayfa=2&gislem=&gbilgi= www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-2&gicsayfa=&gislem =&gbilgi=ykl-2 G4-14 www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-3&gicsayfa=&gislem =&gbilgi=ykl-3” www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-4&gicsayfa=&gislem= G4-15 &gbilgi=ykl-4 www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-4&gicsayfa=&gislem= G4-16 &gbilgi=ykl-4 G4-17 About the Report (p.1) In line with GRI G4 Framework, in order to define reporting content, Anadolu Efes follows a specific process based on materiality, completeness,sustainability context and inclusiveness principles. First we identify a large scale issue universe in compliance with business objectives, sector specific facts, competition practices, requirements of our engagements, global sustainability agenda. G4-18 Then we ran a prioritization process together with Sustainability Champions both at headquarter and country operations level with regard to risk and opportunity potentials and expectations of stakeholders on these issues. During the last phase of the process, we validated and fine tuned results of the prioritization process as well as defining in which business units or processes these issues are most material. G4-19 About the Report (p.1) About the Report (p.1); In line with materiality process conducted in accordance with G4 G4-20 Guidelines, all aspects prioritized are found material within the company except for joint ventures and subsidiaries which are excluded from the general boundry scope of the reporting practices. About the Report (p.1); In line with materiality process conducted in accordance with G4 Guidelines, some aspects prioritized are found material for outside of the company. Accordingly G4-21 environment and climate have some aspects found material for suppliers and vendors while product responsibility is material for consumers. The aspect value chain partnerships is found material for suppliers and dealers. G4-22 No restatements made compared to the previous report. G4-23 About the Report (p.1) www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-4&gicsayfa=&gislem= G4-24 &gbilgi=ykl-4 www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-4&gicsayfa=&gislem= G4-25 &gbilgi=ykl-4 45 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-32 GRI UNGC Description Omissions Indicators Indicators www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-4&gicsayfa=&gislem= G4-26 &gbilgi=ykl-4 G4-27 General Assembly Minutes www.anadoluefes.com/dosya/genelkurul_in/20160418112525lu.pdf G4-28 About the Report (p.1) G4-29 About the Report (p.1) G4-30 About the Report (p.1) G4-31 Contacts (inside back cover) G4-32 About the Report (p.1); GRI Content Index (p.45-48); Legal Disclaimer (inside back cover) G4-33 Legal Disclaimer (inside back cover) www.anadoluefes.com/index. G4-34 php?gdil=in&gsayfa=yi&galtsayfa=kycp&gicsayfa=7&gislem=&gbilgi= www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-3&gicsayfa=&gislem= G4-56 Principle 10 &gbilgi=ykl-3 G4-57 Principle 10 Anadolu Efes Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (p.9-11) G4-58 Principle 10 Anadolu Efes Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (p.9-11) Spesific Standard Disclosures Material Aspect: Protecting Water Resources Protection of Water Resources (p.11-13); Performance Charts (p.43) www.anadoluefes.com/index. G4-DMA php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=oncdetay&gicsayfa=1&gislem=&gbilgi= www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-2&gicsayfa=&gislem =&gbilgi=ykl-2 Principle 7 G4-EN8 Protection of Water Resources (p.11-13); Performance Charts (p.43) Principle 8 Since no water bodies employed such as RAMSAR or other protected resources, no water G4-EN9 Principle 8 resources used by Anadolu Efes is under stress according to the criteria expressed in the indicator. G4-EN22 Principle 8 Protection of Water Resources (p.13); Performance Charts (p.43) Material Aspect: Environment and Climate Protection of Water Resources (p.12-13); Environment and Climate (p.15--19); Value Chain Partnerships (p.24); Performance Charts (p.42-43) www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa =sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-2&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi=ykl-2 G4-DMA www.anadoluefes.com/index. php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=oncdetay&gicsayfa=2&gislem=&gbilgi= www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= Principle 7 Protection of Water Resources (p.12-13); Environment and Climate (p.18-19); Performance Charts G4-EN1 Principle 8 (p.43) Protection of Water Resources(p.12-13); Environment and Climate (p.18-19); Performance Charts G4-EN2 Principle 8 (p.43) G4-EN3 Principle 7 Environment and Climate (p.16); Performance Charts (p.42) G4-EN4 Principle 8 Environment and Climate (p.19); Performance Charts (p.43) G4-EN5 Principle 8 Environment and Climate (p.16); Performance Charts (p.42) Principle 8 G4-EN6 Environment and Climate (p.18); Performance Charts (p.43) Principle 9 Principle 8 G4-EN7 Environment and Climate (p.19); Performance Charts (p.43) Principle 9 G4-EN11 Principle 8 Anadolu Efes has no operational site in the protected areas. Anadolu Efes has no operational site in the protected areas. Thus, no impact on high biodiversity G4-EN12 Principle 8 area were recorded during the reporting period. 46 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-32 GRI UNGC Description Omissions Indicators Indicators Since Anadolu Efes operations has no significant impact on habitats, no restoration or G4-EN13 Principle 8 protection practices carried out other than general practices performed due to the Anadolu Efes Environmental Management Scheme. Principle 7 G4-EN15 Environment and Climate (p.16-18); Performance Charts (p.43) Principle 8 Principle 7 G4-EN16 Environment and Climate (p.16-18); Performance Charts (p.43) Principle 8 G4-EN18 Principle 8 Environment and Climate (p.16-18); Performance Charts (p.43) Principle 8 G4-EN19 Environment and Climate (p.18); Performance Charts (p.43) Principle 9 G4-EN23 Principle 8 Environment and Climate (p.18); Performance Charts (p.43) Principle 7 G4-EN27 Principle 8 Environment and Climate (p.18-19); Value Chain Partnerships (p.24) Principle 9 Principle 7 G4-EN28 Principle 8 Environment and Climate (p.19) Principle 9 Principle 7 G4-EN31 Principle 8 Environment and Climate (p.15); Performance Charts (p.43) Principle 9 Material Aspect: Workplace Our People (p.27-31); Performance Charts (p.43-44) www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in& G4-DMA gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-2&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi=ykl-2” G4-LA1 Principle 6 Our People (p.27); Performance Charts (p.44) All Anadolu Efes employees enjoy equal benefits applicable to their employment type within the G4-LA2 duration of their employment contract. G4-LA3 Principle 6 Performance Charts (p.44) Possible changes in company operations or working conditions and workplaces of employees are annouced before the execution of the changes, according to minimum notice periods G4-LA4 Principle 3 indicated in applicable legal regulations. These periods can vary according to the operation country regulations and to the employee seniority. Collective bargaining agreements regulate minimum notice periods for covered employees. G4-FP3 Principle 3 No work hours lost during the reporting period for industrial disputes or strikes. G4-LA5 Our People (p.31); Performance Charts (p.44) G4-LA6 Our People (p.30-31); Performance Charts (p.44) G4-LA8 Our People (p.31); G4-LA9 Principle 6 Our People (p.29); Performance Charts (p.43) G4-LA10 Our People (p.29) G4-LA11 Principle 6 Our People (p.29) G4-LA12 Principle 6 Performance Charts (p.44) G4-LA13 Principle 6 Our People (p.28) G4-HR2 Principle 1 Our People (p.27); Performance Charts (p.44) G4-HR3 Principle 6 During the reporting period, no case of discrimination has occured. In all Anadolu Efes operations, collective bargaining, organization and unionization rights are secured. All employees are free to become a member of the trade union which they prefer and to G4-HR4 Principle 3 benefit collective bargaining practices. Anadolu Efes expects all suppliers to adopt similar working principles. During the reporting period, no breach or risk is identified within Anadolu Efes or major supplier operations against the exercise of these rights. No child labor is employed in any Anadolu Efes operation. Anadolu Efes expects all suppliers to G4-HR5 Principle 5 adopt similar working principles. During the reporting period, no breach or risk is identified within Anadolu Efes or major supplier operations against exercise of this principle. 47 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-32 GRI UNGC Description Omissions Indicators Indicators No Anadolu Efes operation employs forced or compulsory labor. Anadolu Efes expects all G4-HR6 Principle 4 suppliers to adopt similar working principles. During the reporting period, no breach or risk is identified within Anadolu Efes or major supplier operations against exercise of this principle. Material Aspect: Product Responsibility Product Responsibility (p.33-35) www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa =ykl-detay-2&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi=ykl-2 G4-DMA www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-3&gicsayfa=&gislem =&gbilgi=ykl-3” G4-PR2 No such case occured during the reporting period. G4-PR3 Product Responsibility (p.33-34) G4-PR4 No such case occured during the reporting period. G4-FP5 Product Responsibility (p.33) Material Aspect: Social Development Value Chain Partnerships (p.21-25); Community Development (p.37-41); Performance Charts (p.42); Anadolu Efes Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (p.7) www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl&gicsayfa=&gislem=&gbilgi= G4-DMA www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-2&gicsayfa=&gislem =&gbilgi=ykl-2 www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-3&gicsayfa=&gislem =&gbilgi=ykl-3 G4-EC8 Value Chain Partnerships (p.21-25); Community Development (p.37-41); Performance Charts (p.42) G4-EC9 Community Development (p.38); Performance Charts (p.42) All purchasing operations are conducted inline with Anadolu Efes' general sourcing policy and G4-FP1 Anadolu Efes Code of Conduct for Suppliers. www.anadoluefes.com/index.php?gdil=in&gsayfa=sr&galtsayfa=ykl-detay-2&gicsayfa=&gislem =&gbilgi=ykl-2 G4-SO3 Principle 10 All company organization is periodically subject to both internal and Anadolu Group auditing processes. All company accounts, records and documents are audited quarterly by Anadolu Efes Audit Committee. G4-SO6 Principle 10 Anadolu Efes Code of Business Conduct and Ethics (p.7) Material Aspect: Value Chain Partnerships G4-DMA Value Chain Partnerships (p.21-25) 48 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-32 Contacts To receive more information or communicate your suggestions regarding the Anadolu Efes Sustainability Report, please contact: Çiçek Uşaklıgil Özgüneş Group Investor Relations and Treasury Director cicek.usakligil@anadoluefes.com Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ş. Fatih Sultan Mehmet Mh. Balkan Cd. No:58 Buyaka E Blok Tepeüstü Ümraniye 34771 İstanbul, Turkey T: +90 (216) 586 80 00 F: +90 (216) 387 91 46 W: www.anadoluefes.com Reporting Consultant and Design Kıymet-i Harbiye info@kiymetiharbiye.com T: +90 (212) 279 13 13 Legal Disclaimer: The Anadolu Efes Sustainability Report (The Report) has been prepared by Anadolu Efes Biracılık ve Malt Sanayi A.Ş. (ANADOLU EFES) within the reporting principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the U.N. Global Compact. All information and opinions contained in this Report, which does not purport to be comprehensive, have been provided by ANADOLU EFES and have not been independently verified for this purpose. This Report has been prepared solely for information purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this Report constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of ANADOLU EFES shares, or an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this Report preparation, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However ANADOLU EFES does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. Accordingly, neither ANADOLU EFES nor any of its subsidiaries, or their board members, respective advisors, directors or employees shall be liable for any direct, indirect or consequential loss or damage suffered by any person as a result of relying on any statement in or omission from this Report or in any other information or communication in connection with the Report. This brochure was prepared for the purpose of corporate communication in line with Anadolu Efes Sustainability Strategy. It does not involve alcoholic beverage advertisement or promotion directed at customers. 49 ANADOLU EFES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2015 G4-3 G4-5 G4-31 G4-32 G4-33 www.anadoluefes.com
