Communication on Progress 2016 www.mtab.se • www.mtab.dk • www.mtab.no • www.mtab.fi ESTABLISHED IN THE NORDICS SINCE 1968 2/5 Communication on Progress (COP) Mission Statement MTAB Group Our service pledge is to transport, handle and store fragile and valuable goods with minimum disruption to both the goods and the environment. Statement from the CEO on continued support for the Global Compact MTAB’s business concept outlines the importance of caring for the objects that we handle, and that care also features in our approach to the environment. MTAB has been active in its environmental work for many years, and for 2009 the board drew up guidelines for an increasingly proactive focus that is being introduced into the organisation bit by bit. In order to take global responsibility, in 2009 we signed up to the UN Global Compact and its ten principles, prompting ever greater awareness in our drive to be a company guided by sustainable development. Mr. Simon Fors CEO MTAB Group 3/5 Activities and commitments Below is a description of the activities that we have taken and are taking to comply with the ten principles of the Global Compact. One important element of this work is the broad Business Analysis initiated in 2009 that was updated in November 2010. This reports on how we are meeting our commitments in the areas of human rights, labour law, the environment and anti-corruption. We are already seeing how the Global Compact is helping us to take global environmental responsibility. Information on this work and actions taken is constantly updated on our website. UNGC Principles Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights 2. Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in abuses of human rights MTAB’s commitment Human rights We are careful to comply with the legislation governing this area in Sweden. In cases where we use companies outside Sweden and the EU, these issues are controlled contractually. UNGC Principles 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation MTAB’s commitment Labour law We have collective agreements with two unions. These agreements govern working hours, including for union work, and legislation is now coordinated with EU law. We also follow the legal requirements in Sweden with regard to equal opportunities. 4/5 UNGC Principles 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. Businesses should encourage the development and distribution of environmentally friendly technologies MTAB’s commitment Environment Our aim of cutting our overall environmental impact focuses on a range of areas. We choose the best possible vehicles from an environmental point of view. The City of Stockholm operates a project called Clean Truck, whose aim is to ensure greener transport. As the name suggests, the project involves using Clean Trucks that run on biogas and biodiesel. We are taking an active part in the project. When purchasing goods we continue, in the first instance, to buy those that are environmentally classified or ecolabelled. This applies to tyres, computers, chemical products and paper products. Many of our shipments involve unpacked goods, which means that we unpack the customers’ products before transporting them. As part of the service, we handle and recycle all used packaging. We have also developed services that allow us to take on the producer responsibilities of our suppliers and customers. Our employees are a crucial factor in achieving our environmental aims, which is why we operate an ongoing programme of information and training. The purpose of our Business Analysis, which is followed up every year, is to clarify how our environmental work and the principles of the Global Compact are affecting MTAB, and to highlight the improvements that we are constantly making. We measure the total emissions of all our trucks. The total emissions for the Group in 2015 has risen compared with 2014. This is due to the growth in number of vehicles, and as a result of the number of kilometers driven which has risen with 30 %. The total diesel consumption has increased by about 10 %. Nitrogen oxides are up 13 %, ± 0 % for particles, up 6 % for hydrocarbons and up 15 % for carbon monoxide. Due to the switch to Euro 6 vehicles, has pushed carbon dioxide emissions up 15 % because the Euro 6 vehicles have slightly higher emissions of carbon dioxide. 5/5 UNGC Principles 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery MTAB’s commitment Anti-corruption Our rules on this are enshrined in our customer agreements and employment contracts. We also have special guidelines on entertaining in compliance with Swedish legislation on bribery. 2016-04-26/bw
