Oslo, 1st December 2016 TO UN Global Compact Communication on progress (COP) from Kebony AS: To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Kebony AS reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Christian Jebsen CEO Human Rights  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of human rights for the company (i.e. human rights risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on Human Rights.  Kebony AS complies with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and how this is implemented in Norwegian law, including compulsory reporting in the Annual Report. Our internal quality assurance system includes code of conduct for all employees. During 2016, Kebony has made actions in order to encourage business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global Compact principles. General terms & conditions for both sales and purchase have been amended to reflect that Kebony requires business partners to comply with GC principles or equivalent. We have, however, not yet done an assessment of Human Rights related risks and impact in industry sector and country(ies) of operation. Goals in the area of Human Rights for the upcoming year: work closer with business partners outside Scandinavia and Europe.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement Human Rights policies, address Human Rights risks and respond to Human Rights violations.  Kebony is a small company, and addresses the topics through the internal line responsibilities, as well as in consultation with stakeholders and affected parties.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  Kebony AS' Annual Report requires reporting on anti-discrimination and other relevant topics. So far, this is the only formal reporting done. Labour  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of labour rights for the company (i.e. labour rights-related risks and opportunities). Description of written policies, public commitments and company goals on labour rights.  Kebony supports the freedom of association and collective bargaining. Kebony follows the outcomes of the yearly collective bargaining in Norway. In 2013, Kebony entered into a formal agreement with Fellesforbundet (Labour unioun) on behalf of some of our staff, and has continued with formal follow up during 2016. Kebony actively seeks to avoid employment discrimination when recruiting or promoting people. The company has written policies (personnel handbook) that clearly state employee rights and responsibilities and their compensation and benefits Kebony encourages business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global Compact Labour principles or equivalent, and aim to address labour-related topics with our different stakeholders in the upcoming year.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions taken by the company to implement labour policies, address labour risks and respond to labour violations.  HSE has been higher on the agenda last year, with active participation from employees (suggestion box etc). Although HSE was already at a high level, with last year's effort Kebony approaches industry leader standards. Linked to the effort in the HSE-area, Kebony has improved insurances related to possible work accidents or illness.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates performance.  Demographics of management and employees is reported in the Annual Report (compulsary by Norwegian law). No external audits (e.g. SA 8000) conducted. Environment  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of environmental protection for the company (i.e. environmental risks and opportunities). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on environmental protection.  Kebony has thorough assessments of the environmental footprint and impact of the company's products. Kebony's core business has a clear positive environmental reason, and the company has several certifications supporting this (Swan label, FSC, PEFC etc). Kebony encourages business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global Compact environmental principles or equivalent. Specific goals in the area of environmental protection for 2016: Continue improving work with by-products and waste from our production, hereby finding alternative applications that will benefit from an environmental friendly Kebony technology.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement environmental policies, address environmental risks and respond to environmental incidents.  Kebony continues the development of our environmentally friendly technology.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates environmental performance.  Kebony has a close cooperation with the authorities regarding environmental issues. The company has had several external audits of environmental performance. Anti-Corruption  Assessment, policy and goals  Description of the relevance of anti-corruption for the company (i.e. anticorruption risk-assessment). Description of policies, public commitments and company goals on anti-corruption.  Kebony has a written company policy of zero-tolerance for corruption, bribery and extortion, as well as protocol to guide staff in situations where they are confronted with extortion or bribery. Kebony encourages business partners and suppliers to adhere to the Global Compact anti-corruption principles or equivalent. Kebony does not have specific goals in the area of anti-corruption for the upcoming year.  Implementation  Description of concrete actions to implement anti-corruption policies, address anti-corruption risks and respond to incidents.  Kebony has performed awareness raising and training of employees about the company's policies regarding anti-corruption and possible conflicted situations.  Measurement of outcomes  Description of how the company monitors and evaluates anti-corruption performance.  Kebony does not see corruption as a main issue in our operation. Going forward, new business in emerging markets might change this perception.
