ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Expanding and Strengthening ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Expanding and Strengthening STO MALDIVES HOTELS & RESORTS SINGAPORE Attention This report comprises the annual report of state trading organization plc prepared in accordance with the companies act of the republic of maldives (10/96), listing rules of maldives stock exchange, the securities act of the republic of maldives (2/2006), securities continuing disclosure obligations of issuers regulation 2010 of capital market development authority and corporate governance code of capital market development authority requirements. Unless otherwise stated in this annual report, the terms ‘STO’, the ‘group’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to state trading organization plc and its subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures collectively. The term ‘company’ refers to STO and/or its subsidiaries. STO prepares its financial statements in accordance with international financial reporting standards (IFRS). References to a year in this report are, unless otherwise indicated, references to the Company’s financial year ending 31st december 2015. In this report, financial and statistical information is, unless otherwise indicated, stated on the basis of the Company’s financial year. Information has been updated to the most practical date. This annual report contains forward looking statements that are based on current expectations or beliefs, as well as assumptions about future events. These forward looking statements can be identified by the fact that they do not relate only to historical or current facts. Forward looking statements often use words such as ‘anticipate’, ‘target’, ‘expect’, ‘estimate’, ‘intend’, ‘plan’, ‘goal’, ‘believe’, ‘will’, ‘may’, ‘should’, ‘would’, ‘could’ or other words of similar meaning. Undue reliance should not be placed on any such statements because, by their very nature, they are subject to known and unknown risks and uncertainties and can be affected by other factors that could cause actual results, and STO plans and objectives, to differ materially from those expressed or implied in the forward looking statements. There are several factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed or implied in forward looking statements. Among the factors are changes in the global, political, economic, business, competitive, market and regulatory forces, future exchange and interest rates, changes in tax rates and future business combinations or dispositions. STO cannot guarantee future results, levels of activity, performance or achievements. CONTENTS EVOLVING WITH YOU 1 STO GROUP IN 2015 2 LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS 3 MD’S MESSAGE 5 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT 9 OUR BUSINESSES 29 SHARE PERFORMANCE 31 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT 33 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE 39 COMMITTEE REPORT NOMINATION & REMUNERATION 41 COMMITTEE REPORT REMUNERATION REPORT 43 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE 45 RISK REPORT 46 SUSTAINABILITY 49 5 YEAR GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW 55 GENERAL INFORMATION 67 STO DIRECTORY 71 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT AND ATTACHED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS VISION Enriching lives through expansion and accessibility VALUES Caring Accessible Respectful Innovative Progressive MISSION Lead through expansion of existing businesses, diversification, exploring new possibilities and entering into new ventures. Explore beyond our borders, expand our markets and establish ourselves as an international player, respected by the international business community. Ensure accessibility with our presence nationwide; offer peace of mind and assurance to the public of uninterrupted provision and affordability of essential goods and services and those that contribute to a fulfilling modern lifestyle. Build a skilled workforce by investing in human development; build our competencies, to achieve sustainable and unhindered growth and fulfill our vision. EVOLVING WITH YOU STO is a diversified trading company whose central purpose is to provide products and services essential for economic development and better life. The business operations, trading and marketing activities expand across the Country and South East Asia. The business is conducted based on the Group’s founding principle of providing the country with its basic needs to sustain and prosper including staple foods, medicines, fuel and gas. It allowed the Group to ensure the focus and priority that need to be directed towards fulfilling most basic needs. Operational Excellence Sustainable Growth During the year, STO showed operational excellence The Group’s long-term strategy has created stability in many business segments, benefitting from higher in earnings development. Product-mix improvements sales volumes, structural growth, improvement in and increased efficiency contributed to the stable costs and productivity. earnings development. The Group contributed MVR STO’s success is built on strong values that 435 million in profit for the year. The earnings and offers its employees a diverse workplace with safe working capital changes contributed to the strong working environments, training and skill development operating cash flow. The trend demonstrates that the programs, opportunities for career development and Group has good control over working capital and the balance between their professional and private life. resources, to continue increasing investments for The Group believes that competent and dedicated structural growth. employees play a crucial role in creating more value for customers. Commitment and Competence The Group’s core competency is in the fields of fuel, gas, insurance and medical services. The business 54 concept is to deliver high quality products with affordable prices, in order to meet the customer’s DISTRIBUTION CENTRES long term demand, and create value for shareholders. 187 The Group has redefined existing businesses by focusing on expansion in all business segments and on its competitive advantage by carefully positioning and investing in resources that promotes growth and sustainable business. The ability to consistently cater PHARMACIES basic needs of society has been strengthened over the course of a number of years, measured in terms of presence, availability and service delivery. PRESENCE IN ALL 19 ATOLLS OVER 2500 EMPLOYEES 1 STO GROUP IN 2015 EARNINGS REVENUE PER SHARE 7,313 382 MILLION (MVR) (MVR) OPERATING OPERATING PROFIT CASH FLOW 678 381 MILLION (MVR) MILLION (MVR) PROFIT FOR DIVIDEND THE YEAR PROPOSED 435 57 MILLION (MVR) (MVR) PER SHARE Share of Revenue by Segments STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 28.4% 2.6% 2.4% 66.4% 0.2% Trading Insurance Gas Fuel and Other lubricants services 2 LETTER TO SHAREHOLDERS Dear Shareholders, It is my pleasure to present the annual report for 2015. It has been a successful year for STO where our revenues have shown a steady increase and the focus on our core businesses and customer services have shown good progress for the Company. STO has evolved in the past half century from a traditional business, importing products to meet the primary necessities of the country into a pioneer of industries, a company competing on multiple fronts and contributing to the long term development of the Country. The current business environment is fierce, where the markets in which we operate are volatile. We are however committed to being the preferred business partner to all our customers, and to do so, we are wholeheartedly committed to constantly improve our processes, products and services we provide to our markets. 3 Commitment from the Team Future of Possibilities Being in existence for 51 years is by no means a Maldives is evolving. From a small island nation listed small feat. In a globalized world where competitive in the least developed countries, into a dynamic advantage is determined only by minute factors, economy looking to provide a wealth of opportunities the Board’s proficiency has been of even higher to its citizens and investors alike. importance. The focus on Board training in 2015 As proven in the proud history of our Company, this has equipped the Board with much needed skills to provides us with greater opportunity to step up and perform its duties. be relied upon. Working on newer markets, enabling Past decisions have allowed competition to enter vital support to industries that are drastically growing into markets previously a stronghold of STO. We such as the construction industry. currently have a strong Board comprised of a diverse, The company can only be strong as the Board yet the right set of skills, industry experience and and management behind it. We are fortunate to have knowledge required to guide our Company forward. a highly experienced, knowledgeable and dynamic The Board has made strategic decisions to safeguard team moving us toward the existing opportunities the businesses in which we operate and guided the for growth. We are optimistic and excited about the management to newer areas of focus. This has meant future. Our nationwide presence, unrivaled products, refining of our operational activities and divestments involvement in vital sectors which the public rely on, of assets and operations that no longer contribute to giving back to the communities and commitment to our long term plans. enhancing our customer experience will all allow STO to be positioned for successful growth in the future. On behalf of the Board, thank you to the Guided by Governance shareholders for entrusting us with taking STO into the future of possibilities. Finally thank you to STO’s commitment to corporate governance is the management and employees for their valued unparalleled in the Country and continues to set contributions for a brighter future. benchmarks for public listed companies. Our belief is that this commitment is critical to the long term success of the Company. Governance allows transparency in our processes, which helps strengthen the relations with our stakeholders by building trust. We strive to meet the governance codes of the Country and have set sight on even higher standards. In 2015, we have worked on STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 managing our risks by working towards a risk mitigation initiative which will be realized in the coming year. I am proud to state that corporate governance continues and will remain an integral component of the way we do business. Good governance standards will enable accountability of operations, competing more effectively in our markets, sustaining our competitive edge and drive our capacity to increase Ahmed Niyaz the value for our Shareholders. Chairman 4 MD’S MESSAGE EXPANDING AND STRENGTHENING 2015 was a rewarding year for STO in terms of revenue and milestones achieved. Completion of the ambitious ‘all island pharmacy project’ was undeniably among the top highlights of the year. With this and other largescale efforts in the healthcare sector, STO has expanded its involvement in this area. Being a resourceful national business leader, our involvement goes a long way in ensuring the reach of quality medicine and Aasandha coverage to every citizen of this geographically scattered nation. Expansion of Supermart was completed in June. Structure of the new Umar Shopping Arcade building was completed this year and is on schedule to open in the 2nd Quarter of 2016. Our project to supply ready-mix concrete progressed well in preparation for launch early in 2016. I remain confident that with the contributions of our management team and our valuable employees we are on path to achieve what we have planned for 2016 and beyond. 5 Social Responsibility New Businesses Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) has always While we maintain ongoing efforts to strengthen our been and will remain a top priority for STO. We have core businesses, we are busy working to enter new developed strong CSR initiatives over the years. areas of business where we see ourselves making With the new CSR policy that came into effect the a difference that will benefit stakeholders and the previous year, our CSR efforts in 2015 had been public. In 2015 we made strides in our plan to enter more organized and balanced across regions and real estate. This is an area with immense potential sectors. One of our more well-known CSR efforts is due to land scarcity especially in the greater Malé market price stabilization of food items during the area. Housing is also a space where we can make a Holy Month of Ramadan. Our operation has become significant social impact as it is directly related to a wider yet more organized year to year and 2015 was pressing need of the general public. remarkable in this regard. Additionally, we have been working on feasibility We are proud to partner long-term with NGOs that studies and research into repacking and distribution do exceptional work in community empowerment as well of selected products. This is an area where we have as helping the less fortunate and people with disability. actually made huge success in the past and even This includes, for example, providing office space and spun off subsidiaries or formed partnerships. sponsoring trained specialists that work in very specific areas related to improving the lives of people with special needs. We have continued to provide donations to Next Two Decades deserving efforts from numerous NGOs that specialize in different areas of social work. Our evaluation of We celebrated our 51st anniversary in 2015. sponsorship proposals routinely weighs the CSR aspect Being part of this prestigious organization with its in addition to marketing opportunity. remarkable history for the past two decades has been a great honor. The organization has achieved several major milestones during its lifespan and it is Healthcare arguably the most successful and trusted business organization in the Country. I do not doubt the next When we embarked on the ‘all island pharmacy project’ two decades will see the organization grow far many shareholders raised concern over the potential beyond its national boundaries. cost and complexity of the project. However, we were able to execute this project with efficiency and beat the deadline by weeks. In October, we opened the last Key Message of the 177 pharmacies planned under the project. This project has created more than 500 new jobs in the atolls As a public company we cannot be focused solely on and trained over 400 new pharmacists. the bottom line. Our core vision is to serve the public. Seeing the potential to make a huge impact to Making essential goods and services accessible is an the quality of healthcare in the atolls, STO started important aspect of what we do. However, we keep a project to supply 50 paramedic ambulances to all our stakeholders interests at heart and continue the Ministry of Health for use in the atolls. We also to make utmost effort with our business strategies imported and completed installation of the very and streamlining operations in order to maximize the first Magnetic Resonance Imaging (MRI) machine benefits realized by our stakeholders. at IGMH. Parental Nutrition is another area STO embarked to advance in association with IGMH. We started a special project to build an efficient network for the supply of medical equipment, consumables and pharmaceuticals to the entire population as a significant step for the transformation of healthcare across the nation. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Infrastructure In 2015 we developed plans for infrastructure development. It is an important step in supporting our strategies for growth of our current businesses. It is crucial for our planned new ventures as well. 2016 is the year these efforts will begin to materialize. We have planned Ahmed Shaheer big investments in areas such as fuel transportation and Managing Director storage, food repacking, and real estate. 6 7 8 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 BUSINESS ENVIRONMENT The Economy Focus on core business According to International Monetory Fund (IMF), the We monitor opportunities and challenges in each global GDP increased by 3.1% in 2015, compared business segment and respond decisively to with 3.5% in 2014. The economic activity remained strengthen our position for long-term success. subdued. In the emerging economies, average Sales of fuel and lubricants is the core business growth rates are likely to remain depressed for the of STO group, contributing approximately 66% of fifth consecutive year, while a modest recovery revenue. During the year, revenue growth was continued in advanced economies. negatively impacted by the sharp fall in oil prices, In 2015, the political and economic situation but improvement in sales volume and cost efficacy of Maldives was observed to be relatively stable, helped to maintain operating margin. compared with recent years. A number of positive With changes in economic conditions and trends have developed and have had a significant government policies, we are focusing to expand our bearing on the economic performance and prospects markets in both local and international markets, while of the country, that play a major role in creating strengthening our operational and infrastructural conducive business environment. capabilities to raise sales volumes as demand grows. The real GDP growth for 2015 is expected to decrease to 4.8% from 6.5% in 2014, according to National Bureau of Statistics. Tourism sector experienced a further marked slowdown in 2015, with growth of only 1.3% compared with 11.5% in 2014, despite upbeat tourist arrivals globally and in Asia. While growth is expected to pick up modestly in the Europe and Japan, may help offset the effects of Chinese arrival slowdown in recent years. The economy is expected to strengthen in 2016, with real GDP growth picking up to around 6.4%, mainly driven by continued construction sector growth stemming from large infrastructure projects now underway. Average inflation in Male’, the capital, remained low at less than 2%, aided by the continued decline in global food and oil prices and low domestic fish prices during the year. Global oil prices have declined markedly since the third quarter of 2015, reflecting sustained increase in production by the members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC). 9 OUR BUSINESSES Segment Performance In 2015, STO Group continued to grow in all business segments. Although market conditions varied between the business segments, net revenue improved significantly in all segments except for fuel and lubricants. Sales growth in fuel and lubricants was negatively impacted by the fall in oil prices. Trading Gas Trading is the largest business segment in terms of This segment provides its customers with LPG for its offering under different product groups. These households and medical gas solution, essential to include food and beverages, home improvement, healthcare industry. Maldives Gas is the industry construction materials, regional sales and medical leader in gas supply and distribution solutions across services. multiple sectors, including resorts and restaurants. 2,080 28.4% 176 2.4% MILLION (MVR) MILLION (MVR) Net revenue Share of revenue Net revenue Share of revenue Fuel and Lubricants Insurance This segment comprises selling, distribution and Allied Insurance Company provides a wide range of marketing of petroleum products. The aim is to insurance coverage, specially designed to meet the provide clean and reliable petroleum products to its challenges of each market. This includes life insurance customers both in domestic and international market. and general insurance plans along with health, diving, travel, accident and third party motor insurance. 4,855 66.4% 188 2.6% STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 MILLION (MVR) MILLION (MVR) Net revenue Share of revenue Net revenue Share of revenue 10 TRADING For many years, STO’s development strategy has Continuing to Strengthen Growth been founded on creating long-term value. This longterm performance is based on constant growth of its In order to reach sales targets, the Group continues to businesses, a solid economic model and sustainable strengthen its position in the trading segment, expand strategy of development. in its high margin product categories, develop service, We expand our businesses, with its central and increase the offering of quality products. purpose to provide the necessary products and services The total revenue for trading segment increased required by our nation. We are providing critically by 30% to approximately MVR 2.1 billion, with important services for our nation by catering to the significant improvement in medical services. Revenue growing demands of the population. for medical services rose to 90%, mainly driven by Trading is the largest business segment in terms greater presence in each island and high value of its offering under different product groups. These equipment sales to medical sector in 2015. include food and beverage, home improvement, construction materials, regional sales and medical services. Net revenue (MVR), millions 2011 1,290 2012 1,403 2013 1,373 28.4% 2014 1,604 2015 2,080 Share of revenue 11 Cost Savings Share of Trading Revenue Measures were implemented to accelerate the customer services and streamline business process in across all the business units especially in Supermarket and Home improvement. All business units achieved significant improvements in terms of sales volume, income and operational reliability. During the year, strong emphasis was made on creating customer value and reduce costs. An extensive cost-reduction program was implemented across all business units. The efficiency program at home improvement and supermarket has led to Regional sales, 17% significant improvements in areas including sales Construction materials, 9.1% volume, cost savings, efficiency and customer service. The cost saving and employee productivity program Home improvement, 14% will continue in 2016 with a strong focus on further Food and beverages, 24.7% reduction of inventory, handling and transfer costs Medical services, 35.2% thereby reducing working capital requirement. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 12 CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS Through its construction business, STO designs and develops solution for construction industry. Its supply of quality materials, roofing sheets and cement solution enables customers to optimize the use of their resources. We have chosen to concentrate on high-growth regions and products 189 MILLION (MVR) where the Group has the best conditions for achieving growth and profitability. We are continuously striving for leading positions throughout the Net revenue country. The construction materials segment revenue amounted to MVR 189 million in 2015. The year was characterized by highly completive sales activities, where the Group market position was strengthened. In addition, new and potential areas to generate sales were identified, including resort 9.1% development and government infra-structure development projects. The Group has maintained strong operational focus and work intensively to structure and develop existing operations and to ensure the efficiency in the organization. Share of revenue Powermix Concrete Roofing Materials In December 2015, a whole new concrete mixing Roofing materials produced by Maldives Structural solution was launched under the brand ‘Powermix’ Products has a great reputation for manufacturing concrete. Introduction of specially designed mixing quality, durability among consumers, especially with vehicles enables to deliver ready mix concrete to premium products such as Colorbond and Zincalume. customer’s site. Concrete pumps, testing mechanism The new strategic direction was set to reach out to and chemicals required are also provided as a part of potential clients and consumers, giving priority to solution to mixing operation. customer specific solution. The enhanced operation The operation is designed to have positive and marketing aspect upgraded the Kuladek material impact on environment by reducing exposure to to BlueScope materials and quality thickness from hazardous dust and fumes generated, since there is 0.38mm to 0.40mm and rebranded it as Duradek. no requirement to handle cement and raw material at customer site. The initiative to introduce solutions and expansion in market segments will contribute to positive sales growth in the coming years and ahead. 13 14 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 HOME IMPROVEMENT STO is a one of the leading providers of home and electronic appliances, holds a strong position in Maldives, and offers a range of products for households, professional and business users. The Group continued to increase sales by launching new, innovative 292 MILLION (MVR) products in several price segments and under well-known brands. In addition to this the Group interacted with and developed close relationships with Net revenue customers and business partners. This enabled to generate a revenue of MVR 292 million which accounted to 14 % of trading revenue. During the year, the Group has supplied and supported several government and corporate projects, including installation of VRF air-condition system in Dharubaruge and Hanimaadhoo International Airport. 14% Share of revenue Brand and Product Launches Operational Excellence With growing middle class income group, leads to Home Improvement is constantly seeking to improve increasing demand for products with innovative its operations by connecting business to customers, design and performance. The focus is on the high shortening waiting time at stores and speeding volume product categories and introduction of global up delivery while making it more reliable. The brands in order to improve our long-term competitive long-standing focus on efficiency and cost control business model. benefited to achieve financial performance. During the year, Samsung brand was launched, A more strategic approach to marketing has with market leading smart TV’s and mobile phones. been in place, thus improving sales and achieving STO now commands a strong position throughout the sustainable competitive advantage. The range of country, particularly for our well-established brands Hitachi air-conditioners showed its highest market of Hitachi, Philips, Nippon and Makita. The objective share in recent years with 70 % sales growth, while is to consistently deliver high-quality products and Nippon paint was the second best-selling with 53% service that increase our customers’ productivity and growth in sales. The commitment to customers and competitiveness. keeping promises help always strive to exceed high expectation and growth. The service and maintenance performed by skilled technicians is an integral part of the offer. Service centers located both in Male’ and South region has the responsibility to service products, and provide technical support as well as service delivery and follow-up. In 2015, we have introduced customer feedback mechanism at Home Improvement and Service Centre. Customers are often engaged in discussions about their feedback in order to solve problems and to improve products and services. A number of key performance indicators have been established and are continuously followed up to ensure that customer satisfaction improves. We believe customer satisfaction and contribute to strengthening customer relations, the brand, as well as financial performance. 15 16 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 MEDICAL SERVICES As recognized leader in supplying essential drugs, healthcare equipment’s, STO provides best products and services to the pharmacies and hospitals in the Maldives. In 2015, through strong performance and strategic actions, we aimed to help improve people’s lives, through better healthcare. 731 MILLION (MVR) Beyond producing results, the Group engage more on constant optimization of operations. Through well-established pharmacies and stores Net revenue in the country, the objective is to constantly deliver essential drugs and other specialty products to customers. This is ensured through efficient and enhanced process integration, leading to continuous improvement of our service offer. 35% Share of revenue Solid Growth and Improved Services Offering New Products and Services For the year 2015, medical services business unit During the year, the Group started to offer a broad revenue grew by 90% in 2015 to exceed MVR 731 range of innovative diagnostic instrument systems million, as expected, mainly driven by increased and solutions for hospitals, laboratories and clinics. number of pharmacy stores and high value equipment It managed to supply a total of 54 ambulances to the sales to healthcare sector under different projects. health sector, under an MoU signed between STO The organizational structure was strengthened and Ministry of Health. Supply and installation of by creating a separate business unit to focus and MRI machine in IGM Hospital was another milestone facilitate regional pharmacies operation and drive achieved for the development of healthcare sector. efficiency and productivity. It is believed that structural This enabled public access to contemporary service, changes are important to create solid founder for completely covered under national insurance future growth. ‘Aasandha’. In addition during the year, the Group took a STO offers a broad range of pharmaceutical strong step in a new direction, adding a major new products under different brands and is the strong dimension to our competitive capability. It is an market player. To further increase market share, the achievement that, our services has been certified Group improved its offering by exclusive distributer under ISO 9001:2008, which is an assurance and agreements with leading pharmaceutical companies confidence to customer on improved quality services. including Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, Merck, Galderma and IPCA. Expanding its presence During the year, The Group took several actions in established pharmaceuticals business by building its geographic presence, strengthening its product portfolio, and increasing its focus on availability of products. ‘All Island Pharmacy’ project started in June 2014 has been completed successfully by October 2015, well ahead of its target date. With 177 additional pharmacies, the Group expects this segment to whiteness extra ordinary services, through the establishment of pharmacy in all islands and provide opportunities to better healthcare for all. 17 18 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FOOD AND BEVERAGE STO Supermart is determined to maximize its sales by retaining customers and providing wide varieties of products, at an affordable price in a favorable working environment for a healthy business in terms of customer services. The Group focus on serving customers by understanding and reaching 514 MILLION (MVR) out and helping to deliver best value. We provide varieties of high quality merchandise ranging from toiletries, canned foods, frozen foods, household Net revenue items and a number of other essential items and consumer goods. In the year 2015, we have provided good quality and internationally recognized brands for our customers. Supermarket sales including staple foods for 2015 amounted to MVR 514 million. This reflects the opening of modern and spacious supermarket giving 24.7% customer a whole new shopping experience. Innovations that create value for people and the environment while remaining cost efficient are key factors when it comes to differentiating our offering, creating growth and improving profitability. Share of revenue Strengthening the Products Mix Customer Surveys as a Tool for Improvement Through introduction of new brands, and with effective marketing campaigns, STO is well positioned Customer feedback is important to be able to offer to leverage the growth potential existing in mature better products and solutions and STO Supermart and emergent markets. The Group’s aim is to grow has methods to investigate customer satisfaction. A and strengthen its positions in both markets by, feedback survey conducted in 2015 shows that, store for example, broadening its offering of product attributes, convenience, merchandise assortments, categories, product ranges and services. During employee behavior are most important factors in the year, the Group introduced well-known brands, determining choice along with price. It concludes that, including Quickbury, Ariya, El-Sabah, B&W and Thai the emergence of supermarket segment, changes Choice, which helps to penetrate and capture new consumer behavior of Maldivians. markets. Furthermore, marketing strategies were based on market research focusing on achieving reasonable profit and sustaining in the market. The marketing campaigns were focused mostly on peak seasons like Ramadan and year-end which provides opportunity to maximize sales growth. The Group’s operations interact with numerous different customers, markets and needs. We monitor the market opportunities and challenges in each product to determine how best to position the company to long-term success. 19 REGIONAL SALES Regional sales business unit aims to distribute products and services to the customers in atolls. At present, there are 13 stores which operates under regional sales department. In 2015, we drive our regional business forward by strategies set to focus on each atoll rather than individual islands. 354 MILLION (MVR) Despite the challenges and setbacks, this sector revenue totaled MVR 354 million. Sales trips conducted to islands helped to introduce new products, give Net revenue information and conduct marketing campaigns. This segment is organized to serve regional market needs in the best possible way. Focus was on containing costs and strengthening our regional business, in order to improve sales and profitability. In addition, the Group was able to deliver goods and services at competitive prices, particularly high 17% growth markets of construction and home improvement. A special importance was given to uninterrupted supply of much needed staple food stock and supermarket items in the regions. Share of revenue STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 20 21 22 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 FUEL AND The fuel and lubricants comprises selling, distribution and marketing of petroleum products. The focus is to provide clean and reliable petroleum products to LUBRICANTS customers. The Group continued to cater growing demand of domestic and international market. Over the years, the Group has developed distinctive capabilities in fully-integrated fuel and lubricants business and have built a strong reputation as a trusted partner and reliable supplier. The Group has earned loyalty of many strategic business customers including, State Electric Company and Maldives Airports Company, whom we have been serving for several years successfully. Performance Fuel and lubricants reported a 33% decrease in revenue for 2015, driven by decrease in fuel price. Global fuel prices have been on the lowest in four years and December saw fuel prices dip to its lowest. The current market trend is expected to continue as some oil majors continue to pump more into the supply stream. In November 2015, the average production of OPEC had increased to 31.70 million barrels per day while global economic growth remains still. Distribution Network Infrastructure With the initiative to improve Development operational safety and mitigate Fuel Supplies Maldives (FSM) is the risks, designing a whole new fire Group’s marketing and distribution Despite challenging market protection system for the terminal arm for petroleum products. situation, we continue to strive incorporating the latest industry The company’s strategy for fuel for growth, primarily by way of standards and technology is a distribution was reconsidered investments to achieve effective priority. The ambition is to become to enable large volume local market positioning and continuous the safest terminal in the region. distributors to engage in further improvement to offering services. Completion of Thilafushi Boat expanding the network. The aim is K. Funadhoo oil terminal expansion Yard Slipway project by FSM was a to expand the network to reach the project started during the year remarkable achievement in 2015. smaller volume consumers through would expand the storage capacity This will not only contribute to local distributers. In addition, the by 28,000 tons. The project is maintain thevessels and fleets in retail business drives the sales of designed to improve ancillary good condition, but it is a major total fuel segment of the Group, infrastructure to accommodate step towards providing full-fledged providing easy fill convenience bigger tankers. Additionally, the commercial boat yard services. that delivers exceptional customer Group is in the process of acquiring experience at FSM stations. a new oil tanker, which is expected to be available for service by the time, expansion project is complete in 2017. Net revenue (MVR), millions 2011 7,897 2012 7,614 66.4% 2013 9,481 2014 7,246 2015 4,855 Share of revenue 23 GAS The Gas segment provides its customers with LPG for households and medical gas solution essential to healthcare industry that deliver performance and energy efficiency. Its unmatched networks of distribution units and authorized agents throughout the country enable the Group to supply gases to almost all the islands and guarantee customers maximum reliability and uninterrupted supply of gas over the long term. Maldives Gas has emerged as an industry leader in gas supply and distribution solutions across multiple sectors, including resorts and restaurants. The Group delivers customer satisfaction based on close relationship and mutual trust reflected through its commitment to moving forward. The distribution network covers more than 95% of hospitals in the country. Other gases supplied across the Maldives, are Industrial Oxygen, Acetylene, Argon, Helium, Carbon dioxide and Nitrous Oxide. To deliver customer expectations, the Group introduce innovation and technological advances in products and services, and brought new addition to the market, supplying LPG cylinders of various sizes named ‘Luifulhi’, a non-explosive, light weighted and sophisticated gas cylinder. Performance Distribution Growth and Development Year 2015, has been a costThe Group currently owns and effective, efficient year for Gas operates total 4 distribution Focus and continuous segment. The Group reported terminals located in Male’ region. improvement is vital to growth revenue of MVR 176 million, K. Thilafushi terminal is the filling strategy. The Group believe in an 6% increase compared to facility and main gas provider improving operational efficiency previous year. While the marketing across the Maldives and also and competitiveness for growth activities increased with economic functions as the manufacturing in gas revenue and market conditions improving and facility for oxygen. The distribution position. To develop an effective business confidence growing, the unit ensures the door step delivery risk management plan, the Group segment concentrated its effort to every customer. In order to has initiated a study to mobilize in improving the market share, cater the growing corporate storage expansion project to building the corporate image market, the Group has constructed Southern atolls with addition to and brand identity. The Group a four-storey building which will 1500 MT capacity. formulates strategic business plan soon be the business front office During the year, the Group that drives operating performance, of the company. started installation of oxygen plants competitiveness and optimize K. Villimale’ distribution unit, in IGM Hospital and K. Hulhumale’ return to shareholders. established during the year was to Hospital. The preservation and ensure constant supply to every functioning of these plants will be household with no disputes. looked after by Maldives Gas. STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Net revenue (MVR), millions 2011 134 2012 152 2.4% 2013 92 2014 166 2015 176 Share of revenue 24 25 26 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 INSURANCE The strength and success of insurance segment is the result of experience, innovative products and excellent service. The target customer range is diverse and well spread across the country, from small fishing boats to multinational resort operators. Over the years, the Group has offered several innovative products and superior services to cater diverse and dynamic markets in the Maldives. The Group provides a wide range of insurance coverage, specially designed to meet the challenges of each market that varies into many categories, mainly life insurance and general insurance plans including health, diving, travel, accident and third party motor insurance. Allied Insurance Company is among the largest financial institutions and the best insurance brand in the country with a 100% local management. The insurance industry of the Maldives is an oligopoly, where few large firms dominate the market and owns almost 60% of the total market share. Performance Meeting Challenges The Group insurance revenue The external environment of assistance to government, increased by 31.5% to MVR the year 2015 was appeared to regulatory and law enforcement 188 million in 2015. Aggressive be quite challenging, reflecting authorities. marketing and selling techniques specific political, regulatory and Prospective opportunities in used during the year made economic conditions. Difficult the vicinity along with respective positive contribution to the market conditions and global laws mandating insurance of revenue trend. In 2015, the economic growth slowdown may risks such as fire, natural perils, Group successfully entered into materially and adversely affect theft, and burglary are related to several business contracts and earnings, and financial conditions. buildings and marine vessels. activities including new resorts. Improved profitability for insurance The Group will continue The Group signed an MoU with sector is somewhat subdued initiatives to modernize technology Maldives Immigration to exclusively as many challenges remain, for and infrastructure, implement best provide expatriate insurance to example low investment returns practices to improve speed and all expatriates working in the and weak regulatory environment. quality of services. Maldives. The Group carefully engage challenges and create opportunities by providing awareness on insurance products, differentiate markets, reaching people in the atolls and providing Net revenue (MVR), millions 2011 136 2012 124 2.6% 2013 166 2014 143 2015 188 Share of revenue 27 28 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW Revenue Profit for the Year and Earnings Per Share Revenue for the Group declined by 20.3% in 2015 amounted to MVR 7,313 million, as against MVR 9,171 Profit for the year amounted to MVR 435 million (2014: million in the previous year. Revenue were adversely MVR 480 million), corresponding to MVR 382 (2014: impacted by lower fuel prices, while improved MVR 424) in earnings per share. revenue from trading, insurance and gas had a positive impact. Fuel and lubricants as the Group’s main business Group Key figures continued to show a decline in revenue due to a fall in fuel prices. Fuel revenue declined by 33%, trading MVR, million 2015 2014 in wholesales and retails improved by 30%, insurance improved by 31.5% and gas improved by 6%. The Revenue 7,313 9,171 improvement was mainly a result of new products, Gross profit 1,505 1,390 and intense marketing and promotion activities. Operating profit 678 761 Gross Profit and Operating Profit Profit before tax 520 573 Profit for the year 435 480 Gross profit for 2015 increased to MVR 1,505 million (2014: MVR 1,390 million), corresponding to 21% of Earnings per share, MVR 382 424 revenue. Improved sourcing, lower purchase cost for products and cost efficiency measures contributed to Net asset per share, MVR 2,693 2,009 the improvement in gross profit. Net cash flow from operating activities 381 19 Operating profit amounted to MVR 678 million (MVR 761 million), decrease was as expected due to Return on equity, % 21.4 29.2 increase in employee cost attributable to medical segment expansion and decrease in other operating Net debt/equity ratio 1.3 1.6 income as compared to 2014. Dividend per share, MVR 57 76 Profit before tax for fuel & lubricants, Insurance and gas contributed strongly to the Group results Interest cover ratio 3.6 3.4 for 2015, while trading segment reported a positive development. 12000 600 450 400 10000 500 350 8000 400 300 250 6000 300 200 4000 200 150 100 2000 100 50 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Revenue in million (MVR) Profit for the year in million (MVR) Earnings per share (MVR) 29 Net Finance Cost Cash used in investing activities increased to MVR Net finance cost for 2015 decreased to MVR 167 281 million (2014: MVR -77 million). This was primarily million (2014: MVR 196 million). The improvement is for additions to property, plant and equipment, mainly mainly due to lower interest rate on borrowing and due to ongoing Radisson hotel construction project restructure of bank overdraft facilities and loans held and construction of former Umar Shopping Arcade by the Group and reduction in exchange loss for the building. Cash generated from financing activities year. decreased to MVR 169 million (2014: MVR 179 million) Taxes Financial Position Total income tax expense for 2015 amounted to MVR In 2015, group equity increased to MVR 2,211 million, 84.6 million (2014: MVR 92.6 million), corresponding (2014: MVR 1,860 million), which corresponds to to an effective tax rate of 16.3% (2014: 16.2%). In Earnings Per Share of MVR 382 (2014: MVR 424). addition, the Group paid GST and withholding tax as Return on equity was 21.4% (2014: 29.2%) part of tax related expenses. The Group also paid Net debt amounted to MVR 2,804 million (2014: MVR other taxes and levies, such as royalties, lease rent 2,931 million), representing gearing of 55.9% (2014: and fees that are required by statutory laws and 61.2%). The decreasing gearing ratio of the Group regulations. resulted primarily due to increase in equity by virtue of profit generated in the current year. During the year, MVR 1,063 million in loans Cash Flow and borrowings were repaid and new loans and borrowings including corporate bond were raised Net cash generated in operating activities in with MVR 1,256 million. The bond issued amounted to 2015 increased by MVR 362 million to MVR 381 MVR 539.7 million with a maturity period of 8 years, million (2014: MVR 19 million). The strong cash flow carrying interest of 5.25% per annum. At year-end, generated was due to improvement in working capital the average interest rate for the group’s total interestchanges, mainly driven by improved debt recovery. bearing borrowings was 7.93% (2014: 8.21%). Trade payables and inventories developed steadily in relation to net revenue. 400 350 2500 35 300 30 250 2000 25 200 1500 20 150 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 100 15 1000 50 10 0 500 5 -50 -100 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Net operating cash flow Equity in million (MVR) in million (MVR) Return on equity (%) 30 SHARE PERFORMANCE Ownership structure The share capital structure of the Company remained unchanged. The majority of the share capital as of December 2015 is owned by Government of Maldives amounting to 81.6%. The remaining 18.4% share is owned by the general public. No single party other than the Government directly or indirectly, owned more than 5% of the shares of the Company. The nominal value of the share is MVR 50 and each share entitles the holder to one vote at the Annual General Meeting. All shares entitle holders to an equal dividend. Dividend Trading Volume During the year, MVR 85.6 million The reasonable level of The STO share is listed on was paid as dividend for the dividend reflects, the Board’s Maldives Stock Exchange (MSE). year 2014, where dividend per confidence in the Groups During 2015, a total 547 shares share was MVR 76.00 (2013: business and is consistent with were traded compared to 292 24 per share, MVR 27 million), the objective to have disciplined during 2014. The highest price and the same was approved by balance between availability of quoted was MVR 980.00 while the shareholders in the Annual capital to invest and return to the lowest was MVR 400.00, and General Meeting held on 29th May shareholders. the weighted average of MVR 2015. The Annual General Meeting 472.00. The market capitalization The Board of Directors for 2015 will be held on 04th June at year-end 2015 was MVR 563.5 proposes a divided of MVR 57 per 2016 at Kurumba Maldives. million. share for 2015. This is equivalent to a total dividend payment of ownership structure MVR 64.2 million. Share trading data: Government 81.6% MVR 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Public 18.4 % Highest 980 550 510 450 450 80 20 Lowest 400 400 360 350 300 70 18 16 60 14 Weighted average 472 451 411 387 390 50 12 40 10 30 8 No. of trades 58 9 41 17 14 6 20 4 10 2 No. of shares traded 547 292 520 346 192 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Last trading price 500 400 380 400 450 Dividend per share (MVR) Dividend yield (%) No of shares issued 1126910 1126910 1126910 1126910 1126910 Market capitalization (million) 563.5 450.8 428.2 450.8 507.1 31 32 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE REPORT State Trading Organization Plc. and its subsidiaries are committed to maintaining a high standard in complying with the Corporate Governance Code of Capital Market Development Authority (CMDA). STO as a group has complied with most of principles and guidelines set out in the Corporate Governance Code. Where there have been exceptions, it has been explained further in this report. Throughout the year the Board focused on instilling the governance principles not only in the parent company, but also a high emphasis was given to instill the good governance principles across the Group. Hence, this report describes the corporate governance practices that were in place throughout the financial year ended 31st December 2015. The Board Board Composition and Board Committees Guidance The primary function of the Board As suggested by the Nomination of Directors is to provide effective The Board comprises of seven and Remuneration Committee and leadership and direction to enhance directors as of 31st December by mutual consent of the Board, the long-term value of the Group to its 2015. Excluding the Managing a new committee was formed shareholders and other stakeholders. Director and Mr. Ibrahim Ziyath, under the name of Risk Committee. Throughout the year 2015, the all directors are non-executive Risk committee was formed with Board oversaw the business affairs members. This also includes the the prime purpose of assisting of the Group. This included the Chairman of the Board. All the Nonthe Board in its oversight and overall responsibility of reviewing Executive Directors are believed management of key risks as well the strategic plans and performance to fit the independent directors as establishing the frameworks, objectives, financial plans and annual requirements described in the guidelines, policies and process budget, key operational initiatives, CMDA CG code where neither a for identifying, monitoring and major fundings, investment proposals, Director nor his/her immediate mitigating risks. Though risk financial performance reviews, and family members during the past management was addressed governance practices. year has held a key position in earlier by the Audit Committee, the All the Non-Executive Directors the Company and none of their Board decided to create a separate on the Board are considered by immediate family members have risk committee in order to give the Nomination and Remuneration had any substantial finance more importance to this area of Committee of the Board, to be dealings with the Company. governance. independent directors. No director Each year, the Nomination and The Board has 4 board has held directorship in more than Remuneration Committee reviews committees with the newly three public listed companies over the the size and composition of the formed Risk Committee. The year. This ensured that all directors Board and committees, and the other committees include Audit devoted sufficient time and efforts to skills and core competencies of its Committee, Nomination and their duties. members to ensure an appropriate Remuneration Committee and None of the directors have balance of skills, experience Corporate Governance and served on the Board for a period and gender exists. The Board Compliance Committee. The exceeding six years from the date considers that its directors possess membership, responsibilities of their appointment. However the the necessary competencies and and activities of each of these Board also recognizes that most of knowledge to lead and govern committees are further described the current Board of Directors have the Group effectively. The Board in this report. Since Risk Committee worked together in previous terms. also believes that the current is a newly formed committee, a This meant that the directors had size provides sufficient diversity separate report for risk committee developed a significant insight into for efficient decision making. is not included in this report. the Group’s business and operations, The directors’ academic and The remuneration report of the thus providing significant contribution professional qualifications are Nomination and Remuneration to the Board as a whole. presented in pages 61 to 62 of the Committee is available on page 43. annual report. 33 The Nomination and Remuneration The Chairman: The Managing Director is the Committee is combined for the highest ranking executive officer purpose of expediency, since Is responsible for leadership of the Group. The Managing majority of same directors are of the Board and is pivotal in Director is responsible for: entrusted with the functions of creating the conditions for both committees. Membership and overall effectiveness of the Running the day-to-day performance of these committees Board, board committees and business of the Company, are reviewed annually. Each individual directors. within the authorities delegated committee has a set of guidelines to him by the Board. in the form of charters, approved Takes a leading role in the by the Board and signed by the Company’s drive to achieve Ensuring implementation of policies members. and maintain a high standard and strategy across the Group as of corporate governance with set by the Board. the full support of the directors, Conflict of Interest company secretary and Procedure Day-to-day management management. of the executive and senior The Company has a Board management team. Approves the agenda for the approved Conflict of Interest Board meeting and ensures Policy for the Directors. As part Leading the development of sufficient allocation of time for of this process, the Directors senior management within the thorough discussion of agenda must disclose any company, Group with the aim of assisting items. association or other affiliation the training and development where he/she and his/her of suitable individuals for immediate family members Promotes an open environment succession hold a significant interest. for debates and ensures NonThis information is reviewed Executive Directors are able and tallied by the Registrar to speak freely and contribute Ensuring that the Chairman of Companies to confirm the effectively. is kept appraised in a timely information provided. As such, manner, of issues faced by the there were no known substantial Group and of any important or material third party transactions Exercises control over the events and developments. made by the Directors or the quality, quantity and timeliness Management, during the year. of information flow between the Board and management. Leading the development of the Group’s future strategy including Chairman and identifying and assessing risks Provides close oversight, and opportunities for the growth Managing Director guidance, advice and of its business and reviewing leadership to the Managing The Chairman and the Managing the performance of its existing Director and management. Director roles in the Company are businesses. assumed by different individuals. The Chairman, Mr. Ahmed Niyaz, Plays a pivotal role in fostering is an independent Non-Executive constructive dialogue between Director, while the Managing shareholders, the Board and Director, Mr. Ahmed Shaheer is an management at AGMs and Executive Director. other shareholder meetings. There is a clear division of STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 responsibilities between the Chairman and the Managing Director, which ensures a balance of power and authority at the top of the Company. 34 Role of the NonBoth the majority shareholder Executive Directors (the Government) and the minority shareholders are given The Board and management fully 21/21 07/07 21 days of notice to submit their appreciate an effective and robust candidates. board, whose members engage in open and constructive debate The nominees for public Ahmed Adam and challenge management on share representatives are Niyaz Azim its assumptions and proposals, is then evaluated according fundamental to good corporate to the Directors Evaluation governance. Policy. The prime purpose of For this to happen, the this evaluation is to identify 21/21 21/21 Board and Non-Executive the skills, knowledge and Directors in particular, must experience of the candidates be kept well informed of the and to see how it would Group’s businesses and be strengthen the existing Board. Ahmed Amir knowledgeable about the Shaheer Mansoor industries the Group operates in. Nomination and Remuneration To ensure that Non-Executive Committee also meets with Directors are well supported the shortlisted candidates to 19/21 19/21 by accurate, complete and assess and to further evaluate timely information, they have the candidate. sufficient access to management information. The Board has also Abdul Hadi Aishath Nomination and Remuneration adopted processes to ensure that Hussain Fulhu Rafiyya Committee recommends the Non-Executive Directors have candidates who meets the sufficient time and resources to required criteria to the Board. perform their functions effectively. 21/21 11/13 In 2015, 5 candidates from the Process of Re-election public shareholders submitted and Appointment of their name for directorship. Mohamed Out of which Nomination and Ibrahim New Directors Farshath Ziyath Remuneration Committee The Board, in particular the shortlisted 4 candidates who met Nomination and Remuneration the required criteria. As such Committee has put in place a these names were announced The Board is confident that formal process for the selection during the AGM and voting took the directors made adequate of new directors to increase the place to elect the member for the time available to give sufficient transparency of the nomination seat of public shareholder. attention to the board discussions. process in identifying and Attendance is expressed as the evaluating nominees for directors. number of meetings attended out The process is summarized as Board Meetings of the number eligible to attend. below: The Board of Directors held 21 meetings during the year 2015. In addition, the committees altogether held 23 committee meetings. The chart indicates director’s attendance to the meetings: 35 Access to Information The management continuously Director Remuneration puts an effort to improve the Management recognizes the information flow to the Directors. Details on director remuneration importance of ensuring the flow As such a web based portal has is provided in the remuneration of complete, adequate and timely recently been developed to be report of Nomination and information to the Directors on used among the directors to Remuneration Committee. Refer to an ongoing basis, to enable them facilitate an easy mechanism to page 43 for this information. to make informed decisions share and access information in a and discharge their duties and secure environment. responsibilities. Board Development The Company Secretariat takes the responsibility in Board Performance Though no new director was ensuring that this information appointed in the past year, the is passed to the directors. The The Board carries out an annual Company has a comprehensive Company Secretariat also assists evaluation for assessing the orientation program designed the Chairman in ensuring good effectiveness of the Board as a for newly appointed directors information flows within the Board, whole, its committees and the to familiarize them with the its board committees and between contribution by each individual business and governance policies. management and the Nondirector to the effectiveness of the The orientation program gives Executive Directors. Board. directors an understanding of the To allow sufficient time to The Board continuously Group’s business to enable them prepare for the meetings, all Board looks at various reports and to assimilate into their new roles. and board committee papers evaluation results to see and The program also allows the new are distributed to directors well measure its performance director to get acquainted with in advance of the meeting via level. The CMDA Corporate senior management, thereby email to director’s company email Governance guideline is one facilitating board interactions addresses. Any additional material such benchmark which is referred and independent access to or information requested by the when improving the performance them. As part of the Company’s directors are promptly furnished. of the Board. During the year continuing education for directors, Management’s proposals to 2015, Corporate Governance a total of 26 different training the Board for approval provide Committee also discussed on the programs were attended. These background and explanatory steps being taken to implement trainings focused on areas such information such as facts, the recommendations given in as corporate risk management, resources needed, risk analysis the corporate governance audit corporate governance, business and mitigation strategies, financial conducted by Columbus Circle continuity, strategic planning, impact, regulatory implications, Governance (an independent leadership and corporate finance. expected outcomes, conclusions firm based in Malaysia). While and recommendations. the Board and the management In order to keep directors has adhered to many Directors Shareholding abreast on the Group’s recommendations suggested, performance, management also deadlines have already been The Directors have the right to shares management reports with set on meeting the rest of the subscribe for securities in the the Board. These reports include suggested recommendations. Company. However, they do not budgets, forecasts, quarterly On top of such group audits, have the right to subscribe for financial reports and monthly a high emphasis is also given to securities of the subsidiaries. management accounts. individual director’s evaluation. As Director’s shareholding as at 31st In addition, the Chief Internal such, every director is evaluated December 2015 is as follows: Auditor also provides the Audit and the results are discussed and STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Committee, and where necessary endorsed by the Board. to the Board, with audit reports. These reports include, annual audit plans, fraud risk assessments and findings from such audits. 36 Direct Accountability, Ahmed Niyaz 1 Approved to open an Financial and Audit electronics showroom in the Ahmed Shaheer 50 The Group recognizes the new building coming up at importance of providing the former Umar Shopping Arcade Ibrahim Ziyath 0 Board with accurate and relevant site information on a timely basis. Amir Mansoor 0 Hence, Board members receive Approved the expansion timely financial and business Mohamed Farshath 50 project for fuel operation reports from management. Abdul Hadi Hussain Such reports keep the Board 60 members informed on the Group’s Fulhu Governance and Risk performance, position and consist Aishath Rafiyya 0 of the consolidated profit and Approved company’s monthly, loss accounts, analysis of sales, quarterly and annual results operating profit, pre-tax profit and Indirect budget variances. Approved the budget for the The Board reviews and Ahmed Niyaz 0 year 2015 approves both the quarterly reports Ahmed Shaheer 125 and annual results before it is Proposed and approved the released to the public. In presenting Ibrahim Ziyath 0 these results, the Board aims dividend for the year 2014 Amir Mansoor 0 to provide shareholders with a Reviewed and approved balanced and clear assessment of Mohamed Farshath 0 structural changes to both the Group’s position and prospects. management and the Board The Board also ensures timely and Abdul Hadi Hussain composition full disclosure of these reports. 220 Fulhu The Board also reviews A Board Risk Committee was legislations and regulatory Aishath Rafiyya 0 formed compliance reports from management to ensure that Formed a Code of Conduct the Group complies with the Board Activities on Governance for the Group relevant regulatory requirements. companies This includes CMDA Corporate During the year, key activities and Governance Code, Listing Rules, decisions made by the Board of Securities Act, CDOI Regulation and Directors include: the Company’s Act. Performance Monitoring For the financial year under Board performance results review, the Managing Director and Strategic the Chief Financial Officer have were discussed and endorsed by the Board provided assurance to the Board Discussed the Board Directive on the integrity of the financial Action Plan statements for the Company and A Group companies meeting the Group. The Board, to the best was held to brainstorm of its knowledge, confirms that the Discussed on the directives and discuss on the ways to financial statements for the period provided by His Excellency strengthen business as a group from 1st January to 31st December President Abdulla Yameen Abdul Gayyoom at the 2015 has been prepared in Decided to evaluate the accordance with applicable Company’s 50th Anniversary performance of subsidiary accounting standards and gives function boards a true and fair view of the Group Approved to establish STO and the Company’s consolidated Reviewed compliance on the and separate assets, liabilities, Bio-medical Service Center Code of Conduct for Group financial position and results of companies operations. Approved “Power Mix Concrete” batching project 37 Internal Controls System for Raising Independent Audit Concern The company has a wellThe external auditor is appointed established in-house audit Appropriate mechanisms by the shareholders, during the function. The internal audit is an are in place to enable AGM on proposal of the Board. independent function within the employees, management or The appointment of the external Group. The Head of Internal Audit other stakeholders to raise auditor is reviewed every year by (Chief Internal Auditor) reports any concerns, whether on a the Audit Committee. The Audit directly to the Audit Committee and confidential basis or otherwise, Committee advises the Board on administratively to the Managing of any non-compliance or fraud the results of the management Director. or other misdemeanor within letter. The Board of Directors The primary role of internal or to the Company. STO has welcomes the impartial opinion audit function is to assist the implemented a Fraud Response and recommendations of the Board and senior management Policy and Whistleblower Policy. appointed independent auditor to meet the strategic and The Company has established and strive to improve the findings operational objectives by providing a whistleblower facility for the pointed out in the auditor’s report. an independent and objective employees through the intranet evaluation of the adequacy and and a ‘Raise your concern’ effectiveness of risk management, facility for other stakeholders Dividend controls and governance through the website. In processes. The Company’s internal addition, the Company has also The Board declared MVR 76 per audit approach is aligned with implemented a Disciplinary and share for 2014 and the same was the risk management framework Grievance Committee and a approved in the Annual General by focusing on key financial, Sexual Harassment Prevention Meeting held in the year 2015. operational, compliance and Committee that looks into information technology risks. concerns and grievances raised As such, 2015 audit plan was by the staff. Future Outlook reviewed and approved by the Audit Committee. A number of The Board is confident that it process audits, special audits and Annual General has the right mix to provide surprise audits were conducted Meeting (AGM) the necessary support to the throughout the year. Quarterly management to implement the meetings were conducted by The Annual General Meeting of strategic and business objectives the Audit Committee where the shareholders (AGM) reviews the of the Group. Hence the Board Chief Internal Auditor presents the annual report and decides on the is highly optimistic on what the internal audit findings to the Board. adoption of the financial statements future holds for this valuable The Audit Committee together and the dividend proposal, as well company. There is no doubt that with the management, always as the discharge and appointment the Board will continue to strive to ensures that internal auditors have of members to the Board. pursue the long term vision of the unfettered access to all the Group’s The AGM is convened by public Company. documents, records, properties notice. The AGM agenda, the notes and personnel. Furthermore, to the agenda and the procedure On behalf of the Board of Directors: the Chief Financial Officer also for attendance – including the event reported on the Financials and date and the procedure for granting other related information, to the a proxy to a third party – are Audit Committee. published in advance and on the The Board is confident that Company’s website. the system of risk management All resolutions passed at STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 and internal controls in place the meeting will be through Ahmed Niyaz within the Group is adequate show of hands, unless 10% of the Chairman and effective in addressing shareholders of the Company the material risks in its current request for a poll vote. business environment, including The AGM for 2014 was held financial, operational, compliance on 29th May 2015 at Hotel Jen. and information technology risks. Ahmed Shaheer Managing Director 38 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE & COMPLIANCE COMMITTEE REPORT The Corporate Governance Committee consisted of 3 Non-Executive members and was chaired by Mr. Mohamed Farshath. On 17th November 2015 board committees were restructured, and Mr. Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu was appointed as a 4th member to the committee. All the members of the committee are deemed to be independent. The committee held 4 meetings in 2015. The attendance record of the members is shown below. 04/04 04/04 04/04 01/01 Mohamed Amir Mansoor Aishath Rafiyya Abdul Hadi Farshath Hussain Fulhu The Committee has the authority to take independent Develop and implement an orientation and professional advice on matters covered by its educational program for new directors to the terms of reference at the Company’s expense. The Board Committee charter is annually reviewed by and signed by the Directors. The Committee Chairman reports the outcomes of the meeting to the Board, Develop a process for assessing the effectiveness regularly. The Committee’s effectiveness is reviewed of the Company, Board, individual Directors and its on an annual basis as part of the Board’s performance committees and ensure that the Board conducts evaluation process. these evaluations annually Key Duties Ensure that Board and its committees review its charters annually Develop and monitor the Company’s overall Develop and ensure implementation of a conflict approach to corporate governance issues, of interest disclosure policy for the Directors and implement, administer, and continue to develop employees of the Company a system of corporate governance within the Company Ensure that an appropriate business code of ethics Undertake an annual review of corporate is established and reviewed necessarily for the governance issues and practices for the Company Company and make recommendations for improvements where necessary Ensure that appropriate methods are being established for the stakeholders to submit their Advise the Board or any of its committees on recommendations and inquiries to the necessary corporate governance issues regulatory bodies in the Company 39 Main Activities of 2015 Developed a Group Corporate Governance The Corporate Governance Committee focused on guideline for the first time in the Company’s history. further strengthening the governance aspects of Attended the queries submitted by the Group on the Group. Unlike previous years a high importance the Code of conduct was given to pass down the same good governance practices of the parent company to its subsidiary companies as well. The Committee also discussed the Discussed the CMDA CG compliance form outcomes by both the audits conducted throughout the year and took actions to adopt the suggested Discussed the outcome of Corporate Governance recommendations. Audit Report Conclusion Director Training Policy was revised The Committee is satisfied with the activities carried Discussions were made on the Directorship out during the year. Evaluation Policy – to include a section on Board Diversity and recommendations were given to NR On behalf of the Corporate Governance and Committee Compliance Committee: Discussed on the steps being taken to implement the recommendations given in the Corporate Governance Audit conducted by Columbus Circle Governance and Internal Audit Discussed on the form drafted to evaluate compliance by subsidiary boards on the Group Companies Code of Conduct enforced on them by STO Board Discussed on the form drafted for the evaluation of Mohamed Farshath subsidiary boards and its members. Chairman STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 40 NOMINATION & REMUNERATION COMMITTEE REPORT The Nomination and Remuneration Committee consisted of 4 non-executive members and was chaired by Mr. Amir Mansoor. On 17th November 2015, with the changes to the board committees, Ms. Aishath Rafiyya was appointed as the Chairperson. All the members of the committee are deemed to be independent. The committee held 9 meetings in 2015. The attendance record of the members of the committee is shown below. 09/09 08/09 07/09 09/09 Amir Mansoor Aishath Rafiyya Mohamed Abdul Hadi Farshath Hussain Fulhu *Mr. Mohamed Farshath neither participated in the two (2) meetings held to interview the directorship candidates nor did he participate in any of its discussions Key Duties The Committee has the authority to take independent Develop a policy on employee remuneration professional advice on matters covered by its and fixing the structure and the amount of terms of reference at the Company’s expense. The remuneration packages of individual directors Committee charter is annually reviewed by and and general employees of the Company. When signed by the Directors. The Committee Chairman setting this policy and structure, no director or reports the outcomes of the meeting to the Board, manager is involved in any decisions as to their regularly. The Committee’s effectiveness is reviewed own remuneration. In determining such policy, on an annual basis as part of the Board’s performance the committee shall take into account all factors evaluation process. which it deems necessary including relevant legal and regulatory requirement, the provisions and recommendations of the CMDA CG Code and associated guidelines Review the ongoing appropriateness and relevance of the remuneration policy 41 Major Activities of 2015 Discussed and approved HR policy for Board Approve the design of and determine targets for, presentation any performance related pay schemes operated by the Company and approve the total annual Discussed on changes to Travel policy payments made under such schemes Evaluated, interviewed and made Determine the policy for, and scope of, pension recommendations on public directorship arrangements for the Company as required by law candidates to the Board Ensure that contractual terms of termination Changes to the Executive structure and the and any of such payments made are fair to the management were discussed and approved individuals and the Company Review discussions were held on the Oversee any major changes in employee benefit Remuneration Policy structures throughout the Company Review discussions where held on the Directorship Regularly review the structure, size and Evaluation Policy to include a section on Board composition (including the skills, knowledge, Diversity in the Policy experience and diversity) of the Board and make recommendations to the Board and relevant regulators with regard to any changes Conclusion Give full consideration to succession planning for The Committee is satisfied with the activities directors and other senior executives in the course carried out during the year. of its work, taking into account the challenges and opportunities facing the Company, the skills and On behalf of the Nomination & Remuneration expertise needed for the Board and management Committee: in the future Be responsible for identifying candidates to fill board vacancies and nominate them for the approval of the Board as and when they arise Ensure that all directors disclose any business STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 interests that may result in a conflict of interest with the Company Aishath Rafiyya Chairperson Review the Board performance evaluation processes from time to time 42 REMUNERATION REPORT Pursuant to applicable regulations, this report which is approved by the Board of Directors at the proposal of the Nomination and Remuneration Committee, defines and illustrates: Policy adopted by the organization for the remuneration of Directors, indicating the guidelines of the Remuneration Policy The remuneration paid in 2015 for the Board of Directors The Company’s Remuneration Policy is established in line with the most recent edition of the Governance Code for listed companies. The remuneration of the Executive Directors is set in accordance with the salary structure inspected by the Nomination and Remuneration Committee and approved by the Board of Directors. The Committee had further last made its recommendations to the salary structure of the Managing Director in 2013. No changes to the package has been brought since then. The remuneration of the Directors is set by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting, based on the recommendation of the Board. Remuneration Policy The Company’s remuneration Service contracts – there are policy is formulated to attract no specific service contracts The remuneration policy contains and retain high caliber agreed between the Company the following Guidelines: executives and to motivate and the Executive Directors them to develop and implement other than the employment At least half the Board should the Company’s business contract for the job comprise of Non-Executive strategy in order to optimize Directors with majority of such long term shareholder value Other benefits – are provided directors being independent creation as per the benefits list approved by the Board. Non-Executive Directors shall All employee remuneration This include transportation, be remunerated by way of fees comprises of 2 basic principles, insurance and discount benefits paid, including fees paid in i.e. fixed and performance from the Company recognition of their membership based components on the Board and its subAnnual bonus – all Executive committees The Company has a systematic Directors are eligible for an evaluation methodology to annual bonus. The overall The Executive Directors should evaluate each employees company bonus was based on be paid the same fee as that performance annually, which the equal disbursement of a received by the Non-Executive assesses the degree to which specific percentage of the net Directors, for their board each employee is satisfying the profit among all employees. As membership requirement of their role and such, the Executive Directors Executive Directors shall performance objectives received their bonus in also receive variable salaries accordance with the bonus in addition to the Board policy of the Company membership fees. This salary A Executive Directors must be a market median of Deferred bonus – no deferred Salary no changes were companies comparable in bonus was provided to the brought to the salary structure market segment, business Directors of the Executive Directors. complexity and international The amount of salary and scope. The Executive’s Share / stock options – no other payments are decided personal performance is also share options were provided to on the basis of educational considered where performance the Directors qualifications and experience. is related to the fulfillment of Apart from this, the Executive various improvement targets Pension – the Executive Directors are also provided with and attainment of certain Directors receive pension as the same remuneration as the financial objective per the Company policies Non-Executive Directors for their work on the Board 43 B Non–Executive Directors Pension – the Directors do not Severance fee a severance Salary – no changes were receive any pension on their fee of three months brought to the salary service remuneration was paid to structure of Non-Executive former Managing Director Mr. Directors during the year. Severance fee – no severance Adam Azim upon his removal The remuneration and sitting fee was provided to any from office on 9th March 2015 fee has been approved existing Directors at the Annual General Meeting, in accordance with Notice periods – no notice Notice periods – No notice the Articles of Association periods were provided to any periods were provided to any of the Company. As such, existing Directors existing Directors the Directors receive a Subsidiary directorships and monthly board remuneration Subsidiary directorships and fees entitled to – Non-Executive of MVR10,000.00 fees entitled to Directors do not sit in any and a sitting fee of Managing Director Mr. Ahmed Group company boards MVR500.00 per meeting. Shaheer sits in the Board of A further remuneration of STO Maldives (Singapore) The following table shows MVR10,000.00 is provided Pte Ltd, Maldives National Oil remuneration paid to Board of to Chairman for his Company (MNOC) Ltd, STO Directors for the year 2015. In responsibilities for being the Hotels & Resorts Pvt Ltd and 2015, a total of MVR 1,058,367 was Chairman and the highest Addu International Airport paid to Directors as remuneration authority in office (AIA) Pvt Ltd. He received a while a total of MVR 10,311,400 monthly board remuneration Service contracts – there was paid to the top management of MVR 2,500.00 and a sitting are no specific service as basic salary and allowance. fee of MVR 300.00 from both contracts agreed between Due to salary disparities in the STO Maldives (Singapore) and the Company and the Noncurrent employment market, the MNOC combined. He also Executive Directors other than Board of Directors has chosen received a monthly board the Director Charter which not to disclose the individual remuneration of MVR 5000.00 indicates that the Board is remuneration and package of and sitting fee of MVR 300.00 appointed from one Annual top management. There were no from AIA. He does not receive General Meeting to the next. service contracts, notice periods, any remuneration from STO However, the Government severance fees or stock options Hotels & Resorts. Executive holds the right to change its given to any other member of top Director Mr. Ibrahim Ziyath sits appointees as per Articles of management, during the year. on the Board of Fuel Supplies Association, at any given time Maldives (FSM) Pvt Ltd. He Ahmed Niyaz receives a monthly salary of 262,500 Other benefits – are provided Chairman MVR 5000.00 and sitting fee of as per the benefits list Adam Azim MVR 300.00 from FSM approved by the Board. 25,081 Former MD This include transportation, Ahmed Shaheer insurance and discount benefits 130,500 Any changes to these benefits are MD from the Company approved only after discussion in Ibrahim Ziyath NR committee and by approval 85,367 Director Annual bonus – Non–Executive of the Board. Change is further Directors are not entitled to Amir Mansoor subject to the results of board 141,500 receive annual bonus Director evaluation. Abdul Hadi STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Deferred bonus – no deferred Hussain Fulhu 140,000 bonus was provided to the Director Directors Mohamed Farshath 142,000 Director Share / stock options – no share options were provided to Aishath Rafiyya 134,000 the Directors Director 44 AUDIT & RISK COMMITTEE The Audit and Risk Committee consisted of 3 Non-Executive Directors and was chaired by Mr. Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu. On 17th November 2015, the Board committees were restructured to form a separate Risk Committee and hence the audit and risk duties were segregated accordingly. All the members of the committee are deemed to be independent. The committee held 10 meetings in 2015. The attendance record of the members of the committee is shown below. 10/10 09/10 10/10 Major Activities of 2015 Quarterly financial reports were Abdul Hadi Amir Mansoor Mohamed approved Hussain Fulhu Farshath Audit report on governance was discussed and approved The Audit & Risk Committee assists Reviewing and monitoring the Discussed on the proposals the Board in overseeing the quality effectiveness of the Company’s received by Audit firms for the and integrity of the accounting, internal control to ensure that conduct of 2015 external audit reporting, risk management and internal control practices of the adequate measures are taken Discussions were made on Risk Company. The Committee also to safeguard company’s assets Committee Charter ensures the Company’s compliance Overseeing the Company’s Discussed on a Fraud Risk with legal and regulatory relations with the external Assessment requirements, the qualifications, performance and independence auditors Internal Audit Plans were of the external auditor and the approved Making recommendations to performance of the Internal Audit the Board on the appointment, function. Different Audit reports retention and removal of the The Committee has the were discussed and external auditors authority to take independent recommendations were professional advice on matters Ensure the independence and suggested covered by its terms of reference credentials of independent at the Company’s expense. The Management Letters of auditors Committee charter is annually Subsidiary companies were reviewed by and signed by the Review performance of the discussed by the Committee. Directors. The Committee Chairman internal audit function and reports the outcomes of the independent auditors meeting to the Board, regularly. Conclusion Approving the terms of The Committees effectiveness is reference and plans of the reviewed on an annual basis as The Committee is satisfied with internal audit function part of the Board’s performance the activities carried out during the evaluation process. year. Approving the internal audit plan and reviewing regular On behalf of the Audit & Risk Key Duties reports from the head of Committee internal audit on effectiveness Monitoring the integrity of the of the internal control system annual and interim financial statements, accompanying Ensuring compliance to reports to shareholders statutory requirements and and corporate governance ethical standards Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu statements Chairman 45 RISK REPORT STO Group faces varied risks which could affect its ability to meet objectives, create value, preserve assets, business reputation and goodwill. The Board recognizes that it has a responsibility for promoting good risk management as a mean of protecting the Group from these risks, and is fully committed to being proactive in managing these diverse risks. Risk management is viewed by the Board as both a set of vital policies and procedures to protect the Group from existing risks and also as a mean of ensuring that future risks and uncertainties are properly prepared for, as far as practical. Overall Board policy for risk management is communicated to the Management of the Group for implementation, through a formal Risk Management Policy of the Board. Leading in Risk Governance Focus on Major Risks Establishment of Risk Management Strategic and Investment Risks Committee In line with the fast moving industries in which STO In 2015, as a reflection of the importance that the Group operates, the Board must make appropriate Board places on the need for risk management, STO strategic decisions and adjustments throughout the established a Risk Management Committee (RMC) of year. However, the Board is very much aware that the Board and also approved the establishment of each business strategy has a unique set of risks a dedicated Risk Management Department (RMD), which could prevent the benefits of the strategy being in order to drive the Group’s risk management achieved. For this reason, all significant strategic processes towards international standards. risks are evaluated by the Executive Committee of STO is the first company in Maldives to establish Management and by the Board before embarking on a dedicated risk management department in order to a new or changed strategy. strengthen its risk governance structure in its ongoing Where investments are strategic or above efforts to elevate risk management in the Group to a certain value of internal review thresholds, the international best practices. investments and the associated risks are assessed by The RMC has recently initiated the identification the Board. and training of Risk Management focal staff within the Group. These are senior staff members who in Financial Risks conjunction with the RMD, will ensure the continued dissemination of risk management information, Core to our management of financial risks, is education and cross fertilization of ideas at every our comprehensive system of budgeting and level of the Group. As such, there are 22 Risk management reporting for both capital expenditure Management Focal Staff appointed. and annual operations. The Company also have policies and processes in place to manage and monitor its exposure to liquidity risk in both Rufiyaa and foreign currencies, credit risk and capital STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 management risks. 46 Operational Risks and Management systems Physical Security In the normal course of business, the Group is subject In common with all other establishments, the business to many diverse risks relating to its activities such as is open to physical calamities such as natural the products it deals in, counter-party relationships, disasters, fire, storm and accidents. It is also at risk and possible shortcomings or failures in the systems from hostile acts such as terrorism or piracy which or employees. could harm our people, disrupt our operations and These operational risks that the Group is exposed destroy our assets. Hence, the Company monitors for to are managed through a number of management emerging threats and vulnerabilities to manage its frameworks and processes, within the Group. physical security. The Company’s management systems, structures, Physical security threats tend to vary processes, standards and codes of conduct together, geographically and by type of business. The form a system of internal control that governs how Emergency, Health and Safety Committee together it conduct the business and manages associated with regional sales team of STO provides guidance risks. These processes and controls are contained and support to conduct assurance with respect to the in standard operating procedures and wherever management of security risks affecting the people possible, appropriate risk management techniques and operations. The Company also maintains disaster are embedded into internal control systems and recovery, crisis and business continuity management standard operating procedures. plans in the subsidiaries. Market and Supply Risks Cyber Security As a diverse company with a base in trading, STO The threats to the security of the Company’s digital Group are subject to the international availability and infrastructure continue to evolve and, like many other price volatilities related to commodities and products global organizations, its reliance on computers and that it deals in such as fuel, and also the related risks network technology is increasing. A cyber security such as interest rates, currency rates, insurance costs breach could have a significant impact on business and freight rates. operations. The Company minimizes these risks by STO seeks to manage this risk through monitoring fluctuations and where appropriate by adhering to cyber security’s best standards, ongoing entering into long term supply arrangements. The monitoring of threats, close co-operation with ownership of an own fuel tanker, provides a partial authorities and awareness initiatives throughout the cushion against increases in fuel freight costs. The Group. The Company also maintains ICT disaster Company continually evaluates its supplier base, recovery management plans. logistics and supply chain while implementing improvements on an on-going basis. Compliance and Control Risks Political Challenges Ethical misconduct and legal or regulatory noncompliance, or breaches of applicable laws or The diverse locations of Group operations around regulations could damage the reputation, adversely the Country and the international nature of its supply affect operational results and shareholder value. chain exposes STO Group to a wide range of political Compliance is assured by an effective team of legal developments and consequent changes to the and compliance in the Company. economic and operating environment. The Company keeps abreast of new regulations The Group seek to manage this risk actively and legislation and plans adequate responses to through the development and maintenance of them. Employees are further provided with a range relationships with stakeholders in each region. of compliance training and monitoring programmes. STO Group is open to feedback and listens to its employees, contractors and other stakeholders, closely. 47 48 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY Nation. People. Environment. Society STO as a group continues to strengthen its businesses by creating more value for its stakeholders through its social responsibility to the nation, people and environment. In addition, the business practices across the network have embraced good governance, protection of environment, timely risk management and comprehensive strategic planning. The Group of Companies inspire economic development while improving the quality of life of its employees, as well as the local community and society at large. This report focuses on steps and actions taken to meet its sustainability objectives. Nation People Environment Society STO businesses has STO provides all The Groups STO Group believes always been catered employees a quality environment that the trust and to serve the best work environment belief advocates good will carried interest of the Nation. and the opportunity promotion of ecoalong with core to develop their friendly technology, business of the career path. utilization of company can only resources more be strengthened by efficiently, its commitment to minimizing wastage social responsibility. and promoting cleanliness. 49 Contribution to the Nation STO’s businesses has always been Introduced new concrete catered to serve the best interest mixing solution under the of the Nation. The following brand “Power Mix” to improve highlights the activities on this durability and sustainability of aspect. services. Improving Products and Services Medical Sector Developments Infrastructure Developments From day one, STO is reputed STO Medical Services In 2015, STO completed for offering a wide range of obtained ISO 9001:2008 ground work for expansion of quality, reliable and resource quality certification which is an its oil storage and distribution efficient products for its assurance and confidence to facilities to cater to the growing customers. In 2015, the trend customers on improved quality market demand of petroleum continued with successful services. products and facilitate reintroduction of Samsung exporting and bunkering in the products, Thai choice, Ariya, etc “All island pharmacy project” South Asia region. This project which started on June 2014 is believed to strengthen the C-Purlin was introduced to was completed successfully by existing berth facilities with improve performance and October 2015, after opening 177 double the capacity. regain market share in the construction sector. pharmacies across the country. Considerable resources were Allied introduced Islamic To connect all pharmacies and invested on re-building and window Ayady Takaful, manage its operation centrally, upgrading organizational “Hajj and Umrah Takaful” in a new integrated software was infrastructure including partnership with Maldives Hajj developed internally. The point purchase of new vessels and Corporation which covers the of sale system is fully integrated strengthening the existing medical expenses and financial with Aasandha – national stores, warehouses, vessels, losses that could arise while on medical insurance scheme. engineering and boatyard the journey of Hajj or Umrah. services. Delivered 54 ambulances to Allied Insurance introduced various islands across the Online Cargo Insurance Ongoing construction of a 10 nation as agreed with Ministry storey building at the former service thus enabling easier of Health. and speedy services to the Umar Shopping Arcade site, customer. is to be completed by mid Supplied and installed MRI of 2016. This building would Maldive Gas introduced machine at IGM Hospital in provide space for offices and industrial Nitrogen and Carbon collaboration with Ministry of shopping outlets for STO and dioxide (CO2) to the market. Health. other interested parties. Maldives Gas started a Introduced new pharmaceutical database for regular customers products under exclusive that enable the Company to distributorship agreements respond queries faster, ensure with leading brands such timely service and faster as Dr. Reddy’s Laboratories, STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 payment processes. Galderma, Kalbe Pharma, Merck Ltd & Merck Serono and To speed up delivery process Kotra Pharma. of LPG cylinder to the customers, tracking devices To support and take initiative in were also installed on delivery training medical professionals vehicles in the Malé region, STO sponsored 12 local enabling provision of real time doctors in the year 2015 for information on the location of international conferences as the vehicle. part of the CSR program. 50 Contribution to the Promoting Healthy Living People STO cares for the well-being of STO provides all employees a the society including that of staff quality work environment and and believes that awareness and the opportunity to develop their STORC promotion of healthy living is career path. Staff development significant in shaping a healthier priority is to continuously invest Unity.Leadership.Discipline. community. in building a strong and diverse This is what State Trading STO Group is always a workforce capable of making Organizations Recreation Club catalyst in developing the informed decisions and deliver (STORC) represents and what it community through its generous best services to the customers. strives to achieve. STO believes contributions. STO recognizes that sports and recreation plays investment in the development Staff Excellence an important role in improving the of the society as its responsibility relationship between staff along towards the people. As such STO staff successfully rolledwith promoting a healthy life style. considerable assistance in terms out SAP ERP system to Fuel As such, some of the major of financial, sponsors, donations Supplies Maldives. This enables activities carried out throughout and materials were provided to real time integration to the the year include; the Community, in different means. parent company under one Opening a fully equipped, Some of the major contributions platform. modern and exclusive staff gym include; A new point of sale programme Continuously contributed to the Inter-department and interconstruction of futsal pitches was developed by STO ICT company futsal tournaments across the country staff to integrate with the central ERP System, especially for the “all island pharmacy Certified diving courses Coca-Cola Long Run 2015 project”. – was sponsored by Allied Insurance Company Inter-office badminton tournament Training and Development Maldive Gas donated to the Participation in the Club development of a children’s Short term trainings: Maldives Cup 2015 and with park at Maldives Centre for Staff were provided much hard work and unity, Social Education (MCSE). opportunities of trainings STO won the trophy of Club in team building, service Maldives Futsal Cup, for the STO and its Group of enhancement, inventory and second consecutive year. Companies took initiatives in finance, leadership, demand & strengthening its commitment forecast and pharmaceutical to safety standards in the work specified trainings. Inter-department volleyball place and the surrounding tournament environment. Long term scholarships: Staff were sponsored for long Allied Insurance held Rakkaa term development courses both Road Safety awareness event locally and abroad in areas in Addu City, in collaboration such as business management, with Maldives Police Service. psychology, technical and vocational trainings. Allied Insurance Company organized fire awareness evening in the name of “GiniFest 2015” in partnership with MNDF Fire and Rescue Services to promote and create awareness on the significance of safety measures that has for be taken to prevention of fire. 51 Contribution to the Commitment to Society Environment STO Group believes that the trust STO Group’s environment belief and goodwill carried along with advocates promotion of ecocore business of the Company Main sponsor of National Antifriendly technology, utilization can only be strengthened Corruption Day 2015 event. of resources more efficiently, by its commitment to social minimizing wastage and responsibility. Connecting with Participated in “Minivan 50” promoting cleanliness. the community and various Float Parade. some significant contributions stakeholders is not just a business towards environment include: concept but an obligation. Actively participated in dengue Donation to mus’haf maldheefi prevention program. Import and market eco-friendly publication fund. Main sponsor of top achievers’ products, particularly invertor “Kudakudhinge Hiya” staff award 2014. technology, lead free and ozone free products. salary sponsor. Participated in tree planting Visit to Beautiful Eyes– down event at Hulhumale’ organized STO and Allied Insurance syndrome association with by Ministry of Environment and were the main sponsors of educational gifts. Energy. the event called “One Nation Coral Revival” An event held Main sponsor of one nation STO together with 4 NGOs; to promote awareness on the coral revival program. Nine Star Diving, Dive Club importance of cleanliness and Maldives, Damage Control and safe keeping of beaches and Sponsor of salary for a speech Save the Beach, conducted a reefs in Maldives. therapist in Beautiful Eyes reef cleaning event (North of down syndrome association. Local Market). STO in association with 4 NGOs STO in association with Child have conducted a reef cleaning Donation to K.Guraidhoo Advocacy Network of Disability event (North of Local Market) people with special needs. Organization (CANDO) to define its commitment conducted a children’s evening. to a green and sustainable environment. STO has actively participated in the Tree Planting Event organized by Ministry of Environment and Energy in Hulhumale’. “Power Mix Concrete” proved to be an eco-friendly method as it lessens the requirement for stacking concrete raw materials on or near the construction site, which consequent results in hazardous pollution in the work STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 site. Meanwhile, it also prevents road blocking due to the compact size of the specialized mixing vehicles, which is a huge relief for the local community. 52 53 54 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 5 YEAR GROUP FINANCIAL REVIEW 55 MVR, million 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Earnings Revenue 7,313 9,171 11,130 9,293 9,465 Gross profit 1,505 1,390 1,292 1,182 828 Operating profit 678 761 686 620 304 Profit before tax 520 573 178 266 208 Profit for the year 435 480 165 239 192 Share Data Price per share, at year end, MVR 500 400 380 400 450 Earnings per share, MVR 382 424 144 211 171 Dividend per share, MVR* 57 76 24 75 72 Equity per share, MVR 1,962 1,651 1,267 1,203 1,086 Net assets per share, MVR 2,693 2,009 1,466 1,290 1,189 No. of shares 1126910 1126910 1126910 1126910 1126910 Key Ratios Return on equity, % 21.4 29.2 11.9 18.5 16.4 Return on capital employed (ROCE) 13.5 15.9 14.0 12.8 6.7 Return on net assets, % 25.6 38.9 44.2 44.4 24.7 Equity/asset ratio, % 38.7 34.1 26.3 23.7 22.3 Net debt/equity ratio 1.27 1.58 2.43 2.58 2.71 Interest coverage ratio 3.6 3.4 1.3 1.5 2.2 Dividend yield ,at year end, % 11.40 19.00 6.32 18.75 16.00 Financial Position and Cash flow Total assets 5,712 5,461 5,430 5,724 5,490 Net assets 3,035 2,264 1,652 1,454 1,340 Equity 2,211 1,860 1,428 1,356 1,224 Non-current liabilities 825 404 224 98 140 Trade and other receivables 567 589 687 806 1,802 Inventories 706 706 794 595 785 Trade and other payables 1,587 1,633 2,461 2,766 2,522 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Net debt 2,804 2,930 3,475 3,499 3,322 Capital Employed 5,015 4,790 4,902 4,855 4,546 Net Operating cash flow 381 19 -61 100 259 56 BOARD OF DIRECTORS 57 Ahmed Niyaz Chairman Non-Executive, Independent Director Niyaz was initially appointed to the Board in May 2012 and as the Chairman on 19th December 2013 by the majority shareholder (Government). Ahmed Shaheer Managing Director Shaheer was appointed to the Board in December 2013 and as the Managing Director of the Company on 09th March 2015 by the majority shareholder (Government). Amir Mansoor Non-Executive, Independent Director STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Amir was appointed to the Board in May 2012 by the majority shareholder (Government). 58 Aishath Rafiyya Non-Executive, Independent Director Rafiyya was appointed to the Board in August 2014 by the majority shareholder (Government). Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu Non-Executive, Independent Director Hadi was appointed to the Board in May 2012 by the majority shareholder (Government), and served the Board till 28th March 2016. Mohamed Farshath Non-Executive, Independent Director Farshath was initially appointed to the Board at the 2012 Annual General Meeting by the Public Shareholders and has held this position for the past 4 years. 59 Ibrahim Ziyath Executive Director Ziyath was appointed to the Board in April 2014 by the majority shareholder (Government), and served the Board till 28th March 2016. Mohamed Mihad Executive Director Mihad was appointed to the Board in March 2016 by the majority shareholder (Government). Aishath Rayaheen Shareef STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Non-Executive, Independent Director Rayaheen was appointed to the Board in March 2016 by the majority shareholder (Government), 60 Ahmed Niyaz served as a Board Director in Lafarge Maldives Pvt. Ltd. and as the Chairman of Maldives Structural Ahmed Niyaz was initially appointed to the Board Products Pvt. Ltd. Ziyath holds a Master’s Degree in as the Chairman by the majority shareholder Business Administration from the University of Ballart, (Government) on 19th December 2013. Australia and a Bachelor’s Degree of Business (Major Niyaz is a well-known business figure in the in Management and Marketing) from Edith Cowan Maldivian industry who is currently also serving in University, Australia. the Maldives Tourism Development Corporation (MTDC), as the Acting Managing Director and as an Executive Director of the Board, where he provides Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu expertise on strategic planning, project management, financial analysis, policy implementation, governance Abdul Hadi Hussain Fulhu was appointed as an and operations. With an educational background in Independent, Non-Executive Director by the majority economics, sociology and political science, Niyaz shareholder (Government), in May 2012 and served in has also served as a Headmaster in various regional Board till 28th March 2016. schools. He spent the earlier part of his career serving Niyaz holds a Master of Business Administration STO for more than a decade. He rose through the from the Cardiff Metropolitan University, UK and ranks of STO and was a Director when he was a Bachelor of Arts in Economics, Sociology and released to Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Ltd. in 2003. Political Science from the University of Mysore, India. Hadi has a wealth of knowledge in the financial sector He also holds an Executive Diploma in Directorship and served as the Head of Accounts Department at from Singapore Management University, Singapore STO. In addition, during his time at FSM he served as and has gained further knowledge in fields such the Head of Department of Administration, Human as corporate governance, business continuity and Resources and Legal. effective leadership through trainings, over the year. Hadi had also represented STO as a Board Member at Maldives Industrial Fisheries Company Pvt. Ltd. Hadi holds a Bachelor in Commerce while Ahmed Shaheer Majoring in Accounting. Hadi holds an Executive Diploma in Directorship from Singapore Management Ahmed Shaheer was appointed to the Board on 25th University, Singapore. December 2013. He was appointed as the Managing Director of the Company on 09th March 2015. Shaheer was initially appointed as a Manager Amir Mansoor in the Assets Department of the Company and has since risen through the ranks to be designated as the Amir Mansoor was appointed to the Board as an Managing Director. With over 20 years of experience Independent, Non-Executive Director in May 2012 by in the Company, Shaheer currently also serves as the majority shareholder (Government). the Chairman of the Board of Maldives National Oil Amir is a well-known business figure who has Company Ltd. (MNOC), STO Maldives (Singapore) Pte. founded and performed in various large companies. Ltd. and STO Hotel & Resorts Pvt. Ltd. He is currently the Chairman of Carpediem Maldives Shaheer holds a Master’s Degree of Business Pvt. Ltd., the Managing Director of Lily International Administration (International Trade) from the Pvt. Ltd. and also the Managing Director (owner) of University of Adelaide, Australia and a Bachelors’ Grape Expectation Pvt. Ltd. Degree in Business Administration (Marketing and He has been in various business industries for Management) from the University of Charles Stuart, over 25 years and is well versed with the past and Australia. present business norms. He is particularly interested in the Enterprise Risk Management and is completing an international training to become a Qualified Ibrahim Ziyath Risk Director. He too holds an Executive Diploma in Directorship from Singapore Management University, Ibrahim Ziyath joined STO in the year of 1997 and Singapore. has gained over 16 years of experience in STO and its subsidiary Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Ltd. He is currently the Head of Department of Home Aishath Rafiyya Improvement and the Chairman of Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Ltd. He served in the STO Board as Aishath Rafiyya was appointed to the Board of Directors an Executive Director from 20th April 2015 till 28th as an Independent, Non-Executive Director by the March 2016. Ziyath has also served as the Deputy majority shareholder (Government), in August 2014. Managing Director and acting Managing Director Rafiyya started her career at the Bank of the of Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Ltd. He had also Maldives, served at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and 61 High Commission of Maldives in Dhaka as DCM of Board Directorship, Management, Tourism, Business Mission. Rafiyya is also the Head of Chairman’s Bureau Administration, and Information Technology. of Sun Siyam Group of Companies, a multinational & a He holds a Master of Arts in Tourism leading hospitality group in the Maldives. Management from University of Westminster, London; Rafiyya is a Deputy Leader and a founding member a Bachelor of Arts (Hons) in Business Administration of the political party Maldives Development Alliance from Northumbria University, United Kingdom; a (MDA), the coalition partner of the current government. Diploma of Higher Education (area of study on She was a former council member and President of Business Information Systems and Business Studies) women’s wing of People’s Alliance (PA) and is the from Middlesex University, United Kingdom; a first elected female Deputy Leader of a political party Diploma in Information Technology from Wollongong in Maldivian history. She is a member of Women University, Australia; and has completed the Executive Development Committee of Male’ City and chairperson Diploma in Directorship from Singapore Management of Business & Finance sub-committee of WDC. She is University, Singapore. also the Founder and President of Regional Alliance for Fostering Youth (RAFY) – the first international NGO Following Directors were appointed in 2016 established in the Maldives. Rafiyya is a Doctorate Researcher focused on Women Empowerment and holds MBA (Major in HRM) Mohamed Mihad and BSC (Hons) in Business Information Systems from University of East London, a Graduate Diploma in Mohamed Mihad joined STO in the year of 2009 as an Business Management and International Diploma in accountant continuing onto gaining vast experience and Computer Studies (NCC, UK). She is the first Maldivian knowledge in the field of finance and audit, resulting in fellow and currently the Honorary President of Royal the designation of the post of Chief Financial Officer of Institute of Public Administrators of Royal Institution the Company. He was recently appointed an Executive Singapore, and holds professional memberships of Director of the Board on 28th March 2016. Institute of Directors-UK, Institute of Directors-India and He also played a key role in the ERP Board Director Training Institute of Japan. implementation project of the Company, acting as a core Rafiyya has received recognitions, such as team lead of the SAP ERP finance module and has also ‘International Award of Distinction’ from Royal Institution served as a Senior Auditor for 4 years. Mihad completed Singapore for research titled ‘Challenges faced by the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants women leadership in the Maldives’, ‘Outstanding (CIMA) examination in the year of 2009 and was Women Leadership Achievement Award’ at the World inducted as a certified member of the Chartered Women Leadership Congress, ‘Young Women Achiever Institute of Management Accountants (ACMA) in the Award’ for Outstanding Contributions, Significant year of 2013. Achievements and Sustained Excellence in the field of HRM VIWA 2016 and ‘Golden Globe Tiger Outstanding Women Leadership Award’ at the Golden Globe Summit, Aishath Rayaheen Shareef Malaysia. Aishath Rayaheen Shareef was appointed as an Independent, Non-Executive Director by the majority Mohamed Farshath shareholder (Government), on 28th March 2016. Rayaheen has experience and knowledge in Mohamed Farshath was appointed to the Board the fields such as commercial banking, accounting, at the 2012 Annual General Meeting, as the only economic, research and analysis and anti-money Director elected by the public shareholders. He is an laundering from her 14 years of service in the financial Independent, Non-Executive Director in the Company. sector. In the past she has worked at Maldives Farshath currently holds the post of Secretary General Monetary Authority and Hong Kong and Shanghai of Maldives Media Council. He has also provided Banking Corporation Limited (HSBC Maldives). his services to the Civil Service Commission as the Currently she serves at the Maldives Finance Financial Controller, Director, and the acting-in-charge Leasing Company Pvt Ltd as the Assistant Manager – STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 of several divisions. Consumer Finance where she is presently involved in He also serves MTDC as a Board Director, is developing and expanding consumer finance unit. a member of College Council for Clique College Rayaheen holds a Bachelors in Business and worked as a Certificate Panel Member for Administration (Honors) from the Open University Maldives Qualifications Authority. Farshath has also of Malaysia and has studied Advanced Diploma in attained experience in various fields working at Applied Statistics, from Maldives College of Higher different Departments of former Ministry of Tourism/ Education. Civil Aviation/Arts and Culture, and former Foreign Investment Services Bureau and also at former Clique Training Center. Farshath has an educational background in 62 EXECUTIVE MANAGEMENT 63 Ahmed Mohamed Ibrahim Dr. Ibrahim Shaheer Mihad Ziyath Mahfooz Fathimath Ahmed Aishath Musthafa Ashan Shifan Shaffana Azmy Rasheed Mariyam Mohamed Hussain Ramzee Nuzla Murad Sobah Aboobakuru STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Abdul Wahid Muslih Ahmed Kurik Mohamed Moosa Maseeh Riza Shujau 64 Ahmed Shaheer of Allied Insurance Company of UK and a Bachelor of Business (Managing Director) the Maldives Pvt. Ltd and the (Marketing and Management) from (See page 61 for a detailed profile) Managing Director of STO Hotels Edith Cowan University, Australia. and Resorts Pvt. Ltd. Ashan is Mohamed Mihad also the Chairman of Lafarge Musthafa Azmy (Executive Director / Chief Maldives Cement Pvt. Ltd. Ashan (Chief Information Officer – Financial Officer) holds a Master’s in Business Information & Communications (See page 62 for a detailed profile) Administration from University of Technology) Lincoln and a Bachelor of Arts with Musthafa Azmy joined STO in Ibrahim Ziyath Honors (First Class) in Business the year of 1994 and is currently (See page 61 for a detailed profile) and Information Technology from the Chief Information Officer University of Coventry. and the Head of Department for Dr. Ibrahim Mahfooz Information & Communications (Chief Internal Auditor) Ahmed Shifan and Technology. He played a key Dr. Ibrahim Mahfooz joined STO (Senior General Manager – role in the successful migration in 1996 and worked in Accounting Administration and Human from the legacy systems to SAP and Finance until 1999. From Resource) ERP. He also designed and then, he moved to Internal Audit Ahmed Shifan joined STO in the developed a new system to and has been the Chief Internal year of 2003 and is currently integrate the pharmacy project Auditor of the company since July the Head of Administration and with Aasanda recently. Azmy 2010. Dr. Mahfooz is a member of Human Resource Department. also played a key role in the SAP the Association of Certified Fraud Prior to this he has served role out deployment project in Examiners (CFE) USA, a fellow in many key positions of the Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Ltd of the Association of Chartered Company such as the Head of during the year. Azmy served in Certified Accountants (FCCA) UK. Department for Regional Sales, the Board of Directors of Allied From mid-2003 to mid-2004, he Home Improvement, Store Insurance Company Pvt. Ltd and is worked at Ernst and Young where Operations and ICT. He was also currently the Chairman of Maldives he worked at various assignments involved in the key role of the Structural Products Pvt. Ltd. Azmy at different companies in the SAP HCM implementation project holds a Bachelor of Science Maldives and in Sri Lanka. Dr. of the Company, as the Project (Hons) of Computer Science (First Mahfooz obtained his Doctorate in Manager. He currently serves as Class) from London Metropolitan Business Administration from the the Chairman of Maldive Gas Pvt. University and is also a certified University of Newcastle, Australia, Ltd. and is Board of Advisor for the SAP ABAP and HCM Associate Master of Business Administration SAP Asia Pacific Japan Regional Consultant. from the Charles Stuart University, Services Board, since January Australia and Bachelor of Arts 2013. He is also the Chairman of Mariyam Nuzla with Honors in Accounting and the STO Recreation Club (STORC) (General Manager – Corporate & Finance from the Oxford Brookes since 2014. Shifan holds a Master Legal Affairs) University, UK. of Business Administration with Mariyam Nuzla joined STO in the Honors from Auckland University year of 1999 and has since served Fathimath Ashan of Technology, New Zealand and the Company in various positions (Senior General Manager – a Bachelor of Science with Joint including the role of a Personal Regional Sales, Food and Honors (First Class) in Business Assistant to the Managing Beverages) Information Systems and Business Director from 2008 to 2013. She is Fathimath Ashan joined STO in the Studies from Middlesex University, currently the Head of Department year 1994 and has since served UK. for Corporate& Legal Affairs and in many key positions of the is also as a Board Director for Company during her 20 years of Aishath Shaffana Rasheed Maldive Gas Pvt. Ltd. Nuzla holds service. Ashan is now designated (General Manager – Company a Masters in Business from the as the Head of Department Secretariat) Cardiff Metropolitan University, for Regional Sales, Food and Aishath Shaffana Rasheed joined UK and a Bachelor of Business Beverages. She had previously STO in the year of 2004. She (Marketing and Management) from served in many key positions serves as the Company Secretary, Edith Cowan University, Australia. of the Company such as the since 2007. Shaffana is also the Head of Department for Human Head of Department of Company Resources and Administration Secretariat. Shaffana holds a and as the Company Secretary. Masters in Business from the She is currently a Board Director Cardiff Metropolitan University, 65 Mohamed Murad Abdul Wahid Moosa Ahmed Kurik Riza (General Manager – Medical (General Manager – Transport) (General Manager – Procurement Services Regional) Abdul Wahid Moosa joined the (General Goods)) Mohamed Murad joined STO in Company in the year of 2009.He Ahmed Kurik Riza joined the the year of 1999 and has hence has a vast array of knowledge and Company in the year of 2003and acquired substantial knowledge experience in the field of maritime is the current Head of Department and experience in strategic studies, chartering and shipping for Procurement General Goods. leadership and operational management. Wahid is the current He had previously served in knowledge with over 15 years Head of Department for Transport. various different positions in the of experience in the Company. He also serves as a Board Director Company, including as a Senior He currently serves as the Head for Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Manager in Business Development of Department for Medical Ltd. Wahid holds a Bachelor’s and in Regional Sales Department. Services Regional. Murad also Degree of Business (Management Kurik is currently a Board Director serves as a Board Director for the and Marketing) from the Edith of Allied Insurance Company of Allied Insurance Company of the Cowan University, Australia. the Maldives Pvt. Ltd. and STO Maldives Pvt. Ltd. Murad holds a He has also completed various Hotel & Resorts Pvt. Ltd. Kurik has BTEC Higher National Diploma in maritime related courses such a BTEC Higher National Diploma Spatial Design from the Academy as the Certificate to conduct ISO in Computer Studies from Edexcel, of Design, Northumbria University, 9001:2008 Quality Management UK. UK. System Audit from the Bureau VERITAS, French Classification Mohamed Shujau Hussain Sobah Society in Singapore. (Assistant General Manager – (General Manager – Medical Procurement (Essentials)) Services Male’) Muslih Maseeh Mohamed Shujau joined the Hussain Sobah joined STO (General Manager / Media Company in the year of 1998 and in the year of 2003 and has Coordinator – Business is the current Head of Department since excelled in many of the Development & Public Relations) for Procurement Essentials. He Company’s projects involving Muslih Maseeh joined the had previously served in the the pharmaceutical field such Company in the year 2008 and is Information & Communications as the takeover of IGMH stock the current Head of Department Technology Department for in the year of 2010 and the All for Business Development 18 years. Shujau is currently a Island Pharmacy Project in 2014. and Public Relations. He had Board Director of Maldive Gas Sobah currently serves as the previously served in the Ministry Pvt. Ltd. and a member of the Head of Department for Medical of Planning and National British Computer Society (MBCS) Services. Sobah is also a Board Development, Faunu Travels Pvt since 2005. He also played a key Director representing STO at Ltd and Stern’ Textiles Australia, role in the successful migration Lafarge Maldives Cement Pvt. gaining experience in the from the legacy systems to SAP Ltd. Sobah holds a Bachelor’s public sector, tourism industry ERP. Shujau holds a Master of Degree in Business (Marketing and operations management. Technology Management from and Management) from the Edith He is also the current Media Staffordshire University, UK and Cowan University, Australia. Coordinator of STO and a Board a Bachelor of Science (Hons) Director of Maldives National Oil Computer Systems Engineering Ramzee Aboobakuru Company Ltd. and STO Maldives (Networking) from Nottingham (General Manager – Energy and (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Muslih holds a Trent University, UK. Construction Materials) Master of Business Administration Ramzee Aboobakuru joined from University of Nottingham, UK STO in the year 2007 and is and a Bachelor’s Degree (Hons) currently serving as the Head in International Business (First STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 of Department for Energy and Class) from the University of East Construction Materials. He London, UK. previously served as a Manager in Medical and Marketing & Sales Department. Ramzee is also a Board Director of Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt. Ltd. Ramzee holds a Bachelor of Arts (Hons) in Marketing from the University of Hertfordshire, UK. 66 GENERAL INFORMATION 67 Name of the Company Risk Committee Bankers State Trading Organization Plc. Amir Mansoor (Chairman) Bank of Ceylon, Male’ Mohamed Farshath Bank of Maldives Plc.. Male’ Aishath Rafiyya BNP Paribas, Singapore Company Registration Habib Bank Limited, Male’ Number HSBC, Male’ Corporate Governance HSBC, Hong Kong C186/2001 and Compliance Maldives Islamic Bank, Male’ Committee Nations Trust Bank, Colombo Seylan Bank, Colombo Legal Form Aishath Rayaheen Shareef Société General Bank, Singapore (Chairperson) State Bank of India, Male’ A Public Listed Company with Mohamed Farshath limited liability. Incorporated Aishath Rafiyya as a Government Company, Registered Address Athirimaafannu Trading Account (ATA), on 20 December 1964 and Nomination and State Trading Organization Plc. was renamed as State Trading Remuneration Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Organization on 09 June 1979. Committee Maafannu, On 14 August 2001, State Trading Male’ 20345 Organization PLC became a public Aishath Rafiyya (Chairperson) Republic of Maldives limited company. Aishath Rayaheen Shareef Contact Details Amir Mansoor Call Centre: +960 334 4333 F: +960 334 4511 Stock Exchange Listing info@stomaldives.net Auditors www.sto.mv Ordinary shares of the Company are listed in the Maldives Stock KPMG, Exchange. Mialani, 2nd Floor, Henveiru Sosun Magu Male’ Board of Directors Republic of Maldives Ahmed Niyaz, Chairman Ahmed Shaheer, MD No. of Mohamed Mihad Share details Shares @MVR. 50/% Amir Mansoor Aishath Rafiyya Government 919,869 45,993,450 81.63 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 Aishath Rayaheen Shareef Mohamed Farshath Public 207,041 10,352,050 18.37 Total 1,126,910 56,345,500 100 Audit Committee Unauthorized Capital 100,000,000 Amir Mansoor (Chairman) Paid-up Capital 56,345,500 Mohamed Farshath Aishath Rayaheen Shareef Premium 27,814,500 68 ALLIED MALDIVES INSURANCE STO MALDIVES MALDIVE GAS STUCTURAL COMPANY OF (SINGAPORE) PVT. LTD. PRODUCTS PVT. THE MALDIVES PTE. LTD. LTD.* PVT. LTD. Insurance Trading Gas Roofing Sheet Company Company Distributor Manufacturer Incorporated Incorporated Incorporated Incorporated & operated in & operated in & operated in & operated in Maldives Singapore Maldives Maldives Share % as at 31/dec/2015 Share % as at 31/dec/2015 Share % as at 31/dec/2015 Share % as at 31/dec/2015 STO 99.9% STO 100% STO 90% STO 50% MGPL 0.01 % Champa Oil & Gas 10 % Rainbow Investment 50 % 69 LAFARGE FUEL SUPPLIES MALDIVE STO HOTELS & MALDIVES MALDIVES PVT. NATIONAL OIL RESORTS PVT. CEMENT PVT. LTD. COMPANY LTD. LTD. LTD.** Fuel Cement Fuel Tourism Distributor Distributor Trader Sector Incorporated Incorporated Incorporated Incorporated in Maldives & & operated in & operated in & operated in operated in Maldives Maldives Maldives Singapore Share % as at 31/dec/2015 Share % as at 31/dec/2015 Share % as at 31/dec/2015 Share % as at 31/dec/2015 STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 STO 99.9% STO 25% STO 99.9% STO 99.9% MNOC 0.01 % Lafarge (Zurich) 75 % Allied 0.01 % FSM 0.01 % Associate Company ** Joint Venture * 70 STO DIRECTORY +960 334 4333 info@stomaldives.net www.sto.mv 71 Regional Sales Medical Service Male’ Sh.Maaungoodhoo Pharmacy Ha. Hoarafushi Store Medical Store Sh.Komandoo Pharmacy Hdh. Kulhudhuhfushi Store Medical Warehouse Sh.Lhaimagu Pharmacy B. Eydhafushi Store STO IGMH Pharmacy Sh.Maroshi Pharmacy K. Hulhumale’ Store STO IGMH Warehouse Sh.Narudhoo Pharmacy K. Villimale’ Store Sh.Foakaidhoo Pharmacy Medical Services L. Fonadhoo Store Regional Sh.Bileffahi Pharmacy Ga. Villingili Store Ha.Thuraakunu Pharmacy Sh.Feevah Pharmacy Gdh. Thinadhoo Store Ha.Uligamu Pharmacy Sh.Feydhoo Pharmacy S. Hithadhoo Store Ha.Molhadhoo Pharmacy Sh.Goidhoo Pharmacy S. Feydhoo Store Ha.Hoarafushi Pharmacy Sh.Noomaraa Pharmacy S. Maradhoo Feydhoo Store Ha.Ihavandhoo Pharmacy Sh.Kanditheemu Pharmacy S. Hulhumeedhoo Store Ha.Kelaa Pharmacy N.Velidhoo Pharmacy Ha.Vashafaru Pharmacy N.Foddhoo Pharmacy Food and Beverages Ha.Dhihdhoo Pharmacy N.Holhudhoo Pharmacy STO Supermart Ha.Filladhoo Pharmacy N.Manadhoo Pharmacy STO Supermart Warehouse Ha.Maarandhoo Pharmacy N.Magoodhoo Pharmacy STO Staples Ha.Thakandhoo Pharmacy N.Miladhoo Pharmacy Internal Audit Ha.Muraidhoo Pharmacy N.Lhohi Pharmacy Information Ha.Utheemu Pharmacy N.Maafaru Pharmacy Communication Technology Ha.Baarah Pharmacy N.Landhoo Pharmacy Hdh.Makunudhoo Pharmacy N.Kudafaree Pharmacy Company Secretariat Hdh.Vaikaradhoo Pharmacy N.Maalhendhoo Pharmacy Administration and Human Resources Hdh.Neykurendhoo Pharmacy N.Kendhikolhudhoo Pharmacy Hdh.Kumundhoo Pharmacy N.Henbandhoo Pharmacy Energy and Construction Materials Hdh.Kulhudhufushi Pharmacy R.Dhuvaafaru Pharmacy Construction Materials Office Hdh.Kurinbi Pharmacy R.Hulhudhuffaaru Pharmacy Fuel & Lubricants Hdh.Nolhivaram Pharmacy R.Kinolhas Pharmacy STO Construction Materials, K. Hdh.Nellaidhoo Pharmacy R.Meedhoo Pharmacy Thilafushi Warehouse Hdh.Nolhivaranfaru Pharmacy R.Fainu Pharmacy Construction Materials 158 Hdh.Hirimaradhoo Pharmacy STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 R.Inguraidhoo Pharmacy STO Construction Materials Warehouse Hdh.Naivaadhoo Pharmacy R.Maduvvaree Pharmacy Hdh.Finey Pharmacy R.Innamaadhoo Pharmacy Hdh.Hanimaadhoo Pharmacy R.Rasmaadhoo Pharmacy Sh.Milandhoo Pharmacy R.Maakurathu Pharmacy Sh.Funadhoo Pharmacy R.Ungoofaaru Pharmacy 72 R.Angolhitheemu Pharmacy Aa.Bodufulhadhoo Pharmacy Dh.Hulhudheli Pharmacy R.Rasgetheemu Pharmacy Aa.Mathiveri Pharmacy Dh.Rinbudhoo Pharmacy R.Vaadhoo Pharmacy Aa.Ukulhas Pharmacy Dh.Bandidhoo Pharmacy R.Alifushi Pharmacy Aa.Rasdhoo Pharmacy Dh.Meedhoo Pharmacy B.Goidhoo Pharmacy Aa.Thoddoo Pharmacy Th.Omadhoo Pharmacy B.Fehendhoo Pharmacy Adh.Maamingili Pharmacy Th.Kinbidhoo Pharmacy B.Fulhadhoo Pharmacy Adh.Dhiddhoo Pharmacy Th.Veymandoo Pharmacy B.Hithaadhoo Pharmacy Adh.Fenfushi Pharmacy Th.Thimarafushi Pharmacy B.Thulhaadhoo Pharmacy Adh.Dhigurah Pharmacy Th.Gaadhiffushi Pharmacy B.Eydhafushi Pharmacy Adh.Dhangethi Pharmacy Th.Hirilandhoo Pharmacy B.Maalhos Pharmacy Adh.Mandhoo Pharmacy Th.Vandhoo Pharmacy B.Dharavandhoo Pharmacy Adh.Mahibadhoo Pharmacy Th.Kandoodhoo Pharmacy B.Dhonfanu Pharmacy Adh.Kunburudhoo Pharmacy Th.Guraidhoo Pharmacy B.Kihaadhoo Pharmacy Adh.Omadhoo Pharmacy Th.Dhiyamingili Pharmacy B.Kendhoo Pharmacy Adh.Haggnaameedhoo Th.Madifushi Pharmacy Pharmacy B.Kamadhoo Pharmacy V.Rakeedhoo Pharmacy Th.Vilufushi Pharmacy B.Kudarikilu Pharmacy V.Keyodhoo Pharmacy Th.Burunee Pharmacy Lh.Olhuvelifushi Pharmacy V.Felidhoo Pharmacy L.Kunahandhoo Pharmacy Lh.Kurendhoo Pharmacy V.Thinadhoo Pharmacy L.Hithadhoo Pharmacy Lh.Naifaru Pharmacy V.Fulidhoo Pharmacy L.Maamendhoo Pharmacy Lh.Hinnavaru Pharmacy M.Maduvvaree Pharmacy L.Gaadhoo Pharmacy K.Guraidhoo Pharmacy M.Dhiggaru Pharmacy L.Fonadhoo Pharmacy K.Maafushi Pharmacy M.Kolhufushi Pharmacy L.Maavah Pharmacy K.Gulhi Pharmacy M.Naalaafushi Pharmacy L.Gan Pharmacy K.Himmafushi Pharmacy M.Muli Pharmacy L.Mundoo Pharmacy K.Huraa Pharmacy M.Mulah Pharmacy L.Maabaidhoo Pharmacy K.Thulusdhoo Pharmacy M.Veyvah Pharmacy L.Dhanbidhoo Pharmacy K.Dhiffushi Pharmacy M.Raimmandhoo Pharmacy L.Isdhoo Pharmacy K.Gaafaru Pharmacy F.Nilandhoo Pharmacy Ga.Kanduhulhudhoo Pharmacy K.Kaashidhoo Pharmacy F.Dharanboodhoo Pharmacy Ga.Gemanafushi Pharmacy K.Vilimale Pharmacy F.Magoodhoo Pharmacy Ga.Kondey Pharmacy K.Hulhumale’ Pharmacy F.Bileddhoo Pharmacy Ga.Dhevvadhoo Pharmacy Aa.Himandhoo Pharmacy F.Feeali Pharmacy Ga.Dhaandhoo Pharmacy Aa.Maalhos Pharmacy Dh.Kudahuvadhoo Pharmacy Ga.Nilandhoo Pharmacy Aa.Feridhoo Pharmacy Dh.Maaenboodhoo Pharmacy Ga.Maamendhoo Pharmacy 73 Ga.Viillingili Pharmacy Group Companies Ga.Kolamaafushi Pharmacy Allied Insurance Company of Maldives National Oil Company Gdh.Thinadhoo Pharmacy the Maldives Pvt. Ltd. Ltd Fen Building, 2nd Floor, Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Gdh.FaresMaathodaa Pharmacy Ameenee Magu, Male’, 20375, Maafannu, Male’ 20345, Gdh.Fiyoaree Pharmacy Maldives Maldives T: +960 330 0033 T: +960 3325635 Gdh.Vaadhoo Pharmacy F: +960 332 5035 F: +960 3344533 E: info@alliedmaldives.net E: info@mnoc.com.sg Gdh.Gaddhoo Pharmacy Website: www.allied.mv Website: www.mnoc.com.mv Gdh.Rathafandhoo Pharmacy Gdh.Nadella Pharmacy Gdh.Hoandeddhoo Pharmacy Fuel Supplies Maldives Pvt Ltd, Maldives Structural Products Block A, 4th Floor, STO Aifaanu Pvt Ltd Gdh.Madaveli Pharmacy Building, Boduthakurufaanu G.Marline Spike Building, 2/10 Magu, Male’ 20-05, Maldives Gn.Fuvahmulah Pharmacy Alikilegefaanu Magu T: +960 3336655 T: +960 3337720 S.Feydhoo Pharmacy F: +960 3313881 F: +960 3337721 E: info@fuelmaldives.com, E: msroof@dhivehinet.net.mv S.Maradhoo Pharmacy Website: www.fuelmaldives.com S.Hulhumeedhoo Pharmacy S.Hithadhoo Pharmacy STO Hotels and Resorts Pvt Ltd Lafarge Maldives Cement Pvt Ltd, STO Building, 6th Floor, Home Improvement and 01-01 STO Trade Centre, Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Service Centre Orchid Magu Maafannu T: +960 3315313 T: +960 3344388 +960 3344374 Transport F: +960 3315316 F: +960 3344599 E: mimcgm@dhivehinet.net.mv E: hotels@stomaldives.net Corporate and Legal Affairs Finance Procurement – Essential Maldive Gas Pvt Ltd, 2nd Floor, STO Maldives (Singapore) Pte Ltd Goods STO Trade Centre, Orchid 10, Anson Road,, #39-10 Magu, T: +960 333 5614 International Plaza,, Singapore Procurement – General F: +960 3335615 079903, Goods E: info@maldivegas.com T: (65) 6324 4668 Website: www.maldivegas.com E: stosing@stomaldives.com.sg Business Development and Public Relations STO ANNUAL REPORT 2015 74 INDEPENDENT AUDITOR’S REPORT & FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 75
