United Nation Global Compact 2015 Energy drives everything We are committed to pursue the path taken by our forefathers more than a century ago to be a key player in Mauritius and beyond. We are more than 4,000 employees in 52 locations across a dozen territories serving with deep expertise in our core markets, which are Financial & Business Services, Hospitality, Logistics and Property Investments. As a listed international services and investment company, we look forward to tomorrow with a spirit of leadership, agility and dynamism. Leadership The audacity and engagement of our people to create purposeful impact with others. Agility Our ability to anticipate changes and act together in a coordinated manner. Dynamism Is the focused energy of our people which drives Rogers forward. 2 CEO’s Message Philippe Espitalier-Noël It is with great pleasure that we are presenting our progress made towards the UN Global Compact principles since our last report in January 2015. This was another year of significant progress as the Group completed its transition from a commercial conglomerate to an International Services and Investment company. Over the next 5 years, the business will focus its resources on the expansion of its 4 main markets namely Financial & Business Services, Hospitality, Logistics and Property Investments. The Rogers Group is continuing on the foundations laid by our forefathers since 1899 and consolidated over the past 15 years through enhanced strategic focus. It is the focused energy of our people that drives our Group forward, and our actions and decisions are based on our core values, which are leadership, agility and dynamism. These values have been incorporated in our strategic plan, Beyond 2015, and we will roll out a communication campaign emphasizing these values and the positioning of our Group over the next few months. Rogers Group understands the importance of sustainability in its everyday activities and shall endeavor to the best of its ability to carry business in a responsible manner without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs. It is also our responsibility to contribute to the welfare of our community and environment with the support of the people within and outside of the Group. After our marked engagement in the fight against HIV/AIDS, we continue directing our energies and resources towards preserving our coastal and marine ecosystems with the intent of making a meaningful contribution towards a better, more sustainable Mauritius through sensitizing, educating and supporting national and local actions. The ultimate goal is to create value for all its stakeholders. Philippe Espitalier-Noël, Chief Executive Officer Rogers and Company Limited 3 Corporate Social Responsibility Sustainable Development Our Strategy This past year has seen a major shift in the way Rogers Companies approach their Social and Environmental responsibilities. Up till now Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in Mauritius had been appraised and reported as the 2% comprehensive income donations contributed to non-governmental organizations, or used to finance projects benefiting society and vulnerable groups at large. The Group companies seldom reported on their efforts, and those of their employees, in doing business in a responsible way, in compliance with the rules of law, in adherence with ethical governance and in ways that would minimize our impact on the planet. Rogers has focused its attention on sustainable development issues and increased dedicated resources responsible for formalizing its policies, actions, monitoring and reporting. Committees were set up in each business unit to drive this process and manage various interventions and related KPIs. This report demonstrates the direction taken by these committees and some of the upcoming orientations adopted by the different units. Governance Economic Prosperity • Responsibility of the Board • Financial processes • Sustainable Development Strategy • Ethics & Transparency • Shareholders'rights Environment Social Responsibility • Environmental Resource • CSR contributions Management • Welfare & Rights of employees • Energy & Water and clients • Waste The four pillars of sustainable development identified by Rogers are equally found in the international model of good governance and in that of SEMSI the Stock Exchange of Mauritius’ Sustainability Index, a national performance evaluation of the sustainable development of listed Mauritian companies. This year Rogers participated in the first SEMSI reporting as show in the two tables of indicators below and forms part of the first companies to be accreditated with the SEMSI label. 4 Social indicators based on SEM Sustainable Index Product responsibility Health and safety Equity Employment statistics Employment quality Employee development Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Community development & Uplifting Anti-corruption 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Environmental indicators based on SEM Sustainable Index Water & Effluents Management Solid Waste Management Legal compliance Environmental sustainability initiatives Environmental Management Energy Management 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Rogers and Company Limited 5 Energy drives sustainability It is our responsibility to contribute to the welfare of our community and environment with the support of the people within and outside our Group. We are proactive as a corporate citizen and will continue making a positive, meaningful contribution towards a better, more sustainable Mauritius through sensitising, educating and supporting national and local actions. 6 Program for the protection of Mauritius coastal areas Actions that support the Protection of our Coast program The Rogers Group actively participated in the following projects as part of its CSR strategy of Awareness, Education and Support towards reducing the human negative environmental impacts on our coastal areas: Mobile Marine Education Unit – Bis Lamer a partnership with REEF Conservation Dedicated to the protection of the Mauritian marine environment through research, restoration, education and training, Reef Conservation is an NGO that employs professional marine biologists, project coordinators, and educators for the management and implementation of projects on conservation of the marine environment. Through the Bis Lamer the Reef team transports its knowledge and marine activities to all Mauritians through schools, community centers, public beaches, shopping malls, and in the workplace where they are invited. This class on wheels is equipped of interactive tools and fun presentations as well as laboratory equipment to accompany the educational experience. To date the Bis Lamer education unit has educated some 4,171 students and 1,299 adults on marine and environmental issues. Some 50 schools and 24 general population areas such as community centers, shopping mall and public beaches were visited. Moreover, 41.7% of Rogers’ staff have followed training courses given by the marine educators of REEF Conservation. Protection of Marine Turtles in Mauritius A national network composed of the Albion Fisheries Research Centre, Ministry of Ocean Economy, Marine Resources, Fisheries and Outer Islands, the National Coast Guard, Mauritius Marine Conservation , REEF Conservation, ECOSUD and the CSR of Omnicane, ENL, HSBC, Currimjee and Rogers on the protection of the endangered sea turtles on the Mauritian shores actively worked towards safeguarding the nesting sites. At the end of the current nesting season the average of sea turtles saved will be disclosed. Clean Up Series Learning and teaching cleanliness by example is the goal of this staff volunteering program. Several clean-up exercises of public areas were carried out throughout the year by the Rogers group employees. The latest clean up exercise was done on the beach from Rivière des Gallets to Bel Ombre. Big Bottle Bin The waste recycling process initiative at Rogers House started with a very visual collection of plastic bottles in front of the Head Office. Increasing awareness, fostering education and encouragement for recycling habits remains a pillar of our engagement carried out in collaboration with all tenant institutions, notably Rogers Corporate, Aviation & Asset Management, EIS and the US & Australian Embassies. OLEA Social Program Following the Group’s support to 50 impoverished families in the Moka region, successes and smiles are showing up. Several beneficiaries have obtained jobs and others are now enrolled in various formal training programs. Most importantly, life education workshops and psychological support have contributed to improve relationships among families. Ongoing efforts are also being made for finding housing solutions and providing continued psycho-social support to those who need it. Maisons Chaleureuses de Jérusalem et de Madagascar – As part of the Group’s CSR commitment in countries where it operates, Rogers supported financially these two projects which provide help to adolescents in distress abroad. Rogers and Company Limited 7 Initiatives carried out by our business units Our business Units Aviation The Avation Sector supported efforts for the prevention of coastal and marine pollution in Mauritius and provided training to its employees on this important issue. Other initiatives included the plantation of mangroves at Rivière Sèche, the collection of plastic for the profit of ‘La Courte Echelle‘ School and the introduction and monitoring of energy saving measures. Rogers Aviation is also one of the sponsors of Eco Clip, a project wherein youth of the Indian Ocean region used smartphones to produce clips about ecological initiatives. An assignment under the ‘Islands’ Initiative program of the Indian Ocean Commission. Hospitality Veranda Leisure & Hospitality has pursued its support to local schools in the North while supporting new ones in the South, notably Coquille Bonheur Kindergarden and Joie de Vivre School. Moreover, significant investments have been made in improving energy and water use at the Resorts, the most notable being the installation of a voltage optimizer for a cleaner power supply at Heritage Le Telfair. Logistics Velogic improved their procedures concerning the management of industrial waste and risks linked to their activities. The staff was trained by Mission Verte in waste sorting and guided in implementing a comprehensive waste management system. Contributions to the community were also made in the Arts , Sports and Vocational Training of disadvantaged youth through the following NGOs: Atelier Mo’zar, Faucon Flacq Sporting Club, Foundation for Excellence in Sports and Educational and Vocational Foundation. Property Ascencia supported the seabird translocation project of the Mauritian Wildlife Foundation (MWF). This innovative method of restoration of lost seabird community on Ile aux Aigrettes is a major tool in ensuring the survival of threatened species in our region and worldwide. MWF’s scientists are developing new methodologies and learning as much as possible on these species. More on the website of mauritian-wildlife.org. Real Estate and Agribusiness The Companie Sucrière de Bel Ombre continued its effort for the rehabilitation of the endemic flora and fauna in the protected areas of La Reserve Naturelle de Fréderica, Case Noyale and Seven Coloured Earth. Other initiatives carried out during the year included the continued funding of l’Ecole des Parents’ at Chamarel and supporting Bel Ombre inhabitants who were affected by flooding. Technology EIS has reviewed the energy consumption of its various equipment and is gradually replacing its servers, monitors and light bulbs with energy saving models. Fuel consumption is equally closely monitored and new fuel efficient and low carbon emission vehicles are favored. 8 Rogers and Company Limited 9 Human rights and Labour standards principles Rogers employs 4,206 people over twelve countries. Having a skilled and motivated employee base is key to delivering successful business stategies. The Human Ressources (HR) department focuses on providing solutions to the personnel issues of businesses of the Group by ensuring recruitment of talented individuals, developing vital skills, sustaining engagement at work and helping to improve performance on the job. The Human Resources Strategy at Rogers is about enabling business growth via proactive people management and development solutions. A dynamic and engaged team of some sixty talented individuals in Human Resources services our employee base. The core philosophy of the human resources team is to help grow the performance and potential of our people. During the 2014-2015 financial year, the Corporate Human Resources team played an important role to assist in business growth by facilitating change in the property sector merger and acquisitions in financial services sector. The team also played a key role in deploying a national employee engagement survey in collaboration with Aon Hewitt. The survey covered over 12,000+ employees spanning 110 companies in Mauritius, thus establishing a credible national benchmark for employee engagement, including engagement behaviours and drivers. The Rogers Learning Centre was revamped into the Rogers Academy with a view to organize and deliver workshops, executive coaching sessions and assessment centre to cover a range of new people development topics both internally and externally. In line with the pioneering culture of the company, Rogers Academy successfully introduced NLP (Neuro Linguistic Programming) certification workshops as well as Agility workshops for the first time in Mauritius. Employee Remuneration Salaries are generally determined by a combination of internal equity, external competitiveness and performance of the employee. Every two years, remuneration surveys are carried out so as to benchmark with practices in the relevant industries. This is used to review and update internal salary scales and benefits bands across the Group. Health & Safety The ANSI/AIHA Z10-2012 safety management system (SMS) is being used currently across the group. As there are frequent demands for a more internationally recognised SMS from partners abroad. The company will evaluate future needs and take a decision whether to make a switch or not to ISO 45000 standard which is officially coming out in 2016. Headcount by sector Gender distribution Corporate Aviation 73 501 Hotels 1501 39% Male Female 1131 Logistics 61% 114 Technology (EIS) 129 363 Financial Services 394 Technology (Axa) Agribusiness Headcount by Age Headcount by Tenure 5% 16% 20% 8% < 1 yr 35% < 30 yrs 1-5 yrs 30-39 yrs 6-15 yrs 40-49 yrs 26% 21% 16-25 yrs ≥ 50 yrs >25 yrs 41% 28% 10 Internal Control & Risk Management Good Governance and anticorruption system The responsibility for the Group’s internal control system lies with the Board of Directors. An efficient system of internal control ensures that risks are maintained at a reasonable level in order to meet business objectives. It is Management’s duty to put in place internal controls that focus on implementing strategies and policies adopted by the Board, maintaining proper accounting records and managing the Group’s overall risk level. The Board therefore delegates appropriate responsibilities relating to the management of internal controls to the Risk Management and Audit Committee. In line with the Mauritian Code of Corporate Governance, Rogers has set up a Risk Management and Audit Committee (RMAC) in 2002 whose main objectives are to ensure the existence and efficiency of a system of internal control which reflects the size of the Group as well as its diversity. The RMAC also ensures that risks are identified, mitigated and managed as required, in line with Board’s set risk appetite. The internal audit function is carried out by the Risk & Audit Department, an independent in-house business unit operating within a framework aligned with the various policies in existence within the Group. Risk and Audit Department The Risk and Audit departments provides assurance to the Board that adequate controls are in place to safeguard the Group’s income and assets. In addition, it ensures that risks are identified, assessed and mitigated so as to enable operational and financial success within the different companies in the Group. A risk based internal auditing approach is used to determine the most efficient use of the department acts as a business advisor and assists Management where possible in achieving its strategic goals. The adequacy and relevance of internal controls is dictated by the Rogers Guidelines & Policies Manual (RGPM). Monitors the operations of the risk management, internal control Reports on findings procedures and processes Risk & Audit Department Reports to RMAC and the Makes recommendations Sectorial Board to Management on on a quarterly basis specific concerns raised Rogers and Company Limited 11 Risk Management “Our risk management framework is a key component of our business model and is designed primarily to protect our shareholders, people, assets, reputation and clients’ interests and reputation.” At Rogers, risk management is embedded in our day-to-day activities and plays a fundamental role on how we work across the Group. Risk intelligence and risk management are essential to all our actions given our diversified activities, geographical locations and legal framework in which we operate. In order to ensure that our risk management framework meets our business needs, the Board, together with Management ensures that our approach to risk management remains proactive, methodical and integrated. Risk Management Framework Our risk management framework is a key component of our business model and is designed primarily to protect our shareholders, people, assets, clients’ interests and reputation. The risk management process helps the Group to achieve its strategic and operational objectives. By embedding risk management techniques in our daily operations, Rogers is better equipped to identify events and actions affecting its objectives and to manage risks in order to implement its strategies. Overall accountability for risk management lies with the Board who articulates the risks that the Group is willing to take in pursuit of its strategies through the Group’s risk appetite. Risk appetite is a vital, forward-looking perspective since it guides Management in assessing the level of acceptable risks while developing its strategies. The risk appetite also sets stakeholders’ expectations with regards to the level of risks that Rogers is willing to undertake. It is the responsibility of the Board, through the RMAC, to communicate Rogers’ risk appetite to Management and the key stakeholders as required. Risk appetite for each sector is determined by taking into account the context and maturity of the sector, the nature of the business, Management’s expertise and experience, stakeholders’ expectations of the sectors and the global economic context. Each sector’s risk appetite is reassessed on a regular basis: • as part of the annual strategic planning cycle and objectives setting processes; • when significant changes occur within Rogers (e.g restructuring); • with variations in the economic and business landscape; • when alterations are made to the Group’s objectives and strategies; and • following changes in stakeholders’ expectations and / or risk preferences. Our risk management process aims at identifying new and emerging risks at an early stage so that they are assessed alongside known and continuing risks. Major risks faced by the Group, together with the identified mitigating measures, are regularly assessed to ensure that the Group’s risk profile is as expected. 12 The list of top 10 strategic risks of the Rogers Group is based on the residual risk gap, which is the difference between the current level of residual risk and the desired level of residual risk. The following table describes thoses risks facing the Group and the means adopted to mitigate them. Sectors Key strategic Financial Real Estate & risks Aviation Hospitality Logistics Property Technology Corporate Services Agribusiness Skills attraction, performance and ● ● ● ● ● ● ● retention Business continuity ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Stakeholder ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● engagement Innovation ● ● ● ● ● Market Intelligence ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● Legal and regulatory ● ● ● ● ● ● ● compliance Projects, strategic partnerships and acquisitions ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● (Domestic and International) Concentration ● ● ● ● ● ● Liquidity ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ● ICT infrastructure / ● ● ● ● ● ● IT infrastructure Risk not identified in the sector ● Mega ● Substantial ● Significant ● Moderate ● Minor ● Insignificant Rogers and Company Limited 13 SKILLS ATTRACTION, PERFORMANCE AND RETENTION High key staff turnover and shortage Root cause: Commentary: of skilled / qualified employees are • Industries attractiveness In addition to a transparent essential issues which affect the Group’s • Poaching of staff performance assessment performance, success and ability to match • Inability to retain qualified employees system, other factors are key: international benchmarks. • Job variety & satisfaction • Staff input and involvement Impact: Mitigation: • Training and career • Quality of service is affected • Adequate rewards and recognition as progression. • Reputational damage well as provision of appropriate training • Low client satisfaction and developments to employees on a • Business failure continuous basis Concerned sectors: The Group BUSINESS CONTINUITY The Group is exposed to high-impact risks Root cause: Commentary: which may threaten its ability to sustain • Business interruptions stemming from All sectors will review their operations, provide essential products natural disasters, political unrest, strikes and Business Continuity plans and and services or recover operating costs to system breakdown may threaten Rogers’ ensure that emerging risks are function in the event of a major disaster. capacity to continue operations addressed correctly. Mitigation: Impact: • Business Continuity and Disaster Recovery • Financial losses Plan in line with the emergence of new and • Reputational damage high-impact risks including cyber-threats • Litigation exposure Concerned sectors: The Group INNOVATION Rogers is not leveraging innovation in Root cause: Commentary: its business model to achieve or sustain • Change in customer behaviour and buying The risk of not evolving and this competitive advantage. patterns as well as the arrival of new falling behind is far greater than international players impact the Group’s the risk involved in change. capacity and capability of exploiting the innovation space Impact: Mitigation: • Erosion of customer base • Regular clients surveys and investment in • Financial loss new system/technologies as well as the • Lost opportunities implementation of a quality management • Reputational damage system Concerned sectors: Aviation Technology Financial Services Corporate Real Estate & Agribusiness 14 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT The Group should at any time maintain and Root cause: Commentary: manage an adequate relationship with the • Misalignment of interest and lack of The identification of all key stakeholders. Erosion of a trademark or communication with the different stakeholders and their needs brand over time will threaten the demand stakeholders lead to potential is an essential first step in this for Rogers’ products or services and impair process. misunderstanding and disputes amongst the its ability to grow future revenue streams. different parties Impact: Mitigation: • Reputational damage • Group synergy with other divisions as well • Erosion of customer base as sharing of information and decision with • Decrease in profitability relevant stakeholders done in conjunction with Head of communications of every sector Concerned sectors: The Group MARKET INTELLIGENCE The Group’s lack of relevant and/or reliable Root cause: Commentary: information on competitors may result • The endless new entrants on the market and Greater use of experts under in prices or rates that customers are the lack of benchmarking exercise the co-sourcing arrangements indisposed to pay. when required. A focus on evaluation and improvement highlight good practices and Impact: Mitigation: areas of opportunities. • Erosion of customer base • Benchmarking exercise and market Investment in target • Loss of competitive advantage surveillance are essential but most markets, such as the African • Financial loss importantly are the new developments Continent, require a thorough • Wrong strategic decisions taken of projects to increase Rogers’ understanding of practices and competitiveness Concerned sectors: culture. The Group LEGAL AND REGULATORY COMPLIANCE Internal and external compliance Root cause: Commentary: procedures not being adhered to by • Lack of enforcement / communication of A ‘push down’ of testing relevant parties. This attitude exposes the policies and procedures activities to the business to Group to continuity interruptions. • Rigid set of rules help sectors manage their risks in reals time. Increase of nonfinancial reviews and audits. Impact: Mitigation: Compliance with International • Reputational damage • Ensure compliance with regulations, Auditing Standards and sectorial • Litigation exposure compliance manual and sound operational regulations. • Fines and penalties processes. Litigation register in place that is • Financial losses being monitored and reported at Corporate level and RMAC Concerned sectors: Property Hospitality Aviation Technology Financial Services Corporate Real Estate & Agribusiness Rogers and Company Limited 15 PROJECTS, STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS AND ACQUISITIONS (Domestic and International) Inefficient or ineffective alliance, joint Root cause: Commentary: venture, affiliate and other external • These uncertainties arise due to choosing The Group will develop a relationships affect Rogers’ capability to the wrong partner, poor execution, standard approach to project, compete. exceeding given time frames and failing to partnership and acquisition capitalize on partnering opportunities while allowing flexibility to cater for individuality of projects. Impact: Mitigation: • Reputational damage • Right people to manage the business • Possible financial loss (acquisitions) should be hired. Project appraisals should • Inability to expand and grow the business be performed as well as Board approval is required for any investment decisions / acquisitions Concerned sectors: The Group CONCENTRATION Due to a saturation within the markets, the Root cause: Commentary: need for Sectors’ to constantly reassess • Over dependence and heavy reliance on In addition to traditional new trends is a prerequisite. major clients may result in the risk of not concentration risk (e.g. one capturing opportunities client), sectors are now • Lack of market analysis assessing the risk of operating in a single jurisdiction / location Impact:  Mitigation: and adapting their strategies • The financial sustainability of businesses • Continuous evaluation of new opportunities accordingly. • Loss of key customers / personnel and assessing the risks associated with particular opportunities prior to the selection of an exclusively targeted market. This may enhance the market diversification Concerned sectors: within the Group Property Hospitality Logistics Aviation Technology Financial Services LIQUIDITY Rogers’ Group is exposed to insufficient Root cause: Commentary: means of cash flow to meet its financial • Inexistence / non-adherence to the credit Regular review of the Group’s obligations. vetting exercise strategic plan should enable • Delay in receiving money due to economic better cash flow planning to recession and late payment interest not cater for opportunities when being charged have accentuate the problem they arise. Impact: Mitigation: • Inability to continue as a going concern • Assessing customer credit worthiness • Financial loss through bank guarantees. The application • Reputational damage of a credit vetting process by a committee, • Opportunity loss with frequent checks being performed on credit limits awarded to clients. Capital Concerned sectors: injection from shareholders The Group 16 ICT INFRASTRUCTURE / IT INFRASTRUCTURE Inadequacy of and reliance on outdated Root cause: Commentary: reporting tools regarding areas such as • System failure, lack of training, lack of The regular review and renewal accounting and compliance. IT system documentation and loss of of our ICT / IT infrastructure is intellectual property now a must in the constantly evolving technological world if only to serve our clients better. Impact: Mitigation: • Reputational damage • Regular upgrades of the systems, internet • Financial loss and emails are performed to mitigate impact • Inability to continue as a going concern of changes Concerned sectors: Hospitality Aviation Technology Financial Services Corporate Real Estate & Agribusiness Rogers and Company Limited 17
