CORPORATE REsponsibility Report 2015 B | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Contents Corporate Responsibility Highlights for 2015 1 Sustainability Strategy 2007-2015 – The Results 2 CEO’s Statement 5 People6 Planet9 Prosperity12 Australian Food and Petrol 14 Woolworths Liquor Group 20 New Zealand Supermarkets 22 General Merchandise 24 Hotels25 Home Improvement 26 Sustainability Metrics 27 Workplace Metrics 29 Corporate Responsibility Governance 34 United Nations Global Compact 36 Global Reporting Initiative 37 Independent Assurance Statement 40 Store Analysis 41 Glossary42 Company Directory 45 Scope of Report Unless otherwise stated, this report covers all of our operations in Australia and New Zealand for the 2015 financial year (1 July 2014 to 30 June 2015). Only workplace metrics (excluding Safety) are included for global sourcing offices in China, Bangladesh and Thailand. With only 25% ownership and no operational control of Gage Road Brewery, there is no information reported for this business. 1 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Responsibility Highlights for 2015 For a fifth consecutive year, Woolworths has been recognised as a Sustainability Leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, Food and Staples Retailing sector. We are the only Australian retailer on the global sector leaders list. People Planet Prosperity 197,426 42% $ 114 b employees reduction in carbon and 771,000 jobs in emissions from facilities, indirect contribution to with emissions now the Australian economy below those of our 2007 baseline 74,848 91% $ 7.4 b young employees 1 of Sustainability paid in wages Strategy 2007-2015 targets and commitments completed 39% $ 172 m $ 1.8 b of management operational cost savings paid in dividends positions held by women from $137 million to shareholders investment in energy efficiency 1,953 60,000 $ 36 m indigenous employees2 tonnes of food waste contributed to diverted from landfill community partners $ 28.2m 246,659 $ 2.4 b invested in staff training tonnes of material in taxes paid 1 Young employees are aged recycled or diverted under 25 years from landfill 2 Employees self-declare if they are indigenous in our engagement survey; this result excludes Woolworths Liquor Group, ALH Group and BIG W 2 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Sustainability Strategy 2007-2015 – The Results 91% of targets and commitments achieved Woolworths Limited launched an industry leading Sustainability Despite the overall success of the strategy, our ambitious Strategy eight years ago, with ambitious targets and commitments commitment to achieve zero food waste to landfill was not met. to transform itself into a more sustainable business. The strategy However, our focus to divert food to charities, farmers programs, focused on improving the efficiency of our operations, commercial composting and waste to energy prevented 60,000 reducing waste and meeting customers’ expectations about tonnes of food waste from being dumped in landfill in 2015. responsible sourcing. We have renewed this commitment through to 2020 and have The strategy set Woolworths as a leader amongst peers and the launched a new partnership with OzHarvest, to further develop retail industry. opportunities to reduce waste. Woolworths successfully completed 31 or 91% of the 34 key As our strategy timeline nears completion, Woolworths targets and commitments in the strategy. Two of the three understands that despite our significant achievements we must remaining commitments were found to be unnecessary. maintain a focus on improvement. Our main achievements were: Adopting a model that encourages a prosperous business, community and supply chain, our new Corporate Responsibility •• 42% reduction in carbon emissions from facilities based on Strategy will address the themes of People, Planet and Prosperity. projected growth levels This basic structure best fits a business like Woolworths. •• 25%, or greater, reduction in carbon emissions per square metre in new supermarkets •• 30% reduction in company car fleet emissions •• 200 million litres of annual water saving by the target date of 2010 •• Implementation of key policies for ethical sourcing, palm oil, seafood, timber, paper and animal welfare Target Status Comment Carbon emission reductions from facilities 40% reduction in carbon emissions by 2015 (based on projected ✓ Achieved 42% reduction in emissions through a 32.3% growth levels), bringing our emissions back to 2006 levels reduction through energy efficient technology and inclusion of the 11.11% Renewable Energy Target. 25% reduction in carbon emissions per square metre for ✓ Have maintained a minimum 25% reduction in emissions new sustainable store designs compared with business as usual per square metre since 2012. Emission reduction for designs supermarkets built in 2015 is 30.4%. All new Woolworths Supermarkets opening from September ✓ Sustainable engineering design was implemented in 2008. 2008 to conform to our sustainable design guidelines Work with the Green Building Council to develop a star-rating ✗ In 2010, further investigation showed minimal benefit in tool for supermarket interiors developing this tool, particularly with Woolworths’ progress with investment in energy efficiency. Develop an ecological footprint calculator for evaluation ✗ In 2010, it was decided that internally developed project of supermarket interior design and fit-out modelling and investment in energy efficiency made this target redundant. 3 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Sustainability Strategy 2007-2015 – The Results Target Status Comment Carbon emission reductions from transport 25% reduction of carbon emissions per carton delivered ✓ Achieved a 25.6% reduction in emissions by 2012. by Woolworths owned trucks by 2012 Outsourced these operations in 2013. 30% reduction on 2006 levels of carbon emissions from ✓ Achieved a 30% reduction in emissions by 2012. Fleet was a company car fleet of 3,100 cars, by 2010 significantly larger than forecast. Establish accurate baseline data in 2008 for all modes ✓ Achieved in 2008, with accurate data available for of transport Woolworths-owned fleet and improved accuracy for third party logistics providers. Establish a forum with major transport suppliers to develop ✓ Active participation in industry forums, including the Road a low carbon strategy for our third party distribution network Transport Authority’s Green Truck Partnership. Conduct a comprehensive study on biodiesel availability in ✓ In 2008, Woolworths sponsored the CSIRO Future Fuels Australia, including quality, vehicle compatibility and cost impacts Forum on alternative fuel research. Trial the use of hybrid powered trucks for home deliveries ✓ A hybrid truck was trialled in 2009. The vehicle remains part of our fleet but the business case of fuel savings versus capital cost does not justify further investment at this time. Water efficiency Develop a more complete baseline of water usage ✓ Corporate Water Tree developed in 2010, mapping out water use in the business. Roll out the Water Wise project nationally for all of our ✓ Completed in 2008, with all Australian Supermarkets and Australian Supermarkets BIG W stores using water efficient fittings and practices. Reduce water use by at least 200 million litres by 2010 ✓ Target achieved in 2010. Results have declined but water saving was delivered in 2015. Ethical sourcing Develop and implement an ethical sourcing policy ✓ Implemented in 2008 and supported by a factory audit program. Identify sustainable sourcing gaps and develop ✓ Have introduced sustainable sourcing policies for palm oil, appropriate policies seafood, timber and paper products and animal welfare. Conduct staff training and capacity building for our buying ✓ Training has been provided to staff on ethical sourcing, teams to help them understand issues and types of compliance and sustainable product development. third party certifications Packaging Establish a supplier forum to work together on more ✓ Forums were held in 2008 and 2009 and included topics sustainable packaging like improved labelling. Establish more comprehensive baseline data for packaging ✓ Woolworths has collated packaging information on 34% of Own Brand products, including information on material of our Own Brand products, which used more than 32,300 consumption, recycled content, recyclability tonnes of packaging material. Review Own Brand procurement policy and supplier guidelines ✓ Sustainable Packaging Guidelines were developed and implemented in 2011. Conduct an audit of compliance with the Environmental Code ✓ Audit was conducted in 2008. of Practice for Packaging (ECOPP) and ISO 14021 for Own Brand products Trial the use of the Packaging Impacts Quick Evaluation Tool ✓ Trial was conducted in 2008. Woolworths now uses this tool (PIQET) for Own Brand products to compare the impacts of different packaging solutions. Report annually to the Australian Packaging Covenant (APC) ✓ Woolworths has been reporting annually on packaging and in the Woolworths Corporate Responsibility Report since 2008. Provide training to 50 suppliers by 2008 ✓ Facilitated training sessions and forums on PIQET, sustainable packaging guidelines and labelling. Use PIQET to evaluate 20 Own Brand products by 2010 ✓ Woolworths has conducted PIQET assessments on meat trays, wine bottles and our packaging team uses PIQET to compare packaging options. Continue to replace waxed cardboard and polystyrene boxes ✓ Achieved in 2009. The reuse of these crates in 2015 saved with reusable produce crates, increasing crates from 1.7 million 50.7 million boxes from being used. to 3.4 million 4 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Sustainability Strategy 2007-2015 – The Results Target Status Comment Waste minimisation Zero food waste to landfill by 2015 (where receiving Implemented programs that have diverted an estimated facilities are available) 60,000 tonnes of food waste from landfill. More than half of the waste stream is still waste food and we have recommitted to this target for 2020. Reduce the amount of flexible plastic in the waste stream ✓ Achieved in 2015, with this material comprising 0.9% of the to less than 1% by 2010 waste stream. Reduce the amount of recyclable cardboard in the waste stream ✓ Achieved in 2014, with 0.96% of this material in the waste to less than 1% by 2010 stream. The result for 2015 was 1.08%. Increase the number of Sydney stores using EarthPower ✓ 140 Supermarkets in Sydney send food waste to EarthPower, from 53 to 100 by 2010 for conversion into fertiliser and generation of electricity. Identify organics recycling technologies, similar to EarthPower, ✓ Achieved. Food waste diversion programs have been trialled for recycling source separated waste from Supermarkets and implemented in most states, with key programs in outside of Sydney, and determine commercial feasibility Adelaide, Perth, Newcastle and Wollongong. Implement a waste audit program for stores and ✓ Achieved. An annual waste audit program is tracking trends distribution centres in food waste and recyclable materials in the waste stream. Continuing phase-out of polystyrene ✓ Polystyrene boxes have been phased out for all produce, except for broccoli where it significantly improves shelf‑life. We are also phasing out the use of polystyrene trays in pre‑packaged meat and organic produce. Implement a staff education program to encourage greater ✓ The Eco Ambassador Program ran for a number of years, recovery of plastic and cardboard including awareness on recycling practices. Icon Definition ✓ Target has been achieved at some stage during the strategy’s timeline. ✗ Target has been cancelled as it was deemed not required after further investigation. Did not achieve the target. 5 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 CEO’s Statement Financial year 2015 has been one of significant change at One of Woolworths’ key and most challenging targets from 2007 Woolworths Limited. However, as always, we remain absolutely was reducing carbon emissions from stores, distribution centres committed to doing the right thing; by our people, by the planet and offices by 40% (compared to projected growth levels) by and by the communities in which we operate. 2015. Our goal was to bring our emissions from facilities back to The extent of our commitment is reflected in the fact that for the baseline year of 2006-2007, despite growing our business. a fifth consecutive year, Woolworths has been recognised An overall reduction of 42% surpasses our ambitious target. as a Sustainability Leader in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices, Our carbon reduction initiatives have delivered an estimated saving Food and Staples Retailing sector. We are the only Australian of $172 million so far. In addition, this year we have increased our retailer on the global sector leaders list. distributed solar power generation capacity to 1.2 megawatts. It is also important to be open and transparent about where we Highlights failed to meet our targets. We did not meet our commitment As Australia’s second largest private sector employer and to zero food waste by the end of 2015. However, we recently New Zealand’s largest private sector employer, Woolworths makes recommitted to this target by 2020 and put steps in place to a substantial contribution to employment and the economy. achieve this goal including an exciting new partnership with In Australia, we employed 197,426 people in 2015, including Australia’s leading local food rescue organisation, OzHarvest. 74,848 young employees under the age of 25 years. For these This partnership will enable us to divert even more surplus food young people, Woolworths often provides the launch pad to their from landfill and further help Australians in need, addressing the working lives and sets them up for successful careers, be they broader issues of food waste, sustainability and food security. in retail or further afield. I am very proud of the work the team has done to make In addition to direct employment and the $7.4 billion paid in wages Woolworths a more sustainable business over this period. in 2015, our business activities indirectly contributed $114 billion Setting our future CSR Strategy and 771,000 jobs across the Australian economy. To build on the good work of the 2007-2015 Sustainability Strategy, Importantly, safety rates at work improved with a Lost Time we are currently working on setting our goals and commitments Frequency Rate of 10.51, a reduction on 2014. Pleasingly, more than for the next five years to 2020. 1,200 of our sites did not record a lost time injury during the year. Woolworths believes shared prosperity is an essential ingredient We continued to reduce our carbon footprint and reduced food of our success. We look forward to updating you on our progress waste to landfill by 60,000 tonnes during the year. in 2016. Over the year, Woolworths contributed almost $36 million through community programs with our community partners Woolworths is a signatory to the United Nations Global across Australia and New Zealand. Compact (UNGC). UNGC signatories embrace a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the A strong focus has been assisting Australians struggling with environment and anti-corruption. In this report, we share our the impacts of natural disasters. Since 2010 working with performance against the UNGC core values. our customers we have contributed more than $28 million to The Salvation Army. Sustainability Strategy 2007-2015 This year our Sustainability Strategy 2007-2015 comes to an end. We launched this industry leading Sustainability Strategy eight years ago with ambitious targets. The strategy focused on improving the efficiency of our operations, reducing waste and GRANT O’BRIEN meeting customer expectations about responsible sourcing. Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer Woolworths successfully completed 31 out of the 34 key targets and commitments in the Strategy. Of the remaining three, two of these three commitments were found to be unnecessary. 6 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 People Our customers expect a consistently great shopping experience with the best range of products at unbeatable prices in a convenient location. Our employees expect us to provide them with a safe workplace, where they are treated with respect and where they have the potential to grow in their careers. Diversity To create the best opportunities for employment, we work with external partners on community-based pre-employment 1,953 indigenous employees3 programs. Through a combination of soft skills training, in store work experience and ongoing mentoring, 84% of program 6,725 employees with a disability4 participants successfully reach 26 weeks of employment. 39% of management roles are held by women Other pathways to employment include internships and the Graduate program. Woolworths values diversity and aims to create a vibrant and Woolworths continued its membership of the Business Indigenous inclusive workplace. We want our employees to feel valued at Network, coordinated through the Business Council of Australia. work, regardless of their gender, age, ethnicity, beliefs, disability, This network creates opportunities for the increased participation sexual orientation or gender identity. of indigenous people in the workplace. Representation of women Woolworths continues to work with Supply Nation, a body More than half of our workforce are women, we are committed dedicated to growing diversity within the supply chain. In 2015 to improving the representation of women in executive and we supported two indigenous suppliers, Young Guns Container management roles. Crew, a Labour hire company, and Message Stick communications. Last year, we reached our target to have 33% of leadership Employees with disabilities roles (within two levels below our CEO) filled by women, a year Supporting people with a disability to find employment continues ahead of the commitment we made to the Australian Securities to be a priority. For example, we continue to support all of our Exchange (ASX). potential employees by working closely with the Australian Women hold 39% of management positions in Woolworths, Network on Disability to ensure our new recruitment system is with the majority of these roles based in operations. Increasing disability friendly. female representation at this level of management is important We continue to be a gold member of the Australian Network to improving our overall gender equality in the business. on Disability and our Group Head of Safety and Health is Our CEO, Grant O’Brien, is a member of the Male Champions of a member of the board of this organisation. Change, a group of 22 CEO s committed to achieving change on Woolworths is working to provide employees with training in gender equality issues in organisations and communities. As part Auslan (Australian Sign Language), the language of the deaf of his commitment, Woolworths has launched new workplace community in Australia. This will enable co-workers, supervisors flexibility program, WoWFlex, which currently covers more than and managers to communicate better with hard of hearing 550 employees. This pilot program focuses on encouraging colleagues and customers. This work is being championed by flexible work and is supported by a new flexibility policy and an Drisana Levitzke-Gray, the Young Australian of the Year and activity-based working model. Woolworths Workplace Advocate. The average gender pay gap at Woolworths is less than the Age diversity average national gender pay gap. We do have more work to Woolworths provides many young people in Australia and do to improve this and close the gap. Woolworths is reviewing New Zealand with a great start to their careers, with more than remunerations for a number of levels of employment, to identify 74,000 of our employees under the age of 25. We also value the gaps and to set appropriate targets for improvement. experience of older workers with more than 18,000 employees Indigenous employees over the age of 55. In keeping with the commitment outlined in our Reconciliation Engagement and Valuing our People Action Plan, we continue to focus on closing the gap between indigenous and non-indigenous Australians through Engagement employment strategies. This year, our employee engagement survey is being conducted in three phases and only the first phase has been completed. We had a participation rate of 80%, and an overall5 engagement score of 66%, which decreased by 2% compared to the previous year. This result falls below industry standards and our leaders continue to work with employees to better understand how we can increase engagement and make Woolworths a great place to work. 3 Employees self-declare if they are indigenous in our engagement survey; this result excludes Woolworths Liquor Group, ALH Group and BIG W 4 Employees self-declare whether they have a disability in our employee engagement survey. A rewording of this question to include an example of visual impairment may have skewed the result if employees who wear glasses answered this incorrectly 5 Excluding Woolworths Liquor Group, ALH Group and BIG W 7 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 People Parental leave We continue to offer paid maternity leave to eligible Australian-based employees, which includes six weeks paid maternity leave, two weeks’ return-to-work bonus and up to 104 weeks unpaid parental leave. All employees are eligible if they have completed 12 months of continuous service prior to taking the leave or if they qualify as an eligible casual employee. 2014 2015 Returned Returned Accessed from Accessed from Parental Parental Parental Parental Leave Leave Leave Leave Female 2,179 1,958 2,023 1,775 Male 21 20 14 15 Total 2,200 1,978 2,037 1,790 Training The second stream is a pipeline program for future leaders launched this year. The outcome is that we now have a pool of 780,000 hours of training diverse, mobile talent who are equipped to step into a leadership role and perform. To date, 67 current and future leaders have 2,000+ courses completed the program. $28.2 million invested Graduate Program 2,480 trainees and apprentices6 The Woolworths Graduate Program offers recently graduated university students the opportunity to participate on a structured development program with our business. Graduates are recruited Woolworths provides a great opportunity for our employees to both internally and externally for programs in their chosen field build a career. We use a mix of learning opportunities, including and rotate through various business units and functions. They are formal training (in ‘classrooms’ or online), on-the-job experience, supported by both on and off-the-job development over the two mentoring and coaching. or three year program. Retail Edge The program welcomed 67 new graduates who started Retail Edge is an innovative retail program providing employees in February 2015, with a total of 116 graduates currently the opportunity to develop their retail skills. The program is offered participating in the programs. to current retail operations team members and is completed The 2016 Graduate Recruitment Campaign has seen an increase as part of a traineeship that combines both on-the-job and in Graduate and Internship opportunities across our business with off‑the‑job training. 100 roles available. New streams have been introduced including With a flexible online approach, employees can complete learning Data, Business Consulting and Procurement. at a time that is most suited to them. The program has a high focus on recognising the trainee’s current skills and abilities. Safety and Health On completion of the traineeship, participants gain a nationally Destination ZERO is our vision for safety and health in recognised qualification in Retail Operations or Retail Management. Woolworths. It means a journey towards becoming one Since the program started in 2013 we have had 2,008 employees of the world’s safest places to work and shop. participate in Retail Edge. Frontline Leadership Program At the time of preparing this report, Woolworths has reported In 2014, we launched a Frontline Leadership Program within the a Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) of 10.51, which is a Logistics division to invest in our leaders, support engagement reduction compared to the restated LTIFR for 20147. Of note, and build a high performance culture. We partner with an external more than 1,200 of our sites did not have a lost time injury provider to provide participants with a Certificate IV in Frontline during the year. Leadership and an experience that is engaging, challenging, Employees report incidents, injuries and near misses through our thought provoking and fun. incident reporting systems. We have two program streams to achieve our vision of creating Next year, Woolworths will be reporting Total Recordable confident and professional frontline leaders. The first stream is Injury Frequency Rate (TRIFR), this will replace the New Claims a state-based program launched last October for our existing Frequency Rate (NCFR). The TRIFR for 2015 was 20.19. Team Leaders. Our plan is to up-skill all of our Team Leaders and have the program become a pre-requisite to any frontline leadership position. 6 Excludes New Zealand Supermarkets and ALH Group 7 LTIFR continues to update after the reporting period to capture any delays in reporting 8 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 People Health and wellbeing All Good Woolworths continues its commitment to encourage and support our employees to make healthier decisions by providing information and a culture that promotes healthy behaviours. The key strategies of the program are to: •• Encourage employees to understand their health status through either face-to-face or online health assessments •• Educate employees on the impact of their health status and provide options of how that might be different •• Support an employee when they choose to take a journey through access to programs As part of the program development, Woolworths undertook a research project in the Victorian regional city of Ballarat. The ‘Positive Change Project’ was conducted over 12 weeks to determine the primary drivers in taking up and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. Involving 120 employees split into high and low touch groups, the program provided various levels of support and information to examine the impact on key physical and mental health measures, staff engagement, biological age and ongoing commitment to change. Results were very encouraging with all members of the ‘high touch’ program, who had access to one-on-one support, achieving significant benefits whilst moderate change was achieved in the ‘low touch’ group, who relied on online tools. Learnings from the program are being assessed as part of the broader commitment to employee wellness. Employee Assistance Program Employees experience stressors at work and at home that can impact their wellbeing. Woolworths provides access for all staff to our Employee Assistance Program, where they can connect with a confidential counselling service through Converge Australia for both personal and work-related issues. 9 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Planet Our aim is to do more with less by using the natural resources of our plant more efficiently. Resource efficiency trend 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Carbon Intensity8 (t CO2 -e/$m EBIT) 881 838 841 793 808 Energy Intensity9 (GJ/$m EBIT) 3,325 3,227 3,097 3,019 3,100 Water Intensity10 (kL/$m EBIT) 560 600 600 655 655 Waste Intensity11 (T/$m EBIT) 45 38 36 28 29 Carbon Emissions – Facilities Reducing our cost of doing business Energy Efficiency Improving the efficient use of resources and minimising waste continue to be effective business practices in reducing 42% reduction in carbon emissions operational costs. Woolworths has reached a transition period for energy efficiency One of Woolworths’ key and most challenging targets from 2007 and low carbon technology projects. Our original initiatives was reducing carbon emissions from stores, distribution centres focusing on refrigeration, air-conditioning and lighting have and offices by 40% (compared to projected growth levels) by delivered estimated operating cost savings of $172 million, from 2015. Our goal was to bring our emissions from facilities back to $137 million in capital investment. the baseline year of 2006-2007, despite growing our business. Our next phase of energy efficiency, dubbed Project Enlighten, An overall reduction of 42% surpasses our ambitious target. focuses on lighting technology and has the potential to save $100 million in operational costs annually when fully implemented. Setting this target eight years ago, when very few of our peers With current capital investment we expect to deliver $24 million had made similar commitments, gave the business the focus in annual savings by the end of 2016. to investigate, develop, trial and implement energy efficiency innovation that was ahead of many retailers. Renewable energy Use of low greenhouse gas emitting refrigerants, efficient redesign Solar energy generation is another aspect of this project. In the last of customer-facing refrigeration cases, large scale adoption of few months of the financial year we invested in the installation of efficient fluorescent light and then LED lighting, and improved 25 solar panel systems, of differing capacities, across all mainland energy management systems also delivered an estimated states and territories and on the roof of Supermarkets, BIG W and reduction in carbon emissions of more than one million tonnes, Liquor stores, and Petrol sites. All up, these sites have a capacity of or the equivalent of operating an estimated 405 supermarkets more than 1.2MW. as carbon neutral. We implemented four new projects this year which have 150MWh of renewable energy generated reduced energy use by 16,573MWh and carbon emissions at Woolworths’ sites in 2015 by 15,646 tonnes. The energy use and carbon emissions data was prepared in accordance with the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Technical Guidelines. 8 Scope 1 and 2 carbon emissions only, from stationary sources 9 Energy use from stationary sources only 10 Estimated water use from Australian Supermarkets only 11 Waste to landfill from Australian Supermarkets, New Zealand Supermarkets and BIG W 10 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Planet Carbon Emissions – Transport Material use Company car fleet Woolworths has reviewed the packaging material of more than Woolworths continues to achieve its commitment of reducing the 3,000 Own Brand products. The products account for more carbon footprint of its company car fleet. Fuel efficiency remains than 34% of Own Brand sales and required the use of more than a criterion during the selection of vehicles for our fleet and our 32,300 tonnes of packaging materials. emissions are now 46.7% below our 2007 baseline. High Density Polyethylene (HDPE) continues to be the most Emissions from company cars (tonnes of CO2-e) common material, due to use in two and three litre milk containers. Cardboard and paper are the next most commonly used packaging Country 2013 2014 2015 material, driven by egg cartons and Homebrand Frozen Peas. Australia 14,992 9,939 8,654 Approximately 19.5% of the packaging used contains postconsumer recycled content. New Zealand 1,936 1,898 1,926 Total 16,928 11,837 10,580 Packaging used in Australian Supermarkets Plastic – HDPE 30.6% Water Cardboard 21.3% We used an estimated 2.46 gigalitres (GL) of water in our Paper 11.5% Australian Supermarkets during the year. This estimate was based Plastic – PET 9.4% Glass 7.3% on a small sample space of metered water use in stores. Plastic – Other 5.4% In 2014, we had a higher average store water usage. Our Engineering Steel 4.8% Maintenance and Services team investigated and addressed any Plastic – PP 3.2% leaks or operational practices that contributed to this. Plastic – LDPE 2.2% Plastic – PVC 2.2% Water savings from Water Wise Project (ML) Plastic – Polystyrene 1.9% 350 Aluminium 0.3% 317 300 302 Biopolymer 0.1% Composite <0.1% 250 Australian Supermarkets 208 Note: Data is only for Australian Supermarkets Own Brand products that have 200 172 been reviewed. 150 129 100 Switching from glass to plastic for Own Brand Olive Oil 50 44 During the year, we reviewed the packaging used for our Homebrand 5 and Select range of Olive Oils. Traditionally packaged in glass bottles, 0 -50 we changed to a PET bottle and reduced the weight of packaging by up to 94%. The change to this range is expected to deliver an overall -100 -90 saving in packaging weight of 1,130 tonnes per year. 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Through previous use of the Packaging Impact Quick Assessment Tool (PIQET), we found that the construction and use of PET Packaging bottles generally has a lower environmental impact than bottles made from glass. 50.7 million boxes not used due to the use of Plastic bags per customer transaction 3.4 million reusable produce crates 2.0 1.97 1.87 1.88 1.94 1.89 1.81 1.85 1.75 Packaging plays a key role for retailers and brand owners. Significant resources have been invested in growing, processing 1.5 and transporting the products that are on our shelves, ensuring all products are protected from the supply chain through to the pantries of our customers. 1.0 When designing the packaging of its Own Brand products, Woolworths considers the product’s protection, while also 0.5 considering packaging accessibility, recyclability, recycled content and messaging. 0.0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Note: Trend is for Australian Supermarkets only. 11 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Planet Waste and Recycling Packaging stewardship Managing waste is a key focus for the business. We are committed We commenced a trial of the Redcycle recycling program for the to key targets of zero food waste to landfill and increasing collection of flexible plastic packaging. This soft plastic material recycling rates, both of which will also help the business reduce is used to package many frozen products and bakery items and operational costs. cannot be recycled through Australia’s kerbside recycling program. For 2015, waste disposed to landfill has increased slightly by 0.4% This material is currently collected in dedicated bins at the front of and the volume of material recycled or diverted from landfill has 100 Supermarkets (half in Sydney and the other half in Melbourne), decreased by 1.8%. and the material is sent to an Australian processor to make plastic park furniture. Since implementation we have collected 71.5 tonnes Waste and recycling trends (tonnes) of plastics, or 18 million pieces of packaging. 300,000 Deforestation 250,000 By 2020, we aim to have zero net deforestation from commodities 200,000 sourced for our Own Brand products. Palm oil 150,000 We have maintained a strong focus on our commitment to use only 100,000 sustainable palm oil in Own Brand food products by the end of 2015. We have converted all our existing baseline of Own Brand food 50,000 products to certified sustainable palm oil. In 2015, these products used 6,210 tonnes of sustainable palm oil. We use palm oil that has 0 been certified sustainable under the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm 2013 2014 2015 Oil’s (RSPO) identity preserved, segregated or mass balance models. Materials diverted from landfill Waste to landfill Our requirements for sustainable palm oil have been incorporated Note: Waste to landfill data only from Australian Supermarkets, New Zealand in our Brand Guidelines covering all new product development and Supermarkets and BIG W. we have labelled palm oil in 99% of our Own Brand food products where they contain palm oil as a direct ingredient. Waste audits During our annual waste audits of 27 Australian Supermarkets, Paper and timber we identified that we had fulfilled one of our original sustainability All of our Own Brand tissue, toilet paper and kitchen towel products targets of reducing the volume of plastic film in our waste stream to are sourced from independently certified, sustainable sources. less than 1% by weight (0.9%). The volume of recyclable cardboard Catalogues are a key marketing tool for our business and during the in the waste stream increased slightly from 0.96% the previous year we produced almost 1.36 billion catalogues across our brands year to 1.08% this year. in Australia and New Zealand. All of the 54,160 tonnes of paper The volume of food waste in this audit remained static at 57%. Our used to make these catalogues came from certified sustainable initiatives to address food waste are outlined in the Australian Food sources, either through the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or the and Petrol section. Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certifications (PEFC). Food waste Within our business we use FSC certified office paper, procuring more than 286,000 reams of paper. The decrease in paper use We estimate that we have reduced our food waste to landfill by compared to previous years has been realised via initiatives like more than 55,000 tonnes during the year. Although this is short of the implementation of ‘follow-me-print’ functions in printers (staff the ambitious target we set for the close of 2015, our commitment must swipe their card and wait for their printing, rather than print to this target over the years has realised significant improvements. and forget) and increased mobility through digital devices. If the food in our Supermarkets cannot be sold, Woolworths is committed to directing food waste to other forms of beneficial Microbeads reuse. Initiatives to reduce shrink (loss) in store have generated an Microbeads are micro-plastic particles (0.1-0.5 millimetres in size) estimated $65 million in savings, whilst more than $12 million of added as exfoliating agents to personal care products. savings in waste management costs have been delivered through These micro-plastics are too small to be filtered out by many food rescue, farmers programs and commercial composting. municipal wastewater treatment plants, and can wash directly into We are implementing new waste management contracts during our fresh water systems. Many treatment plants divert wastewater the coming year which we expect will divert a further 10,000 directly into local rivers during heavy rain, which puts microbeads tonnes of food waste from landfill. directly into the environment. We are committed to minimising environmental impacts of Woolworths Own Brand products. We have been working with our suppliers to phase out the use of plastic microbeads in our Own Brand skin care and body wash products by the end of 2015. 12 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Prosperity Prosperity of our business is linked to the prosperity of our suppliers and the communities we serve and we contribute by creating jobs, economic activity, shareholder value and investing in our communities. Woolworths continues to deliver strong returns to investors, with a $114 billion and 771,000 jobs in indirect 1.5% increase in our full year dividend. contribution to the Australian economy (flow-on Suppliers from the value of sales and construction spend) Suppliers are a critical stakeholder for the business, whether we Ranked 18th in global retailing (based on 2013 are stocking their brands in our stores or if they are a supplier of sales revenue)12 products under our own brands. We must balance providing value to our customers with a fair return to suppliers. Jobs and Employment Advantage Report Last year we disclosed results from the Advantage Group’s Every day, another young Australian – and New Zealander – independent supplier survey. The 2015 report assessed retailer gets a great start at Woolworths. performance from quantitative and qualitative research, which included survey responses from 283 suppliers and a further 197,426 employees 350 interviews. 74,848 young employees13 Of the 17 retailers that were rated, Woolworths’ overall performance moved from 4th in 2014 to 6th this year. Category $7.4 billion paid in wages and business development, and supply chain management $2.4 billion in taxes paid remain core strengths for the business, and we are even more focused on the better execution of marketing plans and improving supplier relations. In 2015, more than 43,000 talented people joined the business in Australia, New Zealand and other international sourcing offices. Better conditions for workers in our supply chain More than 23,00014 of these were young people, many getting We uphold human rights for our employees and those working their first start in the workforce with us. in our supply chain. Woolworths Limited is the second largest private sector employer For instance, we have a long-established ethical sourcing policy, in Australia and the largest in New Zealand. which enacts the International Labour Organisation (ILO) We also operate small offices in China, Bangladesh and Thailand. conventions and the UN Global Compact’s core values of human rights, labour standards, the environment and anti-corruption. We have committed to growing our business, and with growth comes new opportunities for employment. We expect all our suppliers to comply with our ethical sourcing policy, which has a compliance audit program for factories Investors making our Own Brand products. Production facility audits are prioritised based on human rights risks of countries as well as $1.8 billion paid in dividends to product categories. shareholders Experienced third-party certification bodies conduct these audits for us and rate factories as approved, conditionally approved or at $60.7 billion in sales risk. Factories at risk or with critical corrective actions can’t start $3,748.4 million EBIT15 production for Woolworths until they take corrective action and resolve critical non-conformances. $2,453.3 million net profit after tax16 Woolworths has committed to further transparency regarding our supply chain and will soon be disclosing details for factories that BIG W sources from in all high risk countries. 12 Deloitte, Global Powers of Retailing 2015 13 Young employees are aged under 25 years 14 Excludes ALH Venue and Support Staff 15 Before significant items 16 Before significant items 13 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Prosperity Ethical audit status per sites Woolworths has reviewed its community investment program and will initiate a new focus for supporting national and local initiatives At Risk 7% Conditionally approved 59% in the coming year. Approved 34% Total community contribution $35.97 million Cash donations $12.2 million In kind $4.6 million Staff time $5.8 million Leverage $13.3 million Disaster relief Woolworths has a great track record in helping communities Corrective Action Plan severity per non-conformance recover from natural disasters such as droughts, floods, cyclones and bushfires. Critical 8% High 64% The Salvation Army has been Woolworths’ partner for Natural Low 28% Disaster Relief since 2010. During that time, Woolworths has contributed more than $28 million to the Salvos to help communities adversely affected by various natural disasters. This contribution includes cash donations from the business, in-kind materials and fund raising. Contribution Event 2011 $21.5m Qld floods and Cyclone Yasi 2012 $1.45m Tasmanian bushfires, Qld and NSW Protecting seasonal migrant workers in Australia floods Many of our produce suppliers in Australia need the help of 2013 $5.51m Blue Mountains bushfires, Qld and seasonal migrant workers to meet their labour demand during NSW drought peak harvest. Woolworths expects all suppliers to comply with the 2015 $0.27m Hunter Valley storms workplace laws and ethical standards for all their workers. In addition to our assistance for Natural Disaster Relief, we have We have reiterated in writing to all our meat and produce suppliers supported the Red Shield Appeal for the last two years by facilitating that we expect full compliance with Australian workplace laws and fundraising in front of our stores. The Salvos raised $329,200 at our they must take responsibility for ensuring their suppliers and labour Supermarkets, BIG W and Masters stores during their 2015 appeal. hire companies are also legally compliant. We have made the consequences of non-compliance very clear. Avner Pancreatic Cancer Foundation We believe that Australia has a strong rule of law and wellWoolworths and its suppliers have supported the Avner Pancreatic established independent agencies like Fair Work Australia that Cancer Foundation since establishment of the foundation in 2008. monitor and enforce the laws much more effectively than is The Avner Foundation is the only foundation in Australia possible for private sector companies. However, we acknowledge exclusively focused on pancreatic cancer research and seeks there are issues with some unscrupulous labour hire companies to break through 40 years of minimal progress by doubling and accept our role as part of the supply chain in working with key the number of people who survive pancreatic cancer by 2020. industry bodies and other stakeholders to improve labour practices Pancreatic cancer has a five year survival rate of only 6% and a in the supply chain. median survival of three to six months. To this end, Woolworths has joined a working group convened We support a number of annual fundraising events including the and led by the National Farmers Federation (NFF) and the Produce ‘Put your foot down’ walks and the ‘Best Things in Life’ dinners. The Marketing Association (PMA) developing a best practice scheme Avner Foundation is also supported by Coca-Cola Amatil through for agricultural employment. Woolworths is very supportive of sales of specially marked Deep Spring water sold exclusively at a proactive and unified industry approach led by agricultural Woolworths Supermarkets. peak bodies. This is an issue that requires multi-stakeholder Last year a group of Woolworths staff and suppliers, participated collaboration between Government, regulators, producers and in a three day, 300km charity bike ride. The ‘Woolies on Wheels’ retailers and we are happy to be part of the solution. initiative took us to towns like Bathurst, Orange and Cowra, raising Community awareness and more than $400,000 for the Foundation. Many Australian and New Zealand communities have a Woolworths business in their town centre. This provides us with the opportunity to engage with our customers, employees and suppliers to raise awareness of and contribute vital funding to charitable organisations and community programs. Woolworths has a public target to give the equivalent of at least 1% of pre-tax profits to the communities in which we operate. Our 2015 pre-tax contribution was 0.7%. 14 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Australian Food and Petrol Woolworths is Australia’s largest supermarket chain, operating 961 supermarkets and 516 petrol sites across Australia. We rely on more than 115,000 hard working employees in stores and support offices to provide our customers with superior service, range, value and convenience. People Health Star Rating With almost 18 million customers visiting our supermarkets every In June 2014, Woolworths was the first Australian retailer to adopt week, we must meet the expectations of these customers and look the Australian Federal Government’s voluntary Health Star Rating after our employees. System, as part of our commitment to helping customers make healthier choices. All customers are driven by certain key factors when deciding what they are going to buy and who they will buy it from. Great The system allows customers to make quick and easy comparisons value, good quality products, enjoyable shopping experience, between packaged foods within a category, based on their convenience and choice will determine whether a customer shops nutritional profile. The more stars, the healthier the choice. with your business and considers returning. Customers will now find star ratings appearing on a range Value of products on our shelves including all of our Own Brands: In the second half of the year, we invested $200 million into Homebrand, Select, Macro, Free From, Gold, Created with Jamie, lowering prices in our Australian Supermarkets. and our newest addition, Cooking with Kylie Kwong. During the year, we have seen a 2.8% deflation in prices. Since the scheme was rolled out, approximately 19% of our Compared to our main competitor, internal price comparisons of Own Brand portfolio has now applied the star rating. As a result, 17,000 products show price parity since June. Data from Nielsen we are on track to have the Health Star Rating system across Homescan research showed that we are cheaper across almost all of our products within four years – significantly ahead of the 9,000 key items in the last financial quarter of 2015 and materially Government’s five year timeframe. cheaper on 10,000 items online. In July 2015, the Federal Government announced that more than 1,000 products on the shelves of Australian supermarkets were Choice using the Health Star Rating. At that time, approximately 400 of Supermarkets represent the core of our business and we are Woolworths Own Brand products included a Health Star Rating, focused on delivering a full range of products, providing choice and meaning we are a significant contributor to the progress of this convenience for our customers. Our commitment to improving program. labelling and increase transparency is designed to give our customers the right information so they can choose food that is Woolworths employees were educated on how to use healthier, and is ethically and sustainably sourced from farms with and understand the Health Star Rating system through high animal welfare standards. training conducted via our Nutrition Academy and internal communication channels. Our website provides educative Health and nutrition material for our customers. We are the largest retailer of fresh food in Australia and one of the largest in New Zealand. Food and Health Dialogue Woolworths has been working towards the Australian We acknowledge that we sell a full range of groceries, including Government’s Food and Health Dialogue targets to reduce sodium items considered treats which should be eaten in moderation. and saturated fat in nominated food categories since it was For our Own Brand products we have undertaken a range of established in 2009. initiatives to improve their nutritional value, while also making To date, we have met our commitments in over 90% of the nine sure that the labelling is clear for our customers to make informed categories included in the reformulation program. For instance, decisions about the products they purchase. 100% of our Own Brand breads and breakfast cereals, and the majority of our soups, simmer sauces, savoury pies and processed meats have reached the target set. We are also well underway with sodium reduction in savoury crackers, potato/corn and extruded snacks and cheese, and on track to meet the respective deadlines for these categories in December 2015 and March 2017. 15 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Australian Food and Petrol No Artificial Flavours, No Artificial Colours Chicken meat Where possible we are continuing our work to eliminate artificial By December 2014, Woolworths fulfilled its commitment to source colours, flavours, preservatives (including sodium benzoate) all Own Brand fresh chicken from farms that are Royal Society and MSG from our Own Brand food products. To date, we have for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals (RSPCA) Approved reformulated nearly 500 of our Own Brand products in accordance (or equivalent). Meat chickens raised on RSPCA Approved farms with our brand guidelines. have more space than conventional chickens to move around, have Our reformulation work continues, alongside our commitment to a longer dark period so they can rest properly, and are provided use natural ingredients where possible. with environmental enrichment such as straw to peck at and perches to sit on. Macro reformulation Under the scheme, maintaining good quality litter bedding material Since the start of the year, our product reformulations of the (provided to the birds for comfort) through control of temperature, Macro range have removed a total of 5.5 tonnes of salt and humidity and ventilation is essential. 20.5 tonnes of saturated fats from the range. Key steps to In 2015, 12.1% of Woolworths Own Brand chicken sales were achieving this included: Macro free range (approved by Free Range Egg and Poultry •• Switching to organic sunflower oil for the Macro Chip range, Australia, FREPA). reducing the fat content by 20% Our welfare commitment for chicken extends to the chicken used •• Reducing the saturated fat content in the Macro Apricot as a defined visible ingredient (e.g. chicken pieces) in our Own and Herb Chicken by 31% Brand food products. We have committed to only using RSPCA •• Our Macro Beef Chipolatas now contain 47% less sodium Approved (or equivalent) chicken in our Own Brand products – and the Mini Macro Beef Meatballs have 61% less sodium where chicken is a defined ingredient. •• New Macro dips have removed 28 kilograms of salt and Pork 23.5kg of saturated fat from the marketplace each week Throughout 2015, we have been working in collaboration with our fresh pork suppliers to develop our future Pig Welfare Blueprint. Animal welfare The Blueprint development included an end-to-end review of Animal welfare is an integral part of our responsible sourcing animal husbandry and welfare in the different pork production strategy. We know it is important to our business and our systems. The overall aim is to give clear future direction to our stakeholders. Our entire Own Brand range will be produced to suppliers on our sustainable welfare requirements. The Pork high standards of animal welfare and we have made a number Welfare Blueprint will be launched before the end of 2015. of specific animal commitments for pigs and poultry. All our Own Brand fresh pork is sourced from farms that only use gestation stalls for less than 10% of the sow’s gestation period. Animal products sales trends Our commitment to offering a range of higher welfare pork in all % of total states has been achieved. We also have our own range of Macro % increase % increase category free range pork17 in most states, and we are working closely with of volumes of volume volumes a supplier in WA to complete our national coverage. This will be in 2014 in 2015 in 2015 available before the end of 2015. Macro free range chicken 28.54 -2.64 12.09 Genetically modified (GM) food Free range eggs 9.84 8.52 39.97 Woolworths Own Brand products do not use genetically modified (GM) ingredients. Barn laid eggs 0.41 8.15 10.68 Organic eggs 0.90 6.92 2.72 Our requirements on GM ingredients are communicated to our Own Brand suppliers in our Brand Guidelines and Woolworths Eggs Quality Assurance (WQA) standard. Woolworths has committed to phasing out cage produced eggs Farmers and workers in developing countries and to stop using them as an ingredient in our Own Brand products Agricultural commodities such as tea, coffee and cocoa have where egg is a defined ingredient. been known to have practices of child labour and forced labour Since we announced this intention, we have phased out all Own deep within the supply chain beyond our direct suppliers. In these Brand caged eggs from our stores and have actively promoted instances we look for independently certified products such as cage-free egg alternatives through our pricing, improved shelf Fairtrade™, Rainforest Alliance and UTZ certified. space and highlighting cage-free alternatives to customers in our These certification schemes aim for better prices and acceptable publications, e.g. Woolworths Fresh magazine. working conditions for farmers and workers in the developing Less than 47% of all eggs sold in our Australian Supermarkets world. We offer our customers a wide range of certified products were produced in caged farm operations. This means that more in our Own Brand, as well as other popular brands in the tea, coffee than half of the eggs we sell are bought by customers who prefer and chocolate categories. We are continually looking to move our cage‑free production. Own Brand products to these independently certified sources. 17 Australian Pork Industry Quality (APIQ) Assurance Scheme 16 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Australian Food and Petrol Demand for certified products continues to increase and we’re All of our Own Brand canned tuna is either ‘pole and line’ caught selling various certified tea, coffee and chocolate categories in our or caught without the use of fish aggregating devices (FADs). Own Brand, and in many popular consumer brands. A fish aggregating device is a man-made object used by fisherman Tonnes of certified tea, coffee and chocolate in 2015 to attract fish. This approach can also attract other endangered 4,000 animals, such as turtles and dolphins, increasing the chance of ‘bycatch’. Removing the FADs can significantly reduce the bycatch 3,500 of turtles, sharks, dolphins and juvenile tuna. 3,000 We sold 237 tonnes of MSC certified canned tuna and salmon 2,500 through our Australian stores in 2015. 2,000 Food waste 1,500 Woolworths set an ambitious target to remove food waste from 1,000 its waste stream by 2015, and a significant amount of progress has been made thus far. 500 Since making this commitment in 2007, we have continued to 0 divert food waste to other beneficial means of reuse. Most of Fairtrade Rainforest UTZ our solutions to reduce food waste are supported by successful Alliance partnerships with external parties. Planet Our food relief partners include Foodbank Australia, OzHarvest, Responsible sourcing Fareshare, SecondBite and many local groups who work hard to collect food and turn it into meals for those in need. By working Sustainable seafood and fish alongside these charitable organisations, Woolworths can continue In March 2011, Woolworths announced its long-term goal of only to support local communities by helping feed people who often go sourcing sustainable seafood. This means sourcing wild caught without. seafood from stocks that are in abundance using methods that don’t damage ocean habitats or catch large volumes of non-target We have also recently launched a new food rescue partnership species or ‘bycatch’. Furthermore, it means sourcing farmed with OzHarvest, which will allow for further diversion of food to seafood from aquaculture systems that don’t destroy coastal those in need. habitats or depend on overfished wild caught fisheries as feed. In 2015, we provided 2,127 tonnes of food (equivalent of 2.8 million In 2015, an estimated 8,340 tonnes of seafood sold at seafood meals) to Foodbank Australia, 235 tonnes (470,000 meals) to counters in our Australian Supermarkets was certified sustainable FareShare and 594 tonnes (1.2 million meals) to SecondBite. by credible third parties, including 2,390 tonnes certified by the Marine Stewardship Council (MSC) and the remainder through one of the aquaculture certification programs. Avoidance Food Farmers Commercial Waste to Landfill Stock management Rescue Program composting Energy When all other processes and We partner with We have successful We have food EarthPower is a alternatives have the diligence of our local food relief partnerships, with waste diversion facility we have been exhausted, staff limit the overcharities to take local farmers who programs with been working with our last resort is ordering of stock, food that cannot collect food waste a number of since 2006, which to send food waste and discounting of be sold, but is safe for stock feed or commercial takes food waste to landfill. products as they to eat, to produce on-farm composting and converts it into approach their use meals for those composting. and worm farm fertiliser and green by date. in need. operations across energy. Australia. saving saving saving saving saving $65 2,956 40,000 11,070 6,289 million tonnes tonnes tonnes tonnes 17 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Australian Food and Petrol Prosperity Australian sourced – fresh (in Australian Supermarkets) Suppliers 100 100 96 The success of our business depends on the success of our 90 suppliers and the long-term sustainability of their businesses. 80 To serve our customers well, we know we need to work with our suppliers closely and collaborate more effectively. 60 Woolworths was the first national retailer to commit to the new % 44 Grocery Code of Conduct, so we have commenced the process 40 of complying with the Code and improving overall relationships with suppliers. 20 Processes and documentation have been updated, with all terms of trade now compliant with the code, and a restructured online 0 Vendor Guide including a number of Code undertakings, such as: Meat Fruit and Bakery Fish and vegetables seafood19 •• Publishing future category review dates •• Shelf layout principles Own Brand grocery – Australian sourced (in Australian Supermarkets) •• Processes for reviewing ranges 100 •• Our Own Brand policies 84 80 More than 800 buying and product development staff have 71 68 been trained on the Code and have been issued with appropriate 60 60 guidelines. 55 % Woolworths will continue to work on its strengths in the supply 40 chain and with category/business development. Our Mercury2 project involves improving the speed and flow of products from 20 supplier to customer, which improves availability and quality, and reduces costs and time. 0 One project reduced the lead time for case-ready meat in far North Macro Select Homebrand Gold Total Queensland by four days, and by one day for South Australia and the Northern Territory. This increases the freshness and shelf life Jonny’s Popcorn Delights of the product for customers and reduces loss. Other projects Local Adelaide business, Jonny’s Popcorn Delights, has grown from improved the shelf life of poultry by up to three days and that of the stalls of Rundle Street Market to the shelves of Woolworths berries by up to two days. stores throughout South Australia and the Northern Territory. Local Sourcing Jonny’s Popcorn Delights is owned and run by South Australian Our customers are always looking for good quality products couple Jonny Forster and Ian Wright, both professional ballroom at the best possible price, and they also want to support local dancers who first discovered kettle-cooked popcorn in 2008 whilst suppliers. Research has shown that 86% of customers18 believe competing in the United States. They fell in love with the variety that locally produced foods should be more readily available of flavours they discovered and the traditional method of making in their supermarkets. popcorn that is rarely seen in Australia. What is local? Often the type of product being bought dictates Seventy Woolworths stores in South Australia and 10 stores in the our expectation of what is a local product. Bakery products and Northern Territory now carry two flavours, Caramel Popcorn and eggs are expected to come from the local town or region that the Sweet and Salty, as part of Woolworths’ Local Sourcing program. shopper is from, whilst dairy products, meat and fresh fruit and In half a year we have sold almost 85,000 packs to a growing vegetables are expected to come from within the state. National number of fans of the product. sourcing of products such as wine, beer, spreads or confectionary items is considered local by our customers. The majority of our Own Brand products, under our well known brands of Homebrand, Select, Macro and Gold, are locally produced. Our efforts to deliver locally sourced products are not limited to a national focus. We have a team dedicated to increasing choice for our customers by sourcing products from local suppliers in each state and showcasing them in our stores. Jonny’s Popcorn Delights is one such success story. 18 Survey of 1,065 Woolworths Everyday Rewards cardholders 19 Includes seafood sourced from Australian waters but processed overseas 18 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Australian Food and Petrol Farmers’ Own milk Range Farmers’ Own milk is a range of full cream and low fat On top of considerations of price and quality, many customers are homogenised milk, and full cream unhomogenised milk that brand loyal. Own Brands are a common offer for most retailers Woolworths buys direct from local farmers rather than through around the world, and Woolworths does offer a competing range a processor. of grocery products, but nationally recognised brands still comprise After its initial trial in late 2013 with farmers in the Manning Valley most of our range. (NSW), we now have Farmer’s Own milk offers from farmers in Grocery – branded and Own Brand shelf keeping units (SKUs) the Margaret River region (WA), the Otways region (Vic) and the Homebrand 1.95% Sunshine Coast hinterland (Qld), bringing millions of litres of milk Select 6.55% from 16 local farmers to hundreds of stores in their states. Macro 1.15% Under this brand, we have sold $16 million of milk from the Gold 0.35% 10 million litres that was bought directly from farmers. Branded 90.00% Thanks to this commitment, some of these farmers have been able to invest in improving their farms, installing state-of-the-art robotic milkers and upgrading calf rearing facilities. We will be launching this brand into South Australia and Tasmania during the year, growing our partnerships by up to 25 farmers. Grocery – branded and Own Brand sales ‘The Odd Bunch’ Homebrand 3.74% An estimated 25% of edible fresh fruit and vegetables are Select 6.68% thrown away, due to visual imperfection or cosmetic damage, Macro 1.16% every year in Australia. Gold 0.13% Supermarkets set high quality standards for produce as we Branded 88.29% know that is what our customers prefer, but our national roll-out of ‘The Odd Bunch’ program challenges that trend. Through the program, we offer produce that doesn’t look perfect, but still tastes great, is nutritionally the same and comes at a discounted price. We moved quickly on this program, getting the offer into all stores, with 31 products in the range and specific labelling to engage our customers with the offer. Community investment ‘The Odd Bunch’ has been bought by 12% of our customers and Total investment $25.8 million 21% of them had not bought those products with us before. Cash $8.4 million This has delivered 20,000 tonnes of produce sold which might have otherwise been wasted. Customer fundraising $11.2 million Staff time $5.8 million This initiative is a prime example of creating shared value where farmers benefit from more of their crop being sold, Woolworths Woolworths Supermarkets continues to support a broad benefits from sales and a more diverse offer, and customers range of charity partners, from national campaigns to local benefit from a cheaper choice of healthy fresh produce. community groups. Agricultural shows Nationwide, we support the state Agricultural Societies to deliver agricultural shows in cities and towns. These shows, apart from being a lot of fun, expose the public to the farmers who grow the food that our customers want. More than $2.7 million is invested in these shows. 19 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Australian Food and Petrol Taronga Zoo Our Supermarkets people nominated the charity they wanted We are nearing the end of our three year partnership with the to support in each state Taronga Conservation Society. Our partnership with the popular State Charity Contribution Zoo includes sponsoring the Great Southern Ocean precinct and the sustainable seafood ‘Fish for Good’ program. NSW/ACT Variety, the children’s charity $2,256,000 QLD Children’s Hospital Foundation $676,000 Due to their assistance in developing the fun facts and important information in our ‘Super Animals’ collectible program, we donated SA/NT Royal Flying Doctor Service $257,000 money for every album sold. VIC/TAS Royal Children’s Hospital Foundation $1,604,000 Total investment in the year added up to $1.5 million, which helps WA Telethon $576,000 the Zoo in its many conservation projects. Families of our Armed Services Woolworths partnered with Legacy, the Returned and Services League (RSL) and Camp Gallipoli to fundraise through stores and sponsor programs that support serving and ex-service Australian Defence Force personnel. During the year that the nation recognised the centenary of ANZAC tradition, we raised more than $2.8 million. Woolworths Agricultural Business Scholarships Each year, the Woolworths Agricultural Business Scholarships provide a selection of young scholars with a rare insight into all aspects of the food chain, from producer to supermarket to the customer’s plate. The 12 day course offers participants the chance to gain a broad, practical and academic perspective on the business of agriculture from key industry leaders and senior Woolworths managers. The course covers a broad range of topics including business strategy, supply chain management, and sustainability and environmental issues, and assists those who are studying or working in agriculture to accelerate their careers. More than 200 individuals have graduated from the program over the past nine years, and another 25 participants joined us again in August 2015. 20 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Woolworths Liquor Group Woolworths Liquor Group continues to be the national leader in drinks retailing, offering our customers a choice in formats: Dan Murphy’s (Destination), BWS (Convenience) and The Wine Quarter (Online). People Customers Most customers are on the lookout for a quality product at a good price, and our stores deliver that. One thing we also provide is responsible ranging, marketing and sale of liquor products. Charter for ranging alcohol The process of selling alcoholic products to our customers actually starts early, when we are first looking at a product that we might want to put on our shelves. We have 10 principles that are used to screen a product, helping determine whether it is suitable, non-offensive and does not appeal to minors. Principle 1 Principle 2 Principle 3 Principle 4 Principle 5 The product should not The product should The product should not The product should not The product should have the potential to not have an appearance have an appearance draw any association not encourage illegal appeal to minors. that could potentially which may lead to with drug culture, or immoderate lead to confusion confusion about its narcotics or other consumption such with confectionery or alcoholic nature or illicit drugs or drug as binge drinking, soft drinks. strength. paraphernalia. drunkenness or drink‑driving. Principle 6 Principle 7 Principle 8 Principle 9 Principle 10 The product should not The product should The product should The product should Ready to drink products suggest any association not suggest that not feature imagery or not suggest that any containing more than two with dangerous, violent, consumption can lead language that could be physical or mental health standard drinks per single aggressive or antisocial to social, sporting or deemed offensive on benefit can be obtained serve container will not behaviour. sexual success. cultural, religious, ethnic by consumption. be ranged by Woolworths or gender grounds. Liquor Group. Responsible marketing DrinkWise Australia Woolworths Liquor Group (WLG) is a supporter of programs run by DrinkWise Australia, an independent, not-for-profit organisation for healthier and safer drinking. Founded on industry leadership and community partnerships, DrinkWise develops and runs national information campaigns. We provide financial support and promote DrinkWise social marketing campaigns in our stores. A DrinkWise program that was launched in 2014 on ‘How to Drink Properly’ has been recognised internationally. First recognised with Silver at the Spikes Asia Award in 2014, it was further acknowledged with another Silver award in the Youth Marketing category of the 2015 Asia Pacific Effie Awards. Within three months of its launch, the ‘How to Drink Properly’ campaign had encouraged a third of the respondents in the 18-24 age group to drink less on a night out, and 81% of young adults were now thinking about the effects of moderation. We contributed more than $375,000 towards DrinkWise during the year, and through our BWS brand, we donated television advertisement spots for its ‘Never Miss a Moment’ campaign. 21 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Woolworths Liquor Group Alcohol Beverages Advertising Code Community We follow the Alcohol Beverages Advertising Code (ABAC) and White Ribbon abide by the ABAC adjudication process to ensure our Exclusive Brand products comply with the code. Our previously mentioned Total community investment by principles for ranging alcohol support our efforts to comply. Woolworths Liquor Group = $898,000 Responsible service of alcohol (RSA) We train our staff on the responsible service of alcohol and they White Ribbon is a global male-led movement to end men’s violence receive regular refresher training. We feel that the many programs against women. White Ribbon Australia aims to engage boys we run surpass our regulatory requirements to not supply alcohol and men to change the attitudes and behaviours that lead to and to minors or those already intoxicated. perpetuate men’s violence against women. Many of our RSA programs were developed by our business and Woolworths has White Ribbon Ambassadors in our liquor team. have since been adopted by industry. The programs include: Ambassadors are encouraged to be the faces and leaders of the •• ID25 – asking customers to provide identification if they appear campaign, by living the White Ribbon Oath: never to commit, younger than 25 excuse or remain silent about violence against women. •• ‘Don’t buy it for them’ – awareness of the dangers of supplying In 2015, we raised more than $158,000 to support White Ribbon alcohol to minors through merchandise sales in BWS and Dan Murphy’s stores. •• School uniform policy – refusing to sell alcohol to a customer Jawun in school uniform, even if they are 18 or older WLG has partnered with the Jawun Indigenous Community •• Special event preparation – additional training for staff leading Secondment Program (Jawun) for a number of years, to help into events like Schoolies week indigenous communities through skilled corporate secondees. Established in 2001, Jawun is a small not-for-profit organisation Prosperity that supports innovative programs of change in indigenous Suppliers communities. Jawun means ‘friend’ or ‘family’, an honour in Good Buyer Principles the language of the Kuku Yalanji people from Mossman Gorge Our business has implemented its Good Buyer Principles, which in Cape York, Queensland. sets out the standards our buyers should follow when dealing Our secondees have found themselves helping organisations with suppliers. We require that all parties act with fairness and from Arnhem Land, to the Goulburn-Murray Region, to Redfern in transparency when they deal with each other. Inner Sydney. Stepping out of roles that include Online Fulfilment, Advertising, HR and Area Management, our people each Principle 1: Fair and clear relationships spent six weeks assisting organisations in areas of tourism, health and education. Principle 2: Clarity in marketing and promotional activity Principle 3: Open, honest and early communication Principle 4: Protection of intellectual property Principle 5: Dispute resolution These principles support our agreement with the Winemakers Federation of Australia, which represents all Australian wine makers. Supplier Portal Our Supplier Portal (wlgpartners.com.au) is openly accessible to new and existing suppliers who are looking to sell their products nationally. It is also flexible enough to assist a small boutique producer seeking to range their products in a local store. 22 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 New Zealand Supermarkets Countdown is the main brand for Progressive Enterprises Limited’s owned and operated stores, with 177 supermarkets throughout New Zealand. We are one of New Zealand’s largest employers, and we partner with thousands of suppliers and farmers, and with dozens of local and national charities. People Planet Customers Countdown has maintained its focus on contributing to the Group’s Value targets and commits to reducing carbon emissions, improving recycling and reducing waste. Our Price Lockdown and Price Drop campaigns continue to be drivers of savings for customers and sales growth for the business. Carbon emissions The Countdown Supermarkets food price index has shown price Facilities deflation of 0.2% for the year, with deflation in Grocery and Bakery Since 2007, the business has grown its physical presence by in particular. 37% (including new stores and expansion during refurbishments), Choice but the implementation of energy efficiency and low carbon HeartSAFE technology has resulted in carbon emissions increasing by only In New Zealand, Woolworths is committed to HeartSAFE, a 1.8% above its baseline emissions. voluntary collaboration that brings together the food industry, During 2015, whilst increasing our store footprint by 3.1%, we have the Heart Foundation and other food experts to set targets for managed to reduce: sodium reduction in high-volume, lower-cost foods. •• Carbon emissions by 2% To date, over 90% of our breakfast cereals and processed meats •• Natural gas use by 7% have met the HeartSAFE targets, and we are well underway to •• Emissions from refrigerant loss by 2% reducing our bread sodium content to further align with lower Australian targets. Sodium is also being reduced in a further seven Transport categories. We are on track to deliver these commitments in the Countdown uses third-party transport providers to transport goods next two years. from distribution centres to stores. By working with our transport providers to improve our logistics network and planning, we have Employees reduced truck fuel usage by 3.5% from the previous year. Partnering with Work & Income In May 2014, Countdown began a partnership with government Prosperity agency Work & Income New Zealand (WINZ) to support people Jobs and employment in accessing employment and fostering retail careers. Since then, Our business provides employment opportunities for thousands we have seen a total of 382 people take up roles in Countdown, of New Zealanders from all walks of life. More than 18,000 of the Fresh Choice and Super Value stores throughout New Zealand. best retailers in the country work for our business. We value the The partnership with WINZ continues to grow in regional centres contribution of youth, with more than 6,000 young employees, with the addition of new store openings. and of experience, with more than 500 employees working for us for longer than 25 years. During the year, we opened five new stores and re-opened another, with more than 400 people working in locations such as Orewa, Hauraki Corner and Vogeltown. Over the last three years, we have invested more than $485 million in new stores. 23 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 New Zealand Supermarkets Suppliers Countdown food rescue New Zealanders want to spend their money on locally grown Countdown also follows a preferred hierarchy of preventing food produce or locally made products. waste, with food rescue to charities and partnership with local Working with more than 4,000 local farmers and suppliers, farmers to supplement stock feed. we deliver a great choice of locally produced meat, fruit, The Salvation Army has been the largest beneficiary of the vegetables and fish. food rescue program, receiving more than NZ$2.1 million Our locally produced Own Brand products are also popular worth of groceries. Other charities, like Kaibosh, Fair Food and with local shoppers, with 76% of Own Brand sales produced by 0800 Hungry have also benefited from the total NZ$3.5 million New Zealand companies. of food donated. New Zealand sourced – fresh (in NZ Supermarkets) Local farmers have also been collecting food from our stores that cannot be sold or donated to charities, and we estimate that around 100 100 99 NZ$1.2 million in food has been donated for stock feed. 94 93 92 80 “Last year, Salvation Army food banks received more than NZ$2 million worth of food donated from Countdown’s stores 60 and customers through their Food Rescue Programme. These % generous donations made a significant contribution to the food 40 parcels we distributed to individuals and families in need last year. We are especially grateful for Countdown’s additional support 20 at Christmas, which almost doubled donations to our Light Up Someone Else’s Christmas Appeal. Extra donations at such a vital 0 time of the year made a real difference to Kiwis struggling to Chicken Fish Lamb Fruit and Beef cope with added expenses during the holiday season. Thanks to and pork vegetables everyone at Countdown for your wonderful support over the four years of our partnership!” Note: F ruit and vegetables exclude produce that cannot be commercially grown in New Zealand. Major Pamela Waugh, National Secretary for Social Services, The Salvation Army Community Countdown will also review its community investment strategy in the coming year, but in the meantime we continue to provide valuable support to charities and programs. Total community investment in NZ NZ$7,060,000 Meals for those in need 1,018,000 Countdown Kids Hospital Appeal Since 2007, our annual Countdown Kids Hospital Appeal, which involves in-store fundraising initiatives, has raised NZ$8.2 million for children’s hospital wards around the country. Almost NZ$1.3 million was raised in this year’s appeal, thanks to the generosity of our customers, staff and suppliers. “We have been grateful beneficiaries of funds from the Countdown Kids Hospital Appeal for several years, and it’s impossible to say how many children have benefited. It would not be overstating things to say there are children in our community who are alive and well because of that support. How do you put a price on that? And it is all thanks to the shoppers who support the appeal, and Countdown staff, who don’t always get the thanks they deserve when so much of the money donated is raised by them. It’s an awesome campaign and we would be lost without it – and Countdown.” Pam Tregonning, Executive Director, Middlemore Foundation 24 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 General Merchandise BIG W and EziBuy continue to provide Australians and New Zealanders with value choices for branded and Own Brand general merchandise. BIG W operates 184 stores and EziBuy has five stores in New Zealand. Both businesses have a strong online presence. People Bangladesh Customers We are a signatory to the Accord on Bangladesh Fire and Building Safety, an independent agreement designed to make all garment Animal welfare factories in Bangladesh safe workplaces. The program involves Our customers expect that all of our Own Brand products will be independent safety inspections of factories, with retailers assigned produced to high standards of animal welfare. to take the lead on following up on corrective actions. Animal testing Our factory list in Bangladesh is published on our website BIG W does not use animal testing in its Own Brand products, (woolworthslimited.com.au/page/A_Trusted_Company/ particularly in the area of personal care and cosmetics. Responsible_Sourcing/Labour_Practices_in_our_global_supply_ Angora chain/), and we are building on this to provide greater transparency Most practices for the sourcing of Angora wool from rabbits have of our supply chain. poor standards of welfare for the animal, so BIG W and EziBuy have Uzbek cotton committed to not selling any products made from Angora wool. In the previous year we collaborated with the Walk Free Prosperity Foundation, The Salvation Army and the Uniting Church to develop a policy and implementation plan for stopping cotton sourced from During the year we opened two new BIG W stores, creating 196 Uzbekistan being used in our products. new jobs in the communities of Torrensville, SA and Warnbro, WA. As we were concerned about the systemic use of child and forced Ethical sourcing labour in harvesting cotton in this country, our Uzbek cotton The most material issues for BIG W are the labour conditions and policy has now been built into the specifications for our softgoods. protection of human rights in our supply chain. BIG W seeks to Our BIG W suppliers have been notified that they cannot use ensure that the people who are making the products we sell are Uzbek cotton in our products. being treated fairly. Community Our long running Ethical Sourcing Policy and its supporting Factory Our BIG Heart Appeal continues to be the main avenue for Audit program assess the workplace standards in our first tier contributing to the community. The Appeal supports the Sydney suppliers, identify issues and, where required, raise a corrective Children’s Hospital in Randwick (NSW), The Royal Children’s action that the supplier must address. Hospital Foundation (Qld), the Bone Health Foundation Inc (SA), The Royal Children’s Hospital (Vic) and the Princess Margaret Hospital Foundation. 25 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Hotels ALH Group operates 331 licensed venues and 558 retail liquor outlets across Australia. We are a market leader offering a diverse array of hospitality experiences, including sports bars, bistros, restaurants, cafes, retail liquor, accommodation, nightclubs, electronic gaming and wagering. People Staff education and training Responsible gambling A key focus is our e-learning module providing staff the skills to ALH Group is committed to providing responsible gambling approach and interact with customers who may be indicating in our venues. signs of problems with their gambling, and how our self-exclusion program operates. We want to ensure that our hotels provide a safe and supportive environment, where our customers make informed decisions Community partnerships about gambling, and provide timely, appropriate assistance and We partner with agencies such as Gamblers’ Help in each state. information. We want ALH Group staff to learn from these agencies how best to promote the message of responsible gambling. We have established We have developed and distributed a responsible gambling pocket partnerships with The Salvation Army, gambling research experts guide to every one of our gaming staff. and mental health organisations. This recognises that problem ALH Group has a hotel and gaming charter that clearly gambling is a complex issue and requires a multi-level approach. demonstrates our commitment to responsible gambling. This additional three point plan coupled with our Hotel and ALH Group complies with, and seeks to exceed, all applicable Gambling Charter and David Schwarz program will help us responsible gambling legislative requirements in each state continue to be a leader in responsible gambling initiatives, and will and participates in many state and local government gambling ensure safer environments for all. working groups to assist in identifying and developing appropriate responsible gambling initiatives. Responsible service of alcohol ALH Group believes that individuals have the right to choose to Responsible Gambling Ambassador consume alcohol in licensed venues as a form of social activity. ALH Group works with David Schwarz, a well-known former We have a responsibility to deliver best practice in terms of our professional footballer and reformed problem gambler, as its service of alcohol and to set a positive example to our customers Responsible Gambling Ambassador. David provides employee and to other licensees. education and customer awareness about the importance of To prevent underage drinking in our venues we require valid proof ‘asking for help if your gambling becomes a problem’ Most of age to be presented by young adults on our premises. importantly, David is available for our staff to discuss any gambling problems they or their families and friends may be experiencing. Prosperity ALH Group hotels’ operating standards are well in excess of Community legislative requirements. To build on our existing commitment to ALH Group is proud of its involvement in the community, be Australia’s most responsible operator of hotels, ALH Group is with hotels often being a community hub and meeting place. ALH particularly focused on three areas: setting limits, staff education Group works closely with many charitable organisations, financially and training and partnerships supporting a diverse range of worthwhile causes ranging from Voluntary pre-commitment (setting limits) seriously ill children to services supporting the families of armed Pre-commitment is a cornerstone of our responsible gambling services personnel. plan moving forward. It is our intention to have pre-commitment In 2015, we contributed a total of $1.51 million to worthwhile functionality on every gaming machine in Victoria, New South organisations that include Very Special Kids, the Leukaemia Wales, Queensland and South Australia by the end of 2015. This Foundation, Bravehearts and The Salvation Army. will mean that our hotels will have pre-commitment functionality installed years ahead of planned legislation in most jurisdictions in Australia. 26 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Home Improvement Our Home Improvement division operates under two main brands, Masters Home Improvement and Home Timber and Hardware. Our presence in this sector continues to grow, with the operation of 58 stores under the Masters brand, and Home Timber & Hardware operating 44 stores and wholesaling to 452 stores under the brand. People Prosperity Our Masters and Home Timber and Hardware stores continue Masters is Australia’s fastest growing hardware store and during to be popular employment choices with older workers and the year we opened nine new stores. The division created more tradespeople who are not yet ready to retire. More than 1,250 than 1,200 new jobs over the same period. (14%) of our Home Improvement workforce are older workers. Our Masters business continues to operate at a loss as it builds a Planet sufficient store footprint to match operating costs. The new stores built this year, and two refurbished stores, have a new format and Deforestation range and are delivering average sales that are 30% higher than The sustainable sourcing of timber and panel products is the most those of our original stores. material environmental issue for this business. Sourcing timber from sustainably managed forests that are certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) continues to be a priority. We also source timber products which are certified by the Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certifications (PEFC) and have a range that has been DNA-tested to check whether it has come from legally logged forests. Proportion of timber and panel range that is certified or tested FSC certified 67.5% PEFC certified 3.9% DNA-tested 1.1% The business complies with the requirements of the Illegal Logging Prohibition Act 2012. 27 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Sustainability Metrics Total carbon emissions by division for 2015 (tonnes CO2-e) ALH Group BIG W BWS Corporate Dan Murphy’s Fabcot Home Timber and Hardware Logistics Masters Petrol Progressive Enterprises Limited Supermarkets Australia Thomas Dux 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 2,500,000 Electricity use (MWh) 2013 ALH Group 2014 2015 BIG W BWS Corporate Dan Murphy’s Fabcot Home Timber and Hardware Logistics Masters Petrol Progressive Enterprises Limited Supermarkets Australia Thomas Dux 0 500,000 1,000,000 1,500,000 2,000,000 28 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Sustainability Metrics Emissions from facilities Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total ALH Group 19,471 236,040 35,204 290,714 BIG W 16,174 169,203 31,737 217,114 BWS 3,675 43,027 6,356 53,058 Corporate 369 37,238 5,696 43,303 Dan Murphy’s 5,912 47,279 6,541 59,732 Fabcot 51 4,646 648 5,345 Home Timber and Hardware 155 3,872 604 4,632 Logistics 1,205 128,152 18,342 147,699 Masters 131 57,028 7,872 65,032 Petrol 2,452 41,555 5,902 49,909 Progressive Enterprises Limited 63,683 39,120 17,990 120,793 Supermarkets Australia 409,605 1,690,810 339,118 2,439,534 Thomas Dux 1,575 5,052 703 7,330 Grand total 524,459 2,503,023 476,712 3,504,194 Transport emissions by use (tonnes CO2-e) End use Australia New Zealand Business travel 9,115 2,072 Home delivery 1,176 Logistics 3rd party rail 128,133 Logistics 3rd party road 547,593 20,803 Trolley collection 14,184 Materials diverted from landfill (tonnes) 2013 2014 2015 Australia Food waste to composting or energy 7,390 14,655 17,359 Food to charity 1,198 1,381 2,956 Cardboard 186,152 201,165 192,170 Plastic film 7,564 7,869 7,028 Polystyrene 70 16 3 Other 302 205 131 Total (Australia) 202,677 225,290 219,647 New Zealand Cardboard 23,243 24,546 25,324 Plastic film 972 977 1,253 Food waste to farmers 752 827 807 Food to charity 509 Other 422 430 435 Total (NZ) 25,390 26,781 27,012 Total (Group) 228,066 252,071 246,659 29 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Workplace Metrics Inclusive Non-executive Directors on the Board of Directors Female Male Total <25 0 0 0 25-<35 0 0 0 35-<45 0 0 0 45-<55 1 1 2 55-<65 1 2 3 >65 1 1 2 Total 3 4 7 Female representation by employment category20 Senior Office/ Technicians Executives Managers Managers Support and Trades Sales Other 32.8% 27.8% 39.3% 57.9% 21% 55.7% 56.2% Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of female to male employees by employment category Average Annualised Ratio to Salary Average Non-managerial Female $40,170 98.2% Non-managerial Male $41,786 102.2% Average Salary $40,894 Managerial Female $70,342 93.9% Managerial Male $77,848 103.9% Average Salary $74,938 Training and Development21 Training hours by category and gender Training Type Female Male Total Induction 153,925 142,760 296,685 Systems and General 256,499 183,904 440,403 Management Development 17,425 29,929 47,354 Executive Development 1,096 2,856 3,952 Total Training 428,945 359,449 788,394 Average Hours 4.8 4.6 4.7 Average training hours by employment category Average Total Hours Per Employment Type Hours Employee General 753,048 4.8 Management 31,412 1.8 Executives 3,935 30.7 20 Excludes employees not located in Australia, figures are current as at 31 March 2015, data sourced from FY15 WGEA Report 21 Detailed breakdown of training excludes ALH Group, Pinnacle, Ezibuy, Home Timber and Hardware Distribution Centre Award Employees, Global Sourcing, RetailFM and New Zealand Supermarkets Employees. Some training data from these divisions has been included in total hours and costs 30 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Workplace Metrics Respect and Dignity Discrimination We expect our employees to treat each other, our customers and our suppliers with respect and dignity. We train our employees on these expectations, but sometimes we do have issues which escalate to external jurisdictions. Nine employee claims were lodged in Australia at discrimination tribunals (both State and Federal) during the year. Three of these claims were resolved within the financial year and the remainder are either now resolved or we are working towards a resolution. Employees trained and hours of training on human rights policies Number of Employees Total Hours Training on policies and procedures 64,589 29,668 Freedom of association We have longstanding relationships with the unions that represent our employees, and 77.4% of our workplace is covered by Enterprise Bargaining Agreements (EBAs). Workforce represented by EBAs EBA Total Employees Employees % ALH Group 0 11,439 0 Progress Enterprises Limited 14,917 17,873 83.4 Woolworths Limited 137,348 167,361 82.1 Home Timber and Hardware 125 125 100 RetailFM 230 277 83 Pinnacle 211 351 60.1 Total 152,830 197,426 77.4 Workforce and Turnover Headcount by division 2014 2015 Female Male Total Female Male Total Supermarkets 63,220 50,348 113,568 61,934 49,307 111,241 Progressive Enterprises Limited 10,345 7,675 18,020 10,241 7,632 17,873 Petrol 1,797 1,823 3,620 1,865 1,894 3,759 Convenience Stores 107 120 227 226 316 542 Thomas Dux 229 244 473 183 209 392 BIG W 14,946 7,111 22,057 15,142 7,130 22,272 EziBuy 444 108 552 458 100 558 Woolworths Liquor 3,439 6,325 9,764 3,374 6,159 9,533 Woolworths Liquor Group 1,781 3,253 5,034 Pinnacle 113 238 351 The Wine Quarter 235 373 608 ALH Retail (BWS) 699 1,594 2,293 ALH Retail (Dan Murphy’s) 611 867 1,478 Group Retail Services 1,683 7,534 9,217 1,670 7,620 9,290 Corporate 1,124 976 2,100 989 913 1,902 Corporate 985 722 1,707 RetailFM 22 185 207 Global Sourcing 117 69 186 Home Improvement 3,382 4,218 7,599 3,893 4,966 8,859 Masters 2,894 3,077 5,971 Home Timber and Hardware 488 1,141 1,628 ALH Venue and Support 6,649 4,790 11,439 6,477 4,728 11,205 Total 107,365 91,277 198,642 106,452 90,974 197,426 31 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Workplace Metrics Headcount by employee type 2014 2015 Female Male Total Female Male Total Full-time 26,672 35,231 61,903 26,471 34,847 61,318 Part-time 52,460 29,525 81,985 52,670 30,183 82,853 Casual 28,155 26,448 54,603 27,311 25,944 53,255 Total 107,287 91,204 198,491 106,452 90,974 197,426 Headcount by region 2014 2015 Female Male Total Female Male Total Australian Capital Territory 1,327 1,619 2,946 1,302 1,560 2,862 New South Wales 29,779 26,192 55,971 29,569 26,258 55,827 Northern Territory 989 815 1,804 961 822 1,783 Queensland 22,467 17,595 40,062 22,150 17,753 39,903 South Australia 6,118 6,044 12,162 6,065 5,862 11,927 Tasmania 2,864 2,363 5,227 2,806 2,319 5,125 Victoria 23,296 21,942 45,238 22,865 21,373 44,238 Western Australia 9,575 6,810 16,385 9,906 7,209 17,115 New Zealand 10,833 7,827 18,660 10,695 7,731 18,426 India 3 12 15 China 114 57 171 124 70 194 Bangladesh 4 16 20 Thailand 5 1 6 Total 107,365 91,277 198,641 106,452 90,974 197,426 Workforce by age 2014 2015 Female Male Total Female Male Total <25 36,900 39,023 75,923 36,286 38,562 74,848 25-<35 21,541 23,709 45,250 21,343 23,749 45,092 35-<45 18,766 13,543 32,309 18,541 13,540 32,081 45-<55 18,372 8,902 27,274 18,160 9,028 27,188 55-<65 10,280 5,079 15,359 10,561 5,068 15,629 >65 1,506 1,020 2,526 1,561 1,027 2,588 Total 107,365 91,277 198,641 106,452 90,974 197,426 32 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Workplace Metrics Turnover by region Total Terminations % Turnover Female Male Total Female Male Total Australian Capital Territory 265 405 670 19.9% 24.8% 22.6% New South Wales 4,819 5,527 10,346 15.8% 20.0% 17.8% Northern Territory 435 391 826 44.8% 47.5% 46.0% Queensland 5,322 4,918 10,240 23.7% 27.2% 25.2% South Australia 1,207 1,330 2,537 19.6% 21.7% 20.7% Tasmania 427 451 878 14.9% 18.8% 16.7% Victoria 4,013 4,712 8,725 16.9% 20.8% 18.8% Western Australia 2,861 2,585 5,446 29.0% 35.8% 31.9% New Zealand 2,476 2,269 4,745 23.8% 30.6% 26.6% China 47 25 72 38.2% 36.9% 37.7% Bangladesh 1 1 2 26.1% 6.7% 10.7% Thailand 0 0 0 0.0% 0.0% 0.0% Total 21,873 22,614 44,487 20.2% 24.1% 22.0% Turnover by age Total Turnover % Turnover Female Male Total Female Male Total <25 10,847 11,878 22,725 29.9% 30.8% 30.4% 25-<35 4,913 5,964 10,877 22.3% 23.9% 23.1% 35-<45 2,716 2,382 5,098 14.1% 16.4% 15.1% 45-<55 1,948 1,309 3,257 10.4% 13.7% 11.5% 55-<65 1,131 792 1,923 10.7% 14.9% 12.1% >65 318 289 607 20.7% 27.5% 23.5% Total 21,873 22,614 44,487 20.2% 24.1% 22.0% 33 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Workplace Metrics Safety Performance Divisional Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) 2015 LTIFR Female 2015 LTIFR (per million Composition (per 200,000 Division hours) (%) hours) Australian Supermarkets 12.32 61 2.46 Logistics 17.24 14 3.45 BIG W 3.36 77 0.67 Petrol 3.06 85 0.61 Liquor – BWS 6.87 79 1.37 Liquor – Dan Murphy’s 6.29 47 1.26 Liquor – Pinnacle Group and The Wine Quarter 2.95 50 0.59 Woolworths Liquor 5.5 59 1.1 Corporate 1.53 43 0.31 Progressive Enterprises Limited 8.76 N/A 1.75 Woolworths Group22 10.51 56 2.1 Group LTIFR, New Claims Frequency Rate (NCFR) and Occupational Disease Rate 201323 201423 2015 LTIFR (million hours) 12.33 12.2 10.51 Change in LTIFR compared to previous year 5.12% -1.05% -13.85% LTIFR (200,000 hours) 2.47 2.44 2.1 NCFR (million hours) 31.95 29.01 24.8 Change in NCFR compared to previous year -26.18% -9.2% -14.51% NCFR (200,000 hours) 6.39 5.8 4.96 Occupational Disease Rate (200,000 hours) 1.8 1.79 1.57 Other Safety and Health Key Performance Indicators 2013 2014 2015 Employee work-related fatalities Zero Zero Zero Contractor fatalities Zero Zero Zero Other fatalities24 2 2 Zero 22 2013 and 2014 numbers are restated after the reporting period to capture any delays in reporting 23 Excludes ALH and Home Improvement 24 Customers or visitors 34 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Responsibility Governance We’ve set targets and made commitments to be a responsible and sustainable business – this can only be achieved with the support of our people at all levels of our business. As any business should, Woolworths gives priority to issues that Materiality are material to the business and which align with our strategic With Woolworths’ original Sustainability Strategy drawing to a pillars. The Destination ZERO safety strategy and the Sustainability close, work has commenced on preparing a broader Corporate Strategy 2007–2015 provide the direction and focus for practices, Responsibility Strategy through to 2020. To prepare this, we had policies and investment. an independent assessment conducted to review our key material Governance, the Board and Directors sustainability issues. Corporate governance is at the core of Woolworths’ and the The assessment was based on the AccountAbility AA1000 Board’s approach to the enhancement of shareholder value and Assurance Standard (2008) principle of materiality and guided the protection of shareholder funds. Integral to shareholder value by their Five Part Materiality Test, to identify and prioritise issues is protecting and enhancing our reputation, which is why the relevant to: Board oversees the company’s approach to corporate responsibility •• Financial impacts and sustainability. •• Policy-related performance The Woolworths Board has a Board Sustainability Committee, •• Business peer-based norms which meets quarterly, and reviews performance on issues of •• Stakeholder behaviour and concerns Safety and Health, Sustainability and Community Investment. •• Societal norms Information on our Board of Directors and the Board Charter is at: woolworthslimited.com.au/page/Who_We_Are/Directors_and_ During the assessment, we considered all of our business divisions Management/Board_of_Directors/ and a broad range of external stakeholders, including consumers, customers, employees, government, investors, peers and suppliers. The relevant Committees are covered in: woolworthslimited.com. Essential information was obtained through sources that included au/page/Who_We_Are/Corporate_Governance/Committees_ customer insights, employee surveys, strategic priorities and of_the_Board/ targets, the Advantage Report, traditional and social media reviews There is more information in the corporate governance and industry sustainability benchmark indices. statement in our 2015 Annual Report: woolworthslimited. com.au/annualreport/2013/downloads/WoolworthsLimited_ Rank Woolworths Limited 2015 Material Sustainability Issues AnnualReport_2013_CorporateGovernance.pdf Supplier relationships, communication and 1 collaboration Risk management framework 2 Employee conditions, wellbeing and communications The continued growth and success of Woolworths depends on the 3 End to end reduction of waste (incl. packaging) ability of our company to understand and respond to the challenges of an uncertain and changing world. As a large, dispersed and 4 Labour rights in the supply chain complex organisation, this uncertainty generates risk, with 5 Low price and value for money model the potential to be a source of both opportunities and threats. 6 Environmentally responsible sourcing By understanding and managing risk, the company provides 7 Energy and emissions greater certainty and confidence for all its stakeholders. Our risk 8 Understanding and responding to customer needs management policy is in the same location as our governance 9 Product quality, safety, availability and range framework, referred to previously. See: woolworthslimited. com.au/page/Who_We_Are/Corporate_Governance/Risk_ 10 Partners in the community Management/ 35 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Corporate Responsibility Governance The issues were classified as either ‘Material’, of ‘High Stakeholder Anti-corruption Interest’, of ‘High Woolworths Interest’ or none of these. All our employees commit to our Code of Conduct to maintain The Materiality Assessment identified the Group-wide Material the highest legal, moral and ethical standards in our dealings with Sustainability Issues listed in the table on the previous page. customers, suppliers, employees and local communities. This code outlines how employees can meet the highest standards through The assessment also identified some divisional specific issues, their everyday behaviours and choices. which have been addressed in the report, e.g. local sourcing for supermarkets, responsible service of alcohol for Woolworths All forms of bribery, including facilitation payments, are prohibited, Liquor Group and responsible gaming for ALH Group. whether they take place directly or indirectly through another party. Senior management We’re committed to continuous improvement, transparency and accountability. We don’t tolerate workplace misconduct under any The Chief Executive Officer chairs a quarterly Safety and Health circumstances and we need our trade partners to work with us to Executive Committee which is attended by the Heads of Business stamp out any and every instance. We have clear, long-standing and provides management oversight of the effectiveness of and accepted procedures for trade partners to report any issues. the divisions’ implementation of the Safety and Health vision, However, we recognise there is always opportunity to strengthen principles, policy, standards, strategy and initiatives, risk processes, our systems. Our Speak Up service is available for trade partners resources, information, compliance and assurance. to use when normal escalation methods have been exhausted Each division has a Safety and Health Committee that meets or are inappropriate. monthly to review safety and health. In addition to this, there are site-based Safety and Health Committees comprised of Political donations management and workers. Woolworths prepares for legislative and regulatory reforms through direct engagement with political parties and elected Transparency and reporting representatives in Australia and New Zealand. Our policy is that Woolworths uses the globally recognised reporting framework any political contributions require board approval. Woolworths developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). The GRI adheres to all relevant political disclosure laws and regulations and reporting framework sets out the principles and indicators that strives to make contributions in a bipartisan manner. organisations can use to measure and report their economic, This year, political contributions in Australia totalled $27,500, environmental, and social performance. This report was prepared which represented our membership fee for the Federal Labor in accordance with the ‘core’ principles of the GRI G4 guidelines. Business Forum for the 2014 financial year. In New Zealand, we We continue to report to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), did not make political donations or attend any political functions. an investor-driven disclosure initiative enabling companies to report on risk identification and mitigation processes related Privacy policy to climate change. We’re committed to meeting the National Privacy Principles for the Fair Handling of Personal Information, which sets standards We also participate in the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI), for the collection, use and disclosure, access, storage and a global index that tracks the financial performance of leading destruction of personal information that we collect as part of our sustainability-driven companies. We continue to benchmark business operations. strongly against our peers in the food and staples retailing industry. Our respect for our customers’ right to privacy of their personal DJSI 2012 2013 2014 2015 information is paramount. We have policies and procedures to Overall score 76 77 76 77 ensure that all personal information, no matter how or where it’s obtained, is handled sensitively, securely, and in accordance with Economic dimension 79 79 82 77 the National Privacy Principles. See woolworthslimited.com.au/ Environmental dimension 78 80 76 76 page/Privacy_Policy/ for our privacy policy. Social dimension 70 73 69 77 36 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 United Nations Global Compact Woolworths Limited addresses the 10 accepted principles of the UNGC in the following manner. Principles Actions Human Rights Principle 1 – Protection of Human Rights Ethical Sourcing Policy and audit program, Page 12 Principle 2 – No Complicity in Human Rights Abuse Ethical Sourcing Policy and audit program, Page 12 Freedom of Association, Page 30 Labour Principle 3 – Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Ethical Sourcing Policy and audit program, Page 12 Freedom of Association, Page 30 Principle 4 – Elimination of Forced and Compulsory Labour Ethical Sourcing Policy and audit program, Page 12 Principle 5 – Abolition of Child Labour Ethical Sourcing Policy and audit program, Page 12 Principle 6 – Elimination of Discrimination Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Page 12 Environment Principle 7 – Precautionary Approach No explicit reference to precautionary approach. Approach to Risk Management, Page 34 Principle 8 – Environmental Responsibility Environment, Page 9 Principle 9 – Environmentally Friendly Technologies Technology addressing climate change, water conservation, transport and packaging, Pages 9-11 Anti-Corruption Principle 10 – Work Against Corruption Anti-Corruption, Page 35 37 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Global Reporting Initiative GRI Description Page G4-1 Statement from the Chairman and CEO 5 G4-3 Name of the organisation Front Cover G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services 9, 11, AR 31 G4-5 Location of organisation's headquarters 42 G4-6 Number of countries where the organisation operates Scope G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form AR 123-124 G4-8 Markets served 40, AR 31 G4-9 Scale of the reporting organisation 5, 12 G4-10 Total workforce 30-31 G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements 30 G4-12 Describe the organisation’s supply chain 12-13, 17, 24 G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period AR 22 G4-14 Addressing precautionary principle 9-11, GRI Index G4-15 External corporate responsibility charters 5-6, 8, 11, 14-15, 20-21, 24, 35-36 G4-16 Memberships in associations 6, 20, 24, GRI Index G4-17 Entities included in the organisation's consolidated financial statements AR 116, 120 G4-18 Process for defining report content 2, 6, 9, 12, 34-35 G4-19 Material aspects identified when defining the report content 2, 34 G4-20 Material aspect boundary inside the organisation Scope G4-21 Material aspect boundary outside the organisation 6, 10-13 G4-22 Explanation of restatements 7, 33 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods AR 97 G4-24 List of engaged stakeholders 6, 12-14, 17-19, 20, 22, 34 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 34 G4-26 Approaches to stakeholders 6, 12 G4-27 Key topics and concerns for stakeholders 6-19, 22-24, 34 G4-28 Reporting period Scope G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 27 November 2014 G4-30 Reporting cycle Annual G4-31 Contact point for the report 45 G4-32 GRI Index for comprehensive disclosure 37-39 G4-33 Policy on seeking external assurance for the report 35, 39 G4-34 Governance structure 34, CGS G4-56 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 35, CGS 6 Disclosure on Economic Management Approach 12, 17 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 1, 12-13 G4-EC2 Financial implications of climate change. 9 G4-EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations GRI Index, AR 68 G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government. GRI Index G4-EC5 Ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage GRI Index G4-EC6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community GRI Index G4-EC7 Infrastructure investments and services for public benefit 13 G4-EC8 Indirect economic impacts 12 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 13 Disclosure on Environmental Management Approach 2, 9-12, 16-17, 25-28, AR 24 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 10-11 G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 10 G4-EN3 Energy consumption 9, 27 G4-EN4 Indirect energy consumption GRI Index G4-EN5 Energy Intensity 9 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 9 G4-EN7 Reduction in energy requirements of products and services 9 38 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Global Reporting Initiative GRI Description Page G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 10 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water GRI Index G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused GRI Index G4-EN11 Operations in or near areas of high biodiversity value GRI Index G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts on biodiversity in protected areas GRI Index G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored GRI Index G4-EN14 IUCN Red List Species GRI Index G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) 9, 27-28 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) 28 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) 28 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 9 G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions 9 G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances GRI Index G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air emissions GRI Index G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination GRI Index G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 11, 28, GRI Index G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills GRI Index G4-EN25 Hazardous wastes 11, 28, GRI Index G4-EN27 Mitigating impacts of products and services 9, 11 G4-EN29 Fines for non-compliance with environmental laws GRI Index G4-EN30 Impacts of transporting products and other goods 28 G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditure 9 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers screened using environmental criteria GRI Index G4-EN33 Environmental impacts in the supply chain 11-13 G4-EN34 Grievances about environmental impacts GRI Index Disclosure on Labour Management Approach 6-7, 12, 29-30 G4-LA1 Employee turnover 12 G4-LA2 Benefits for full-time employees AR 106-111 G4-LA3 Retention rate after parental leave 7 G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods for significant operational changes GRI Index G4-LA5 Workforce represented in joint management worker health and safety committees GRI Index G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational disease, lost days and absenteeism 33 G4-LA7 High incidence or risk of disease related to occupation GRI Index G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions GRI Index G4-LA9 Average hours of training per employee 29 G4-LA10 Career and skills management 7 G4-LA11 Employee performance and career development reviews GRI Index G4-LA12 Governance bodies and breakdown of employees relating to diversity 29 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category 29 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers screened using labour practices criteria GRI Index G4-LA15 Labour practices impacts in the supply chain 12-13 G4-LA16 Grievances about labour practices GRI Index Disclosure on Human Rights Management Approach 6, 12-13, 30 G4-HR1 Significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses GRI Index G4-HR2 Employee training on human rights 30 G4-HR3 Number of incidents of discrimination 30 G4-HR4 Risks to right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining 12-13, 24 G4-HR5 Risks of incidents of child labour 12-13, 24 G4-HR6 Risks of incidents of forced or compulsory labour 12-13, 24 G4-HR8 Incidents involving rights of indigenous people GRI Index G4-HR9 Operations subject to human rights reviews GRI Index G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers screened using human rights criteria 7 G4-HR11 Human rights impacts in the supply chain 24 G4-HR12 Grievances about human rights impacts 12-13, GRI Index 39 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Global Reporting Initiative GRI Description Page Disclosure on Society Management Approach 12-13, 17, 35 G4-SO1 Operations with local community engagement and development programs GRI Index G4-SO2 Operations with significant negative impacts on local communities 20-21, 25 G4-SO3 Assessments of operations for risks related to corruption 35, GRI Index G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption polices GRI Index G4-SO5 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption GRI Index G4-SO6 Value of political contributions 35 G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour GRI Index G4-SO8 Significant fines or sanctions for non-compliance with laws GRI Index G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers screened using society criteria GRI Index G4-SO10 Society impacts in the supply chain GRI Index G4-SO11 Grievances about impacts on society GRI Index Disclosure on Product Responsibility Management Approach 14-15, 21, 35 G4-PR1 Significant product categories which health and safety is assessed 15, GRI Index G4-PR 2 Non-compliance regarding health and safety impacts of products GRI Index G4-PR 3 Product information and labelling 14-15, GRI Index G4-PR 4 Non-compliance regarding product labelling GRI Index G4-PR 5 Surveys measuring customer satisfaction GRI Index G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products 24, GRI Index G4-PR7 Non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing GRI Index G4-PR8 Complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy 35, GRI Index G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines GRI Index 40 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Independent Assurance Statement Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu A.B.N. 74 490 121 060 Grosvenor Place 225 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 PO Box N250 Grosvenor Place Sydney NSW 1220 Australia DX 10307SSE Tel: +61 (0) 2 9322 7000 Fax: +61 (0) 2 9322 7001 www.deloitte.com.au Independent limited assurance statement to the Directors of Woolworths Limited in relation to the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report We have undertaken a limited assurance engagement on the subject matter detailed below (the ‘Subject Matter’) presented in Woolworths Limited’s (‘Woolworths’) 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report in order to state whether anything has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that the Subject Matter has not been reported and presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria described below (‘Reporting Criteria’). Subject Matter and Reporting Criteria The Subject Matter and Reporting Criteria for our limited assurance engagement for the year ended 30 June 2015 is as follows: Subject Matter Reporting Criteria Selected Sustainability Indicators Woolworths’ definitions and The FY2015 performance data in respect of Woolworths’ Sustainability Indicators as approaches as described in referenced in the table contained in section Global Reporting Initiative within the 2015 section Corporate Corporate Responsibility Report. Responsibility Governance of  Economic performance: Woolworths’ 2015 Corporate o Direct economic value generated and distributed [G4 -EC1] Responsibility Report.  Materials: o Materials used by weight or volume [G4-EN1] o Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials [G4-EN2]  Energy: o Energy consumption within the organisation [G4-EN3] o Energy consumption outside the organisation [G4-EN4] o Energy intensity [G4-EN5] o Reduction in energy consumption [G4-EN6]  Water: o Total water withdrawal by source [G4-EN8]  Emissions: o Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) [G4-EN15] o Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2) [G4-EN16] o Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3) [G4-EN17] o Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity [G4-EN18] o Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions [G4-EN19]  Grievance mechanisms: o Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms [G4-EN34] o Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms [G4-LA16] o Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms [G4-HR12] o Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms [G4-SO11]  Employment: o Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region [G4–LA1] o Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender [G4–LA3] Deloitte refers to one or more of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited, a UK private company limited by guarantee, and its network of member firms, each of which is a legally separate and independent entity. Please see www.deloitte.com/au/about for a detailed description of the legal structure of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited and its member firms. Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legi slation. Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited 41 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Subject Matter Reporting Criteria  Occupational health and safety: o Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region, and by gender [G4LA6] o Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation [G4–LA7]  Investment: o Total hours of employee training on policies and procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained [G4–HR2]  Non discrimination: o Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken [G4– HR3]  Anti-corruption: o Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures [G4–S04]  Public policy: o Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary [G4– S06] GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines The GRI Guidelines and related information, publicly available FY15 Corporate Responsibility Report in accordance with the core criteria option (the ‘GRI at GRI’s global website at self-declaration’) prepared in accordance with the requirements of the G4 Sustainability www.globalreporting.com, in Reporting Guidelines (“GRI Guidelines). particular the requirements to achieve the GRI Self Declaration Woolworths’s responsibilities The Directors of Woolworths are responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Subject Matter in the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. This responsibility includes establishing and maintaining internal controls relevant to the preparation and presentation of the Subject Matter in the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report that is free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error; selecting and applying appropriate reporting criteria; maintaining adequate records and making estimates that are reasonable in the circumstances. Deloitte’s Independence and Quality Control We have complied with the independence and other relevant ethical requirements relating to assurance engagements, which are founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidentiality and professional behaviour. The firm applies Auditing Standard ASQC 1 Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Reports and Other Financial Information, Other Assurance Engagements and Related Services Engagements, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. Deloitte’s responsibilities Our responsibility is to express a limited assurance conclusion on the Subject Matter based on the procedures we have performed and the evidence we have obtained. We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accordance with Australian Standards on Assurance Engagements ASAE 3000 ‘Assurance Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information’ (ASAE 3000), issued by the Australian Auditing and Assurance Standards Board in order to express a conclusion whether, based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, anything has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter has not been prepared and presented in all material respects in accordance with the Reporting Criteria. That standard requires that we plan and perform this engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Subject Matter is free from material misstatement. A limited assurance engagement in accordance with ASAE 3000 involves identifying areas where a material misstatement of the Subject Matter information is likely to arise, addressing the areas identified and considering the process used to prepare the Subject Matter in the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report. A limited assurance engagement is substantially less in scope than a reasonable assurance engagement in relation to both the risk assessment procedures, including an understanding of internal control, and the procedures performed in response to the assessed risks. 42 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 The procedures we performed were based on our professional judgement and consisted primarily of:  Review of Woolworths’ processes relating to stakeholder identification, engagement and responsiveness, including an assessment of stakeholder engagement outcomes and how this process and the outcomes have been presented in the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report  Review of Woolworths’ process to identify and determine material issues to be included in the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report with examination of underlying assessments and evidence on a sample basis  Interviews with a selection of Woolworths executives and senior management, including Woolworths sustainability management team concerning the overall governance structure, corporate sustainability strategy and policies used for managing and reporting sustainability performance across the business  In respect of the Selected Sustainability Indicators interviews with a selection of Woolworths management responsible for the Selected Sustainability Indicators to understand the compilation and review processes applying analytical and other review procedures including assessing relationships between the reported information and other financial and non-financial data examination of evidence for a small number of transactions or events analysing and inspecting on a sample basis, the key systems, processes and procedures and controls relating to the collation, validation, presentation and approval process of Selected Sustainability Indicators included in the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report review underlying evidence on a sample basis to corroborate that the information is prepared and reported in line with the relevant reporting criteria.  Comparison of the content of Woolworths’ 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report against the criteria for a GRI selfdeclaration The procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement vary in nature and timing from, and are less in extent than for, a reasonable assurance engagement. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had we performed a reasonable assurance engagement. Accordingly, we do not express an opinion providing reasonable assurance about whether the Subject Matter in the 2015 Annual report has been properly prepared and presented, in all material respects, in accordance with Reporting Criteria. Inherent limitations Non-financial information, including the Subject Matter may be subject to more inherent limitations than financial information, given both its nature and the methods used for determining, calculating and sampling or estimating such information. Qualitative interpretations of relevance, materiality and the accuracy of data are subject to individual assumptions and judgements. The Subject Matter should be read in the context of Woolworths’ Reporting Criteria as set out in the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report. Limitations of use This report is made solely to the directors of Woolworths in accordance with our engagement letter dated 28th September, for the purpose of providing limited assurance over Woolworths 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report. We disclaim any assumption of responsibility for any reliance on this report or on the Subject Matter to which it relates, to any person other than the directors of Woolworths or for any purpose other than that for which it was prepared. Matters relating to electronic presentation of information Our limited assurance engagement included web-based information that was available via web links as of the date of this statement. We provide no assurance over changes to the content of the 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report after the date of this assurance statement. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed and the evidence obtained, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter has not been properly prepared and presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the Reporting Criteria for the year ended 30 June 2015. DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU PR Dobson Partner Sydney, 27 October 2015 43 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Store Analysis Five Year Summary Productivity 2015 2014 2013 201228 201128 Stores (Number) Supermarkets New South Wales and Australian Capital Territory25 292 282 271 262 255 Queensland25 230 225 209 203 194 Victoria25 234 224 221 214 203 South Australia and Northern Territory25 82 80 78 78 76 Western Australia25 92 89 88 85 83 Tasmania25 31 31 30 30 29 Supermarkets – Australia25 961 931 897 872 840 New Zealand Supermarkets 177 171 166 161 156 Total Supermarkets 1,138 1,102 1,063 1,033 996 Thomas Dux 9 11 11 11 11 Freestanding Liquor 359 349 339 329 305 Attached Liquor26 527 509 490 477 457 ALH Group Retail Outlets 557 544 526 507 488 Summergate 2 – – – – Caltex/WOW Petrol 131 131 132 132 WOW Petrol – Australia 516 502 482 467 449 Total Supermarkets, Liquor and Petrol 3,108 3,148 3,042 2,956 2,838 General Merchandise BIG W 184 182 178 172 165 EziBuy 5 4 – – – Dick Smith Electronics – – – 390 Tandy – – – 4 Total General Merchandise 189 186 178 172 559 Hotels including clubs (ALH Group) 330 329 326 294 282 Home Timber and Hardware27 44 28 26 21 19 Masters 58 49 31 15 – Total continuing operations 3,729 3,740 3,603 3,458 3,698 Discontinued operations28 Dick Smith Electronics – – 347 – Tandy – – 1 – Total Group 3,729 3,740 3,603 3,806 3,698 2015 2014 2013 201228 201128 Area (sqm) Supermarket Division (Australia)29 2,617,924 2,522,981 2,413,527 2,318,756 2,202,620 Supermarket Division (New Zealand)30 397,889 386,818 372,373 351,744 333,274 General Merchandise Division31 1,055,231 1,042,927 1,016,086 1,107,732 1,086,082 25 The 2014 Australian Supermarkets store numbers by State and Territory have been reclassified to conform with the 2015 store profile 26 Attached Liquor stores were previously not reported separately 27 Previously known as ‘Danks’ 28 See Note 2 on page 122 of the 2015 Annual Report 29 Supermarkets Division (Australia) excludes Langton’s, Cellarmasters, Petrol, Wholesale and ALH Group retail (BWS) 30 New Zealand Supermarkets excludes Gull and franchise outlets. Sales per square metre is presented in New Zealand dollars 31 Includes BIG W, EziBuy, Dick Smith and Tandy. Excludes Woolworths India 44 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Glossary Carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2 -e) NPAT A standard measure used to compare the emissions from Net Profit After Tax indicates what the company earned after all various greenhouse gases based on their global warming potential. expenses have been accounted for. For example, one tonne of methane emissions is equivalent Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC ) to 21 tonnes of carbon dioxide emissions. The PEFC is an independent, non-profit organisation that promotes EBIT sustainably managed forests through independent third-party Earnings Before Interest and Tax – total earnings before provisions certification. pefc.org are deducted. This measures a company’s performance and is Scope 1 emissions often used in preference to net profit as it excludes the effects of borrowings and tax benefits and adjustments. Direct greenhouse gas emissions from sources owned or controlled by the company, such as combustion facilities (e.g. generators) and Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) combustion of fuels in company-owned or company-controlled FSC is an independent, not-for-profit organisation which promotes transport (e.g. cars and trucks). responsible management of the world’s forests. fsc.org or Scope 2 emissions fscaustralia.org.au Indirect greenhouse gas emissions from the generation of Lost Time Injury purchased electricity, heat, cooling or steam. Purchased electricity An LTI is an injury or illness that results in an employee being is defined as electricity that is bought or otherwise brought into the unable to work a full scheduled shift (other than the shift during organisational boundary of the entity. which the injury occurred). Scope 3 emissions ML Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions that are a consequence Megalitres or million litres. of a company’s activities, but that arise from sources that other entities own or control. Scope 3, like Scope 2, is a category of Mt indirect emissions and covers all other indirect emissions from One million tonnes or megatonnes, equates to one billion sources that are not owned or controlled by a company, but that kilograms. occur as a result of its activities. Examples include emissions from MWh waste disposed to landfill. Megawatt hours is a unit of measurement for electricity use, referring to the amount of electricity need to supply power to 1,000 homes for one hour. National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER ) Act 2007 NGER establishes a national framework for Australian corporations to report greenhouse gas emissions, reductions, removals and offsets, and energy consumption and production. climatechange.gov.au/reporting/publications 45 | WOOLWORTHS LIMITED | corporate Responsibility Report 2015 Company Directory Registered Office 1 Woolworths Way Bella Vista NSW 2153 Tel: (02) 8885 0000 Web: www.woolworthslimited.com.au Company Secretary Richard Dammery Share Registrar Computershare Investor Services Pty Limited GPO Box 2975 Melbourne VIC 3001 Tel: 1300 368 664 Web: www.computershare.com.au Auditor Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu 225 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 Tel: (02) 9322 7000 Web: www.deloitte.com.au Woolworths Corporate Responsibility Armineh Mardirossian Head of Corporate Responsibility woolworthslimited.com.au
