Sustainability Report 2015 Company The companies of ALTANA AG develop, manufacture, and Corporate performance indicators distribute high-quality, specialty chemical products and pro2014 2015 vide the associated services. ALTANA is a globally active corporation headquartered in Wesel, Germany, with an interNumber of employees 6,064 6,096 national sales share of approximately 87 percent. Its four Sales € million 1,952 2,059 divisions, BYK Additives & Instruments, ECKART Effect PigEBITDA € million 397 391 ments, ELANTAS Electrical Insulation, and ACTEGA CoatEBITDA margin % 20.4 19.0 ings & Sealants, occupy a leading position in their target marResearch and development expenses € million 114 128 kets with respect to quality, product solution expertise, Investments € million 90 86 innovation, and service. Total production t 643,592 625,500 ALTANA offers innovative and environmentally compatGross value added € million 739 788 ible solutions for coating manufacturers, paint and plastics Final products t 505,000 512,000 processors, the printing and packaging industries, the cosmetWAI 1 1 3.81 4.73 ics sector, and the electrical and electronics industry. The WAI 3 2 51.52 57.04 product range includes additives, special coatings and adheTotal CO2 sives, effect pigments, sealants and compounds, impreg(Scope 1 + Scope 2) 3 t 219,165 210,858 Drinking water m3 1,368,129 1,472,924 nating resins and varnishes, and testing and measuring instruNon-hazardous waste t 9,302 10,418 ments. Hazardous waste t 18,712 18,571 The ALTANA Group, which belongs to SKion GmbH, an 1 Work Accident Indicator 1 (number of occupational accidents with lost work time of one day investment company owned by Susanne Klatten, who is or more per million working hours) also the Deputy Chairwoman of ALTANA’ s Supervisory Board, 2 Work Accident Indicator 3 (number of lost work days due to occupational accidents per million working hours) currently includes 45 production sites and more than 50 3 Scope 1: direct emissions; Scope 2: indirect emissions service and research laboratories worldwide. Throughout the Group about 6,000 people work to ensure the worldwide success of ALTANA. In 2015, ALTANA achieved sales of more than 2 billion euros. About 6 percent of sales are invested in research and development every year. Its high earning power and high growth rate make ALTANA one of the most innovative, fastest-growing, and profitable chemical companies in the world. About this report The Sustainability Report 2015 was written by ALTANA AG to provide the statements apply to all divisions and worldwide subsidiaries that were public, the company’s employees and business partners, authorities, part of the ALTANA Group in 2015. The report follows the international non-governmental organizations, and all other stakeholders with inforG3 guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). We performed mation about the implementation of sustainability in the strategy of an in-house assessment of our compliance with GRI indicators and have ALTANA in terms of ecology and corporate social responsibility. The comconcluded that the report meets the requirements of application level A. pany’s economic development is discussed in detail in its 2015 Annual Report. For further information on the topics presented in this report, on further performance indicators, and concerning the GRI Index, please visit The facts and key figures presented in this report refer to fiscal year www.altana.com / sustainability. The annually published report also serves 2015; environmental performance indicators refer to the period from Octoas COP on ALTANA ’s implementation of the principles of the Global ber 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015. Unless otherwise noted, our Compact. The report is available in both German and English. At a glance Business divisions and product portfolio Paint additives Coatings Wire enamels Closures Plastics additives Graphic arts Electrical Flexible packaging Industrial applications Cosmetics and personal care Electronic Labels Exploration technology oil / gas Plastics industry Engineering materials Paper-based packaging Measuring and testing instruments Functional applications Publication and commercial Rigid packaging Specialty consumer goods as of January 1, 2016 ALTANA Materiality Matrix clear that the relevance of a topic is often assessed differently internally than externally. At the same time, all fields The ALTANA Materiality Matrix shows all topics addressed of activity are important to us. We focus special attention in this sustainability report. In addition, the matrix makes it on topics on the right side of the matrix (see graphic). ALTANA Materiality Matrix Sustainable value creation for society Innovative and sustainable product solutions Social commitment Human rights Significance for our stakeholders Biodiversity Climate protection in production Resource efficiency / waste / Sustainability in the supply chain substitution of fossil resources VOC reduction Occupational safety Health protection Employer attractiveness Sustainable value Staff development creation for company Staff satisfaction Significance for ALTANA At a glance Business divisions and product portfolio Management 1 Preface 33 Environment 5 35 PERMANENT YET RENEWABLE 5 Management 38 Facts on Environmental Protection Products 7 UNCHANGED YET OPEN 38 Resource Consumption and Waste 15 10 Company 41 Protecting the Climate with the Help of 10 Consequences of Climate Change Energy Generation Safety 10 Certified Management Systems Serve 41 Investments for Climate Protection 23 Sustainability 42 Vehicle Fleet Supports Climate Goals 11 Audit of the Sustainability of Our Supply 42 Further Emissions Environment Behavior 43 Environmental Protection When Using 33 Paint additives Coatings Wire enamels Closures 11 Sustainability Projects with Customers Hazardous Substances Plastics additives 11 Graphic arts in Everyday Life Sustainability Electrical Flexible packaging Human Resources Industrial applications Cosmetics and personal 12 Image Campaign ShowscareEmployees Electronic 45 Labels Human Resources 45 oil / gas Exploration technology 12 Plastics industry Excellent Health Management Engineering materials 47 CONSTANT Paper-based packaging YET DIFFERENT Measuring and testing instruments 12 Functional applications Environmental Advantages Thanks to ALTANA X 50 and commercial PublicationALTANA Our Employees: ’s Most Important Social Commitment Rigid packaging 53 13 Compliance: Training of New Staff Capital 13 Awards 50 RegularSpecialty consumer Dialog for goods Assessing Performance as of January 1, 2016 13 Global Compact in the Supply Chain 50 Sustainability Campaign 13 Responsible Care and Chemie ³ 50 Recruitment Harnesses Storytelling 14 Stakeholders 51 Human Resources Development Programs ALTANA Materiality Matrix clear that the relevanceWomen 51 in Leadership Positions of a topic is often assessed differ15 Products 52 Vocational Training at ALTANA ently internally than externally. At the same time, all fields 17 SOLID YET ADAPTABLE 52 Support for Young Families The ALTANA Materiality Matrix shows all topics addressed of activity are important to us. We focus special attention 20 Sustainable Product Development 52 Awards in this sustainability20 report. In Climate addition, the matrix Protection Thanksmakes it Printing on topics on the right side of the matrix (see graphic). to Digital 20 Powder Coatings Reduce Emissions 53 Social Commitment 21 Alternatives to Critical Substances 55 BASIC YET PASSIONATE ALTANA Materiality Matrix21 Substitute for Peroxides 58 Our Social Commitment 21 Plasticizer-Free Medical Packaging 58 “Educational Coaching” of Elementary School 22 Guidelines and Their Impact on ALTANA Children 22 REACH 58 House of Junior Researchers Sustainable value creation for society 58 “Jugend Innovative gründet” and (Youth sustainable Startups) product Competition solutions 23 Safety Social commitment 59 Training of Sustainability Ambassadors Human rights 25 59 Educational Projects Outside of Germany Significance for our stakeholders SAFE YET VARIABLE Biodiversity Climate protection in production 28 Uniform Safety Culture Worldwide 59 Our Commitment to Refugees Resource efficiency / waste / Sustainability in the supply chain 28 Occupational Safety: Our Goals 60 Our Volunteer Commitment substitution of fossil resources 29 “Safety with a System” Certification VOC reduction 29 Incidents 62 Highlights and Lowlights Occupational safety 30 Safety Training Measures 64 Programs / Goals Health protection 30 Safety Methodology Advanced Employer Global Compact: Communication 66 attractiveness on Progress Sustainable value 31 Occupational Health Promotion (COP) Staff development creation for company 31 Health Offers in Germany Staff satisfaction 31 Worldwide Health Management Contact Significance for ALTANA Further key performance indicators, and the GRI Index can be found in the Notes to the Sustainability Report 2015 on the Internet at www.altana.com / sustainability Preface Ladies and Gentlemen, For the ALTANA Group, sustainability is a decisive factor for value-creating business. We view sustainability as a triad consisting of economy, ecology, and social responsibility. This understanding of sustainability finds application Group-wide. And that’s why we support the aims of the UN Global Compact initiative. As an innovation-driven specialty chemicals company, we see a clear connection between sustainability and innovative capability. In addition to developing products and solutions that make a contribution to environmental and climate protection across the entire value chain, we continually work on expanding our service around the sustainability of our products. Thus, we can offer our customers added value in myriad ways. With our efforts in environment, health, and safety, we have achieved a good level so far. But our aim is to steadily improve and advance ourselves and our company. To this end, we have created a new form of organization in this sector – so-called expert platforms. On October 1, 2015, the first four expert platforms began work. They considerably improve cross-divisional knowledge exchange on issues such as energy efficiency and product safety and push forward sustainability in general at ALTANA . The network idea of these platforms is decisive. So we expressly invite all of our employees to actively contact the members of the respective expert platforms about issues relating to environment, health, and safety. The experienced experts are also available to our customers, business partners, the professional public, and associations. We are continuously working to reduce our energy and resource consumption as well as the amount of waste we produce. In 2015, again, in most of our companies we were able to clearly improve the performance indicators we defined regarding CO ² emissions, waste generation and disposal, and water consumption. The key to constant optimization and innovation in the area of sustainability are our employees. They are distinguished by their willingness to change and not only implement 2 Preface Martin Babilas Dr. Gerald Kirchner Chief Executive Officer since January 1, 2016 Head of Environment, Health and Safety since October 1, 2015 Preface 3 changes, but also see them as a personal challenge. They change their perspective, continually look for ways of making improvements or finding completely new solutions, and thus create decisive added value. Whether “Unchanged Yet Open,” “Solid Yet Adaptable,” “Safe Yet Variable,” “Permanent Yet Renewable,” “Constant Yet Different,” or “Basic Yet Passionate,” behind these attributes are exemplary colleagues whom we introduce to you in the chapters of this report. At this juncture, we would like to express our gratitude to Dr. Andreas Diez, who retired at the end of January 2016 after belonging to the company for more than 30 years. As Vice President Environment, Health and Safety, he established this department in the company and expanded it to make it what it is today. Dr. Gerald Kirchner succeeded him on October 1, 2015. We would also like to thank all of the employees who through their dedication have made ALTANA a sustainable employer, business partner, and neighbor. We wish you enjoyable reading. Martin Babilas Dr. Gerald Kirchner Chief Executive Officer Head of Environment, Health and Safety 4 Management ALTANA stands for sustainable profitable growth. In 2015, we had our various sustainability achievements audited by EcoVadis for the first time and introduced so-called expert platforms that heighten the exchange of knowledge across our divisions. Meanwhile, the environmental management systems we have launched, the ALTANA Excellence program, and research investments in future technologies continued to promote our growth. 7 UNCHANGED YET OPEN 10 Company 10 Consequences of Climate Change 10 Certified Management Systems Serve Sustainability 11 Audit of the Sustainability of Our Supply Behavior 11 Sustainability Projects with Customers 11 Sustainability in Everyday Life 12 Image Campaign Shows Employees 12 Excellent Health Management 12 Environmental Advantages Thanks to ALTANA X 13 Compliance: Training of New Staff 13 Awards 13 Global Compact in the Supply Chain 13 Responsible Care and Chemie ³ 14 Stakeholders Management 7 UNCHANGED YET OPEN Implementing sustainable management means acting with a long-term orientation. This perspective combines the protection of natural foundations of life with responsible management and economic thinking. That is how we put it in our first sustainability report in 2010, and this maxim remains unchanged. Yet with successes we face growing challenges – challenges that require us to be open to new things, as Dr. Gerald Kirchner knows. The new head of ALTANA ’s Environment, Health & Safety (EH & S) department is planning to bolster sustainability as a corporate value. 8 Management WITH OUR NEW EXPERT PLATFORMS, WE BRING TOGETHER KNOWLEDGE. AS A RESULT, IN THE FUTURE WE WILL BE ABLE TO OFFER OUR CUSTOMERS EVEN BETTER SERVICE AROUND THE SUSTAINABILITY OF OUR PRODUCTS. Sustainability as a Corporate Value example fixed assets and business capital, Our signing of Global Compact, the develas well as innovative strength. opment of concrete targets for environmental and health protection, and GroupThe most important prerequisite: Indewide key performance indicators: these pendently of our decentralized business are just a few of the milestones of our susmodel, we have to establish uniform critainability strategy. They show how imteria across our companies that enable portant it is to develop measures with which them to mold their sustainability strategy. we can measure sustainable manageTo this end, a continuous exchange ment in our companies. It is our firm convicof information is needed. At the suggestion that only when something is meation of Dr. Kirchner and his predecessor ­sured can it be shaped in a future-oriented Dr. Andreas Diez, the Management Board way. launched four expert platforms across ALTANA in October 2015. With this in mind, we have set ourselves a new goal. “We want to develop susConcentrated Expertise tainability into a distinct corporate value,” Experts from all over the world work on the explains Dr. Gerald Kirchner, who has platforms. They bring together knowlheaded ALTANA ’s EH & S department since edge on key issues that concern all ALTANA October 2015. He wants sustainability – companies. In the process, they create like economic factors – to become an assynergies and help avoid redundancies. The sessable value for the Group as a whole. result will be internationally comparaThus, in the future sustainability will be on ble, efficient, and transparent processes. an equal footing with other factors, for Management 9 First, the platforms address the process of for associations. If, for example, new data management pertaining to regulalaws or regulations that affect our indusDr. Gerald Kirchner began his career as Head of Product Development at BYK . Subsequently, he built up the compatory matters. This includes the European try are up for discussion in the future, ny’s innovation management and global organization in regulation REACH , the Globally Harmowe can rely on the knowledge of these exthe area of product safety and advanced BYK ’s sustainability management. nized System of Labeling Chemicals (GHS ), perts in order to contribute to opinion and regional laws. Second, they examformation as a group. As Head of EH & S at ALTANA , he seeks to make the Group’s sustainability management even more measurable. ine how we review and verify our products’ compatibility with food. Third, they in“At the end of the day, it is a question vestigate the efficiency of our products, of whether we can concentrate our experwith a special focus on lifecycle analysis. tise even better,” says Dr. Kirchner. Fourth, we intend to further develop the “Only then can we continue to offer our EH & S key indicators. customers the added value they are accustomed to from us: reliable, compreBest Practice Models hensive support that goes far beyond “The platforms create a framework withproducts and specific applications.” To sum in which the companies can work out it up in one word: service. best-practice models and exchange ideas about them,” explains Dr. Kirchner. The experts on the platforms are not only available as contact partners within the company. Externally, too, they are wellversed contacts for customers and business partners, for the specialized public, and 10 Sustainability Report 2015 Company Consequences of Climate Change ALTANA AG is a globally active group of companies. It develAs we enhance our portfolio, we aim to continually expand ops, produces, and sells high-quality specialty chemicals, our offer of innovative climate-friendly customer solutions. including additives, special coatings and adhesives, effect pigThis particularly concerns the development of water-based ments, sealants and compounds, impregnating resins, as products free of VOC s (volatile organic compounds). This well as testing and measuring instruments. The company is is discussed in more detail in the “Products” chapter of this based in Wesel, Germany. report. In August 2015, Stefan Genten joined ALTANA ’s ManIn addition, we analyze financial risks that can arise for agement Board as the new CFO . He succeeded Martin our group due to the consequences of climate change. Babilas, who became Chairman of the Management Board We assume that prices on the raw material markets will not at the beginning of January 2016, succeeding Dr. Matthias remain at their current level in the long term, but will go L. Wolfgruber. A complete overview of the responsibilities of up again. This applies especially to raw-materials from fossil the members of ALTANA ’s Management Board is provided sources that we need for our production. in the Annual Report 2015. Only one of our sites can be impacted by the immeTo prepare for his new role in the Management Board, diate effects of climate change. ELANTAS PDG is based near Martin Babilas explicitly sought personal exchange with the Mississippi River; rising water levels could potentially employees in our group. To this end, he traveled to different reach the site in the distant future. ALTANA companies in the U.S. , Europe, and Asia. In parallel, all staff members had the opportunity to give their opinion about the topic of Continuity and Change Certified Management Systems Serve in an Intranet survey. The results show, on the one hand, Sustainability that ALTANA ’s Guiding Principles are firmly anchored in the workforce, and, on the other, that our employees are willAll of the companies in our group have an obligation to ing to change, for example when it comes to optimizing procontinuously reduce the environmental effects of their busicesses. ness activities and to take the necessary action to achieve In the last fiscal year, the ALTANA Group generated this goal. Every managing director has signed a voluntary decsales of 2,059 million euros and its EBITDA (earnings before laration to do so. interest, taxes, amortization and depreciation) amounted We determine the necessary data and key figures for to 391 million euros. ALTANA achieved 87 percent of its sales environmentally conscious management with the help of in markets outside of Germany. Detailed information on internationally acknowledged management systems, for exour group’s financial data can be found in our annual report, ample ISO 14001. In addition, all of our companies are where we also listed the public grants the companies in obliged to have their management system certified by indeour group received in the 2015 fiscal year. The annual report pendent third parties. This also applies to companies we can be called up at www.altana.com/annual-report. acquired in the last few years. The certification process on the basis of ISO 14001 is at a high level within the Group. 86 percent of all sites comManagement Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 11 ply with this standard. Furthermore, all of our German comgroup tested successively. Other companies in the ALTANA panies have begun to adapt their energy management to Group will also undergo this assessment. the specifications of ISO 50001. Some companies have alWe make the results available to our customers on Ecoready taken the necessary measures. Vadis’ supplier portal. As a result, they can be convinced In addition to the certifications, the employees are of the sustainability of our supply chain in an uncomplicated trained about various environmental topics. At the manufac­ way. turing sites, a total of 80 percent of all employees took part in various trainings and events devoted to environmental issues. Sustainability Projects with Customers Another example shows the tremendous importance that Audit of the Sustainability of Our Supply sustainable trends and products have for our customers. Last Behavior year, BASF Coatings published a two-and-a-half-minute film in eight languages on its website and elsewhere. In the In the year under review, ALTANA ’s holding company and film, the company outlines its stringent quality demands BYK at our Wesel site underwent a sustainability audit for the regarding environmentally friendly water-based systems that first time. The focus was on our supply behavior. The intercontribute to reducing VOC s. nationally operating company EcoVadis based in Paris examRepresentatives of the company and of ALTANA reined our working, environmental, and production condiport on how the close cooperation between BASF Coatings tions. and the companies in our group help spawn innovative According to EcoVadis, this audit is comparable with solutions and future-oriented formulations. The two partners’ guideline ISO 26000 and based on the specifications of COCKPIT project, among others, serves this purpose. the Global Compact initiative, which ALTANA joined. Within the chemical industry, EcoVadis has become the world’s leading audit, and thus evaluation, platform for sustainability. Sustainability in Everyday Life Many of our customers also underwent this assessment. In the online assessment made by EcoVadis, based on a Starting with our involvement in the climate initiative “2041” questionnaire and a document check, ALTANA was given launched by the British polar researcher Robert Swan (see 58 points, well above the average (the mean score in the inthe “Social Commitment” chapter of this report), our sustaindustry is 41 points), and thus received a silver rating. In ability ambassadors are pushing ahead in-house initiatives the chemical manufacturing group, we were in the top twelve to raise awareness of environmentally conscious action in daypercent worldwide. to-day life. To this end, we carried out a web-based survey We use the results of this assessment to measure our on sustainability at our Wesel site in 2015. More than forty own performance as well as the progress we have made in percent of the employees participated. sustainable management. Therefore, we will have the assessThe results highlight the importance of this issue in the ment done again, and also have further aspects of our eyes of our workforce. Most of the respondents believe that sustainability is just as important for their lives as for the 12 Sustainability Report 2015 company as a whole. The request in the survey for staff It encompasses occupational safety and health (OSH) measmembers to develop ideas for sustainable action in everyday ures with sports, fitness, and health offers, as well as occulife met with an excellent response. We received a total pational reintegration after longer periods of illness. of 70 suggestions and are currently examining whether they In 2015, BYK had its offer audited by a third party can be implemented. for the first time. On behalf of the Corporate Health Award (CHA) initiative, experts from EuPD Research Sustainable Management GmbH analyzed the structure, strategy, and Image Campaign Shows Employees achievements of the company’s occupational health promotion and gave it the “Excellent” seal of approval. Receiving “The people at ALTANA make the difference and are the plus 84 of 100 possible points, BYK outperformed the majority for our customers” – that is the gist of the new, integrated of the companies analyzed by CHA . image campaign we launched last March. The five advertising motifs show employees from different companies and in different capacities. The employees reflect our group’s innovaEnvironmental Advantages Thanks to tive strength and service orientation, as well as its knowlALTANA X edge and abilities. Thus, the advertisements concisely demonstrate how we offer our customers added value. Our Group-wide excellence program titled ALTANA X serves With the help of a QR code integrated in the ads, to establish sound, data-assisted decision-making manageviewers arrive at our website directly, where they can read ment in all of our companies. The aim is to improve the qualabout which “pluses” were realized for customers in conity of our internal processes in the long run. Therefore, crete cases. Further information is provided by short films that ALTANA X includes a transparent key figure system. We use it go into the respective topic in more depth. Here, too, emto gage the costs and benefits of the respective measures. ployees talk about their experiences. Without a script, they With this comprehensive approach, economic benefits freely discuss how ALTANA creates added value for its cusare coupled with ecological advantages in a number of tomers. projects in an especially fruitful way. An example is a project In the course of this authentic image campaign, a new that aims to reduce BYK ’s energy costs at its Schkopau HR campaign was initiated last year that also builds on site. With the project, we can reduce the use of raw materithe “plus” concept. Details can be found in the “Human als and at the same time improve exhaust air purification Resources” chapter on page 50 of this report. and wastewater treatment. In Vigo, Spain, ACTEGA worked together with customers to make screw caps more user friendly. They managed to produce less scrap when applying Excellent Health Management the sealant in the cap, thus reducing the amount of waste. The improvement measures that ECKART America introduced Many ALTANA companies actively implement health-proto clean production plants also have a lasting effect on moting measures. In recent years, BYK at our Wesel site was the environment because, wherever possible, environmentalthe first company to develop a systematic, target-oriented, ly hazardous substances are avoided. continuous occupational health management system (OHMS) . Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 13 Compliance: Training of New Staff Omega Award from the American Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers (IEEE) . With the prize, the institute ALTANA has had a comprehensive Compliance Management honored Graham’s outstanding achievements in the elecSystem (CMS) since 2008. trical and insulation industry in the U.S. The award is presentDetailed information about this system as well as our ed every other year to a personality from science, business, group’s leadership and responsibility structures can be found or education. at www.altana.com/compliance. ALTANA ’s Code of Conduct, a binding guideline for all of our employees and managers worldwide, is a compoGlobal Compact in the Supply Chain nent of the CMS . It provides information about proper behavior in instances of corruption, accepting or giving advanAs a member of the worldwide Global Compact initiative, tages, discrimination, and conflicts of interest. Since 2010, we have committed ourselves to implementing its principles we have educated all of our employees about our Code of in our supply chain. Our suppliers can read the correspondConduct with the help of special e-learning instruments ing code of conduct on our procurement platform, among on a platform set up expressly for this purpose. There are Gerother places, where they can sign it. A total of 480 comman, English, Italian, and Chinese versions. panies have done so since 2010. During talks with suppliers, In 2015, 750 employees from Great Britain, Germany, we find out whether they have adhered to these voluntary the U.S., and Canada completed this electronic training procommitments. gram. In the year under review, ALTANA had to pay a penalty of 50,000 euros in the Netherlands. The reason was a Responsible Care and Chemie ³ deflagration at BYK -Cera in 2011 in which a staff member suffered severe injuries. The basis of our activities is the chemical industry’s worldwide sustainability initiative, called Responsible Care. All of the ALTANA Group’s managing directors personally signed Awards this voluntary initiative and, based on it, submit an annual report to the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) , In 2015, ALTANA received the Bronze Award of the Gerwhich uses the data for its annual Responsible Care progress man Stevie Awards in the category “Company of the Year – report. Other Industries.” With the award, the jury honored the In Germany, the sustainability initiative Chemie ³ (ChemALTANA Group’s impressive combination of growth and susistry ³) has set itself the goal of achieving sustainability tainability, as well as its strong social commitment. The above and beyond the objectives of Responsible Care. The German Stevie Awards are business prizes for companies. initiative was established by the VCI together with the They were initiated by the U.S. entrepreneur Michael GallaGerman Mining, Chemical and Energy Industries Union (IG gher in the U.S. in 2002 and later were brought to Germany. BCE) , and the German Federation of Chemical Employers Dr. Sue Graham, Managing Director of ELANTAS PDG , (BAVC) . ALTANA supports this initiative because it is in line was the first woman in any company to receive the Golden with our group’s Guiding Principles. An important part of 14 Sustainability Report 2015 the work of Chemie ³ is to convey to its members exemplary solutions and approaches for sustainable management. Stakeholders We determine the stakeholders relevant to us on the basis of our experience and recognizable communication needs. In addition, we analyze which groups might have special expectations or fears vis-à-vis the chemical industry. In our communications, we rely on dialog with various interest groups. They include neighbors, local political representatives, and the media, as well as public authorities, associations, customers, and suppliers. The exchange serves to strengthen trust in our products and the safety of our plants. Our annual reports and annual sustainability reports contribute to this. Our involvement in associations is part of our communication with interest groups. In 2015, the executive committee of the German Chemical Industry Association again appointed a representative of our group to the Technology and Environment committee. The committee’s task is to contribute to opinion making in the association and to develop appropriate positions. In addition to being a member of the German Chemical Industry Association, we belong to two other industry associations via our company BYK -Chemie: the European Chemical Industry Council Food Contact Additives (CEFIC / FCA) , and since 2015 the Chinese association AICM (Association of International Chemical Manufacturers). ECKART is a member of the German Association of Producers of Pigments, Fillers, Functional Additives, Food Colorants and Others (VdMi) and is represented in its Technical Commission. In addition, the pigment manufacturer is a member of the European umbrella association Eurocolor, of the European Printing Ink Association (EuPIA), and of the European Metal Particulate Association (EMPA) . Products We want to be leading in everything we do. This particularly concerns our innovative products, which conserve resources and protect the climate. We help our customers manufacture with low emissions and energy-efficiently and enhance the safety of their products. Moreover, we offer our customers comprehensive service and expert assistance concerning regulatory issues, among other things. 17 SOLID YET ADAPTABLE 20 Sustainable Product Development 20 Climate Protection Thanks to Digital Printing 20 Powder Coatings Reduce Emissions 21 Alternatives to Critical Substances 21 Substitute for Peroxides 21 Plasticizer-Free Medical Packaging 22 Guidelines and Their Impact on ALTANA 22 REACH Products 17 S O L I D YET ADAPTABLE It is not only important to our customers that our additives exactly fit their applications. They also want to be sure that our specialty chemicals comply with the various regulatory requirements of the different markets in relevant countries. Megan McCutcheon has the necessary solid expertise. She is part of the BYK International Regulatory Service Team. This team is well prepared to continually adapt to meet new challenges. 18 Products ONE ADDITIVE CAN BE USED IN ACCORDANCE WITH DIFFERENT REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS AND SAFETY GUIDELINES AROUND THE WORLD: BYK OFFERS ITS CUSTOMERS THIS COMPETITIVE EDGE. National and International regional regulations that are valid in the Regulations U.S. , Canada, and Mexico. Does the additive contain volatile organic compounds (VOC s) or other critical subBRIEF Document for Each Additive stances? Does it meet the requirements “Some of these questions can be anof the international Globally Harmonized swered quickly,” says the manager. “For System (GHS )? Can it be used in toys example, we send these customers the or in contact with foodstuffs? Hundreds appropriate BRIEF document.” BRIEF is an of such questions reach BYK USA every abbreviation for BYK Regulatory Informonth. mation Extended Form, a document that is compiled for each additive. It contains Questions are asked by purchasing agents, relevant regulatory data. For example, it specialists from our customers’ research provides information about whether an departments, or by experts who oversee additive contains VOC s and in which Nacustomers’ regulatory product docutional Chemical Inventories it is listed. mentation, says Megan McCutcheon. As Manager Regulatory Affairs, she coordiOther questions are more complex. “Then nates a four-member team based at BYK ’s we may need to compile a small dossier U.S. site in Wallingford that informs containing specialist literature or studies in customers in the NAFTA region about the which the background is explained in additive’s status under relevant safety, more depth, or even contact external exhealth, and environmental protection reguperts,” explains McCutcheon. lations. Many of the questions the team in Wallingford receives concern laws and Global customers need details on European or Asian legislation. If need be, McProducts 19 Cutcheon clarifies these issues with the Control Act (TSCA ) in the U.S. or the help of her colleagues in Germany, China, Canadian Domestic Substance List (DSL ). Megan McCutcheon is a biologist and also holds a master’s degree in environmental law. She has worked for BYK Japan, or Korea who are experts on such USA for almost 30 years. While at first her primary area regional regulatory matters. “All in all, our Moreover, the experts on the Regulaof responsibility was environmental protection, over the years she has taken on additional tasks revolving around service gives us a significant competitive tory Service Team maintain contact with health and occupational safety, and today, among other edge,” McCutcheon says confidently. “Our associations, networks, and authorities things, she is an expert on regulatory requirements. customers know they can use one addiin their regions. As a result, they can adapt She is convinced that changes are part of life. It is critical to tive at different sites in different regions to new legal developments at an early be open to change, she believes, in order to shape it. without regulatory risks, and in turn can stage. Megan McCutcheon has observed offer customers around the globe the same that such legislative procedures have product.” been spawned increasingly by supranational developments. “The trend toward Sustainable Product Planning internationally harmonized guidelines is The global Regulatory Service Team’s growing,” she says. “And we are well work is facilitated by the sustainable appositioned here too.” proach BYK takes to develop and manage its portfolio. At the beginning of product development, the researcher ensures that no critical substances are used. Once the formulation has been established, BYK registers the new product in all relevant countries worldwide in accordance with the respective national or industry regulations, including the Toxic Substances 20 Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainable Product Development nologists who work on advancing customer-oriented applications for digital printing. Laboratory capacities have been Our understanding of sustainable management as part of cormade available to them in Germany and the U.S . ALTANA ’s porate responsibility has a direct bearing on our product cooperation with Landa Digital Printing, initiated in 2014, is portfolio. When we develop new products, we ensure that also helping grow this portfolio. they use as little resources and as little energy as possible. Wherever possible, we look for alternatives to critical substances or utilize new, future-oriented technologies. Powder Coatings Reduce Emissions We generally aim to minimize the effects of our products on people and the environment with a high degree of Many of our customers in the coatings industry rely on economic efficiency. This sustainable portfolio strategy low-emission products. Thus, water-based systems are now reflects the internationally valid voluntary commitments we the center of interest rather than conventional solventhave made. In addition, it supports comparable efforts on based systems. We support this trend with our additives and the part of our customers. pigments for water-based coatings. In 2015, our companies made further progress regardPowder coatings are being used increasingly in industriing the sustainability of their product portfolios. As a result, al applications, particularly on metallic substrates. When our group as a whole has managed to tap new markets and they are processed, less waste is produced because the powmake new client contacts, as the following examples show. der almost completely melts into the coating. Thanks to new developments in recent years, we have been able to reduce the energy needed for application of Climate Protection Thanks to Digital Printing powder coatings. As a consequence, the climate-relevant CO ² emissions of powder coatings can be reduced by 25 to 60 More and more packaging manufacturers are using digital percent, depending on the thickness of the coating layer, comprinting for design purposes. This future-oriented technology pared to solvent-based systems, according to a new study is particularly suitable for flexible packaging such as foldin the Netherlands. ing boxes, stand-up boxes, and tubes. ACTEGA manufactures Our companies support this trend. In addition to special special coatings for these applications, including overprint aluminumand pearlescent-based effect pigments, ECKART varnishes and primers. They are marketed under the brand also offers a so-called bonding service at its Hartenstein and ACTDigi and our customers have shown great interest in Painesville sites. With the service, our customers’ basic them. powder coating products are processed with effect pigments. In view of the numerous economic and ecological advanBYK has a diversified additives portfolio that meets virtages (among other things, digital printing uses much less tually all requirements when it comes to optimizing powder ink and produces less waste), as part of its global restructurcoating products and processes. It consists of wetting, dising measures in 2015, the company decided to make digpersing, rheology, and surface additives that improve gloss ital printing products a focal point of its business activities. and scratch resistance. In the U.S. and Europe, a number To this end, ACTEGA formed an internationally operof these additives have been approved to come into contact ating team consisting of ten researchers and application techwith foods. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 21 Alternatives to Critical Substances With Elan-cure, the trade name for benzopinacol, they succeeded. The innovative curing agent offers our customers Solvents based on NMP (N-methylpyrrolidones) and NEP many advantages. It meets the various technical requirements (N-ethylpyrrolidones) are used frequently in the coatings indusfor unsaturated systems. Compared to curing agents based try. In the European guideline REACH , they are listed as on common peroxides, Elan-cure products keep better and being “of very high concern” because they are toxic to reprocan be processed with lower emissions and more ecologiduction. The Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA) register cally. Last but not least, they facilitate handling because fewin the U.S . also requires products that contain these toxic suber safety measures are required. stances to be labeled accordingly. We therefore are continually working on replacing these substances with more harmless ones. Plasticizer-Free Medical Packaging Last year, we managed to achieve this with a group of rheology additives for coatings. The new products are based Provalin is the brand name for the thermoplastic elastomers on amide ester (ES) and amide ether (ET) . Thus, they no (TPE) manufactured by ACTEGA DS . They enable PVC -free longer have to be labeled. The development team consisting sealing of screw caps used, among other things, for glass jars. of researchers and application technologists received the The easy-to-process plastic granulates have already proven in-house BYK Advance innovation prize for its new, versatile themselves in the food industry. They are used in so-called formulation. pano seals, recognizable from the blue ring in the screw cap. With these seals, customers can rest assured that no harmful plasticizers, including phthalates, can migrate into Substitute for Peroxides the food. Given the positive response to Provalin, ACTEGA DS has Peroxides are used, among other things, to cure coatings on developed the technology further in recent years and brought the basis of unsaturated systems such as polyesters and acTPE formulations for medical and pharmaceutical applicarylates. But peroxides are critical compounds which are subtions onto the market under the brand name ProvaMed. The ject to a number of regulations pertaining to safe handling, elastic material fulfills all prerequisites for so-called meditransport, and storage. Our customers therefore find less cal-grade plastics and can therefore come into contact with hazardous, alternative substances appealing, and ELANTAS blood or medicines. Europe has set itself the task of accommodating them. It ProvaMed TPE formulations are certified based on United opted for benzopinacol, as this substance is less critical and States Pharmacopeia (USP) guidelines, among others. Thus, can be used as a curing agent. there is official proof that they are free of PVC , silicon, and At its Hamburg site, the company set up a testing cenlatex and can be sterilized using various methods (gamma ter to develop a simple synthesis for the manufacture of radiation, ethylene oxide, in autoclaves). Due to their enorbenzopinacol. The objective was to come up with a method mous flexibility and high resistance, ProvaMed products enabling products to be manufactured by the kilogram with are excellent sealing materials for syringes, for tubing conuniform high quality and at low cost. nections in catheters, as well as for operating elements or 22 Sustainability Report 2015 handle parts. The cosmetics industry, with its high hygienic We are also attentively following the development of the and safety requirements, can also use ProvaMed for caps. much-discussed transatlantic free trade agreement TTIP . Like the VCI , we expect the agreement to provide a number of advantages for our industry and thus for our group. If cusGuidelines and Their Impact on ALTANA toms taxes disappear, the chances of exporting to the U.S. will improve, and the outlay for goods and services will be The United Nations’ Globally Harmonized System (GHS) is a lower. standard that is to be used to create a uniform worldwide Transatlantic cooperation on regulatory projects can also register for labeling chemicals. In Europe, this standard is part be favorable for both partners, for instance when it comes of the EU -wide CLP (Classification, Labeling and Packaging to harmonizing the worldwide GHS . In the long run, TTIP can of Substances and Mixtures) regulation, which has already raise the global standards for protecting the environment, been implemented by our companies. employees, and consumers. The prerequisite is that the TTIP In the U.S. , GHS is a component of the new HCS (Hazstipulations are adopted by countries in other regions. ard Communication Standard) guideline that went into effect in June 2015. Our companies in the U.S. implemented the corresponding measures in their SAP systems within REACH the deadlines provided. It must be noted, however, that in our view GHS standards are manifested so differently in the In Europe, we are currently preparing further registrations in EU and the U.S. that manufacturers still have to bear additionaccordance with REACH . They primarily relate to BYK addial costs. tives. Registration is planned to be completed by mid-2018 International guidelines and national laws are the at the latest. framework for our actions. Hence we attentively follow the We continue to work on adapting our risk managedevelopment of plans that affect us and actively particiment regarding usage and storage of raw materials to the pate in opinion-making within the framework of our associarespective recommendations REACH makes for these subtion memberships. This concerns the reform of TSCA in the stances. In addition, we are preparing safety data sheets in U.S. as well as the REACH Review, which focuses on regulaaccordance with REACH regulations for all of these subtions for polymers and nanomaterials, among other things. stances. In turn, the data sheets support our customers in When it comes to nanomaterials, we advocate an EU their risk management. wide nanomaterial register. At the same time, however, we are concerned that it will not replace the national registers established by some countries. In light of the fact that there is still no feasible method for determining what nanomaterials are, we have observed growing uncertainty among all participants, manufacturers and customers, as well as nongovernment organizations. This is preventing progress from being made in the debate about what the term “nano” means. Safety ALTANA relies on a uniform safety culture. Technical and organizational measures contribute to enhancing work safety and anchoring the issue firmly in our employees’ minds. Our top priority is to reduce the number of accidents. We are constantly working on minimizing dangers and improving the protection of our employees’ health. 25 SAFE YET VARIABLE 28 Uniform Safety Culture Worldwide 28 Occupational Safety: Our Goals 29 “Safety with a System” Certification 29 Incidents 30 Safety Training Measures 30 Safety Methodology Advanced 31 Occupational Health Promotion 31 Health Offers in Germany 31 Worldwide Health Management Safety 25 S A F E YET VARIABLE Does safety always go hand in hand with high costs and strict paramaters? Not necessarily, as a new method using continuous mixing technology shows. ACTEGA Terra is implementing it at its Lehrte site. The method enables even critical substances to be processed safely and uncomplicatedly. On top of that, it is conducive to entrepreneurial flexibility, for the compact installation can be assembled and disassembled easily. In general, the method makes chemical manufacture free of batch production, independent of the number of shifts, and if necessary: mobile. 26 Safety RISK MANAGEMENT DOES NOT ALWAYS REQUIRE HIGH INVESTMENTS. INNOVATIVE METHODS CAN IMPROVE SAFETY WITHOUT GREAT EXPENSE. AN EXAMPLE: ACTEGA. Continuous Process Technology team. BYK , too, has begun using the Those who want to print magazines, phomethod for processing especially reactive to books, and playing cards need highsubstances – with success. gloss coatings that dry in no time. This is possible with ACTEGA Terra’s TerraGloss Greater Flexibility UV coatings. They harden in fractions of a The reaction mixing pump is at the censecond under UV light thanks to a raw ter of the new method. It is small, compact, material that the company has recently and extremely variable. Thus, it makes started processing itself. chemical manufacture more flexible. There are two main reasons for this. First, the To do so, ACTEGA Terra utilizes an innopump is suitable for different reaction types vative method that has hardly been used depending on the choice of chemical in the chemical industry to date: contingroups. Second, it is so simple to set up uous mixing technology with the help of that it is easy to dismantle and reassema so-called reaction mixing pump. The ble at another location. method has many advantages, including relatively low investment costs and deProduction Around the Clock creased energy consumption. Vital for safety: the reactions run automatically in a hermetically sealed container In addition, it enhances safety. “With the in which the required substances are fed reaction mixing pump even critical subdirectly from the storage tanks. So emstances can be processed safely,” says proployees have no contact with the chemicals ject manager Dr. Daniel Kopetzki. He whatsoever. Unlike conventional batch oversees the new process technology in the production in special mixing vessels, with company’s research and development the method manual intervention is not Safety 27 even needed for process and quality conthe capacity is by no means exhausted. trol. Hence the reaction mixing pump The facility can produce up to 100 tons. Before he started working for ACTEGA Terra, Dr. Daniel Kopetzki did research at the Max Planck Institute in Berlin, can produce around the clock regardless where he completed his doctorate. of the number of shifts, including on With the help of a second facility in the “The more varied the customer’s requirements are, the weekends. lab, the company is testing further usage more multifaceted the production methods have to be,” the possibilities. “The innovative method project manager asserts. And safety is the top priority. Another considerable advantage of concan also be used for many products made tinuous process technology vis-à-vis tradiby our sister company in the U.S. ,” says tional batch production: “The quality of the project manager. For ACTEGA North the product is not subject to any fluctuaAmerica also manufactures UV -cured tions provided that raw material supply coatings for the graphic arts industry. Dr. and filling are automatic,” concludes Dr. Kopetzki estimates that the method can Kopetzki. “Our customers can rely on be used for at least a fourth of all products, this.” not just for ACTEGA , but for ALTANA as a whole. There is only one drawback. The method cannot be used with lengthy reaction times. “It is designed for particularly fast reactions lasting a maximum of 30 minutes,” says Dr. Kopetzki. ACTEGA Terra is currently making use of this production facility to process 25 tons of a raw material into a product that is used in UV -cured coatings every year. And 28 Sustainability Report 2015 Uniform Safety Culture Worldwide Our Work Accident Indicator is divided into three categories: –W AI 1 : Number of occupational accidents with lost work As an employer, it is our duty to protect all ALTANA employtime of one day or more per million working hours, ees from dangers and to offer them safety at the work– WAI 2 : Number of occupational accidents with lost work place. The basis are the various technical and organizational time of more than three days per million working hours, measures we gear to the respective site’s production con– WAI 3 : Number of lost work days due to occupational acciditions as well as to the laws and regulations in effect where dents per million working hours. the site is located. Our uniform safety culture is oriented to the provisions WAI 1 of the internationally recognized OHSAS 18001 guideline. Many companies have their safety management system certified accordingly. In 2015, ELANTAS Europe had this done 2015 Target for 2015: 4.50 4.73 for its three Italian sites in Ascoli, Collecchio, and Quattordio. 2014 3.81 In the year under review, 40 percent of all of ALTANA ’s 2013 7.22 sites were certified in accordance with OHSAS 18001 (in 2012 7.29 detail: BYK : 33 percent, ECKART : 38 percent, ELANTAS : 2011 7.43 2010 7.73 80 percent, ACTEGA : 17 percent). 2009 8.15 2008 11.68 2007 12.26 Occupational Safety: Our Goals Achieved in 2007 – 2015: 61% (Target for 2016: 3.00) With the so-called Work Accident Indicator (WAI) , we continWAI 2 uously observe occupational safety at our sites worldwide by setting the number of occupational accidents in relation to the number of working hours. Target for 2015: 3.00 The top priority of our safety culture is to reduce the 2015 3.22 2014 3.19 number of occupational accidents. Consequently, for each 2013 4.85 year we define upper limits based on our WAI data that 2012 4.67 apply to all of our companies. Since we began recording this 2011 4.92 information in 2006, we have been able to lower the num2010 6.23 ber of accidents step by step. In 2015, we nearly reached the 2009 5.57 targets we had defined for the year under review in all 2008 7.52 three WAI categories, as the graphics on the side show. 2007 8.00 Achieved in 2007 – 2015: 60 % (Target for 2016: 2.10) Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 29 WAI 3 its occupational health management (OHM) certified by the German Social Accident Insurance Institution for the Raw Materials and Chemical Industry (BG RCI) . The audit is a new 2015 Target for 2015: 58.00 57.04 part of “Safety with a System” certification, which has to 2014 51.52 be renewed every three years. It is based on quality criteria 2013 73.19 that the German Social Accident Insurance (DGUV) devel2012 76.25 oped for occupational health management. The auditors ana2011 68.83 lyzed documents and interviewed members of the man2010 98.56 agement board as well as managerial staff. They came to the 2009 103.62 conclusion that the health management system at the 2008 158.81 Wesel site is effective. 2007 176.29 Achieved in 2007 – 2015: 68 % (Target for 2016: 50.00) Incidents In 2015, as in the previous years, there were no fatal acIn accordance with the definition of the German Chemical cidents in our company. It is particularly noteworthy that a Industry Association (VCI) , we had 17 significant incidents number of our companies have had no lost work time due in 2015, including two fires, one deflagration, and 14 cases to accidents for more than six years. Among them are BYK ’s where chemicals were released. Five employees sustained and ECKART ’s sites in Tongling and Zhuhai, China, re­ injuries. Residents were not harmed. In eleven cases, no harm spectively, and ELANTAS ’ site in Pimpri, India. ECKART in was done to any people and there was no environmental Wackersdorf (Germany), Pori (Finland) and Painesville damage, as the substances were caught by special sumps or (U.S.), as well as ACTEGA Rhenacoat (France), and ACTEGA tanks installed expressly for such incidents. Foshan (China) have been accident-free for more than At our U.S. site in Cinnaminson, two employees suffered three years. injuries when 3,000 liters of a product leaked out. At our This progress is the result of various safety measures Hartenstein site in southern Germany, two employees were implemented by our companies, which they continuously exinjured when a fire broke out in a mixer. Another employee pand and adapt to new knowledge that is gained. A curwas injured in a deflagration of methyldichlorosilane at our rent example are special barriers that we installed on nearly Kempen site. all of our working platforms worldwide to prevent acciAt our U.S. site in Louisville, white spirit was released, dents from occurring. contaminating the soil. But we were able to rectify the situation. At our U.S. site in Chester, 1,600 liters of a 27-percent ammonia solution contaminated water, which we sub“Safety with a System” Certification sequently processed in our wastewater treatment facility. At its Wesel site, our BYK division was the first company in our group and one of the very first in Germany to have 30 Sustainability Report 2015 Number of incidents according to process safety incident (PSI) partment performed a play about first aid and there was for 2015 / 2014 / 2013 / 2012 related to one million working hours a costume competition. ELANTAS Europe offers employees an interactive, multimedia e-learning program at its Hamburg site. With it, 2015 ¹ 1.20 employees can learn about statutory occupational safety issues 2015 3.39 online at their workplace. In addition to recurring topics, 2014 ¹ 0.41 the program also provides current information on occupa2014 1.14 tional safety. The software adapts to the learning speed 2013 0.68 of the respective user, enables every employee to check his 2012 0.46 or her success, and subsequently documents the informa¹A  ccording to ALTANA’s specific definition of significant incidents. tion imparted, thus providing legally required verification. In 2015, employees at the site completed a total of 850 hours Number of incidents in absolute terms for 2015 / 2014 / 2013 / of safety training. 2012 / 2011 differentiated according to fire and release of chemicals Safety Methodology Advanced 3 3 2015 ¹ 2015 3 14 Many of our companies are gradually introducing the inter2014 ¹ 3 1 nationally proven 5S and 6S methodology to improve their 2014 3 8 employees’ safety behavior. At its U.S. sites in Cinnaminson 2013 1 5 and Lincolnton, ACTEGA North America launched a uni2012 2 2 form safety program based on 5S. An important component 2011 4 2 are regular behavioral audits that superiors undertake durFire Release of chemicals ing working hours. As a result, the staff members get feed¹A  ccording to ALTANA’s specific definition of significant incidents. back on their safety behavior directly in the work situation and can correct it, if required. Furthermore, the EH&S managers improved risk communication and developed special Safety Training Measures criteria that help them analyze the safety behavior of contractual partners. Every time technical measures are implemented to heightAt its site in Quattordio, Italy, ELANTAS introduced speen occupational safety, employees feel their safety has been cial checklists enabling it to add the topic of safety to the enhanced. This can lead to negligent behavior in everyday 5S methodology used there and thus expanding it to become work. To counteract this development, we implement organi6S methodology. The lists serve to standardize procedures zational and training measures. Among them are so-called and at the same time help employees check their work themsafety days. To illustrate the importance of the issue, ACTEGA selves during work time. Overlake used playful methods at an information event at At its Indian sites in Pimpri and Ankleshwar, the company our São Paulo site last year. For example, the works fire deset up special safety committees whose members include Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 31 employee representatives. The committees define appropriate the previous years. Aside from lectures and health checkmeasures. In addition, a special suggestion scheme and ups, the visitors could attend preview courses in which sports, annual safety weeks help anchor the subject of safety firmly fitness, and nutrition programs were presented. in employees’ minds. At its Hartenstein site, ECKART and external partners developed a “health sensitization” module expressly for trainees. It serves to convey important knowledge on nutrition, Occupational Health Promotion sports, and movement to young people as they embark on their careers, thus enabling them to deal responsibly with Prevention is better than healing: ALTANA companies worldtheir health. wide gear their occupational health-protection activities to this principle. The most important goal is to reduce absenteeism. Furthermore, we seek to enhance the wellbeing Worldwide Health Management of staff at the workplace. In spite of the various measures that have been impleIn the Netherlands, BYK -Cera offers a comprehensive promented, the sickness rate at our German sites increased gram on sports, nutrition, and lifestyle at its Deventer and slightly last year. It amounted to 4.8 percent. This trend is Denekamp sites. It consists of training sessions and workcomparable with the data of the chemical industry as a shops. The highlight of the health promotion activities are inwhole. The chemical industry also registered a slight increase. dividual and group training activities with an occupational Experts assume that this development has to do with the therapist, permitting employees to deal in depth with their growing average age of the workforce. own movement sequences and their ergonomics at work. In India, ELANTAS expanded its occupational health management at its Pimpri and Ankleshwar sites. Production Health Offers in Germany staff at these sites can now undergo medical checks every six months, and all other employees once a year. In Germany, representatives of all of our companies exchange information on a regular basis in order to develop best-practice models for health promotion. In 2015, this led to more and more of ALTANA ’s companies offering their staff a health day in which they could participate during work hours. BYK ’s sites in Moosburg and Schkopau held such events for the first time. Together with external partners, they provided information on the topic of back health, among other things. The health day at our Wesel site has a tradition. In 2015, the lobby of ALTANA ’s building served as the venue of this event for the first time. More than 30 percent of the employees came to gather information – much more than in 32 Sustainability Report 2015 Environment Environmentally friendly management is a key component of ALTANA ’s corporate strategy. Our goal is to steadily reduce the energy consumption at all sites and in all areas, for example with sustainable thermal energy that heats up reaction containers for production and other processes. We also implement this objective in other environmentally relevant areas, such as waste. 35 PERMANENT YET RENEWABLE 38 Facts on Environmental Protection 38 Resource Consumption and Waste 41 Protecting the Climate with the Help of Energy Generation 41 Investments for Climate Protection 42 Vehicle Fleet Supports Climate Goals 42 Further Emissions 43 Environmental Protection When Using Hazardous Substances Environment 35 PERMANENT YET RENEWABLE One of our ambitious climate objectives is to reduce our CO² emissions, in relation to gross added value, by 30 percent by 2020 compared to 2007. To this end, ELANTAS has taken an extremely sustainable path at its site in Ascoli Piceno, Italy. The manufacturer of wire enamels combines renewable energies with an especially efficient technology: cogeneration. In this way, the company covers 85 percent of its energy needs on a sustained basis. “Environmental protection is a question of resolve,” says plant manager Giorgio Monni. 36 Environment CLIMATE PROTECTION IS NOT ONLY TECHNICALLY FEASIBLE, BUT ALSO ECONOMICALLY EFFICIENT. ELANTAS IN ITALY IS AN EXAMPLE. Like a Forest with 180,000 Trees corresponding to the ecological perforA chemical plant that almost completely mance of 180,000 trees. generates its own energy needs in a sustainable way? Skeptics wrinkle their brows. But a great deal of persistence was needed But the Ascoli site in central Italy proves to achieve this aim, the engineer recalls. that this is possible. Environmentally friend“We suffered some setbacks and had to ly, nearly one-hundred-percent self-genadapt our original plans.” The first step erated energy for an annual production of was uncomplicated. In 2009, the compa20,000 tons of insulation coatings is ny began operating a photovoltaic systechnically feasible and economically effitem. It produces around 880 kilowatts – cient. about a sixth of the plant’s total energy needs. “If we had planted a 180-hectare forest, it would have had the same positive cliCogeneration mate effect,” says Giorgio Monni, summing Subsequently, planning began for the up the energy concept. The plant mancogeneration or combined heat and power ager bases this comparison on the follow(CHP ) plant. The advantage: “Thanks to ing calculation: One hectare of forest the possibility of recovering thermal enerbinds around ten tons of CO ². If at its Asgy during electricity generation – that’s coli site ELANTAS obtained its energy why it’s called cogeneration – the plant’s solely from the Italian power grid, its CO ² yield is particularly high, which makes emissions would amount to almost 2,000 it extremely efficient,” says Monni. In Astons. Due to its environmentally friendcoli, ELANTAS utilizes this sustainable ly energy generation, the plant’s emissions thermal energy to heat reaction vessels for amount to 1,800 tons less than that, production and for other processes. Environment 37 The original plan was to operate the plant an integral part of our entrepreneurial selfusing especially climate-friendly bio-oil. image. ELANTAS is setting standards “Those who have big aims can bring about changes in small steps,” says plant manager Giorgio Monni, who has “But on account of rising bio-oil prices, the here too. “When we converted our former headed the Ascoli plant for 28 years. operation would not have been ecowarehouse into a laboratory, we made His conclusion: “The ecological conversion of the energy nomical,” says Monni. “That’s why we use sure that the energy consumption in the supply in Ascoli has been the company’s most sustainable natural gas today.” building was as low as possible,” says project during my career so far.” Monni. CO ² Reduced by More Than 60 Percent The 1,500-square-meter building has The CHP plant has a capacity of 3,500 LED lighting. In addition, cylindrical solar megawatt hours (MWh) a year. Together tubes with reflectors on the building’s with the solar power plant, 4,380 MWh ceiling feed sunlight into the interior durare produced by the company itself, with aning the daytime. At the same time, spenual energy needs totaling 4,800 MWh. cial coatings on the windows block out the “Thus, our CO ² emissions have decreased sun’s warming infrared rays, thus ensurby more than 60 percent compared to ing a pleasant room temperature during the 2008,” Monni calculates, “from around hot Italian summer. All in all, this leads 2,500 tons to about 905 tons.” They are to excellent working conditions for the labproduced when the natural gas is burned oratory team, which consequently can to generate electricity. concentrate solely on developing new solutions for its customers. The plant’s environmentally friendly production for its energy needs is just one way of protecting the climate. Highly efficient and intelligent usage of energy is 38 Sustainability Report 2015 Facts on Environmental Protection groups. More than 85 percent (around 468,000 tons) are fossil raw materials. Renewable raw materials comprise Our environmental-protection measures are closely linked around 23,000 tons, and non-fossil and non-renewable with our understanding of sustainable and efficient manageraw materials around 58,500 tons. Additionally, we used ment. We work continuously on reducing our use of enersome 47,500 tons of water as a raw material. gy and resources as well the amount of waste produced by According to a survey at all manufacturing sites, a total our operations. of 86 percent fulfill the ISO 14001 standard (BYK : 83 perTo this end, we have set ourselves clear goals. By cent; ECKART : 88 percent; ELANTAS : 90 percent; ACTEGA : 2020, we seek to reduce our CO ² emissions by 30 percent 83 percent). compared to 2007. By 2017, we intend to cut our water consumption by five percent in comparison with 2012. To achieve these long-term goals, for each calendar year we Resource Consumption and Waste define key performance indicators that set our consumption in relation to gross added value. We gather the necessary The table of environmental performance indicators on the data continuously in our companies. opposite page shows the progress ALTANA made last year In recent years, our companies have made good progbased on the absolute figures and sets them in relation to ress in all areas relevant to the environment. We have been 2007, the first year they were compiled. They concern energy able to reduce the respective consumption Group-wide in consumption (divided up into electricity, gas, oil, and coal), accordance with our specifications. Since we acquired Rockwater consumption, and the amount of waste produced, dividwood’s rheology business in 2013, this development has ed up into hazardous and non-hazardous waste. no longer been uniform. The companies that belonged to The diagrams on page 40 illustrate the development ALTANA prior to 2013 continue to make very good progfrom 2007 to 2015 based on our key performance indicators. ress. They have palpably reduced their effects on the environThey show that we have reached our goal of reducing the ment, and in 2015 had values considerably lower than amount of hazardous waste we produce Group-wide. But the key performance indicators defined for that year. But the only the companies that belonged to ALTANA prior to Group as a whole cannot meet all of the objectives. 2013 reduced their CO ² emissions and water consumption as The reason for this are the production processes in the well as the amount of non-hazardous waste they produced. rheology additives operations we acquired in 2013. They Nevertheless, we expect to reach the environmental goals require more energy and produce more waste. On the other we set for 2020, because we will undertake the necessary hand, they have a lower impact on the environment in the optimizations in the coming years. Water consumption resupply chain, as they process non-fossil raw materials that, mains an exception. We will not be able to reduce our conespecially in the U.S., are extracted in the immediate vicinsumption of water to the extent originally sought by 2017. ity of our sites. In 2015, ALTANA manufactured around 512,000 tons of finished goods, for which it needed some 550,000 tons of raw materials. The raw materials are divided into three Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 39 Environmental data ALTANA 2007 – 2015 2007 2014 2015 in € million Production of finished goods (t) 350,797 504,927 511,632 Natural gas (MWh) 169,035 404,130 418,464 Oil 39,588 17,731 10,741 Coal 0 0 0 Power consumption (purchased) (MWh) 198,416 258,144 251,360 Drinking water (m³) 737,126 1,368,130 1,472,924 Ground / surface water (m³) 419,805 1,181,952 1,014,098 CO emissions (t) ² total 146,131 219,165 210,858 internal (Scope 1) ¹ 47,084 91,487 93,006 external (Scope 2) ² 99,046 127,679 117,852 CSB ³ (t) direct 4 0 12.4 13.7 indirect 5 0 22.1 11.1 Hazardous waste (t) total 17,988 18,712 18,571 recycling 3,248 3,597 3,418 thermal utilization 8,260 10,718 9,700 disposal 6,480 4,397 5,453 Non-hazardous waste (t) total 8,717 9,303 10,418 recycling 2,934 3,929 4,324 thermal utilization 849 848 1,080 disposal 4,935 4,525 5,014 Inert waste (t) 0 7,728 6,559 Ozone 0 0 0 Locations near nature reserves 0 1 1 ¹ E missions from ALTANA’s own energy generation, e.g. for heat. ² Emissions from third parties due to purchased energy, e.g. electricity. ³ Chemical oxygen demand: pollution of wastewater with organic chemicals. 4 Discharge in rivers, lakes, etc. after purification. 5 Discharge in the public sewage system and the corresponding treatment plants. 40 Sustainability Report 2015 Drinking water (without water as raw material) CO energy total ² per gross value added per gross value added in l / € in kg / € Target for 2015: 1.02 Target for 2015: 0.25 2015 ¹ 0.71 2015 ¹ 0.21 2015 ² 1.87 2015 ² 0.27 2014 ¹ 0.78 2014 ¹ 0.23 2014 ² 1.85 2014 ² 0.30 2013 0.89 2013 0.23 2007 1.53 2007 0.30 ¹D  ata excluding the companies acquired in 2013. ¹D  ata excluding the companies acquired in 2013. ² D  ata including the companies acquired in 2013. ² Data including the companies acquired in 2013. Hazardous waste total per gross value added Non-hazardous waste total per gross value added in g / € in g / € Target for 2015: 30.80 Target for 2015: 11.86 2015 ¹ 23.57 2015 ¹ 9.12 2014 ¹ 25.32 2015 ² 13.22 2013 29.32 2014 ¹ 7.94 2007 37.33 2014 ² 12.59 ¹D ata including the companies acquired in 2013. 2013 9.81 2007 18.09 ¹D  ata excluding the companies acquired in 2013. ² Data including the companies acquired in 2013. Hazardous waste disposal per gross value added Non-hazardous waste disposal per gross value added in g / € in g / € Target for 2015: 8.29 Target for 2015: 5.44 2015 ¹ 6.92 2015 ¹ 3.13 2014 ¹ 5.95 2015 ² 6.36 2013 7.91 2014 ¹ 3.14 2007 13.45 2014 ² 6.12 ¹D ata including the companies acquired in 2013. 2013 3.40 2007 10.24 ¹D  ata excluding the companies acquired in 2013. ² Data including the companies acquired in 2013. Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 41 Protecting the Climate with the Help of Energy showed that the Kempen and Wesel-Emelsum sites would Generation both be particularly suitable to achieve this goal. With a combination of photovoltaics and wind energy, around 3,500 Our companies work continuously on reducing their enerand 5,500 tons of CO ² could be saved, respectively. gy consumption, for this cuts costs as well as CO ² emissions. Combined heat and power (CHP) is the focus of our efforts to modernize our plants for energy generation because Investments for Climate Protection it is especially efficient. In 2015, we not only installed a CHP unit at our site in Ascoli, Italy, but also undertook correSite-related integrated optimization programs can bundle sponding modernizations in Germany and pushed ahead measures and investments that reduce energy consumption planning for further such units. Three CHP plants are in opin the long run and thus help protect the climate. Good eration Group-wide (Ascoli and Hartenstein). examples are ECKART ’s sustainability program at its HartenIn December of the year under review, ECKART began stein and Wackersdorf sites, and the energy management operating two gas-powered CHP units, each with an elecprojects of ELANTAS Europe at its Hamburg site and ACTEGA trical performance of 499 kilowatts (kW), at its Hartenstein DS at its site in Bremen. site. The volume of energy generated by the two units ECKART ’s sustainability program, which runs over several amounts to 7.5 gigawatt hours a year. As a result, the site can years, contains around 50 improvement measures. Among reduce its CO ² emissions by 1,100 tons a year. ECKART them are a number of energy-related improvements, ranging uses the waste heat of the generators for three different tasks. from switching to LED technology for factory lighting to Nearly half serves as a heat source for distillation. The other optimization of manufacturing plants, for example, the mills half is used to heat buildings in the winter and for an absorpand screen washing units, as well as batch management tion cooler in the summer. and distillation. At its Kempen site, BYK has largely completed its Thanks to the measures implemented in 2015, the complans for building a new energy supply system. A gas-powpany reduced its energy consumption by 2,700 megawatts. ered cogeneration unit will not only supply power for the That represents savings of 1,100 tons of CO ² emissions. With site (performance: 50 kW). The company will also use the rethis development, the company has reached its goals in sulting waste heat generated (performance: 100 kW) for this area. heating buildings and for generating process heat. In addiAs a result of its ISO 50001 certification, at its Hamburg tion, the energy center will contain new compressed air site ELANTAS developed a concept for energy optimization systems that obtain part of the power from the cogenerathat consists of various technical measures. Apart from the tion unit. The center is slated for completion by the end conversion to LED technology and the installation of moof 2016. tion sensors for the lighting, a number of measures were Independently of these developments, BYK commisimplemented in production plants. Among other things, sioned a feasibility study to examine how else the company the pump used to pump heat-transfer oil into the production can harness renewable energies at all four of its German plants now operates intermittently. In addition, the preslocations to help further reduce CO ² emissions. The results sure in the compressed air systems was reduced. 42 Sustainability Report 2015 An employee campaign to save energy rounds out the cars. In the last few years, we have continuously reduced the package of measures. With it, the company explains to staff CO ² limit for the additional funding. While in 2007 the under which conditions motors and pumps become enlimit was 150 grams of CO² per kilometer, in 2015 it was ergy gobblers and encourages the employees to save energy. only 125 grams per kilometer. In 2015, technical optimizations alone reduced CO ² Furthermore, we offer employees who opt for electric emissions by 640 tons a year. With investments of around cars financial assistance. As a result, this fleet is also growing 75,000 euros, a total of 190,000 euros are saved each year. slowly but surely. At ACTEGA DS , ISO 50001 certification also forms the basis for the energy improvements that the company is making over several years until 2017. With the measures Further Emissions implemented in 2015 – including the optimization of cooling towers and pumps as well as compressors – the company In line with our aim of keeping the environmental effects of reduced energy consumption by two percent compared to our production processes as low as possible, we make an the previous year and thus achieved the goal it set itself. effort to reduce further emissions. At its U.S. site in PainesIndividual measures can also make a significant conville, ECKART optimized the atomizer the company uses tribution to climate protection. This is evidenced by the optito grind copper and copper alloys for pigment manufacture. mization measure ECKART implemented at its U.S. site in The aim of the optimization was to reduce energy conSchererville. The new thermal post-combustion (TPC) of volsumption, on the one hand, and to cut dust emissions in the atile organic substances (VOC) not only uses less primary air, on the other. For this purpose, a special filter is now energy, but also can reduce CO ² emissions by around 4,000 used that catches the copper dust and thus prevents it from tons a year. getting into the nearby Grand River when it rains. With this filter, around 1,800 lbs (816 kg) of copper dust a year can be disposed of properly. Vehicle Fleet Supports Climate Goals In Deventer in the Netherlands, BYK -Cera took measures to reduce VOC emissions. The company equipped the Company vehicles are the third possibility of reducing the reactors and containers in which solvent-aided production Group’s emissions. About 270 ALTANA Group employees in is carried out with special condensers. The latter have water Germany are entitled to a company car. They can choose coolers that ensure that the solvent vapors become liqa leased vehicle in keeping with their function whose perforuid. Thus, they can flow back into the containers and reactors. mance is defined not only by the amount of horsepower, 45 percent of all manufacturing sites have a wastebut also by an upper limit for CO ² emissions. gas treatment facility. The figures for the divisions are as folTo reduce the emissions of our fleet, since 2007 we lows: BYK: 67 percent, ECKART: 50 percent, ELANTAS: have rewarded employees opting for lower motorization by 60 percent, ACTEGA: 8 percent. paying them an additional monthly contribution. Many employees take advantage of this offer and use the financial assistance to purchase better special accessories for their Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 43 Environmental Protection When Using Hazardous Substances Sulfuric acid is needed for additives production at BYK ’s Widnes site in Great Britain, and the company stores it in special tanks. In the interest of environmental protection, in 2015 the company invested in a new facility whose concept was agreed on with the authorities. The new tanks are surrounded by a wall covered with an acid-resistant coating. This prevents environmental damage if acid ran out of the tank despite all the safety measures taken. Further advantages: Special pumps ensure there is less waste air when the tanks are filled, and automated unloading makes operation safer. 44 Sustainability Report 2015 Human Resources Our employees are our most important resource. Therefore, ALTANA promotes their professional development and prepares them for positions of leadership. We put particular emphasis on recruitment of young talent, specialists, and managers. With special offers, including the Social Week for trainees at ECKART , we strengthen our employees’ social skills. 47 CONSTANT YET DIFFERENT 50 Our Employees: ALTANA ’s Most Important Capital 50 Regular Dialog for Assessing Performance 50 Sustainability Campaign 50 Recruitment Harnesses Storytelling 51 Human Resources Development Programs 51 Women in Leadership Positions 52 Vocational Training at ALTANA 52 Support for Young Families 52 Awards Human Resources 47 C O N S TA N T YET DIFFERENT The world is in flux, which impacts the working world. Thus, a good education provides more than just expertise. It strengthens the social skills of young people and hence their ability to constantly master different situations. ECKART offers trainees the opportunity to get a taste of a completely different kind of work environment during a so-called Social Week. Franziska Bertl spent this week at a daycare center and learned one thing above all: success hinges on interaction. 48 Human Resources SOCIAL SKILLS CAN BE LEARNED AND DEVELOPED FURTHER THROUGHOUT ONE’S LIFE. ECKART CONVEYS THIS ATTITUDE TO TRAINEES, AMONG OTHER THINGS, WITH THE SOCIAL WEEK. Learning from Children disputes and dried tears. “All in all, the Spending five days at a daycare center Social Week was an experience I wouldn’t rather than in an office means being conwant to have missed,” says the 21-yearfronted with pure energy in the form of old. “I learned things that I can pass on at 60 different personalities aged two to ten, work.” including children with a migration background. Some posed great challenges to Expertise Is Not the Only Thing That the trainees, while others simply sought Counts affection; some were talkative, while othThat is exactly what this offer is about, ers were reserved. says Michael Pöhringer, the training manager at ECKART . “The young people Despite having different character traits, at should improve their social skills and besome point all of the children learn a litcome aware of how important this abiltle more about the world, things that are ity is, alongside expertise, for advancing a matter of course for adults. “That was their careers and for everyday life,” says the nicest thing during those turbulent the training manager. days,” says Franziska Bertl. “Working with children, you can experience how they That’s why the company offers all trainees conquer the world step by step.” the opportunity to voluntarily spend a week in a different work environment. In The prospective industrial clerk helped addition to two daycare centers, a resthe kids put things together and supervised cue service, a retirement home, a facility for their homework. She fed the youngest the disabled, and a farm have expressed ones and oversaw ball games, answered their willingness to cooperate with the pigquestions and sang songs. She settled ment manufacturer. Human Resources 49 Reflecting Experiences Franziska Bertl was one of the first trainees The Social Week is accompanied by a preto take advantage of ECKART ’s unusual How unusual! That was Franziska Bertl’s first thought when she found out about the offer of the Social Week. She liminary and a follow-up talk that educational offer, and her example caught gathered many new impressions and experiences during her ECKART trainer Julia Müller holds with the on. The company’s offer has been exforay into an unknown work environment. young adults focusing on social skills. tremely well received by the young womThe soon-to-be industrial clerk’s most important realiza“In the preliminary talks, we clarify the skill en and men, observes training manager tion: the Social Week made another important contribution to her ability to cope with change. targets that the trainees associate with Pöhringer. Almost all of them want to take their stay at the location in question,” expart. The concept also met with a posiplains the trainer. “In the follow-up talks, tive response in the rest of the company. we reflect on all of the experience gained “The colleagues are happy when the and analyze how it can be transferred trainees bring their newly acquired skills to work life.” into the teams.” In the case of Franziska Bertl, the main goal was to be able to cope with conflict. “How do you de-escalate conflicts?” Another topic was nonverbal communi­ cation. “How do you communicate with children who neither speak nor understand German?” For both situations, the trainee says, she found successful strategies. “Overall, the week brought it home to me again how important it is to offer compromises when you want to settle a dispute,” she says. 50 Sustainability Report 2015 Our Employees: ALTANA ’s Most Important improve our processes and products. The campaign, supportCapital ed by posters, Intranet contributions, and our staff magazine “Faces,” ran throughout the year and was divided up Around 6,000 women and men work for ALTANA ’s companies into three waves devoted to ecology, economy, and sociaround the world. Owing to their above-average qualifiety, respectively. cations and their commitment, they are our most important In Germany alone, the employees made around 700 capital as a technology company. Our employees’ working suggestions. Their ideas for improvement focused, for examrelationships with ALTANA are based on four central values: ple, on how their respective company can save resources openness, trust, empowerment to act, and appreciation. and energy, as well as on health and safety. We offer our staff further training possibilities, promote their professional development in a targeted way, and support their health by means of special preventative measures. Recruitment Harnesses Storytelling All of this helps make us a more attractive employer. On the basis of the Group’s new image campaign in 2015, a new personnel advertising campaign was developed in the Regular Dialog for Assessing Performance year under review. It is also based on the “plus” concept. In the campaign, we show employees at different sites and Regular staff appraisals are an integral part of our employees’ in different capacities. The goal is to convey our group’s positive working relationship with ALTANA . We carry out a unique competence and great dedication in a vivid way. All so-called “progress dialog” with each employee individually of our companies worldwide can use the campaign for at least once a year. It serves to assess the employee’s perrecruitment, for example in job ads. formance and constitutes the basis for individual target agreeIn Germany, we additionally use motifs from the camments that we reach with our employees every year. paign for communication directed to university graduates and Not all of our employees’ contracts stipulate that the tarjunior staff. Prior to recruitment fairs and events staged by get agreements have an effect on compensation. If they the Young Chemists Forum (JCF) , we place ads selectively to do, we supplement the target agreement dialog with a tarcommunicate our attractiveness as an employer. get achievement dialog. We carry out the latter talks also We used the launch of our new advertising campaign at least once a year. The three dialogs together constitute the to make our online job portal and our diverse social media ALTANA compass dialog. activities even more target group specific and user friendly. We received important impetus from a project to which we invited media management and advertising psychology stuSustainability Campaign dents from Pforzheim University. The aim of the project was to gear our Internet communication to the behavior and us“Big ideas wanted for our small planet” was the motto of age habits of a generation whose members are dubbed “digour internal sustainability campaign in 2015 within the ital natives.” As a result, we can now shed more light on framework of our employee suggestion system. All staff memthe work spheres of individual employees by means of words, bers worldwide were asked to develop ideas to further images, and sounds, in keeping with Internet “storytelling.” Management Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 51 Human Resources Development Programs tions in Germany. This initiative includes our mentoring program for women whose pilot phase began at our Wesel ALTANA offers employees Group-wide various programs that site in the year under review. Seven tandems, each consisting promote their personal and professional developments. of a mentee and a mentor, work in one-on-one meetings They include regional and local development programs (DP) continually for a period of 18 months on advancing the indiconsisting of several modules lasting a total of 18 months. vidual personal skills of the mentees. In 2015, “DP Americas” was launched at our U.S. site in Members of ALTANA ’s and BYK ‘s management, includWallingford. There were 14 participants. “DP Europe,” with ing two managing directors, are available as sparring parteleven participants from various European companies, had ners. Once the pilot phase is finished, we will use the evaluabegun a year previously. At its Hartenstein site, ECKART tion of the project to decide how to expand the mentoring offered employees without managerial responsibilities the program at other Group sites in 2016. We also initiated a opportunity to take part in the local EDP program for the forum enabling women managers and a female member second time. of the Supervisory Board to exchange views. Furthermore, The international Management Development Program various informal platforms were created to intensify dialog is directed to managers. In the summer of 2015, 13 staff on this issue. Among them are regular meetings of women members successfully completed this 18-month program. We in management positions that focus on strengthening the developed the Cross Divisional Development Program network, and workshops for further development of family(CDDP) especially for up-and-coming professionals, includfriendly employment models intended to contribute to the ing trainees. The young talents have the opportunity to continual improvement of the general working conditions heighten their expertise in a number of different companies at ALTANA . or the holding company, for example in the Research or ALTANA ’s mediumto long-term goal is to increase the Human Resources department. share of women in management positions to 30 percent. That roughly corresponds to the percentage of women in the entire workforce. Women in Leadership Positions In accordance with the requirements of the Law on Equal Participation of Women and Men in Leadership Positions Promoting women in management positions was a special in the Private and Public Sector that went into effect in April focus in the 2015 fiscal year. By intensifying measures that 2015, ALTANA specified target figures for the share of wom­ had been introduced in the past, and with new instruments, en in its Supervisory and Management Boards as well as the we further anchored the promotion of gender diversity in two management levels below these boards. Target figures our human-resources management. One focus was promotwere also set down for the company’s German subsidiaries ing women in human-resources development. The proporthat are subject to codetermination. Detailed information tion of women in ALTANA ’s various national and international is provided in ALTANA ’s Annual Report and on our website. management development programs was increased sig­ We do not calculate the ratio of women in our foreign nificantly in recent years. In addition, our further education companies due to the different hierarchical and contract strucprogram includes special offers for women. ­tures. However, we set our companies business-related With the initiative LEADING WOMEN @ALTANA , we aim targets that serve to increase the number of women in disto increase the number of women in management posiciplinary management positions. 52 Sustainability Report 2015 Vocational Training at ALTANA couples who both work a monthly allowance for afternoon care of elementary school children amounting to 50 In the year under review, around 140 young women and euros. This also applies during the employee’s probationmen completed training at an ALTANA company in Germany. ary period, in cases of temporary employment contracts, and As a result, our training ratio is 4.3 percent. A total of 17 when wages are paid on sick leave. In 2015, 28 employindustrial, commercial, and IT professions can be chosen from. ees took advantage of the offer. During this period, the young people receive support and guidance at the site from trainers for the respective profession, as well as from deputy trainers in the respective deAwards partments. To ensure that the training is at the same high quality ALTANA ’s recruitment achieved an outstanding result in throughout the Group, we support trainers and deputy the Germany-wide Career’s Best Recruiters employer study. trainers in their activities. In the year under review, for examWe not only finished in first place in the chemical indusple, we invited the trainers to a meeting in Wesel, where try, but also in the employer ranking, receiving 89 out of 100 they could exchange thoughts about current and future chalpoints. lenges and learn from one another. The topics discussed In the study, Koblenz University of Applied Sciences by the 23 participants included best-practice occupationalfor Human Resources and Education examined the recruitsafety models and how to deal with difficult situations. ment qualities of 500 renowned employers in Germany. For their part, the deputy trainers had the opportunity Among other things, scientists analyzed the companies’ job to complete external further training. The workshop in ads as well as the online activities on the website and in which the eleven deputy trainers from several companies took the social media. In addition, they evaluated the feedback the part conveyed, for instance, useful information on didactic applicants received with the help of test applications. methods. In the annual study conducted by the market research Like the works council, the trainees at our German company Potentialpark, we improved considerably. In the companies choose representatives. In 2015, nine Group-wide Potentialpark OTaC ranking in 2015, ALTANA finished in 16th youth training representatives met for the first time. At place (previous year: 27th place). In this ranking, more the meeting, they exchanged ideas about training at ALTANA than a thousand students and university graduates in Gerand talked with representatives of the Human Resources many evaluated the online activities of their employer. department. In 2016, the trainees will continue to engage in In the U.S. , our company ELANTAS PDG was voted the exchange. top employer in the St. Louis area for the third time. Every year, the daily newspaper St. Louis Post-Dispatch invites employees of the region’s 100 largest companies to take part Support for Young Families in the competition. A key evaluation criterion, apart from career possibilities and the performance of the company It is important for our staff to reconcile their profession with as an employer, is the businesses’ social commitment in the their family in order to perform well and attain satisfacregion. tion. Therefore, in Germany, ECKART offers single parents and Social Commitment As a good corporate citizen, ALTANA supports and sponsors social projects focusing on education, science, and research. To strengthen our local environments and to be a good neighbor, we especially promote initiatives near our sites in Germany and abroad. 55 BASIC YET PASSIONATE 58 Our Social Commitment 58 “Educational Coaching” of Elementary School Children 58 House of Junior Researchers 58 “Jugend gründet” (Youth Startups) Competition 59 Training of Sustainability Ambassadors 59 Educational Projects Outside of Germany 59 Our Commitment to Refugees 60 Our Volunteer Commitment Social Commitment 55 B A S I C YET PASSIONATE As a specialty chemicals company, we engage in dialog with all kinds of social groups, for example with customers, neighbors, schoolchildren, and students. Exchanging ideas with the young generation is particularly close to our heart. That’s why we offer young people many opportunities to get to know our company and our work. At BYK , so-called school ambassadors give children and adolescents insight into the world of additives – a task that basically requires one thing: passion. 56 Social Commitment CHEMISTRY, PRACTICAL AND COMPREHENSIBLE. IN HANDS-ON EXPERIMENTS, THE BYK SCHOOL AMBASSADORS SHOW WHAT CHEMICAL PRODUCTS CAN DO IN DAY-TO-DAY LIFE. Specialty Chemistry – Often Unknown top experiments, laboratory visits, and Chemistry accompanies us in life and makes a tour of BYK ’s manufacturing facilities. our daily routines more pleasant. Easy“I never cease to be amazed at how disto-grip toothbrushes and easy-to-open ciplined, alert, and interested the students yogurt containers, shiny car paint, nonare,” says Forstmann. The best proof: slip flooring, and energy-efficient motors. they keep their smartphones in their pockAll of these objects contain ALTANA ets except during the lunch break. products – additives, effect pigments, spe­ cialty coatings, or insulating materials. Recruitment Campaigns There are several reasons for BYK ’s involveBut who knows this? Hardly anyone. The ment. First, the company wants to give school ambassadors are there to change young people practical insight into the imthis situation. This is the name BYK gave to portance of the chemical industry and a group of nine dedicated staff memthe function of additives, thus kindling their bers who, apart from their tasks in the comenthusiasm for the natural sciences. Secpany, regularly stage information events ond, the events serve as recruitment camat schools and kindergartens. paigns. “I often run into young people I met as a school ambassador,” says ForstSix Education Partners mann. “Some are initially only interns, Jörg Forstmann is one of them. Twice a while others immediately decide to embark year, he spends a day with 9thand 11thon a career at BYK .” graders at Euregio High School in Bocholt. The school is one of six education The fact that they return is due not least to partners of the additives manufacturer. Forstmann’s personal commitment and On the agenda are uncomplicated tablehis passion for chemistry. “I’m a practical Social Commitment 57 person,” says the school ambassador. application exactly – that is the art of spe“I want to know how a material works and cialty chemistry. Jörg Forstmann worked in various industries before coming to BYK , including pyrotechnics and aircraft construction. why.” His passion spurs him on during The most important insight he has gained during his multihis daily work in BYK ’s plastics laboratory. The school ambassador has observed faceted career: being passionate about a task is the key to success. His students understand this intuitively, without And it transfers to his listeners, for exthat such simple experiments usually sufbig words. ample during a tabletop experiment on visfice to arouse the young people’s intercosity. Under his guidance, students in est. At the very least, they provide food for small groups learn how to thicken water thought and provoke intense discussion. with a rheology agent that contains a “Such exchange is beneficial for the comBYK additive. pany as a whole,” Forstmann says, summing up. “Only in this way can we learn To the students’ great surprise, the mixwhat moves the young generation.” ture becomes solid. When shaken, it becomes liquid briefly and then solid again. From this perspective, these school days The young people look on in amazealso serve a third purpose. The exchange ment. “Those are the moments in which with young people gives us an impreskey knowledge is acquired,” says the sion of how consumers change – and along school ambassador. And he uses this knowl­ with them the markets of the future. edge for the next learning step. Forstmann explains to the students that this behavior is an important prerequisite for being able to process paints or coatings well. This leads to a second piece of knowledge: every material has to fit the 58 Sustainability Report 2015 Our Social Commitment House of Junior Researchers We are convinced that the natural sciences, informatics, mathFor many years now, we have participated as a regional ematics, and technology are important drivers of social network partner in the promotion of a new generation of progress. We seek to arouse the enthusiasm of young people, scientists in cooperation with the Germany-wide foundain particular, for these disciplines. That’s why supporting tion House of Junior Researchers. Our school ambassadors educational projects is at the center of our involvement as a support special project weeks at two elementary schools good corporate citizen. In the interest of having a lasting in Wesel and at the German Red Cross (DRK) daycare center impact, we promote most projects over a period of several Abenteuerland, respectively. The project weeks serve to years, often in the immediate vicinity of our sites. kindle the children’s interest in scientific phenomena and to train their problem-solving skills. In addition, we traditionally invite the little researchers “Educational Coaching” of Elementary School along with their parents, teachers, and educators to our Children group headquarters once a year. At our premises, they can present their experiments and research results from the The focus of our so-called “educational coaching” program is project weeks in the course of an afternoon. In the year un18 elementary school children from Wesel. Some of them der review, their experiments focused on the topics of air, have a migration background, while others live in socially adwater, and communications technology. In May 2015, 300 verse conditions. The aim of the project is to promote the children took up this invitation with great enthusiasm. individual potential of girls and boys in order to improve their educational opportunities in the long run. Since 2014, ALTANA has enabled educational coach“Jugend gründet” (Youth Startups) Competition ing in conjunction with the nonprofit Klausenhof Academy and the Elementary School GGS Innenstadt in Wesel. For A windshield that tints automatically when the sun is low a period of three years, we finance the personnel and mateoffers optimal protection against accidents. With this business rial costs for a socio-educational expert, who trains the idea, Photocromic GmbH, a “company” established by a volunteer mentors and coordinates their activities. The mengroup of high-school students from Baden-Württemberg, won tors personally supervise the elementary school kids. They the special prize in chemistry, which was first offered by accompany the children when they engage in extracurricular ALTANA in 2014, in the nationwide “Jugend gründet” (Youth activities that promote their personalities, including visits Startups) competition. As a reward, the five young people to the library, excursions to the countryside, and music class. and their chemistry teacher could travel for five days along Apart from these individualized activities, in 2015 we the East Coast of the U.S. During their travels, they visited invited all of the children and their mentors to a research afterBYK USA in Wallingford, one of the ALTANA Group’s largest noon in our company. Under the guidance of application research and production sites. technologists, they playfully conducted technical experiments The Steinbeis Innovation Center in Pforzheim conceives at BYK and simulated a volcanic eruption, among other and organizes the competition, which in the year under things. review received the “Werkstatt N” seal of approval for “parManagement Products Safety Environment Human Resources Social Commitment 59 ticularly sustainable behaviour” (“N” stands for “Nachto talented young people who cannot afford to pay for haltigkeit,” the German word for sustainability). The seal their studies. Previously, the association had solely promoted is conferred by the German Council for Sustainable Devel­ students in Brazil. Since 2015, it has also been active in opment called into being by the German Chancellor Angela Kenya and Malawi. Merkel. In the year under review, ALTANA contributed a total of 8,000 euros for scholarships for five students, three in Brazil and one in Kenya and Malawi, respectively. In exchange, Training of Sustainability Ambassadors the scholarship recipients agreed to become involved in a social project. As in the previous year, in 2015 we again enabled a twoAfter the devastating earthquake in Nepal in April 2015, member team to travel to Antarctica within the framework of ALTANA , in cooperation with Germany’s Relief Coalition the 2041 project launched by the British polar researcher “Aktion Deutschland Hilft,” asked employees to make doRobert Swan. This time, the team consisted of an employee nations. More than 25,000 euros were collected, which of our site in Zhuhai, China, and a high-school teacher the Group doubled. With this amount, we were able to help from Wesel. the particularly hard-hit and difficult-to-reach Himalayan During the expedition, they acquired first-hand knowlcommunity of Ghyangphedi quickly and unbureaucratically. edge about the fragile eco system of Antarctica and its Among other things, the money was used to refursignificance for global climate and environmental protection. bish two schools and to build new classrooms. In addition, This knowledge enables them to subsequently serve as the schools received new rainwater collection systems. In sustainability ambassadors and give the people in their prospecial training sessions, the students learned the essentials fessional environment suggestions for responsible, sustainabout hygiene and health. able action in everyday life. The internal initiatives that arose from this are presented in the Management chapter of this report on page 11. Our Commitment to Refugees Externally, our sustainability ambassadors are primarily involved at schools. Our staff member who traveled to AntVia “Aktion Deutschland Hilft,” we donated 250,000 euros arctica in 2014 initiated a painting competition for stuto support the refugee work of the Malteser Werke. dents at our Collecchio site in Italy devoted to the topic “Deutschunterricht von Anfang an” (German Language of climate protection. In Wesel, the high-school teacher Lessons from the Very Beginning), a unique pilot project, is launched a work group called “Climate Detectives” at her directed to around 100,000 refugees in ten reception facilischool in 2015 and developed teaching material on the ties operated by the Malteser Werke in Germany. With our subject of upcycling. donation, we finance the hiring of qualified German teachers at six facilities in North Rhine-Westphalia. Furthermore, the money is being used to equip classrooms, to print teachEducational Projects Outside of Germany ing materials, and for an academic evaluation of the entire project. For several years, we have supported the nonprofit association Passo Fundo e.V., which grants university scholarships 60 Sustainability Report 2015 Our Volunteer Commitment Our two American ACTEGA companies that since January 1, 2016, have formed the organizational unit ACTEGA North America, used their first joint management meeting in Williamsburg, Virginia, in the spring of 2015 to work for a good cause. During a team-building measure, the participants built play houses for the local children’s protection program Child Development Resources, which according to ACTEGA North America every year provides some 1,000 families with counseling and care services. At our St. Louis site, employees of our company ELANTAS PDG have continuously supported various social projects in the region for years. Among other things, they donate food, clothing, and money to nonprofit organizations every month, for example the aid organization United Way Greater St. Louis. In Germany, ECKART again refrained from giving Christmas presents to customers and business partners in 2015. The pigment manufacturer donated the 20,000 euros that were saved to the regional aid organization “Lebenshilfe im Nürnberger Land” and the international organization Save the Children. 62 Highlights and Lowlights 64 Programs / Goals 66 Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) 62 Sustainability Report 2015 Highlights and Lowlights Highlights – A LTANA / BYK in Wesel had its supplier performance audited by the international EcoVadis group and received the silver rating. –A  LTANA received the bronze medal of the German Stevie Awards in the category “Company of the Year – Other industries.” – In the Germany-wide employer study Career’s Best Recruiters, ALTANA finished in first place in the general rating and in first place in the chemical industry. – E LANTAS PDG was voted the top employer in the St. Louis region by the readers of a regional newspaper for the third time. –A  LTANA made further progress in climate protection. The Group almost reached the CO ² reduction target it set itself for 2015 despite acquisitions of companies with energy-intensive production processes. – A LTANA almost reached the occupational safety targets it set itself. Three companies have had no work-related accidents for more than six years: BYK Tongling, ECKART Zhuhai, and ELANTAS Pimpri. ECKART in Painesville, Pori, and Wackersdorf, ACTEGA Foshan, and ACTEGA Rhenacoat have not had any accidents for more than three years. – With the ProvaMed brand, ACTEGA advanced its portfolio of plasticizer-free thermoplastic elastomers for medical and cosmetics packaging. – E LANTAS Europe is now offering its customers a benzopinacol product as an alternative to peroxide. The material initiates curing of coatings. – As a replacement for the solvent N-Methylpyrrolidone (NMP) , which is toxic to reproduction, BYK has used amide esters and amide ethers in a group of rheology additives since 2015. The development was awarded the in-house BYK Advance innovation prize. – E LANTAS Europe gained OHSAS 18001 certification at all three of its Italian sites. – B YK in Wesel was the first Group company to achieve Operational Health Management certification (OHM) , receiving the “Excellent” seal. – E LANTAS Beck India offers its employees in production a health check every six months; all other employees can undergo the examination once a year. – Within the framework of its Vital Program, BYK -Cera enables employees at both of its sites to undergo group and individual training with an ergotherapist. – In the year under review, ALTANA began operating three environmentally friendly CHP plants, at its Ascoli and Hartenstein sites. – E CKART ’s new thermal afterburning facility at its U.S. site in Schererville reduces CO ² emissions by 4,000 tons a year. Highlights and Lowlights 63 Lowlights – Based on the definition of the German Chemical Industry Association (VCI) , ALTANA had 17 significant incidents in 2015, including two fires, a deflagration, and 14 cases where chemicals were released. Five employees sustained injuries. In eleven cases, no harm was done to people or the environment because the substances were caught in sumps or tanks installed specifically for such incidents (“secondary containment”). – Due to an acquisition in 2013, the company’s water consumption is well above the forecast in relation to gross value added. – In the Netherlands, ALTANA was fined 50,000 euros. The reason was an incident in 2011. 64 Sustainability Report 2015 Programs / Goals Core management tools for increasing performance include the measurement of performance indicators, the definition of goals, the development and implementation of action plans, and the review of goal attainment. The latter is part of the target evaluation that determines the variable income components of executive managers. The list below shows our goals for performance indicators and important measures. The individual ALTANA companies also have detailed action plans in the context of their respective management systems. Management Certification of additional non-certified companies in accordance with ISO 14001 or similar standards Ongoing Implementation of an energy management sytem in accordance with ISO 50001 at all manufacturing sites in Germany. End of 2016 Open House event at all German companies Sept. 2018 Safety summaries for the substances to be registered in 2018 to support the Global Product Strategy End of 2018 Continued communication of ALTANA requirements for cooperation with suppliers in the context of supplier visits and audits (Global Compact) Ongoing Further development of the performance indicator system based on GRI Ongoing Evaluation of ALTANA’s sustainability performance by an external rating company in 2015 Need for action and implementation of measures derived from the evaluation of the sustainability performance Ongoing Introduction and establishment of expert platforms in 2015 Products Expanded development of water-based coatings, especially at ACTEGA Ongoing Use of renewable raw materials (without quantification) Ongoing Additional lifecycle assessments (LCA) Ongoing Development of further additives and pigments for waterborne coatings Ongoing Development of further VOC-reduced and / or water-based coatings Ongoing Development of products for resource efficiency Ongoing Development of products for energy efficiency Ongoing Development of additional products with FoodSafe seal Ongoing Safety WAI 1 below 3 or WAI 2 below 2.1 occupational accidents per million working hours End of 2016 WAI 3 below 50 lost work days per million working hours End of 2016 Reduction of significant incidents; no significant incidents in the long run Ongoing Safety improvement measures from best practice examples End of 2016 Programs / Goals 65 Environment Reduction of specific environmental impact (in terms of gross value added): CO emissions 30 % 2007 – 2020 ² Water; worldwide water management replaces previous targets End of 2016 Hazardous waste -5% 2012 – 2017 Non-hazardous waste -5% 2012 – 2017 Hazardous waste for disposal -5% 2012 – 2017 Non-hazardous waste for disposal -5% 2012 – 2017 Various measures to conserve water Ongoing Various measures to reduce waste Ongoing Various measures for energy efficiency and using renewable energies Ongoing Further expansion of cogeneration plant depending on feasibility Ongoing Renewable energies: feasibility studies and stronger use Ongoing Human Resources Increase in percentage of women managers Ongoing Sickness absence recording for preventive health care worldwide End of 2016 Additional measures to further establish new Guiding Principles Ongoing Compliance seminars Ongoing Audits on compliance-relevant topics around the world Ongoing Enhancement of the health management systems Ongoing Anonymous counseling for employees in Germany End of 2016 66 Sustainability Report 2015 Global Compact: Communication on Progress (COP) By participating in the U.N. initiative Global Compact, we commit to respecting human rights, creating socially compatible working conditions, promoting environmental protection, and fighting corruption. Principle Page Measure taken Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and 28 – 31, Health management, respect the protection of internationally 51 – 52 performance indicators, occupational safety, proclaimed human rights women in leadership positions Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit 11 – 14 Search for suppliers, supplier agreements, in human rights abuses audits, sustainability assessments Labor Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of 13 – 14, Responsible Care association and the effective recognition of 50 – 51 the right to collective bargaining GRI Index LA4 Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and 13 Compliance management system compulsory labor Principle 5 The abolition of child labor 13 – 14, Compliance management system, 48 – 52 support of education initiatives Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect 13 – 14, Fair treatment, compliance management of employment and occupation GRI Index HR4 system, training, surveys Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary 18 – 22, Sustainable product development, approach to environmental challenges 36 – 43 energy and environmental management system, goals Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater 10 – 22, Process optimizations, technical updates, environmental responsibility 36 – 43 programs and goals, performance indicators Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of 18 – 22 Alternatives to critical materials, environmentally friendly technologies product innovations Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in 13 – 14, Training, audits and performance indicators all its forms, including extortion and bribery GRI Index SO2, SO3 GRIContact Index (Excerpt) GRI Index The ALTANA Sustainability Report 2015 is geared to the Andrea Neumann Completely covered Partly covered Not covered G3 international guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative Head of Corporate Communications N = Notes Sustainability Report 2015 (GRI) . The short overview lists the respective status and Tel + 49 281 670 10900 C = Cover references for281 Fax + 49 the indicators 670 10999relevant to ALTANA . AR = ALTANA Annual Report 2015 press@altana.com Dr. Gerald Kirchner GRI standard disclosure Reference Status GRI standard disclosure Reference Status Head of Environment, Health and Safety Strategy 1. Tel + 49 281and analysis 670 10600 3.13 External assurance of the report N 1.1 Fax Preface of + 49 281 the CEO 670 10649 SR, p. 10 4. Governance, commitments, and 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, engagement Gerald.Kirchner@altana.com and opportunities 4.1 Governance structure SR, p.10; AR, 2. Organizational profile pp. 69 – 71 2.1 Name of the organization C 4.2 Independence of supervisory board N chairman 2.2 Primary brands, products and / or C; AR, pp. services 35 – 39 4.3 Supervisory board or independent AR, p. 8 members of the executive board 2.3 Divisions and operational structure C; AR, pp. 35 – 39 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders AR, p. 8 and employees to provide 2.4 Location of organization’s C recommendations or direction to headquarters the executive / supervisory board 2.5 Countries with major operations C; AR, pp. 4.5 Linkage between executive AR, pp. 44 – 45 compensation and company 144 – 146 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form C; AR, pp. performance 69 – 71 4.6 Mechanisms to ensure conflicts of AR, p. 71 2.7 Markets served AR, pp. 35 – 39 interest are avoided 2.8 Scale of the organization AR 4.7 Qualification of executive bodies in N 2.9 Significant changes during the SR, p. 10 sustainability issues Imprint reporting period 4.8 Guiding principles, company values SR, pp. 12 – 13 2.10 Awards received in the SR, p. 13 and codes of conduct reporting period 4.9 Procedures of the executive / N Publisher Design supervisory board level for overseeing 3. Report parameters ALTANA AG Heisters & Partner the organization’s sustainability 3.1 Reporting period C performance 3.2 Abelstr. 43 Büro C für Kommunikationsdesign, Mainz Date of most recent previous report 4.10 Process for evaluating the sustainability AR, pp. 9 – 11 3.3 46483 Wesel Reporting cycle C performance of the executive board 3.4 Germany Contact point for questions regarding Photography C 4.11 Implementation of the precautionary SR, pp. 10 – 11, Telthe+report 49 281 670 8 Robert Brembeck, Munich principle 22 – 23; N 3.5 Fax + 49for Process 281defining 670 -report 10999content N 4.12 Support for external initiatives SR, pp. 11, 3.6 Boundary of the report C 13 – 14 info@altana.com Printing 3.7 Limitations on the scope of the report N 4.13 Memberships in associations and SR, pp. 13 – 14 www.altana.com Eberl Print GmbH, Immenstadt interest groups 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, N outsourcing 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged SR, p. 14; N by the organization 3.9 Cover coated with TerraWet Matt CoatData measurement N 4.15 Stakeholder selection SR, p. 14; N ing G 9 / 83 Velvet 3.10 Re-statements Touch-060, of information inside provided N in earlier reports 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder SR, p. 14; N pages coated with TerraGreen Matt Coatengagement 3.11 Changes in the scope, boundary, or N ing G 5 / 75 matt based on renew4.17 Key topics of stakeholders C measurement methods applied able resources, both water-based coat3.12 GRI Content index C; N ings made by ACTEGA Terra / formulated with additives from BYK . GRI Index (Excerpt) GRI Index The ALTANA Sustainability Report 2015 is geared to the Completely covered Partly covered Not covered G3 international guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative N = Notes Sustainability Report 2015 (GRI) . The short overview lists the respective status and C = Cover references for the indicators relevant to ALTANA . AR = ALTANA Annual Report 2015 GRI standard disclosure Reference Status GRI standard disclosure Reference Status 1. Strategy and analysis 3.13 External assurance of the report N 1.1 Preface of the CEO SR, p. 10 4. Governance, commitments, and 1.2 Description of key impacts, risks, engagement and opportunities 4.1 Governance structure SR, p.10; AR, 2. Organizational profile pp. 69 – 71 2.1 Name of the organization C 4.2 Independence of supervisory board N chairman 2.2 Primary brands, products and / or C; AR, pp. services 35 – 39 4.3 Supervisory board or independent AR, p. 8 members of the executive board 2.3 Divisions and operational structure C; AR, pp. 35 – 39 4.4 Mechanisms for shareholders AR, p. 8 and employees to provide 2.4 Location of organization’s C recommendations or direction to headquarters the executive / supervisory board 2.5 Countries with major operations C; AR, pp. 4.5 Linkage between executive AR, pp. 44 – 45 compensation and company 144 – 146 2.6 Nature of ownership and legal form C; AR, pp. performance 69 – 71 4.6 Mechanisms to ensure conflicts of AR, p. 71 2.7 Markets served AR, pp. 35 – 39 interest are avoided 2.8 Scale of the organization AR 4.7 Qualification of executive bodies in N 2.9 Significant changes during the SR, p. 10 sustainability issues reporting period 4.8 Guiding principles, company values SR, pp. 12 – 13 2.10 Awards received in the SR, p. 13 and codes of conduct reporting period 4.9 Procedures of the executive / N 3. Report parameters supervisory board level for overseeing the organization’s sustainability 3.1 Reporting period C performance 3.2 Date of most recent previous report C 4.10 Process for evaluating the sustainability AR, pp. 9 – 11 3.3 Reporting cycle C performance of the executive board 3.4 Contact point for questions regarding C 4.11 Implementation of the precautionary SR, pp. 10 – 11, the report principle 22 – 23; N 3.5 Process for defining report content N 4.12 Support for external initiatives SR, pp. 11, 3.6 Boundary of the report C 13 – 14 3.7 Limitations on the scope of the report N 4.13 Memberships in associations and SR, pp. 13 – 14 interest groups 3.8 Joint ventures, subsidiaries, N outsourcing 4.14 List of stakeholder groups engaged SR, p. 14; N by the organization 3.9 Data measurement N 4.15 Stakeholder selection SR, p. 14; N 3.10 Re-statements of information provided N in earlier reports 4.16 Approaches to stakeholder SR, p. 14; N engagement 3.11 Changes in the scope, boundary, or N measurement methods applied 4.17 Key topics of stakeholders C 3.12 GRI Content index C; N GRI standard disclosure Reference Status GRI standard disclosure Reference Status 5. Management approach and LA7 Injuries, absenteeism, and SR, pp. 30 – 31 performance indicators work-related fatalities Economic LA8 Risk control and programs with SR, p. 33 EC Management approach AR, pp. 35 – 42, respect to serious diseases 70 – 71 LA13 Composition of senior management SR, pp. 53 – 54; EC1 Direct economic value generated and C; AR, pp. and employee structure (e.g. age / AR, p. 56 distributed 77 – 146 gender / culture) EC2 Financial implications of climate SR, p. 10 Human rights change HR Management approach N EC3 Benefit plan obligations AR, pp. Society 104 – 105, SO Management approach N 121 – 123 SO2 Percentage and total number of busiN EC4 Financial assistance received from AR, p. 94 ness units analyzed for risks related to government corruption Environmental SO3 Percentage of employees trained in SR, p. 13 EN Management approach N anti-corruption policies and proceEN1 SR, p. 40; N dures Materials used by weight or volume SO5 Public policy positions and participaSR, pp. 22 – 23 EN3 Direct energy consumption by primary SR, p. 41; N tion in public policy development and energy source lobbying EN4 Indirect energy consumption by SR, p. 41; N SO8 Fines and sanctions for non-compliSR, p. 13 primary energy source ance with laws and regulations EN5 Energy saved SR, pp. 43 – 44; N Product responsibility EN8 SR, p. 41; N PR Management approach N Total water withdrawal by source EN11 Use of land in protected areas SR, p. 41; N PR9 Significant fines for non-compliance SR, pp. 62 – 63; with laws and regulations concerning N EN16 Total direct and indirect greenhouse SR, p. 41; N the use of products and services gas emissions EN19 Emissions of ozone-depleting SR, p. 41; N substances by weight EN21 Water discharge by quality and SR, p. 41; N destination EN22 Waste by type and disposal method SR, pp. 41 – 42; Our explanations and comments on all of the GRI indicaN tors can be found in the notes to this sustainability EN23 Number and volume of significant SR, pp. 31 – 32 spills report. We provide this information on the Internet at EN28 Fines and sanctions for non-compliSR, p. 13 www.altana.com/gri-index. ance with environmental laws and regulations Labor practices and decent work LA Management approach N ALTANA AG Abelstr. 43 46483 Wesel, Germany Tel + 49 281 670 10900 Fax + 49 281 670 10999 www.altana.com
