Communications on Progress (COP) 2015 Danoffice Our story IT in brief 2 2 Danofﬁce IT provides professional and efﬁcient IT & IS turnkey solutions to International Organizations and businesses operating worldwide. With Danofﬁce IT one-stop-shopping platform which includes a large number of high quality brands, skilled certiﬁed personnel and added value services, we assist clients HQ and local country ofﬁces, anytime and anywhere. Danofﬁce IT elaborates on more than 19 years of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing IT & IS equipment to International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations and Business-to-Business partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having United Nations and World Bank as clients. Our 3 business units I T Solutions Danofﬁce IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, servers, storage, and networking to maintenance or staff training. Today Danofﬁce IT provides Danoffice IT was established in 1995 and provides IT solutions to International Organizations and businesses professional IT services and solutions to more than 300 organizations in over 163 countries. operating across border. We are active in +/165 countries worldwide. Mobile Data collection tools Our Vision is to “Improve the world through IT”. Technology is contributing to our happiness in many ways; communication, information, education, practicalities, less physical tasks and expand of lifetime. A report from We support 2012 our clients’ called ”Happy camp Planet” and community concludes management the degree of happinesswith is related to useRegistration Biometric Kits, Mobile of technology. survey solutions and hardware such as data centers, ﬁngerprint scanners and iris scanners. Our logo represents two hands embracing the entire World for a better future. Civil Drone Danoffice IT portfolio include all major IT brands and our certified personnel can assist our clients from HQ in Denmark or fromHuginn The Sky-Watch X1 civil our regional Unmanned offices Aerial System in USA, Switzerland (UAS) provides rapid aerial assessment, or Kenya. data and reports. It is the perfect tool for Search & Rescue activities. We elaborate on 21 years of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations and B2B partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having United Nations as client. Danoffice IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, servers, storage, Unmanned Arial Vehicles and networking to maintenance or staff training. We cooperate very closely with our clients throughout the entire process from analyzing needs, supplying and installing the most efficient turnkey solution to offering a number of valuable after sales services. A holistic approach which in the end should bring value to the client and bring return on their investment. IT Solutions Mobile Data Civil drone collection Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Danoffice Our story IT in brief 3 2 Danofﬁce IT provides professional and efﬁcient IT & IS turnkey solutions to International Organizations and businesses operating worldwide. With Danofﬁce IT one-stop-shopping platform which includes a large number of high quality brands, skilled certiﬁed personnel and added value services, we assist clients HQ and local country ofﬁces, anytime and anywhere. Danofﬁce IT elaborates on more than 19 years of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing IT & IS equipment to International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations and Business-to-Business partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having United Nations and World Bank as clients. Our 3 business units I T Solutions Danofﬁce IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, servers, storage, and networking to maintenance or staff training. Today Danofﬁce IT provides professional IT services and solutions to more than 300 organizations in over 163 countries. Mobile Data collection tools We support our clients’ camp and community management with Biometric Registration Kits, Mobile survey solutions and hardware such as data centers, ﬁngerprint scanners and iris scanners. Civil Drone In our customer survey in 2014 “98% of our clients would recommend Danoffice IT to colleagues and partners”. The Sky-Watch Huginn X1 civil Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) provides rapid aerial assessment, data and reports. It is the perfect tool for Search & Rescue activities. Today Danoffice IT provides professional IT services and solutions to more than 400 customers in 167 countries. For more information, please visit www.Danoffice.com or contact us at Danoffice@Danoffice.com Submitted, February 18th, 2016 by Per Erik Edvard Svehag CEO & ITPartner Solutions Mobile Data Civil drone DANOFFICE IT collection Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Danoffice Fact sheetIT in brief 4 2 Danofﬁce IT provides professional and efﬁcient IT & IS turnkey solutions to International Organizations and businesses operating worldwide. 167 With Danofﬁce IT one-stop-shopping platform which includes a large number of high quality brands, skilled certiﬁed personnel and added value services, we assist clients HQ and local country ofﬁces, Offices: End user countries +400 anytime and anywhere. in 2015 Denmark, USA, Danofﬁce IT elaborates on more than 19 years of experience on exclusively supplying and servicingSwitzerland, Customers IT & IS equipment to International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations and Business-to-Business partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having United Kenya Nations and World Bank as clients. served Public Our 3 business units customer I T Solutions segment +7000 Danofﬁce IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, servers, storage, and networking to maintenance or staff training. Today Danofﬁce IT provides Shipments in 2015 60 professional IT services and solutions to more than 300 organizations in over 163 countries. Mobile Data collection tools D&B 600 AAA We support our clients’ camp and community management with Biometric Registration Kits, Mobile Emplyees survey solutions and hardware such as data centers, ﬁngerprint scanners and iris scanners. Travel days Civil Drone per year # The Sky-Watch Huginn X1 civil Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) provides rapid aerial assessment, data and reports. It is the perfect tool for Search & Rescue activities. languages Founded mastered 4500 1995 9 Orders in 2015 IT Solutions Mobile Data Civil drone collection Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Communications on Danoffice (COP) Progress IT in brief 2015 5 2 Danofﬁce IT provides professional and efﬁcient IT & IS turnkey solutions to International Organizations and businesses operating worldwide. With Danofﬁce IT one-stop-shopping platform which includes a large number of high quality brands, skilled certiﬁed personnel and added value services, we assist clients HQ and local country ofﬁces, anytime and anywhere. Danofﬁce IT elaborates on more than 19 years of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing IT & IS equipment to International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations and Business-to-Business partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having United Nations and World Bank as clients. Our 3 business units I T Solutions CONTENT: Danofﬁce IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, servers, Social Responsibility Corporatestorage, and networking & ThetoGlobal Compact or maintenance staff training. Today Danofﬁce IT provides Page 6 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . professional Danoffice IT CSRIT services – Againstand solutions Poaching to more than 300 organizations in over 163 countries. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 8 Danoffice IT CSR Mobile Data – RUN for a purpose collection tools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 9 Communications on Progress (COP) 2015 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 10 We support our clients’ camp and community management with Biometric Registration Kits, Mobile surveyHuman Rights solutions and . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . hardware such as data centers, ﬁngerprint scanners and iris scanners. Page 10 Labour . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 10 Civil Drone Environment . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Page 12 The Anti-Corruption Sky-Watch Huginn X1 civil Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) provides rapid aerial assessment, Page 13 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . data and reports. It is the perfect tool for Search & Rescue activities. IT Solutions Mobile Data Civil drone collection Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Corporate Social Danoffice IT in brief Responsibility 6 2 Danofﬁce IT provides professional and efﬁcient IT & IS turnkey solutions to International Organizations and businesses Danoffice IT joinedoperating worldwide. the UN Global Compact which is the world,s largest sustainability & citizenship initiative. A network based initiative with the Global Compact Office and six UN agencies at its core. The Global Compact With Danofﬁ involves ce IT one-stop-shopping all relevant platform social actors: companies, which whose includes actions a large it seeks to influence; high quality brands, number ofgovernments, labour, civil society skilled certiﬁ ed personnel and added value services, we assist clients organizations, and the United Nations as an authoritative convener and facilitator. HQ and local country ofﬁ ces, anytime and anywhere. The Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact Danofﬁ Corporate ce sustainability IT elaborates on with starts than 19 years morea company’s of experience value system and a principled approachsupplying on exclusively and to doing business. This servicing IT & IS equipment to International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental means operating in ways that, at a minimum, meet fundamental responsibilities in the areas of human Organizations rights, and Business-to-Business labour, environment and partners operating worldwide. anti-corruption. ResponsibleWe are especially businesses proud enact the of values same having United Nations and World and principles Bank as wherever clients. they have a presence, and know that good practices in one area do not offset harm in another. By incorporating the Global Compact principles into strategies, policies Our 3 business andunits procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, companies are not only upholding their basic responsibilities to people and planet, but also setting the stage for long-term success. I T Solutions The UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles are derived from: the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Danofﬁce IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, Rights at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development, and the United Nations servers, storage, and networking to maintenance or staff training. Today Danofﬁce IT provides Convention Against Corruption. professional IT services and solutions to more than 300 organizations in over 163 countries. Human Rights Mobile Principle Data collection 1: Businesses tools should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We support our clients’ camp and community management with Biometric Registration Kits, Mobile survey Laboursolutions and hardware such as data centers, ﬁngerprint scanners and iris scanners. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Civilbargaining; collective Drone Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child The Sky-Watch labour; Huginn and Principle X1elimination 6: the civil Unmanned Aerial System of discrimination (UAS)ofprovides in respect employment aerial rapidand assessment, occupation. data and reports. It is the perfect tool for Search & Rescue activities. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. IT Solutions Mobile Data Civil drone collection Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Corporate Social Danoffice IT in brief Responsibility 7 2 Danofﬁce IT provides professional and efﬁcient IT & IS turnkey solutions to International Organizations and businesses operating worldwide. With Danofﬁce IT one-stop-shopping platform which includes a large number of high quality brands, skilled certiﬁed personnel and added value services, we assist clients HQ and local country ofﬁces, anytime and anywhere. Danofﬁce IT elaborates on more than 19 years of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing IT & IS equipment to International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations and Business-to-Business partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having United Nations and World Bank as clients. Our 3 business units I T Solutions Danofﬁce IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, servers, storage, and networking to maintenance or staff training. Today Danofﬁce IT provides professional IT services and solutions to more than 300 organizations in over 163 countries. Mobile Data collection tools We support our clients’ camp and community management with Biometric Registration Kits, Mobile survey solutions and hardware such as data centers, ﬁngerprint scanners and iris scanners. Civil Drone The Sky-Watch Huginn X1 civil Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) provides rapid aerial assessment, data and reports. It is the perfect tool for Search & Rescue activities. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We all have a responsibility for the environment and for looking after each other, but as an international company with influence and means we carry an even greater responsibility than the ordinary man. Danoffice IT is devoted in making UN Global Compact a success and alongside with other dedicated members, strive to create awareness and set new standards for good governance. Danoffice IT wishes to demonstrate our continuing commitment by documenting our progresses made on the ten principles in an annual Communication On Progress (COP) report. The ten CSR principles have been integrated in all organizational levels from strategic, to tactical to operational level. Our COP report will communicate the progresses made to the international society for documentation and inspiration. Danoffice IT COP 2015 report is a partITofSolutions Mobile the “Statutory statement of Corporate Social Data (CSR) to the annual reportCivil Responsibility drone for 2015, cf. the Danish Financial Statement Act, § 99a.” collection Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT Danoffice IT CSR in brief 8 2 Danofﬁce IT provides professional and efﬁcient IT & IS turnkey solutions to International Organizations and businesses AGAINST operating worldwide. POACHING Poaching is one of the critical threats and With Danofﬁ increased ce IT one-stop-shopping exponentially over the past 10 years, which includes a large number of high quality brands, platform skilled certiﬁmarket as the black ed personnel and prices for added ivory hasvalue services, we assist clients HQ and local country ofﬁces, jumped. anytime and anywhere. Elephants, Rhinos and other endangered spices faces the real risk of extinction unless the Danofﬁ ce ITcommunity international elaboratestakes on more than stronger 19 years of experience on exclusively supplying and action. servicing IT & IS equipment to International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations Danoffice IT, haveanddecided Business-to-Business to contribute partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of throughUnited having Nations a Corporate andResponsibility World Bank as clients. Social activity named AGAINST POACHING. Our 3 business units We want to help, and we are presently actively involved supporting leading conservation I T Solutions organization in the fight against poaching or illegal trade. In Suriname in the northeastern Danofﬁce IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, part of South America we are collaborating servers, storage, and networking to maintenance or staff training. Today Danofﬁce IT provides with the World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and started professional IT services and solutions to more than 300 organizations in over 163 countries. implementation of the use of civil conservation drones to monitor marine life activities. Mobile Data collection tools In South Africa, we have started “the fight We support against our clients’ poaching” in close camp and community collaboration with management with Biometric Registration Kits, Mobile survey solutions the Gondwana and hardware Foundation such and its teamasofdata centers, ﬁngerprint scanners and iris scanners. rangers bringing the UAV technology closer to Civil the field. TheDrone Huginn X1 civilian drone will be testing in differing conditions and scenarios in order to establishHuginn The Sky-Watch a set ofX1 civil Unmanned operating Aerial System (UAS) provides rapid aerial assessment, standard data and reports. It is the perfect tool procedures tailored to working with wildlife for Search & Rescue activities. conservation in the African bush. We foresee that these drones will quickly become the front line for the defiance of Africa’s endangered species. We want to build awareness, donate and bring technologies to support this cause. We started the FB site Stop Poaching and has currently 37000 likes and many followers. Join the movement now: www.facebook.com/AgainstPoaching Fight against poaching is an important cause for our environment and Information Technologies are part of the solution. IT Solutions Mobile Data Civil drone collection Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT Danoffice IT CSRin brief 9 2 Danofﬁce IT provides professional and efﬁcient IT & IS turnkey solutions to International Organizations and RUNbusinesses for a purpose operating worldwide. Our staff is our most important resource With Danofﬁ wherefore wecestrive IT one-stop-shopping at keeping our staffplatform which includes a large number of high quality brands, skilled mentally anded certiﬁ personnel physically andhave added value services, we assist clients HQ and local country ofﬁces, fit. We anytime and anywhere. implemented a “healthy diet” program, with natural foods, organic foods, whole foods and Danofﬁ vegetariance foods, IT elaborates in our daily more and oncantina than 19 years of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing IT & IS follow WHO recommendations on healthy diet Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental equipment to International Organizations to maintain health andand Business-to-Business partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of prevent risk of obesity, having Unitedand heart disease Nations and World Bank as clients. diabetes. Our We also business 3 participate units in sport activities and offer sport massage. Every year Danoffice IT sponsorI T running Solutions gear to all our employees to support an active healthy lifestyle. Danoffice IT ”RUN for a purpose” Danofﬁce IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, During the year we all “RUN for a purpose!”. servers, storage, and networking to maintenance or staff training. Today Danofﬁce IT provides Danoffice IT find a project we wish to support professional IT services and solutions to more than 300 organizations in over 163 countries. and thereafter all employees run once or twice a week and end year Danoffice IT donate a fixed Mobile $ amountData per km. collection tools In support We2015 our clients’ we managed camptogether to bring and community a management with Biometric Registration Kits, Mobile survey solutions significant donationandtohardware NRC Youthsuch as data centers, ﬁngerprint scanners and iris scanners. program in ASRAQ Syrian refugee camp. Danoffice IT Civil assisted withDrone the IT hardware and software and our objective was to equip the Syrian The Sky-Watch refugee youth withHuginn X1 civil skills the technical that Aerial System (UAS) provides rapid aerial assessment, Unmanned data and reports. It is the perfect tool enlighten their vision toward a positive for Search & Rescue activities. future. The progression and good reputation achieved by NRC since 2013 led to a high participation of many youths with different potentials and needs, and from there the program adopted a flexible strategy to fit what can be matching the aspirations and needs of the youth. NRC started by providing the International Computer Driving License (ICDL) to both female and male youth with ASRAQ refugee camp in Jordan the support of experienced trainers employed from the camp community itself. IT Solutions Mobile Data Civil drone collection Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Communications on Danoffice (COP) Progress IT in brief 2015 10 2 Danofﬁce IT provides professional and efﬁcient IT & IS turnkey solutions to International Organizations and businesses operating worldwide. With Danofﬁce IT one-stop-shopping platform which includes a large number of high quality brands, skilled certiﬁed personnel and added value services, we assist clients HQ and local country ofﬁces, anytime and anywhere. Danofﬁce IT elaborates on more than 19 years of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing IT & IS equipment to International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations and Business-to-Business partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having United Nations and World Bank as clients. Our 3 business units I T Solutions Danofﬁce IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, servers, storage, and networking to maintenance or staff training. Today Danofﬁce IT provides professional IT services and solutions to more than 300 organizations in over 163 countries. Our CSRMobile Data collection and progresses tools are communicated to our partners and staff through company staff on the subject manual, posters placed within premises and on the Danoffice IT web site: www.Danoffice.com We support our clients’ camp and community management with Biometric Registration Kits, Mobile Human Rights: and hardware such as data centers, ﬁngerprint scanners and iris scanners. survey solutions Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights In Danoffice IT we believe that all human beings are born free and equal in dignity and rights. We respect all people Civil Drone regardless of nationality, race, religion, class or political opinions. Danoffice IT promote social interaction between people and cultures The Sky-Watch and aim Huginn at a mix X1 civil organizational Unmanned SystemWe Aerial culture. embrace (UAS) culture provides andaerial have assessment, rapid employees from 10 different nationalities, coming from South America, USA, Europe and data and reports. It is the perfect tool for Search & Rescue activities. Africa. Our organization mix is balanced with 45% women & 55% men and we span over various religions. Moreover, we have employees who came to Denmark as refugees from Syria and Croatia. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Danoffice IT supports all human rights and legal rights, at a national level and within international law and only accept partners who do the same. Labour: Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Danoffice IT workers have the right to be members of trade unions, collective bargaining and to strike if necessary. Trade unions can assist with negotiations of wages, work rules, complaint procedures, rules governing hiring, IT Solutions contract Mobileworkplace, termination and promotion of workers, benefits, Data safety and policies. Civil drone collection Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Communications on Danoffice (COP) Progress IT in brief 2015 11 2 Danofﬁce IT provides professional and efﬁcient IT & IS turnkey solutions to International Organizations and businesses Danoffice IT staff operating worldwide.who works as a contact person between employees and management has a representative whose mission it is to ensure that all labour standards are fulfilled and that all employees can contact someone for With Danofﬁ personal ce ITideas matters, one-stop-shopping for improvement platform which or health includes & safety a large number of high quality brands, conditions. skilled certiﬁed personnel and added value services, we assist clients HQ and local country ofﬁces, anytime Danofficeand anywhere. IT has a work-life balance policy encouraging flexible working hours and tolerance for personal and family issues and or needs. Danofﬁce IT elaborates on more than 19 years of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing Danoffice IT & IS IT HQ in equipment Denmark was to built International in 2007 andOrganizations, won a prize forGovernmental and its architecture Non-Governmental and for its working environment. Organizations and Business-to-Business partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having United The building is Nations designedand World Banka as to incorporate clients. series of innovative green building techniques while operating within tight cost constraints. Functional, economic, and architectural criteria were used as the basis for the design. In Our 3 business addition, a minimal amount units of material and technology is used throughout the design while maximizing the quality of the working environment and the building’s energy performance. A modern building with all latest technologies I T Solutions within ventilation, heating, shutters and water consumption. Danofﬁce IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, All staff has ergonomic chairs, lighting done by experts and height servers, storage, and networking to maintenance or staff training. Today Danofﬁce IT provides adjustable desks. professional IT services and solutions to more than 300 organizations in over 163 countries. Our Staff Manual is another tool to inform and update staff on our values,Mobile company Data collection profile, toolsstrategy and information history, global on working terms and conditions: illness and absence, overtime, We support annual our clients’and staff interviews camp and community management with Biometric Registration Kits, Mobile regulations. survey solutions and hardware such as data centers, ﬁngerprint scanners and iris scanners. Continuously we strive to educate and develop our employees Civil Drone professionally and personally through seminars, workshops and through daily coaching. Monday morning management gather The all Sky-Watch staff Huginn X1of to share knowledge civil Unmanned professional Aerial System character (UAS) provides rapid aerial assessment, or to inform data and reports. It is the perfect tool for Search & Rescue about the work we do with our customers in the field. Here weactivities. also learn about cultural differences in order to understand the diversity of the world we live in. Communication and information within a company is key for success and employee satisfaction. Therefore we have a very clear and transparent strategy plan where staff can find VMOST, cultural iceberg and our DNA on posters. This communicate our 4 years’ global strategy with our 3 objectives – Great Place to Work – Revenue – Ebit Once a year Danoffice IT carry out an anonymous staff survey where ITallSolutions staff participates and responds to statements Mobile by using Data a Civil drone 1 to 4 range, with 1 being “strongly disagree” and 4 being “strongly agree.“ The colors were established by the percentage collection of favorable Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Communications on Danoffice (COP) Progress IT in brief 2015 12 2 Danofﬁce IT provides professional and efﬁcient IT & IS turnkey solutions to International Organizations and businesses responses. Red areas reflect worldwide. operating favorable response ratings of 70 percent or lower; yellow areas a rate between 70 percent and 79.9 percent; and green areas a rate of at least 80 percent. We are pleased to announce that our With average is 82ce Danofﬁ andITthat we are green onplatform one-stop-shopping which includes a large number of high quality brands, all parameters. skilled certiﬁed personnel and added value services, we assist clients HQ and local country ofﬁces, anytime Principleand anywhere. of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 4: Elimination We do not use any form of forced or compulsory labour nor do we accept partners who do. Vendors, partners and Danofﬁ ce ITto elaborates clients have confirm the on same more than 19 behavioral years policy before cooperationon of aexperience andexclusively supplying future Business endeavorandcan take servicing place. IT & IS equipment to International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations and Business-to-Business partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having Principle United Nationsabolition 5: Effective and World Bank labour as clients. of child We do not use any form of child labour nor do we accept partners who do. Vendors, partners and clients have to Our 3 the confirm business unitspolicy before a cooperation and future Business endeavor can take place. Danoffice IT same behavioral labour policy prohibit employment of any person under the age of 16 years. I T Solutions Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. With our presence in Denmark, Switzerland, Kenya and USA our department constantly strives at building a Danofﬁce IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, workforce with balance of nationality, sex, race, religion, class and political opinions. Our mix of personnel is servers, storage, and networking to maintenance or staff training. Today Danofﬁce IT provides balanced between all before mentioned groups and all employees receive equal conditions and rights regardless professional IT services and solutions to more than 300 organizations in over 163 countries. of location or background. Mobile Data collection tools Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges We support Danoffice our clients’ IT only camp works with and community internationally management recognized vendors with withBiometric friendlyKits, Registration environmental Mobile policies. survey Principle solutions and hardware 8: Undertake such initiatives as data centers, to promote ngerprint scanners greater ﬁenvironmental and iris scanners. responsibility Since 2009 Danoffice IT has executed on our “Protect Mother Earth” recycling program. In partnership Civil Drone with our United Nations clients and our vendors, we collect used toners and cartridges from the UN missions all over the world and recycle them in Europe. Our combined efforts have The Sky-Watch Huginn X1 civil reached Unmanned 25,000 Aerial System units collected (UAS) so far and provides rapid aerial assessment, still counting. data and reports. It is the perfect tool for Search & Rescue activities. Our warehouse is using 100% bio-degradable materials and we try to reduce weight and volume to a minimize shipment and co2 pollution. Packing waste is destroyed under environmental recycling friendly conditions. Our office building is saving energy. Thermostat fan switch to “auto” to save energy, automatic block of the sun from overheating by use of shades, changing the filters in our heating system every 6 month for optimum efficiency. Outside trees to provide shade on the sunny side of the office. We use laptops – they use less energy than desktop computers. Also our computers go to sleep or hibernate mode instead of using a screen saver so it uses less electricity during periods of inactivity. IT Solutions Mobile Data Civil drone collection Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Communications on Danoffice (COP) Progress IT in brief 2015 13 2 Danofﬁce IT provides professional and efﬁcient IT & IS turnkey solutions to International Organizations and businesses Principle 9: Encourage theworldwide. operating development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Danoffice IT encourages its clients to look at the Total Cost of Ownership (TCO) as well as Total Impact on With Danofﬁce Environment IT one-stop-shopping (TUE). platform A cost saving solution combined includes whichwith a large a green solution with of number high quality minimum brands, impact. environmental skilled We strive at aed certiﬁ personnel TCO/TIE andwith added solution lowvalue powerservices, we assist consumption, clientsof minimum HQ and local country consumables, ofﬁces, best quality and longest anytime and anywhere. sustainable lifespan. Danofﬁ ce IT elaborates on more than 19 years of experience on exclusively supplying and Anti-Corruption servicing Principle 10: IS equipment IT &Businesses to International should work againstOrganizations, Governmental corruption in all and Non-Governmental its forms, including extortion and bribery Organizations and Business-to-Business partners operating worldwide. Danoffice IT promotes a steadfast zero tolerance policy against corruption in all areWe especially its forms. proud is Corruption ofdamaging having Nations Unitedgrowth for the world and and Worldyet creates Bank as clients. a bigger gap between rich and poor. Our 3 business Corruption can be mostunits easily defined as the manipulation or perversion of a system for the benefit of a single party rather than for the benefit of the public or the intended beneficiaries. I T Solutions Any Danoffice IT employee is obliged by code of ethics, to immediately report any suspicious conduct, corruptive communiqué or malign rule or transaction linked with corruption, to closest work-parent, manager and or top Danofﬁce IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, management. servers, storage, and networking to maintenance or staff training. Today Danofﬁce IT provides professional IT services and solutions to more than 300 organizations in over 163 countries. Danoffice IT aspires to be a dependable partner who always acts responsibly, honestly and fairly, whether dealing with colleagues, clients, vendors, investors or competitors. Mobile Data collection tools We support our clients’ camp and community management with Biometric Registration Kits, Mobile survey solutions and hardware such as data centers, ﬁngerprint scanners and iris scanners. Civil Drone The Sky-Watch Huginn X1 civil Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) provides rapid aerial assessment, data and reports. It is the perfect tool for Search & Rescue activities. IT Solutions Mobile Data Civil drone collection Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Danoffice IT Danoffice IT CSR in brief 14 2 Danofﬁce IT provides professional and efﬁcient IT & IS turnkey solutions to International Organizations and CSR businesses & Corporateoperating Values worldwide. Danoffice IT CSR is built on our Corporate With ValuesDanofﬁ / DNA.ce IT commitment one-stop-shopping The of our platform which includes a large number of high quality brands, skilled employees certiﬁ anded shareholders personnel and to added value services, we assist clients HQ and local country ofﬁces, live those anytime and anywhere. core values. With our CSR program we wish to be responsible for the impact our activities have once Danofﬁ IT elaborates colleagues, onclients partners, more andthan 19 years of experience on exclusively supplying and servicing IT & IS equipment communities around the world. to International Organizations, Governmental and Non-Governmental Organizations and Business-to-Business partners operating worldwide. We are especially proud of having UnitedofNations We are proud and WorldofBank our membership “The as clients. Global Compact” and fully support its policies. OurCommunications This 3 business on units Progress (COP) ensure transparency on what we do How we operateI T and how we invest. The COP drive us Solutions to perform with the highest standards of good governance and ethics through how we do Danofﬁce IT excels in covering all areas of IT & IS solutions, from desktops, laptops, printers, business. servers, storage, and networking to maintenance or staff training. Today Danofﬁce IT provides professional IT services and solutions to more than 300 organizations in over 163 countries. Mobile Data collection tools Per Erik Edvard Svehag We support CEO & Partnerour clients’ camp and community management with Biometric Registration Kits, Mobile survey DANOFFICE solutions IT and hardware such as data centers, ﬁngerprint scanners and iris scanners. Civil Drone The Sky-Watch Huginn X1 civil Unmanned Aerial System (UAS) provides rapid aerial assessment, data and reports. It is the perfect tool for Search & Rescue activities. IT Solutions Mobile Data Civil drone collection Danoffice IT Englandsvej 14 Phone: +45 6221 1766 DK-5700 Svendborg Fax: +45 6221 1765 Denmark Mail: info@danoffice.com VAT Reg. No. DK-21370738 Web: www.danoffice.com Danoffice.com
