Qalaa Holdings Communication on Progress for 2016 January – December 2016 This Cop is available to all our stakeholders on our website: qalaaholdings.com qalaaholdings.com • 1 Statement of Continued Support by the Chairman and Founder of Qalaa Holdings To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Qalaa Holdings reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ahmed Heikal, Chairman and Founder, Qalaa Holdings qalaaholdings.com • 2 Description of Actions Human Rights percent of women who were on maternity leave during the year At Qalaa Holdings, we have pioneered a commitment to a minimum 2014 returned to work in the company. To ensure our workforce’s living wage for all of our employees, and one that goes beyond local health and safety, we share circulars and awareness emails about any regulatory frameworks. We continue to be committed to ensuring emerging serious diseases when they occur. To ensure continuous our workers dignified wages, and our zero tolerance policies for growth and development, we have developed comprehensive and child and forced labor. We provide our employees with life and world-class training schemes that are specific to our industry’s needs health insurance, maternity leave and disability/inability coverage. and priorities. This year, we provided 105 hours of training to our One hundred percent of women who were on maternity leave employees. Moreover, close to 100% of our workforce participate in during the year 2015 returned to work in the company. To ensure regular performance and career development reviews. In November our workforce’s health and safety, we share circulars and awareness 2006, Qalaa Holdings established the Qalaa Financial Services Center emails about any emerging serious diseases when they occur. To (QFSC) at the American University in Cairo (AUC). The center is the ensure continuous growth and development, we have developed Middle East’s first institution dedicated to providing financial and comprehensive and world-class training schemes that are specific analytical education that prepares students for careers in securities to our industry’s needs and priorities. trading, risk management and asset allocation. Qalaa Holdings donated US$ 250,000 to start QFSC in November 2006 and has further donated US$ 30,000 annually to cover operating costs. All of Qalaa’s Labour entry-level employees undergo training that QFSC which is equipped Qalaa Holdings is an equal opportunity employer which entails with an array of advanced financial software and tools, including a that individuals are hired, trained, promoted and transferred in all simulated trading room linked directly to the Egyptian Exchange. job classifications regardless of their race, religion, sex, nationality, age and family/social status. Our Employment Guide provides guidelines for the board and general employment policies. In cases Environment where company policies or guidelines contradict those of national labor laws in any country/region where Qalaa Holdings operates, Environmental Policy precedence is given to the application of local law. Any violations of Established as a model for doing business in a strictly compliant Qalaa Holdings policies and procedures might subject the violator manner, while focusing on sectors that in principle can represent to various forms of reprimands. an environmental hazard, Qalaa Holdings identified environmental With regards to data on our workforce, Qalaa Holdings has compliance as one of its core imperatives since inception. Qalaa 91 full-time employees, with the following gender breakdown: Holdings’ Environmental Compliance Strategy is based on the strict approximately 81 percent of full-time employees are male, with the compliance of all our subsidiaries to all the national environmental remaining 19 percent being female. It is notable that 82 percent of laws and regulations featured in each of the countries we operate full-time female employees are in middle management, 18 percent in. In addition, Qalaa Holdings’ Environmental Compliance Strategy are in senior management and none are at entry level. In terms of ensures the adoption of various global guidelines, management age group breakdown, the largest proportion of staff are between systems and standards at both the holding and subsidiaries levels the ages of 31 and 40 (41 percent), with approximately 19 percent when relevant. Qalaa Holdings is a member of the United Nations between the ages of 25 and 30, and 13 percent between the ages of Global Compact (UNGC) and Global Impact Investing Network 51 and 60. In terms of staff turnover, 10 employees left the company (GIIN). As a member of both, we are committed to incorporating in 2015, in contrast to 7 new hires (the majority in the 25 to 30 year their principles and systems into the company’s environmental age group). strategy. This includes our focus on: We provide our employees with life and health insurance, 1. Adopting a preventive approach in our investment strategy maternity leave and disability/inability coverage. One hundred by ensuring a very thorough study for our environmental qalaaholdings.com • 3 impact prior to initiating any investment on the ground; accordingly represents a reduction of 186,000 tons in annual SO2 2. Focusing on the efficient use of resources across all sectors to emissions. This equates to a 29.1% reduction in the total amount of minimize waste and the depletion of natural resources; SO2 currently emitted in Egypt from the burning of sulfurcontaining 3. Moving our industries, as well as our communities, towards fuels such as fuel oil and diesel. the use of cleaner energy, in an economically viable manner; Tawazon Our subsidiary for investment in the solid waste 4. Introducing sustainable transportation services to minimize management industry, has been providing biomass and RDF as carbon footprints for both our industries as well as for the alternative fuels to heavy energy consumers such as cement factories communities we operate in; for the past five years. In 2015, Tawazon signed a five-year contract 5. Adhering to and investing in the latest technology for waste to supply an Ethiopian cement company with a waste to thermal management as a key solution for both global resources and energy solution. As stipulated by the agreement between the two the energy dilemma; companies, Tawazon’s subsidiary, ECARU, will be the technology 6. Improving the environmental performance of our business and service provider responsible for collecting, transporting and through research and development of new technologies, processing local biomass that will be converted to environmentallypreventing and reducing our emissions and minimizing friendly alternative solid fuel. ECARU has also signed an MOU with our waste; East Africa Mining (EAM) of Ethiopia to establish a joint venture 7. Investing in compliance with health, safety and company dedicated to biomass management and alternative solid environmental measures, and fuels. The new company will supply alternative solid fuel as source of 8. Reporting on performance on at least an annual basis and energy for power generation to replace fossil fuels (coal) for cement ensuring that any violation is immediately discussed at the companies in Ethiopia and its neighboring countries. board level for each of the subsidiary companies and at Qalaa Holdings’ board if the violation was not resolved immediately. Measurement of Outcome With regard to Biodiversity, most of Qalaa Holdings plants and In this regard, being a member of the GIIN entails selecting and facilities operate in industrial areas. Due to the fact that Qalaa applying performance metrics, including metrics commonly used Holdings is involved with heavy industries, the facilities and plants to assess performance in our core industries. Our adherence with have to be built away from residential and wild life. It is safe to say this membership allows us a channel to assure that international that no wild life is affected or threatened due to Qalaa Holdings standards are applied throughout all our subsidiaries. In addition, facilities operation. Qalaa Holdings works closely with our Developmental Funding Qalaa Holdings is cautious with our use of materials. We ensure that Institution (DFI) partners to enhance the company’s compliance the materials used are allocated in a manner that maximizes efficiency and reporting frameworks. This includes, among others, the and ensures sustainability. Qalaa Holdings also continuously measure adherence to IFC’s performance standards on environmental and the different types of energy used by all the different sectors makes social performance. A significant number of our subsidiaries report it easier for us to identify whether our use of energy is allocated quarterly on their environmental performance to our DFI partners strategically. Below is a summary of some of materials used by our to ensure transparency and ongoing dialogue towards an improved subsidiaries in addition to the reported use of energy. environmental performance. The Egyptian Refining Company (ERC), our USD 3.7 billion second stage oil refinery in the Greater Cairo Area, will be filling the supply gap for high value Euro V diesel (the cleanest fuel of its type in the ARESCO world). ERC’s feedstock is fuel oil, which is currently consumed as fuel. The refining process to produce lighter products such as diesel Material 2015 removes sulfur from the fuel oil. ERC will thus prevent the release of Total Steel Raw Material Weight 16,907,694 93,000 tons of sulfur that are currently being emitted into the air and qalaaholdings.com • 4 Dina Farms Anti-Corruption Qalaa Holdings’ governance structure has evolved significantly Dina Farms uses the below materials for the over the past 10 years as the company transitioned from a twofeeding of its herd person partnership to Africa’s leading private equity firm with 19 platform companies and finally to its current structure as an Material 2015 investment holding company with a narrower focus and a smaller number of subsidiaries. Yellow Corn 240,99.17 Throughout Qalaa’s 10-year journey, maintaining good Soybean Bran 12,309.98 governance has been critical in seeing us through the volatility of our markets and helping us build sustainable businesses in Barn 4,781.69 multiple countries throughout the region. We pride ourselves on a Glutofed 7,567.84 long standing tradition of having a board of directors dominated by a majority of non-executives. Sunflower bran 2,273.4 In 2015, the company continued along its path to strengthen the governance function to support sustainable growth, enhance Dina Farms uses the below materials in the food risk management, and maximize efficiency at Qalaa Holdings and growing process across all subsidiary companies. This determined approach to governance has progressively regulated a wide range of practices Material 2015 at Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiary companies, ranging from risk assessment framework, anti-fraud and financial reporting policies Solvable Potassium Sulfate 541.035 to the manner in which management interacts with shareholders and the creation of shareholder value across our subsidiaries. Super triphosphate 291.250 Institutionalizing the corporate governance processes is an ongoing, long-term objective across all our platform companies. Equally important are the principles of fairness, openness, and transparency Dina Farms which we have worked diligently to instill as part of our corporate culture. An interdisciplinary approach to governance incorporates Type of Energy 2015 Qalaa Holdings’ management, industry platform teams, and the senior management of subsidiary companies by way of formal Diesel 1,313,627 quarterly meetings through the management boards. These Electricity 67344 management boards also convene on an as-needed basis. This quarterly cycle of meetings and reviews, culminating in the meeting Other Fuel distilled from crude oil 42,694,379 of Qalaa Holdings’ audit committee and board, ensures a rigorous process of participation by a wide cross section of executives NRPMC from Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiary companies. Qalaa Holdings engages the services of only the most reputable audit firms for Type of Energy 2015 both ongoing statutory audits and due diligence for all subsidiaries. Strict internal controls and reporting standards are a cornerstone Diesel 120,000/ Month of the governance principles at Qalaa and its subsidiaries. Financial Electricity 7500 Kwt/Month and operational reports are transparent to all parties with a vested interest — from management and board members to shareholders. qalaaholdings.com • 5 Qalaa believes that high-quality governance is a fundamental continuously promoting and empowering the control environment enabler of superior corporate performance. within the company. Accordingly, the Internal Audit function The components of effective governance reduce risk, identify has developed a Risk Assessment Framework to be followed internal and external threats, and assist in capturing profitable throughout the organization. Risk Assessment contributes to the business opportunities. Qalaa Holdings’ governance principles align effective and efficient demonstrable achievement of objectives and the interests of management, shareholders, the board of directors, the improvement of performance on multiple fronts. Qalaa’s Internal and subsidiaries, facilitating well-informed decisions. Qalaa Holdings Audit strives to ensure the presence of the Internal Audit function has completed a process of institutionalization that began in 2013 at across all platforms, in its capacity to oversee, monitor and guide, both the Qalaa and subsidiary levels. The comprehensive program advise, and administer its platform. In addition, our Management included the refinement and improvement of all systems, policies, Committee is a monthly forum that engages a wider management and procedures that management needs to support and grow the team of Qalaa Holdings to review market developments and progress business. New policy documents were developed in parallel with on corporate initiatives at Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries. the refinement of existing charters such as the audit committee and compensation committee. Developed policies that are now being implemented include the risk assessment framework, in Social Investment addition to the anti-fraud and insider trading policies. In addition, Qalaa Holdings’ sustainable investments in a diverse array of sectors audit committees modeled on the Qalaa Holdings’ audit committee have had a significant impact on the economies of the region charter have been established for all major subsidiary companies, over the years. Our operations in critical sectors like energy and where the members of the audit committees are independent infrastructure not only support national economies, but also have of the company’s management. Qalaa Holdings’ Internal Audit a demonstrable impact on local communities by supporting job represents a key element in its corporate governance framework, creation and meeting the demand for critical goods and services. with a mission to add value and improve Qalaa Holdings’ overall While we continue to evolve and refine our investment focus operations by providing relevant, timely, independent, and even further, we recognize that the successful and responsible objective assurance and advisory activities. The Internal Audit team operation of our businesses contributes not only to our own assists the organization in accomplishing its objectives by using a growth and sustainability, but to that of the countries, economies, systematic and disciplined approach to evaluate and improve the and communities in which we engage. In 2015, Qalaa achieved a effectiveness of risk management, control, and governance process significant milestone with the issuance of its first comprehensive which provides Qalaa Holdings’ stakeholders with reasonable Sustainability Report and was the first Egyptian company to assurance over the groups’ operations and strengthens the firm’s receive an A grade rating from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) ability to maximize stakeholder value. Qalaa Holdings’ Internal Audit on its first report. The prestigious recognition was a testament to function is an independent function with functional reporting lines the company’s commitment to transparency within all aspects to the audit committee and administrative reporting lines to the of its operations. In a further recognition of our commitment chairman and chief executive officer. to sustainability and responsible investing, Qalaa Holdings was With a zero-tolerance approach to fraud, the Internal Audit also named a founding member of the UN Global Compact function has implemented an Anti-Fraud Policy to promote Network Egypt, an independent foundation that functions as consistent corporate integrity, honesty, and ethical behaviour the local operations center for the UN Global Compact Network within Qalaa and its subsidiaries. This approach helps the firm to (UNGC) and a hub to create awareness and capacity-building to protect the organization’s assets, reputation, and employees. The help stakeholders build sustainable business and comply with Anti-Fraud Policy was reinforced by availing an anonymous whistleinternational best practices in Egypt. blowing channel to receive information from inside and outside the Our sustainability initiatives are firmly rooted within six distinct company on the Qalaa Holdings website Qalaa Holdings believes in but interrelated pillars: education, vocational training, human qalaaholdings.com • 6 capital development, community engagement, community Egypt, has been providing vocational training opportunities for the development, and environmental sustainability. These pillars members of the local community through purpose-built community embody our company’s core values and the vision that our executive centers since 2008. Thus far, 950 members of the community, management has for the company and the countries of the region 215 of which are women, have been trained as welders, pipe in which we operate. Below is a list of some of the social investment fitters, electricians, mechanics, cell phone maintenance providers, programs that Qalaa Holdings and its subsidiaries are investing in: computer technicians, and seamstresses. ERC has been carrying out a community needs assessment and stakeholder mapping to be able to design strategic and culturally appropriate interventions. ERC views Qalaa Holdings Scholarship Foundation the building of strong relationships with neighboring communities as Every year since 2007 the Qalaa Holdings Scholarship Foundation a long-term effort which will be ongoing throughout the construction (QHSF) has been giving 15-20 of Egypt’s brightest students the chance phase which now stands at more than 80% completion and into the to pursue graduate studies abroad at leading global universities in operational phase of the project. the U.S. and Europe. By providing youth from cities throughout Egypt with opportunities we are enabling them to make a positive impact on the economic and social well-being of the country. QHSF Human Capital Development was founded by Qalaa Holdings (formerly Citadel Capital) in 2007 In essence, all of our responsible investing initiatives fall under the as a part of the company’s commitment to education and human umbrella of human capital development. We strive to develop capital development in Egypt and across the region. To ensure the human capital across our footprint, from our scholarship foundation program’s continuity, we established an endowment to fund the in Egypt which supports Egypt’s new generation of leaders, to activities of the foundation. Today, QHSF has grown to become the our management training project carried out through Rift Valley largest private sector funded scholarship program in Egypt. Thus far Railways in Kenya and Uganda. The management of Qalaa Holdings the foundation has granted 138 academic scholarships to talented firmly believes that bridging the knowledge gaps that currently students who are interested in pursuing Master’s degrees and PhD’s exist in our region will require multiple initiatives. Whether it’s at international universities worldwide, and if we include our newest the awarding of post-graduate scholarships, vocational training 2016 class of scholarship recipients that will be announced at our or mentorship programs championed by our own executives 10th anniversary celebration in June, we will have proudly awarded and employees, our ultimate goal is to grow the talent pool and more than c. 150 scholarships. unlock the hidden potential within the economies of our region. Qalaa has recently entered into a new initiative in partnership with USAID, five public universities in Egypt, and other private sector Qalaa Holdings Financial Service Center players to provide disadvantaged youth from 27 governorates In November 2006, Qalaa Holdings Donated US$ 250,000 to establish across Egypt with new opportunities in higher education. The the Qalaa Holdings Financial Service Center (QHSF) at the American program, which will target 387 students in its first year, will grant university in Cairo (AUC) — the first institution in the Middle East undergraduate merit based scholarships and mentorship services (c. dedicated to providing financial and analytical education to prepare 900 hours of training per student) to students from underprivileged students for careers in securities trading, risk management, and and underserved communities. The program also offers over asset allocation. In the years since, Qalaa Holdings has donated a 250 recipients the opportunity to study in the United States for a further US$ 30,000 annually to cover operating costs. semester abroad experience. Qalaa Holdings’ participation in the program involves the delivery of in-house and on-campus guest lectures, opportunities for one-on-one interaction with Qalaa Vocational Training employees, and opening its doors for students to visit the sites and The Egyptian Refining Company (ERC), our US$ 3.7 billion refinery in offices of Qalaa and its subsidiaries. qalaaholdings.com • 7 Community Engagement needs. The team has also partnered with domestic and international In addition to the 1,000+ employees in our African transportation development agencies to capitalize on available competencies and unit, Rift Valley Railways (RVR), the national railway of Kenya and maximize the results of their efforts. The outcome has been a series Uganda, the company has helped create jobs for SMEs along the of sustainable, high-impact initiatives in the areas of education, railway line through its linkages program, providing income for an employment, vocational training, health, recycling, sustainability, additional 2000 families in Kenya and Uganda. With the skills gained women’s empowerment and poverty eradication strategies. ERC’s from the partnership between RVR and its technical strategic team conducts job-matching activities, refurbishes area employment partner, ALL, local RVR staff are now transferring the same skills centers, and conducts workshops for local youth focused on soft and to others and helping to build more local capacity to run a statetechnical skills. They have also developed a program that awards grants of-the-art railway. Through RVR’s highly-successful Management to help youth start their own small enterprises and trains women Trainee Development Program, young Kenyans and Ugandans are in management and leadership skills. School Refurbishment ERC developing the hands-on skills needed to lead the railway to the began addressing the problem of poorly maintained public schools highest international standards; 39 students have graduated from in 2012 with projects to refurbish dilapidated, unsafe buildings and the program thus far. Additionally, 30 RVR drivers have graduated schoolyards. The company has thus far invested in upgrading facilities from a specially designed 18-month training course, which involves in three neighboring schools. Upgrades include the installation of practice on a US$ 891,000 train-driving simulator. Improving safer staircases and functional classrooms with new light fixtures, employee safety continues to be a top priority for RVR. The company desks, chairs and fans. More than 8,500 students now enjoy a more won the IOSH Railway Group’s International Award for reducing the conducive learning environment as a result of the refurbishments. number of on the job injuries to workers on duty in RVR’s Nairobi office by 90%. The prestigious recognition was the culmination of a two-year program designed to effect simple but important changes Women’s Empowerment in working procedures based on the ‘5S’ methodology: sorting, In cooperation with Save the Children and two local NGOs, ERC setting in order, shining, standardizing, and sustaining. has been involved in training women in the community on how to start and run small businesses to help support themselves and their families. Twenty-two projects started by females have thus far been Community Development awarded start-up grants. Youth Initiatives In cooperation with the Since 2008, a dedicated team of trained specialists, the Egyptian Ain Shams Youth Center, ERC completed refurbishments at a local Refining Company’s (ERC) Community Relations Team, has worked youth center with the capacity to accommodate 6000-7000 people. hand in hand with stakeholders including local NGOs, community Capacity building sessions were offered to 25 youth leaders who will development associations, youth centers, cultural centers, public create and conduct cultural activities and sporting events such as figures and community leaders to assess and fulfill community football tournaments in the centers. qalaaholdings.com • 8
