Building up Trust between Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 generations Subscribers Beneficiaries Suppliers Community Employees Overview Company Profile 02 CEO Message 03 Sustainable Business The Social Responsibility Management System 04 Governance 06 Stakeholder Engagement 08 Defining the Report Content 14 Material Issues Contents 01. Operation of a Substantial Pension Scheme 16 02. Stable Fund Management 24 03. Ethical Management with Integrity 34 04. Community Development and Welfare Services 40 05. Talent Management with Respect for Employees 46 Appendix Social Responsibility Management Performance 53 Memberships & Principles 57 Independent Assurance Statement 58 GRI Content Index 60 About this Report The Purpose of Publishing the Report The NPS believes that socially Reporting Period The NPS has published the report every year since Inquiries on the Report responsible management of the pension scheme and the pension 2012. This report covers our activities and performance in the area This report is downloadable at the NPS website (http://www.nps.or.kr). If you have further questions or require additional information, fund would aid social development by generating increased economic of socially responsible from January 1 to December 31, 2014. Some please contact us at the following contact points. value and contributing to a happier life for the public. We hereby content up to September 2015 is included to provide additional Address: 180, Giji-Ro, Deokjin-Gu, Jeonju Si, Jeollabuk-Do, Korea publish our fourth Social Responsibility Report (hereinafter ‘report’) in timely information. For certain quantitative performance analysis, data General Administration Dpt. Social Responsibility Team, National Pension Service 2015 to disclose our activities and performance in social responsibility compiled during the (from 2012 to 2014) has been used. Email: david1228@nps.or.kr management and enable communication on these issues with an Phone: 063-713-5314 increased number of stakeholders. Assurance of the Report Third-party verification has been carried out to ensure the validity of the report writing process and of the data Reporting Guidelines This report was written in accordance with G4 included for the benefit of our stakeholders. The detailed outcome of Core Guidelines of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) revised in 2013. this verification is provided through the assurance statement on pages 58~59. 2 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 3 Company Profile CEO Message The NPS was established in September 1987 for the purpose of enhancing the welfare and creating a stable livelihood for its contributing members by providing pension benefits for old age, disability, and death. The NPS is a corporate entity established in accordance with the National Pension Act, and classified as a quasigovernment organization for the fund management consigned by We will become an even more stable the government under the Act on the Management of Public Institutions. As of the end of 2014, we are providing pension service to 21.13 million insured and 3.59 million beneficiaries, and managing a fund of KRW 469.8 trillion. partner through a stronger pension (As of December 2014) Name of corporation National Pension Service Location 180, Giji-ro, Deokjin-gu, Jeonju-si, Jeollabuk-do, Korea Number of employees 4,992.5* Headquarters: 12 departments, 1 center, NPS Fund Investment Office, Compliance Officer, National Pension Research Institute, IT Planning Headquarters Branches & Regional Centers: 107 branches, 50 counseling centers, Organization Disability Assessment Center, International Cooperation Center, Incheon Airport Counseling Center, Ansan Foreigner Counseling Center Overseas: New York Office, London Office I truly appreciate your deep interest and love for the NPS. National Pension Fund KRW 469.8 trillion * If there is a part-time employee who works 4 hours a day, he or she is counted as 0.5 person. Thus, the total number of employees may not be an integer. A Stronger Pension Faced with highly uncertain financial environments, the NPS has nonetheless achieved stable growth since its foundation in 1988. With 21.42 million insured contributors, 3.82 million beneficiaries, and a fund of KRW 500 trillion (as of Key Businesses of the NPS September 2015), the NPS’ presence as an unprecedented welfare service institution has been further solidified by the national The NPS supports the insured and offers pension benefit services as key manager of the national pension, which is categorized as a pension fund’s growth to the world’s second largest in scale. Instead of focusing on earning short-term rates of return, we strive for form of social insurance. We have systematically expanded our coverage since 2009 to the retirement design service to help prepare stable fund management over the long term through investment diversification, expansion of overseas investment, innovation in the elderly for their post-retirement life. We have also provided disability registration review and services since 2011 to support the investment processes, and acquisition of competent personnel for the management of the fund. As a result of our efforts, the NPS activities of the disabled. Since 2014, the NPS has been a truly ‘a comprehensive welfare service institution’ encompassing all areas of was selected as the ‘Institutional Investor of the Year in 2014’ by Asian Investor, a specialized news source on finance and investment social welfare and providing basic pension services to support the struggling elderly. that awards the most outstanding institutional investor based on fund management performance, process and infrastructure, etc. A Stable Partner The Korean society is transforming into an aging society due to a steadily increasing number of the elderly; and yet, the retirement scheme for the public has not reached an epochal turning point. Faced with this anxious reality, the NPS has continued to be a stable and reliable partner that people could count on during their retirement age. While raising the value of pension services, including a seamless pension payment system and higher accuracy in the follow-up management of the beneficiaries, the NPS aims International Services for the insured Fund management Pension benefit services Welfare services Research and study to discover the blind spots in welfare and proactively tap into programs that provide support to low-income households and the cooperation ㆍManages and maintains ㆍExcutes national pension ㆍPays pension benefits ㆍProvides retirement ㆍSigns and executes social socially neglected, thus establishing a tight safety net of social insurance. In order to enhance social trust as an institution for pension ㆍConducts research on the records of the insured fund management policy and provides lump-sum planning services security agreements the pension scheme and management, we have established six strategic areas of social responsibility management and made all-out efforts to implement payments social security systems ㆍImposes pension ㆍManages domestic and ㆍConducts disability ㆍManages the interests of them, including strengthening the ethics of management, substantiating social responsibility investment, expanding green investment premiums overseas equities, fixed ㆍProvides a claim guide for registration reviews non-Korean beneficiaries ㆍConducts research on incomes, and alternative possible beneficiaries measures for efficient to counter climate change, creating jobs for the socially vulnerable; and operating an employment succession system for suppliers. ㆍIssues certificates ㆍProvides support for the ㆍProvides advanced assets ㆍProvides follow-up activities of the disabled system instruction as per fund management These endeavors have been recognized for their contribution to the enhancement of our national competitiveness ― in 2014, the NPS ㆍThe ‘Durunuri’ social insurance subsidy ㆍEmploys a transparent services for pension ㆍAvails the National international cooperation ㆍPropagates information was awarded, by government commendation, the Ministry of Trade, Industry, and Energy’s ‘Korea’s Beloved Company’ Award. program fund and accounting benefits Pension Silver Loan agreements on core trends of the management system scheme ㆍConducts capacity ㆍEnsures proper disclosure Since its foundation, a short span of only 28 years, the NPS has achieved outstanding management milestones, driven by its excellent assessment for of management beneficiaries of the management of the national pension scheme and the national pension fund. With a challenging spirit and passion, we aim to performance ‘national basic livelihood’ continue to be a sincere partner for the future happiness of all the people who depend on us. Major Achievements Thank you. Awarded the Gold Award in two November 2015 Selected as an ‘Excellent Call Center’ Awarded by government Acting Chairman & CEO of National Pension Service Rhee, Won-hee Awarded ‘The Institutional Investor categories at the League of American by the Korean Service Quality Index commendation the Ministerial Award of the Year’ by Asian Investor Communications Professionals (KSQI) for 10 consecutive years ‘Korea’s Beloved Company’ (LACP)’s ‘Vision Awards’ 4 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 5 The Social Responsibility Management System Social Responsibility Management Strategies Current Status of the Social Responsibility Management System The NPS is a comprehensive welfare service institution covering all three major social security areas: public aid, social insurance, and Under the six strategic directions, the NPS oversees 14 execution tasks, and reports yearly on the status of the Social Responsibility welfare services. Our socially responsible management is a core element for sustainable growth, and its purpose is to create ‘a happy Management System for continued performance evaluation and systematic implementation. Each department in charge is subject to community and a warm-hearted society.’ This goal is aligned with the NPS’s vision of becoming a ‘Nice Partner for a Successful Life.’ evaluation of their track records aligned with relevant KPIs (Key Performance Indicators), and review of performance and data through a third-party verifier in the process of writing a social responsibility report. We also review our level of social responsibility compared Vision Nice Partner for a Successful Life to other companies and institutions based on publicly reliable external evaluations, including evaluations of public institutions (such as management evaluations of public institutions, integrity and anti-corruption evaluations, competitiveness evaluations, and KoBEX SM evaluations. Upon review we reflect on our weaknesses and address them in our upgraded plans for the Social Responsibility Management System. Strategy Sophistication of institution management for sustainable growth-raising people’s trust and social responsibility Strategic Directions Key Tasks Key Performance Indicators 2014 Achievements 2015 Goals ㆍ Attaining a trustworthy ㆍ Sustainability Index ㆍ Sustainability Index (KoBEX ㆍ Maintaining an AAA CSR goal A happy community and a warm-hearted society and transparent NPS (KoBEX SM) SM) AAA Sustainability Index ㆍ Anti-corruption ㆍ Achievement of ‘zero’ ㆍ Spreading the NPS' competitiveness fraudulent activities performance in the area of assessments social responsibility Strategy Ethical Environment Social Responsible Shared Strengthened ImplementaEthical management management management contribution investment growth social trust tion ㆍ Contributing to the ㆍ Local community ㆍ Social contribution mileage ㆍ Achieving social customers’ self-sufficiency participation index totaling 125,457 points contribution mileage and growth totaling 131,730 points ㆍ Number of people with Promotion System for Social Responsibility Management insurance premium subsidization The NPS has designated the Social Responsibility Management Committee as the top decision-making body in the area of socially Social contribution ㆍ Social contribution ‘mileage’ responsible management in order to systematically implement the concept. The committee is a scaled-up body drawn from the existing Ethical Management Committee, able to encompass the area of social responsibilities. The Working-Level Committee for ㆍ Continuing mutual growth ㆍ Supplier coensthesic ㆍ Supplier coensthesic ㆍ Achieving a supplier coensthesic with SMEs based on winsatisfaction level satisfaction index of 90.8 satisfaction index of 91 points Social Responsibility Management develops (draft) action plans, while the Social Responsibility Management Department is tasked to win cooperation points ㆍ Purchase records from ㆍ Purchasing from SMEs in amounts ensure that the execution is handled by each functional subsection. We listen to opinions on various aspects of socially responsible SMEs ㆍ Purchases from SMEs totaling KRW 108.1 billion management through the Social Responsibility Management Advisory Council and the Stakeholder Advisory Board, and try to reflect totaling KRW 105.1 billion ㆍ Achieving a ‘Good’ grade in them in our corporate management philosophy. the shared growth evaluation Shared growth for public institutions public institution Social Responsibility Management Committee Highest decision-making body: The Chairman ㆍ Implementing carbon ㆍ Continued management ㆍ Excellent grade ㆍ Reducing 20% (1942.4 tCO2e) reduction policies to the of specific items under certification for an ecoemission against NPS CO2 standards of exemplary the disclosure system of friendly HQ building emission standard (9711.9 institutions environmental information tCO2e) Administrative implementation (The Social Responsibility Management Department) ㆍ Green product procurement ratio of Social responsibility general : The Director of Planning 93.53% Environmental management Sub-section Executing practical administration (social responsibility management department) ㆍ Conducting strategic ㆍ Advanced pension & fund ㆍ Socially Responsible ㆍ Preparing responsible reviews for responsible investment case studies Investment (SRI) totaling investments with investments and internal and external KRW 6.0007 trillion consideration of ESG sharing ㆍ Enhancing internal and Ethics, integrity Environmental Responsible Credible Others (labor, external understanding Social service Shared growth management management investment management human rights) Responsible investment Eco-friendly Anti-corruption System improvement Equal opportunity headquarter building Social service ESG* research Equal employment ㆍ Establishing social ㆍ Coensthesic satisfaction ㆍ Coensthesic satisfaction ㆍ Achieving a coensthesic Proliferation of ethical Coenesthesia credibility and promoting index of 48.1 points satisfaction index of 48.8 Supporting social Purchasing ㆍ Number of (governmentProliferation of culture SRI investment satisfaction Labor security enterprise environment-friendly sustainable management led) public satisfaction points donation culture Strengthening of products Communication Personal information Education through contributions Fair competition campaigns held internal checking protection Green investments * ESG (Environment, Society, Governance): It refers to the corporate non-financial performance, as related to the environment, society, and governance. Enhancement of social trust 6 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 7 Governance Board of Directors and Committees Board of Directors Functions The function of the NPS Board of Directors is to deliberate and decide on the key tasks on its agenda. The NPS utilizes the expertise The Board of Directors meetings are held on a regular basis in February and October, and on an ad-hoc basis upon the request of the of non-executive directors through expert committees, that is, the Management Subcommittee, Systems Subcommittee, Funds Board of Directors or its chairman. In 2014, such meetings were held 12 times. The NPS discloses the attendance of executives at the Subcommittee, Social Responsibility Management Subcommittee, and Customer Rights Protection Subcommittee. Board of Directors meetings and the outcome of discussions on the meeting agendas, etc., through its website. ● Operating Status of the Board of Directors (Unit: number of times, number of cases, %) Board of Directors Attendance rate Type Board of directors meetings held Agenda submitted Executive directors Non-executive directors 2012 10 53 100 93.9 Management Social Responsibility Customer Rights Protection Systems Subcommittee Funds Subcommittee Subcommittee Management Subcommittee Subcommittee 2013 10 56 100 100 2014 12 53 97.2 91.6 1 executive director + 1 executive director + 1 executive director + 1 executive director + 1 executive director + 2 Non-executive directors 2 Non-executive directors 2 Non-executive directors 2 Non-executive directors 2 Non-executive directors Evaluation and Compensation Composition of the Board of Directors Executive directors are evaluated based on the implementation performance against agreed objectives. Along with the Ministry of The NPS Board of Directors is composed of 11 members: the chairman, three executive directors, and seven non-executive directors, Strategy and Finance’s evaluation of the performance of public organizations, the president and employees of the NPS are evaluated three of whom are female directors. Non-executive directors are appointed by the Minister of Health and Welfare based on on ethical management practices and efforts to make improvements in management, which are then reflected on the yearly recommendations made by the Executive Search Committee. Seeking to instill a check-and-balance corporate management culture, comprehensive evaluations. The basic annual salary of executive directors is compliant with 80% of the head of a public corporation, the Board of Directors consists of two non-executive directors representing business owners, two nonexecutive directors representing as set by government guidelines. We received a Grade C in the 2014 evaluation; meanwhile, the records on the allowances paid to corporate employees, two non-executive directors representing the individually insured, and one government representative who is a non-executive directors, as well as the annual salaries of executives are disclosed through the NPS website. high-ranking (Grade 3) government official who is involved in national pension tasks at the Ministry of Health and Welfare. (As of December 2014) Name Duty period Organization & position remarks Choi, Kwang 2013.5.24 ~ 2016.5.23 Chairman Chairman of the board Fund Management Organizations Executive Rhee, Won-hee 2013.11.18 ~ 2015.11.17 Executive director of planning Executive director directors The committee is the top decision-making body in the creation of fund management policies, and in deliberating and Kim, Moo-yong 2014.11.17 ~ 2016.11.16 Executive director of operations Executive director deciding on major issues pertaining to fund management. The chairman of the committee, which consists of 20 members, Hong, Wan-sun 2013.11.4 ~ 2015.11.3 Executive director of fund management Executive director Fund Management Committee is the Minister of Health and Welfare. The committee’s meetings are held more than four times a year to approve the Investment Policy Statement (IPS) as an investment policy guideline, the mid-and long-term asset allocation, and the yearly Cho, Nam-kwon 2012.1.27 ~ 2015.8.24 Pension policy director of MOHW Government representative fund management plans. Vice president of the Federation of Korean Lee, Seung-cheol 2006.1.23 ~ 2016.1.22 Business owner representative Industries The committee consists of specialists in economics, management and finance, and includes accountants and lawyers. Kim, Young-bae 2005.7. 6 ~ 2016.7.5 Vice president of Korea Employers Federation Business owner representative Evaluation Committee for National Non-executive As a sub-committee of the Fund Management Committee, it secures expertise in fund management and assists the Pension Fund Management Fund Management Committee in deliberating and arriving at in-depth decisions on the set agendas. directors Executive vice president, Federation of Choi, Doo-hwan 2014.9.12 ~ 2016.9.11 Employee representative Korean Trade Unions Vice president, Korean Confederation of Kim, Gyeong-ja 2013.10.16 ~ 2015.10.15 Employee representative Trade Unions The committee consists of specialists who review and deliberate on NPS investment policies among the matters to Council of Experts on be decided by the Fund Management Committee. It advises on major investment policies on fund management Kang, Jeong-hwa 2014.9.12 ~ 2016.9.11 President, Consumers Union of Korea Individually insured representative Investment Policy including asset allocation, domestic and international alternative investment, foreign exchange hedge, and Park, Jong-baek 2014.9.12 ~ 2016.9.11 Lawyer, Korean Bar Association Individually insured representative investment in resources. Participation of Non-Executive Directors in Expert Committees Council of Experts on the The committee falls under the Fund Management Committee. It is tasked with making determinations on exercising Exercising of Voting Rights voting rights on stocks held by the NPS and regularly reviewing proxy voting policies. The NPS runs expert committees that leverage the expertise of non-executive directors, and imposes the right to demand audits to reinforce their independence. New non-executive directors are provided with information necessary to execute their tasks, including an introduction of the NPS and a job performance manual, thus boosting their understanding of the corporation and their ability to The committee consists of multi-disciplinary specialists tasked to raise the performance of fund management by make decisions in its interests. In order to fully utilize the expertise of non-executive directors, the NPS runs a business suggestion Council of Experts on Performance establishing fair performance evaluations in managing the national pension fund, as well as compensation policies to management system through the Executive Information System (EIS). As a consequence of this setup, 34 out of 47 business Evaluation and Compensation secure and maintain talented personnel. suggestions were reflected in new corporate management policy. 8 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 9 Stakeholder Engagement We strive to listen to the opinions and demands of stakeholders through our various open channels. The NPS categorizes stakeholders into five groups: subscribers, beneficiaries, suppliers, communities, and employees. As part of the NPS’s vision on social responsibilities, our relevant units in charge ensure that the interests and requests of each stakeholder group are aligned with value creation. Majority Opinions Reflected to Management , urvey rvey, a c tion s ction sgu On O Devise an acceptable Appoint personnel by giving consideration to job rank sf fa tin g site n-site Majority Opinions Reflected to Management sati , siaatriys meey meetin and gender ratio, etc., improve appointment standards, re, ec r ma ma resolution for the imbalance nai nneanier fi neficia lab nl a na and make preliminary announcements for appointments Expand opportunities for Open periodic seminars and courses by branch, provide on sti viscteio, b ce, be orabgoerm -m em g in personnel ma ue re i na enatn, a ent, at the NPS headquarters beneficiaries to be engaged support for volunteering and club activities, and provide ,y Q h, sQeu serv ge ve reravcey ach me Jugneim Juni in the society opportunities for social engagement r u ut u nt oe o re m r Bnot m r Bo gs s ut Improve character buildup Adopt character tests upon recruitment, expand in m, Ong m O Fulfil Fulfil ee tin a e et a u sion ension ling li and training programs educational content for the Cyber Training Center u pen role ng role in VO Open routine ‘One Branch One Course’ in areas of interest or or p r g s Develop healthcare and C nal tional me e Be , Fa bo d tte ne ct io s to s VO fic -fin a t a cre to cre u i medical services including health and medical services n n e , la C, iar b d ag Be Fac f y he he ate ate m Improve lodging support for et et il, Provide lodging for new employees not locally affiliated, rd , Om an n Com s t-fi stomer ne se se unc eiv eiv fic n iar di c c rv rv employees and recreational to cu ice ice expand the number of resort hotels aligned with the t co tee yf e e gs r-m Uploading of special lecture videos on renowned lecturers, a tr tr so so Develop content for the ha ha a m en facilities NPS, and enhance the level of provided guest rooms e bo dsm it r th beneficiaries’ guidebook and an online café for the NPC in the em mm il, t t NPS website and mobile m m , la bu live ag er er o c beneficiaries’ section on the website s s e an an C coun s stomer Expand preventive safety measures including rd Cu Cu sto sto m d nd to cu s s O -m m nt surveillance cameras and emergency alarms, reinforce arie fici nefici arie s, S a em r th e follow-up measures including private security guards, NP n Increase the protection of Be Be Em Em live legal support, and counseling programs for employees he pl pl employees’ rights de oy oy ft ee ee nd Majority Opinions Reflected to Management s s Avail vaccination against infectious diseases for Sa bscribed to the national pen employees involved in work related to the disabled NP ding survey, Questionnair Rethink premium support for survey, Questionna ers su Make preliminary announcements on legislation to exclude he sion high net worth individuals, Fact-fin internalInternal ft tom those whose assets and income are above a certain threshold Improve the work process Maintain the main delivery system at the NPS ire which is viewed by many as Stakeholder Stakeholder Cus from the eligible targets for premium support including mail delivery headquarters and outsource insurance tasks inequitable e VOC, Subscriber Subscriber ExternalExteral Increase the convenience stakeholder stakeholder Institute a plan to provide information such as ‘The ed to the na bscrib tional p of handling of tasks for the Prepare comprehensive Korean Senior Citizen Association’ ers su ding Adopt Web EDI-based outsourcing service for sites ensio Fact-fin national pension at small retirement services by life Plan for long-term projects such as the construction of tom n VOC, business sites cycle childcare centers in the region, the provision of student Cus loans, and the opening of seniors’ centers Simplify required documents Align the registrar on agricultural companies with the referral WinWin for insurance premium G r o Ease the inconveniences that occur when agricultural system in conjunction with the Ministry of Agricultural, Food, wth support for agricultural Supp WinCo un Adopt work processes that workers apply for premium support by aligning the NPS liers and Rural Affairs Co Co Sup W in Gro c il, Sh employees m m plier wth are provide one-stop services data with agricultural company databases to provide the mun mun s C d o un G itie itie Custo ci l ro best Safe Inheritance One-Stop Service Reinforce fact-finding on the current status of employees s s m ers , S ha w th Increase the awareness of pur in t red receiving benefits of premium support (for 5,500 companies a e, e Custsued v he G insurance support records tte en t, NP lu NP rela ro Institute a plan to align the ‘My Pension’ site with the mi gem va S om a w year) vel C vel Crk e r r lue tio th Share information among the nte enter om ana pub pub rks pur s in t s an ns s ‘Integrated Pension Portal’ of the Financial Supervisory li eari lic hoem o h mpi, hop, yC g , c h m o Ce sue he d hi public/private levels and local lit ity Mttee,etin ent ng, arm ini m dv C rel ac p l i bimm , meagem Fun gtt, eFeunf tSteoceiaf Soci rea rea m a lue at h ioine pensions Service. Align information with other public pensions by Co e an ge d Ma odr M o a Soan l Rr eSso l Re od D o d sa n sh ty ty M etin n ge ciaalge pcoinal sp ,D , d ip devising a legal framework cil ac li i b , me e a on cil hi ee lu va S me R m sR nt espent ibeilsp sibi un un e Majority Opinions Reflected to Management C o C i o Co Co ally ally Cu s Cu s om nsiom nsi utu utu to me tome m itt m itt e m cethm th Devise better communication Improve the disability review standards and process crea crrseian rs i nfl nc raonw grow Majority Opinions Reflected to Management tio fl n p tiounenp u ha nl gh l channels for improvement urs cuirns ncin e en uea ua Listen openly to diverse field opinions on major issues facing ue gue g to utto ut Impose bidding restrictions Operate an SME-friendly bidding system by placing m m tasks by sector the community of the disabled, and create a sharing solidarity d by thdeby the ve ve to support investment in IT restrictions on procurement bidding from large th th e e SNS SN infrastructure establishment companies , Worki Worw eb S, web Rationally improve the disability Display higher levels of rationality in the disability registration ng-L kings-iLte, w site, w e e o o Provide administrative support for documenting grade review system and review standards by gathering feedback from medical Provide administrative support for determination standards organizations on disability determination standards social enterprises articles of association, business plans and recruitment of employees, and registration of social enterprises 10 NPS SocialResponsibility NPSSocial ResponsibilityManagement ManagementReport Report2015 2015 11 Stakeholder Opinion Gathering We Are Listening to the Opinions of Our Stakeholders The NPS communicates with a wide variety of stakeholders by convening the National Pension Fund Committee, Social Responsibility Committee, National Pension Club (NPC), and Shared Growth Meeting. Opinions gathered from such meetings are fully reflected in our corporate management philosophy. The National Pension Fund Committee The Social Responsibility Management Committee The National Pension Fund Committee is the highest decisionThe current National Pension Act stipulates that the principle of The NPS launched the Social Responsibility Management On the other hand, it is regrettable that materiality of emmaking body for national pension fund management and investment must be based on stability, profitability, and public Committee to more proactively respond to the demands of ployment is given least importance although the materiality operation. It is chaired by the Minister of Health & Welfare, the socially responsible management style, both internally and test is overall systematic. The issues of employment must be good. Guidelines on a decision-making exercise must be made and includes official members of government branches such externally, and to listen to opinions from internal and external tackled with a stronger commitment. Planning Director Rhee, based on public good, and in this sense, responsible investment as the Ministry of Strategy and Finance and the Ministry of experts on major activities on a yearly basis. The committee must be interpreted to take place within the scope of public Won-hee Trade, Industry, and Energy, in addition to employers, laborers, consists of the Chairman & CEO, executives, and the head of good. Since profitability and public good might sometimes each department at the headquarters as advisors on socially individually insured representatives, as well as related experts. conflict with one another, management must strike a balance responsible management. The meetings are held in the first and The NPS’ socially responsible management has been dramatbetween the two. Member Jeong, Eun-bo, Ministry of Strategy and second half of the year. ically improved compared to the institution’s initial years. For Finance this year’s report, an international perspective is needed to According to the National Pension Act, utmost efforts must be further advance our lead in the global pension industry. The exercised in managing the national pension for the benefit of Considering the importance of its institution-level communiThe balance must be accepted for government funds such as the Social Responsibility Management Report must well reflect subscribers. However, the legislation mentions that responsible cation, the NPS needs to publish a report whose focus is to National Pension Fund, as there is no verified data on the profthe features of socially responsible management, unlike investment is possible despite conflict of interest with subscribcommunicate with the public. A higher interest in CSR among itability side. In fact, many public funds in Europe invest based the NPS annals or the Management Evaluation Report. It ers. This raises the concern that the law may be contravened the public on the basis of the report will lead to a greater on ESG ― whose positive effects, considered by many countries, is therefore critical to see what values are contained within by the misunderstanding that responsible investment regarddemand for stricter standards on socially responsible manageinclude clean technologies along with new industries and enthe framework of the materiality test. Key words must be ing the environment, social and corporate government should ment, which is a proper pathway toward achieving the goals vironmental issues in the economic sense ― so many countries selected with an emphasis on materiality test keywords and be made against the interests of subscribers. In implementing of this management style. To this end, it is a must to disclose pursue this in their policymaking. Member Kim, Gwang-hi, Korea the distinctiveness of the NPS. Professor Lee, Ui-young, Gunsan the legislation, raising the long-term yield must be considered an easily accessible report that is easy to read. Many reports Federation of SMEs University when conducting socially responsible investment, but the longare difficult to understand because they are basically docuterm concept is subject to arbitrary interpretation. mented from the perspective of the corporate side. Also, it is Instead of confining the pension scheme and fund manageMember Yang, Jun-mo, Citizens United for a Better Society crucial that employees should also be regarded as customers. ment to the mere reporting of performance on projects, the It would be a great obstacle if employees were to lack interest Social Responsibility Management Report should address the Due to this concern, the revised version (draft) of the Act presin the NPS’ socially responsible management, since employees generated social and environmental values. Communities are ently includes the phrase “for the sake of increasing a stable are very close to institutions and deal with all the related tasks. engaged in numerous social contribution activities, but the long-term yield.” If decision-making can prove problematic in So in order to raise employee awareness in the area of socially report must also include the types of efforts the NPS puts into the long-term, it should be finally decided by the Committee responsible management, the NPS should continue its efforts balanced regional development following the relocation to the on Voting Rights Exercise. In this sense, responsible investment to manage in this style. Professor Kim, Chang-gwon, Jeonju UniInnovative City of Jeonju. The engagement of internal stakefocuses on a discourse on whether to invest based on current versity holders should be strengthened, while it is also important to tangible profits or to make long-term investments with higher highlight the efforts made for the benefit of the NPS’s internal returns, which could be ground to possibly conflicting elements. I hope that the report covers not only the existing perforemployees. Director Park, Jeong-eun, Institute for Industrial Policy Chief Gwon, Jong-ho, Committee on Exercising Voting Rights mance paradigms, but also future ones, including welfare serStudies vices and basic pension, as readers are keen to know what visions would be provided based on the present performances. 12 NPS SocialResponsibility NPSSocial ResponsibilityManagement ManagementReport Report2015 2015 13 The National Pension Club The Shared Growth Meeting The NPS first organized the Beneficiary Forum in October 2013. going to flourish. In this sense, preventive measures should be The NPS holds periodical meetings on the topic of shared Payment for Subcontracting The Forum was further expanded in 2014 and is now in operation given proper consideration so as to avoid accidents and injuries. growth with suppliers, aiming to gauge their difficulties and The issue of payment for subcontracting tops the agenda under the name of National Pension Club (NPC). Club meetings CEO Choi, Kwang gather their suggestions. The meeting is meant to strengthen for subcontractors to the extent of impacting their survival are held by branch for beneficiaries, who are supported to enjoy communication with suppliers by introducing a shared growth chances. Despite the difficulties confronted by many subenriching post-retirement lives through periodic volunteering, strategy and direction from the NPS and the government and by For the Chuncheon Branch, we provide discount benefits to contractors due to the bankruptcy of Company A in 2013, club activities, and promotion of the national pension scheme. presenting best practices in this area. contributors to the NPC for certain medical treatments through subcontractors have also received much help with payments a MOU concluded with medical institutions. I think this privilege from the NPS. Continuous support is important to make sure should be expanded to a national-wide level later on. that proceeds are paid to subcontractors in a timely manner I hope the NPS will extend support for job creation for the Member Kim, Jong-myung, Chuncheon Branch Ease of Bidding Requirements for SMEs by monitoring the payment schemes and systems. elderly and provide job information to beneficiaries to achieve Sophisticated expertise is critical in the establishment of an IT For the Yong-in Branch, we have managed an Internet cafe Administrative Support for Social Enterprises the goal of ‘work-to-welfare.’ I expect to see the expansion infrastructure, but the current company selection process is of IT courses and related training facilities/equipment for ben('6090' cafe) for six years and continued to have meetings at simply a bidding process, which triggers competition on draThe NPS Café 36.5 run by the NPS caters to the underprivieficiaries. Since new and renewable energy has a significant the location. Currently, as a part of a talent donation program, matically low prices. We hope that ‘bidding by invitation’ will be leged, and since it has not been stabilized yet, there are chalimpact on the national economy and shows a high-growth we visit local nursing homes and give musical performances by adopted to prevent any negative effects SMEs might suffer lenges that cannot be addressed by social enterprises alone. potential, a greater interest in this area would be necessary playing the harmonica, accordion, saxophone etc. As voluntary from recklessly driven low bidding prices. Bidding requirements The NPS’ proactive support is essential for somewhat tricky from the NPS for improved fund management. Member Jang, participation in leisure activities increases with people's interest, for SMEs must be eased to encourage specialized and compeadministrative procedures, including those on certification Yeong-jin, Siheung Branch continued support would be necessary. Member Yoo, Young-ha, tent SMEs to participate in the bidding process. of social enterprises. Continued improvement of the service Yong-in Branch must also be implemented through user satisfaction surveys We will take a positive look at the possibility of expanding the Expansion of Sales Channels for SMEs and by joint consultation between the café and the NPS. list of IT courses conducted by each branch and the installation In order for SMEs to compete against each other in a fair manof more PCs. Former Operational Director Kim, Min-su ner, it is essential to select industry types and product categories for SMEs and thus protect their business domains. Allowing By volunteering to help the vulnerable in local communities, SMEs to compete against large enterprises under the same we derive a sense worthiness and meaning in life. However, rules and conditions does not create a fair competition. There due to the possibility of injuries and accidents occurring during is a lack of support for SME sales channels. For areas where the volunteer activities, protection measures such as insurance competition against large enterprises cannot guarantee a fair coverage are necessary. Member Kim, Il-hwan, West-Incheon outcome, the bidding must be pro-SMEs by restricting large Branch enterprises from entering the bidding. The NPS has recently focused on shared growth and the changes needed have been I know that insurance coverage for accidents is in place for obvious. We hope that the NPS can continue its commitment volunteer work. As we plan to increase the NPC workforce up to shared growth. to 13,000 as of 2015, volunteer work and other activities are 14 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 15 Defining the Report Content The NPS has decided on the content to be reported in the 2015 Social Responsibility Management Report, and has taken the STEP 2 Primary selection of material issues following steps to identify Social Responsibility Management issues to be intensively addressed throughout the year. The identified potential reporting issues were primarily selected through correlation analysis and impact evaluation. The impact evaluation process was joined by an internal group of experts and by external specialists on the area of socially responsible management. We applied the size of the impact of social responsibilities by issue, and the probability of the occurrence of risks to the evaluation matrix. We omitted the issues lacking in correlation with and impact on the NPS, and the major material issues that were Material Assessment Process selected were categorized into seven aspects. step 1 Identification of potential step 2 Primary selection of step 3 Prioritization step 4 Third-party assurance issues to be reported material issues STEP 3 Prioritization The selected aspects were prioritized through the stakeholder questionnaire and the strategic materiality analysis. In the questionnaire Analysis of Social Responsibility Correlation analysis and Materiality test Process for defining the report for stakeholders, we ensured that all the stakeholder groups could participate: employees as value creating customers, subscribers Management impact evaluation ㆍStakeholder questionnaire content and beneficiaries as value purchasing customers, related institutions and suppliers as value delivering customers, and the general ㆍStrategies and performance ▼ ㆍStrategic materiality analysis public and communities as value influencing customers. In order to avoid the leniency errors and central tendencies, we designed the ㆍPrevious year content report Issue screening ▼ Decision on whether material ㆍTrends, international standards, ▼ Review of the Social issues have been reported questions for stakeholders so as to select highly prioritized issues. A total of 4,773 stakeholders took part in the online survey carried and evaluation Stakeholder review Responsibility Management out for 18 days from July 30 to August 18, 2015, and the strategic materiality was analyzed by internal working-level specialists ㆍGovernment policies and Committee on social responsibility. Analysis was performed on the pension scheme, fund management, anti-corruption, welfare service, regulations ▼ communities, shared growth, and employment in terms of prioritization of material aspects and reflecting the stakeholder evaluation ㆍCommon issues in the industry Validity verification and strategic materiality. and best practices ㆍMedia analysis For material aspects following the primary selection and prioritization, the content and the decision process were reviewed by the ▼ Social Responsibility Management Committee, participated by the CEO, top management, external specialists, and stakeholders. In The NPS’ selection of social this process, the opinions of external social responsibility specialists and stakeholders were reflected so that the employment that responsibility management stood at the bottom of the prioritization could be ranked higher than the shared growth. The reporting aspects decided based on issues prioritization are subject to validity evaluation. Data for content is collected based on the outcome of the validity evaluation. ● Final prioritization of material aspects (Unit: ranking) Major stakeholders by aspect STEP 1 Identification of potential issues to be reported The NPS identified all the potential social responsibility management issues available for reporting through an extensive analysis process, which was conducted on six internal and external aspects of the NPS. In total, we identified a total of 236 potential issues for Stakeholder Strategic Final reporting. Material aspects evaluation materiality prioritization Subscribers Beneficiaries Suppliers Community Employees Pension scheme 1 1 1 ● ● Number of potential Category Methodology issues Fund 2 2 2 ● ● management Midand long-term management performance and goals, business operation plans, Strategies and performance 38 management evaluation results, KPI analysis on Social Responsibility Management Anti-corruption 4 3 3 ● ● Reporting content of the Welfare service 3 5 4 ● ● Analysis of major reporting content on Social Responsibility Management from 2011 to 2013 26 previous year Communities 5 4 5 ● Analysis of major debatable points and issues on Social Responsibility Management (media, academic journals, research papers) Employment 7 6 6 ● Trends, international International standard and evaluation criteria analysis including GRI G4, DJSI, principles for the UNGC, and ISO Over 80 standards and evaluation Shared growth 6 7 7 ● 26000 Analysis of content/reports of seminars on Social Responsibility Management in finance at home and abroad Government policies and Analysis of government policies and evaluation standards 71 STEP 4 Third-party assurance regulations An independent professional verifier who has no commercial interest with the NPS reviews and decides whether or not the Common issues in the Identification of issues related to the NPS by analysis of the Social Responsibility Management Report in 11 determination process for content to be reported well reflects the report publication procedures and conditions guided by AA1000AS industry and best practices related public institutions and the financial sector and GRI G4, and whether or not the information related to selected material issues is well disclosed in the report. The third-party's Identification of external awareness of the NPS’ social responsibility management: Media analysis 10 assurance statement is available on pages 58-59. 574 news articles from January 1, 2014 to July 31, 2015 16 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 17 01Operation of a Substantial Pension Scheme WHY Why is a pension scheme material? HOW How is pension scheme managed? NPS is looking The NPS conducts various tasks to ensure The national pension is growing as a The Number of National Pension Subscribers forward to the ‘happiness’ of the public throughout stable welfare scheme with 21.13 million 390 Increased their long life journeys. The bottom line subscribers and 3.59 million beneficiaries, aim is a stable management of the pension having overcome its share of ups and providing scheme to guarantee a stable postretirement life for everyone. The average downs. Nevertheless, there are blind spots in its coverage: cases of people neglected thousand people equitable life expectancy in Korea is 81.4 years, hinting at the fact that Korea is now an from national pension coverage, or even when covered, cases of people not From 20.74 million people in 2013 to 21.13 million people in 2014 aging society. Korea has become a country properly paying their premiums. In light of benefits to every where the elderly are impoverished, with an elderly poverty rate of 48.5% (as of 2012) these concerns, measures to address the blind spots are underway at the NPS to Beneficiaries of National pension 37 generation. and where fewer babies are being born at a birth rate of 1.19 (as of 2013). As a result, ensure that more people become eligible to receive pension benefits by fulfilling the over 61 years old the elderly care burden rate per individual minimum subscription period. Specifically, has been going up, leading to conflict women whose careers have been % between subscribers and beneficiaries. interrupted are allowed to pay premiums 3.16 million people aged over 61 to receive The national pension is a social insurance later, and unemployment credits are given pension benefits scheme that aims to guarantee a stable and premium support is offered to lowpost-retirement life for current and future income earners. Meanwhile, financial generations, so benefits must be given imbalances in the national pension are Provision of Basic Pension 4.35 to all generations. Continuous efforts are aggravated despite a significant amount thus required to discuss and implement of funding being accumulated each year. solutions and improvements based on The NPS provides accurate information on million cross-generational equity so that no burden the national pension to ease public distrust people is tilted toward one generation. and misunderstanding over the national pension. We will forge an adequate social Paying basic pension benefits prior to the implementation of a risk management system; consensus so that a proper balance can be seamless preparation and proactive registration/ struck between paying into and receiving counseling national pension, considering the social environment and economic status of the country. The baby boomer generation like myself has had no leeway with breadwinning Stakeholder Opinion GRI Aspect Material Issue Material Assessment Results and child-raising. It is fortunate that the national pension is available. I wish Beneficiaries that beneficiary meetings and training to support a healthy elderly life could Enhanced income security for the elderly due to rapid aging Establishment of Pension 93.6points Mitigating socio-economic polarization own aspect for flourish.” Scheme Subscribers 87.3points business A beneficiary of the national pension, A need for customized customer service support Lee, Soon-ok (61) 18 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 19 Proactive Guidance on Subscription for Those Subject to Social Attention For those subject to social attention ― including the baby boomer generation (born from 1955 to 1963) ― who are struggling to prepare for a stable elderly life on their own, the right to pension is a must. The basic pension program aligned with the national pension subscription period was adopted in July 2014 to more equitably share the pension benefits. Despite this, controversy remained regarding the disadvantaged groups among the insured, leading to an increase of the voluntary subscriber withdrawals. Yet, basic pension benefits are not enough to guarantee a stable elderly life; we therefore extended intensive guidance on the pension subscription to the underprivileged requiring a proper preparation for their later lives. As a result, 603,000 people were newly subscribed. We also provide guidance to underprivileged people who are non-Koreans, North Korean defectors and single parents, so they may secure pension recipient rights. Insurance Accurate Management of the Base Monthly Income Value A, serving as the basis for calculating pension premiums Calculation and pension benefits, is computed according to the base on base monthly income (average base monthly income of total subscribers). A higher average base monthly income means a higher Value A so the pension increases. We will put ourselves in the shoes of the public through communication. and Support Adequate management of the base monthly income is important to accurately calculate pension benefits. Based 21.13 million subscribers We support insurance subscription and manage pension premiums in a equitable manner to ensure that more people can receive pension benefits. on the workers’ income data from the National Tax Service, the base monthly income of the insured by businesses is determined and taken care of in an ex-post manner. After identifying the appropriateness of the insured, an amount of KRW 40.8 billion was imposed retrospectively. The tax payment data of the regional pensioners was acquired in advance to additionally impose an amount of KRW 16.4 billion. Based on the adequate management of the base monthly income, the average the base monthly income of the insured went up by KRW 68,000 while Value A increased 3.2%, providing additional benefits of KRW 32.3 billion a year. Support for Identification of Eligible Beneficiaries Based on Cross-Institutional Collaboration and Information Sharing Higher Reliability Through Proper Application of Premium Support Benefits We strived to enhance the adequacy Insuring the Employers of small businesses find it challenging to subscribe to the national pension, as they have to bear an of premium support benefits in order to raise the reliability of the premium support program and prevent loss additional burden of social insurance premiums despite the premium support given to their low-income employees. of national treasury by blocking unfair receipt among insurance coverage applicants. To this end, we conducted Vulnerable In this regard we cooperate with related institutions (The National Tax Service, Korea Workers' Compensations & monitoring to determine whether workers were aware of the premium support benefits, and established a database Welfare Service, The Ministry of Employment and Labor, and The National Health Insurance Corporation) and share of unfair recipients to be reviewed, including high net worth individuals and those that stay abroad for long terms, pertinent information with them. The NPS extends programs to scale up the underprivileged subscribers through the using internal and external review of big data. We strengthened our review to determine whether premium subsidies identification of eligible targets and support of premium payments. As a result, 562,000 employees at businesses are properly extended to workers in order to protect the workers’ rights. of less than 10 employees have newly subscribed to the pension scheme. Moreover, we encourage the subscription among temporary daily workers with a low subscription rate, utilizing public data such as the income data on daily workers provided by the National Tax Service. NPS Outsourcing Services to Businesses We enhanced the convenience Service of handling tasks for the national pension, as well as the adequacy in Support for Subscription Through Institutional Improvement We have expanded the opportunities for pension qualification management for small businesses by adopting outsourcing Improvements premium payments to more people in preparation for their post-retirement lives. In order to make it possible for services from professional agencies. The NPS signed a cooperation agreement women whose careers were interrupted due to childbirth or child-raising to pay premiums after their waiver period, with heads of outsourcing agencies (The Korean Institute of Certified Public we planed the expansion of the additional payment scheme, and adopted the unemployment credit* scheme for Accountants, The Korean Association of Certified Public Tax Accountants, the unemployed. Moreover, we are in the process of improving the pension scheme so that part-time workers who and The Korea Certified Public Labor Attorneys Association), providing work over 60 hours per month at more than two businesses can subscribe to the national pension. As a result of outsourcing services using the Web-based EDI* for the convenience of small revising upward the threshold income for premium support for low-income earners and extending the coverage businesses. These services cover such tasks as joint application for four major period, low-income earners and workers in the agricultural/fishing professions can now enjoy better benefits. insurances (entry into a company, resignation, etc.) and proprietary reporting on the national pension (changes in the content, exceptions for payment, Career interrupted housewives Possible to pay premiums later The unemployed Covering up to KRW 50,000 for premiums a month etc.). Further details are available on the EDI website of the NPS (https://edi. Resolving the blind spots nps.or.kr). 0.17 million people 4.31 million people affecting 0.82 million people * EDI (Electronic Data Interchange): an electronic citizen service that replaces phone calls, faxing, mailing, or visits in person, and provides a public key certificate; it can 5.25 be used free of charge without membership subscription. Low-income workers Revising upward the ceiling for the premium Part-timers 50% reduction in pension premium payments due to the coverage subscription of businesses to the pension scheme million people Provision of Customer Convenience by Linking with Agricultural Businesses Registry We can now offer accurate 1.38 million people 1.46 million people 0.21 million people counseling to premium support applicants in the agricultural professions who have registered their agricultural business is possible by linking with the registy* held and management by the Ministry of Agricultural, Food, and * Unemployment credits: This is a contribution scheme that involves giving credits to job search benefit recipients who wish to pay pension premiums ― they pay 25% of the premium out-of-pocket, and the government pays the remaining 75% of the premium for that period, which is later added to the total subscription period. Rural Affairs. The application process has been streamlined by the omission of documents to be submitted for 20 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 21 national treasury support The adequacy of national treasury support can now be checked out in real time. This As a result of improving restrictive regulations on the application deadline for the linkage and exclusion of service turned out to be convenience for those involved in agriculture, and contributed to the prevention of unfair calculating the old-age pension benefits, over 14,000 people can now receive public pension. For details, please visit receipt of premium support and loss of national treasury. the Public Pension Linkage System website (http://www.ppsl.or.kr). * Registration of agricultural businesses: Registration of agricultural businesses: a system that registers farming information on workers in the agricultural professions, including details on who is doing what kind of farming and how much of it, which enables the integrated management of individual information for each unit of agricultural business. Expansion of the System to Allow for Delayed Pension Premium Payments The option of delayed payment of premiums was made available to those who could not easily receive pension in their later lives as a result of being excluded from national pension subscription, including career interrupted women. In cases where workers quit their Operation of the National Pension Subscription and Reporting Center There are still cases where workers are jobs and no longer had income, (although they used to subscribe to the national pension), if their spouses were disadvantaged: employers avoiding to register their employees for the national pension; employees failing to get any already subscribed to the national pension or occupational retirement pension, they were excluded (ineligible for benefits by not applying for pension, although they are eligible to get Durunuri* premium support (and even with receipt) from subscription, and restricted from making delayed premium payments. However, under the revised the Durunuri premium coverage, the total amount of premiums are deducted instead of including the subsidies in scheme, if career interrupted women have previously paid premiums, they are allowed to pay premiums at a later the employees’ wages). Against this backdrop, the National Pension Subscription and Reporting Center functions to time in the amount of the missed payments, regardless of their spouse’s subscription to the national pension or prevent the mistreatment of employees and restore their rights. Cases of possible omission from pension coverage occupational retirement pension. This change is expected to enable 3.9 million people, including career interrupted can be reported through the NPS website (www.nps.or.kr) → Go to the Service → National Pension Subscription women, to be protected from the risks of disability or death. and Reporting Center. The NPS will then conduct a review within 14 days from the reporting date, and notify the results to the reporting employees. Employees may also visit a branch of the NPS instead of reporting through the Improvement of Services for Non-Koreans The number of non-Koreans residing in Korea amounts to 1.6 million NPS website, or may call the NPS Call Center (dial 1355 without an area code) for details. * Durunuri Social Insurance: a program that offers partial cover of premiums for employment insurance and for the national pension to small businesses with less than people, among whom there are 230,000 eligible recipients for pension benefits. The NPS is committed to offering 10 employees benefits of the national pension to these extranational residents in this era of globalization. Counseling centers exclusively designed for the non-Korean community and call centers for counseling in foreign languages are up and running. In particular, call centers for counseling in foreign languages enable non-Koreans to obtain counseling Protection of the Public’s InvaluablePersonal Information Korea has recently been exposed to large-scale cyber services anytime, anywhere. In order to reinforce the protection of recipient rights of the non-Korean workers, we infringement incidents. The NPS holds and utilizes a massive amount of personal information, and therefore it needs provide a service that pays lump-sum benefits to non-Koreans at the airport, upon their departure from Korea. Under to preemptively block the theft of this data. In the past, raw data was delivered by the NPS employees in the field this service, 13,000 foreigners who have returned to their home countries were able to easily receive the pension to outsourced DM* companies through a variety of notice letters, in a process that lacked in security and efficiency. benefits. As a fix to this problem, we adopted the DM security solution as a first for a public corporation: sending secured DM output files instead of raw data online (via a VPN network, making it impossible to identify the data even upon recovery or theft of the data); and strengthening the security functions of outsourced DM companies (usage of the Pension Finding of Hidden Pension Benefits Some pension benefits are not claimed by the insured, even if they are NPS’ exclusive PCs, authority registration/certification, automatic file deletion, and control of the access period). As a Services eligible to receive them. To address this issue, we repeatedly inform the insured of the need to claim their benefits; result, the frequency of on-site visits decreased and personal information can now be securely protected. however, there are blind spots in this process, especially when it comes to informing those whose where abouts for All * DM (Direct Mail): entering a list of customers in a database for promotion/product advertisement, printing it on envelops or postcards, and sending them to are unknown, or the socially vulnerable. The NPS is primarily involved in work focusing on the ‘claim’ rather than on customers’ house Beneficiaries ‘informing,’ but customized finding of unclaimed pension benefits has been expanded in cooperation with related ** Raw data: initial data that is prepared for computer processing countries. The number of countries where receipt of pension benefits is possible has gone up under social insurance agreements, and the promoted pension scheme has been able to protect the rights of employees dispatched abroad and of reverse immigrants. As a result, the accumulated claim rate stood at 99.8%, and the number of Improvement Linkage with the Public Pension When workers previously moved to another company without fulfilling the extranational beneficiaries has increased 9.9% compared to the previous year. For unclaimed benefits, please check of the Pension minimum pension subscription period for receiving national pension and occupational retirement pension* benefits, our website (www.nps.or.kr →Beneficiaries →Exclusive for Beneficiaries →Application for/Inquiry on My Pension they had to receive the benefits for each work term in a lump sum. We improved the scheme to guarantee a stable Benefits). System elderly life by linking the cross-pension subscription period for pensioners so they may get pension benefits. Protection of Beneficiaries’ Personal Information We established an e-mail address system which we manage Prior to the linkage Post-linkage securely and efficiently to achieve legal validity of e-mail delivery and offer a solution to personal information National pension Public officials National pension Occupational retirement pension loss. For e-mail addresses, the symbol ‘#’ is used in the place of ‘@’, which primarily blocks hacking of the online Subscribed for less than 10 years In service for less than 20 years Subscribed for less than 10 years Worked for less than 20 years registration system and enables us to check whether the right e-mail address holder received the delivered information. In order to secure the personal information of beneficiaries, we adopted a mechanism to send secure (Over 20 years in total) output files of letters of notice through the VPN network. Upon providing information to outside institutions, Ineligible to receive pension-related data is encrypted so that the information is only provided in the form of an identifier code that only Ineligible to receive the occupational retirement Eligible to receive pension benefits includes the birth date of beneficiaries. The NPS was ranked first in the Ministry of Health and Welfare’s evaluation national pension pension benefits of the level of management and protection of personal information. Lump-sum retirement Receipt from each pension to the full extent of a Lump-sum refund annuity subscription period Provision of Customized Services to Beneficiaries We strive to provide customized services to beneficiaries by use of a system that identifies the various welfare service demands of the beneficiaries. Based on counseling offered * Occupational Retirement Pension: Civil Servant Pension, Teachers’ Pension, Military Pension, Special Post Office Pension, etc. (cases where the pension recipient’s rights to benefit claimants, a total of 16,098 cases of needs were registered, and a further 12,350 cases of services in 16 are guaranteed due to special occupations or qualifications). fields, including NPS journal subscription and newsletter application, were recorded. In addition to benefit payment, 22 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 23 we provide welfare services to the socially vulnerable in order to fulfill our social responsibilities. Moreover, various events are held for beneficiaries, including celebration events for married couple pensioners aged 80 and above and Special Report Support for Preparing for Post-Retirement Through old-age beneficiaries aged 100 and more, trips for healing one’s body and mind, and trips to concerts/sport events. the Basic Pension Accurate Launch of the Recipient Review Department With an increase in the number of beneficiaries, cases of unfair Adoption of the Basic Pension Provision receipt of pension benefits are also on the rise. Preventing fraud and paying pension benefits are essential to The basic pension is a scheme adopted to stabilize the livelihood of the elderly who are not financially prepared our efforts to secure the public’s trust and raise the quality of pension services. To this end, the Recipient Review to face their silver years. There are many senior citizens failing to receive adequate pension benefits because the of Pension Department functions as an exclusive unit for follow-up management tasks aimed at restoring beneficiary rights, history of the national pension is short, which means the subscription period has also been short. The “adoption Benefits of the basic pension scheme” as an election pledge was added to the presidential agenda in May 2013, and with preventing unfair receipt of benefits, and collecting clawbacks in a thorough, fair manner. As a result of its efforts, the amount of dependents’ pension reached an additional KRW 2.84 billion for 12,947 pensioners. The clawback the passing of the Basic Pension Bill by the National Assembly in May 2014, the basic pension scheme took effect occurrence rate vis-a-vis the amount of pension benefits paid reached 0.06%, the highest level globally. in July 2014. Accuracy Through a Multifaceted Management System for Pension Benefits Efforts to make accurate payments Background of the Program of pension benefits are essential, considering the increased complexities of the pension scheme. Due to the buildup After the government announced its plan to align the basic pension with the national pension, negative reactions of legal revisions as well as the increases in the pension benefits, the NPS paid up to KRW 13.1 trillion in benefits in spread out among the public amid controversies related to the proposed measures for adopting the basic pension. 2014. Accordingly, transparency and reliability in the handling of tasks have been enhanced based on standardized People were arguing against a “guaranteed national pension with the basic pension already in place,” calling the counseling and registration procedures in order to assure principled payment of pension benefits throughout measures “a loss for national pension beneficiaries.” This amplified distrust toward the national pension scheme, the whole life of beneficiaries, from initial registration to final payments. A five-step monitoring process prevents leading to a signature campaign against the national pension and the flyaway of 30,000 voluntarily insured persons. possible errors in payment, and enables the preemptive identification of changes in recipient rights, thus preventing The government’s bill on the basic pension was submitted to the National Assembly, but differences in opinion pension clawbacks and the need for additional payments. As a result, the amount of clawbacks dropped 10.5%, between the ruling and opposition parties delayed the passage of the bill, which ended up being ratified only two and the adequate handling rate reached 99.96% in 2014, thus advancing our goals for securing accuracy in months before its implementation. This led to an absolute shortage in the program’s preparation period, including payment. the setup of the information system, preparation of the working manual, and recruitment of relevant personnel. Preventing Unfair Receipt of Pension Benefits There has been a rising public concern over the unfair receipt of pension benefits resulting from an increase in the number of beneficiaries, despite the world-class standards in The Roles and Efforts of the NPS competence and equitability achieved by the NPS. In order to block unfair receipt of pension benefits, prevention The NPS has focused on implementing the pension scheme seamlessly under a tight preparatory schedule, while must be strengthened prior to investigation. We have a process in place for the early discovery of illegal receipt laying advance groundwork for the adoption of the basic pension. We operated a crisis management system of pension benefits, which has allowed us to enhance work efficiency by identifying changes in recipient rights for the headquarters as well as the branches to ease distrust toward the national pension and to respond to the through the use of official data gained from cross-institutional collaboration. We were also able to minimize blind controversies over the basic pension. To recover the public trust, corporation-wide PR activities were undertaken. spots through tighter on-site reviews and expansion of the high-risk target groups. In 2014 we opened a center to A task force for the basic pension came into operation, along with the setup of an information system and the report on illegal receipts, and we continue to discourage such fraud by raising penalties against those who try to creation of a working manual. We informed beneficiaries how to apply for the basic pension so that they would be unfairly obtain benefits. guaranteed with a stable post-retirement income, and conducted various activities to ensure that no senior citizen would be left out of the basic pension scheme. Efforts to Collect Pension Clawbacks Pension clawbacks occur when one’s right to pension benefits expires, is modified, or suspended upon passing away, divorce or remarriage, adoption or cancellation of adoption and failure Performance of Basic Pension to report the fact within 30 days of receiving pension benefits. The ● Accumulated collection rate of Despite the public misunderstandings of the basic pension in its infancy, the scheme is deemed to be greatly (Unit : %) occurrence rate for clawbacks against pension benefits paid is relatively pension clawbacks conducive to better life quality during the silver years, with more people receiving both basic and national pension low, and the accumulated collection rate for completed clawbacks has 96.0 benefits. As of April 2015, 4.41 million senior citizens received basic pension benefits; among them, 4.1 million 95.8 been maintained at a rate exceeding 95%. The NPS prevents clawbacks (93.2%) beneficiaries receive the maximum amount (KRW 202,600). As of the end of last year, the number of 95.0 that occur inevitably due to delayed reporting, and those who receive beneficiaries of both benefits stood at 1.31 million (30%). According to the survey of the National Pension Research them fairly and purposely are subject to stringent disclosure. To this end, Institute, 95.2% of the respondents said that the basic pension was helpful to their livelihood. differentiated collection activities take place by unpaid type, and the status of pension clawbacks is transparently shared on our website. Some 41 types of official datafrom19 institutions, including resident registration data from the Ministry of Government Administration and Home Affairs, 2012 2013 2014 are aligned to identify any changes in recipient rights. Investigation to identify recipient rights takes place with the 93.2 Beneficiaries of % basic pension 30 Beneficiaries of % both basic and national pension aid of information on people who went missing, information provided by hospitals/medical clinics, and information needed to thoroughly investigate cases where death is concealed. As a result, the accumulated collection rate for pension clawbacks has reached 96.0%, up 0.2% from the previous year, which is the highest level among similar domestic institutions. 24 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 25 02 Stable Fund Management WHY Why is fund management material? HOW How is fund management managed? NPS is In total fund reserve of KRW 469.8 trillion The NPS pursue stable fund management Average Annual Earnings Rate managing the 6.21 45% of the amount, equivalent to KRW with 5 key values in principle which are 212.4 trillion, has been generated from the : profitability, stability, liquidity, public fund investment return, which seems to interest, and independence. Return national fund take significant portion of total reserve. As the national pension fund shows gradual on fund management in recent years has fallen short to the expectation and % in a stable way increase in the amount, stability of fund management seems to be ever more somewhat weaker than others, which have raise concern among fund stakeholders. A high level of earning rates among overseas major pension institutions and a stable outcome achieved in important with growing influence in the However, considering the nature of the long-term under national economy. In addition, revenue generation through fund investment will pension fund as a long-term asset, average investment performance in a medium-long * Japan GPIF 1.61%, Canada CPPIB 5.22%, USA CalPERS 5.45%, Netherlands ABP 5.29% Overseas Investments 5 principles. play meaningful role in the stability of longterm at minimum of 5 years seems to be 102.6 term budget operation of the fund, which high enough, compared with the pension KRW will ease the financial burden for our future fund operation in the overseas. The average generation as well. There is also a growing rate of investment return has reached to attention and interest on execution of 6.21% level, since the inception of pension trillion voting right, shareholder’s right and scheme in 1988. Such accomplishment Reinforcing overseas Investments for generating stable responsible investment for the fund. was possible to be made thanks to the profits pursuit of stable management focusing on long-term investment with efficient Recruitment of experts on fund diversification of portfolio in line with management 69 proper risk management. In order to better serve social responsibility and public interest with the fund as a public reserve, NPS people currently manages KRW 6.0007 trillion of SRI fund (Socially Responsible Investment). Expansion on the largest expertise on fund management ever Stakeholder Opinion GRI Aspect Material Issue Material Assessment Results As an insured, I would like to know beneficiaries 90.5points A need to maintain the long-term whether my pension contributions are stability of the fund through profit maximization under safe and sound management, Aligned with Growing investment risk Fund so that I can be well prepared for the business, NPS’ Own Management due to increased financial market volatility Subscribers 81.3points uncertain future and life after retirement Aspect Increase of socio-economic influence in the domestic market Subscriber, Han, Ji-hyeon (40) 26 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 27 portfolio; while overseas equities make up 12.0%, alternative investments at home and abroad 9.9% and overseas fixed income 4.6% of the portfolio. Compared to 2013, the portion of domestic equities, domestic fixed income, and domestic alternatives dropped 1.8%p, 0.6%p, and 0.1%p, respectively, while overseas investments including overseas equities increased 2.6%p. ● Asset Allocation (Unit: KRW 100 million, %, %p) 2013 (A) 2014 (B) Variation (A-B) Type Amount Proportion Amount Proportion Amount Proportion Total Assets 4,269,545 100 4,698,229 100 428,684 Financial Assets 4,264,473 99.9 4,692,534 99.9 428,060 0.0 Equities 1,283,243 30.1 1,405,409 29.9 122,166 -0.1 (Domestic) 839,381 19.7 839,296 17.9 -85 -1.8 Fund reserves of (Overseas) 443,862 10.4 566,113 12 122,251 1.7 KRW We will gain the public’ s trust through sustainable and sound fund management. Fixed income 1) 2,578,003 60.4 2,820,574 60 242,571 -0.3 469.8 trillion We will strive to become a more beloved and reliable institution in the eyes of the public and stakeholders through equitable and transparent fund management processes. (Domestic) (Overseas) 2,393,441 184,562 56.1 4.3 2,605,382 215,192 55.5 4.6 211,941 30,630 -0.6 0.3 Alternative 403,227 9.4 466,550 9.9 63,323 0.5 Investment (Domestic) 205,407 4.8 221,915 4.7 16,509 -0.1 (Overseas) 197,820 4.6 244,635 5.2 46,814 0.6 Management Establishment and Functions of the National Pension Fund The National Pension Fund was established under Welfare 2) 1,249 0.03 1,264 0.03 15 0.0 of the the objectives of financing national pension projects in a seamless manner and creating enough reserves for pension 3) Others 3,823 0.1 4,431 0.1 608 0.0 benefits. The income source of the National Pension Fund is pension premiums and investment returns. The residual National Note1) Including the short-term fund (KRW 1,574.16 billion) from the income, after deduction of expenses such as pension benefits for pensioners and operation expense for 2) Welfare: Welfare Town (Cheong Pung Resort), lease of facilities for welfare/the elderly support for credit repair and the emergencies, emergency fund for the elderly (National Pension Fund Pension Silver Loan) the management, becomes the source of investment. In accordance with the fund investment plan deliberated and 3) Others: Operation of the NPS Building, deposit fund. approved by the National Pension Fund Management Committee, fund investment will be divided into three major sectors which are financial sectors, welfare sectors and others. Investment in financial sector breaks down to equities, fixed incomes, and alternatives in terms of asset type or to internal management and external management based on Share of the Fund Scale to the National Economy Financial investments of the National Pension Fund amounts to the management type. KRW 469.8 trillion as of late 2014, taking up 32.9% of Korea’s GDP. Domestic equity investments of the fund stand In terms of investment destination, it can be broadly divided into domestic and foreign investment as well. The initial at 6.3% as of late 2014, along with domestic bond investments of 13.8%. amount of fund reserves was KRW 530 billion, when pension fund was first launched in 1988, but having increased to staggering figure of KRW 580.3 trillion which becomes the source of spending for KRW 110.5 trillion on pension Nominal GDP* Domestic Equities Market Domestic Bond Market benefits and KRW 469.8 trillion investments in financial assets. The amount of assets in terms of market value aggregates to KRW 470 trillion as of late 2014, up KRW 43 trillion from 427 KRW trillion, recorded at the end of 2013. The fund assets consist of the financial interests (99.9%), 32.9 % 6.3 % 13.8 % welfare interests (0.03%), and others (0.1%). In the financial area, domestic fixed income amounts to KRW 260.5 * Nominal GDP is reflected as of the end of 2014. The percentage against the GDP is compared with the total amount in the financial sector. trillion, taking up 55.5% of the portfolio; domestic equities amount to KRW 83.9 trillion, that is, 17.9% of the ● Fund Reserves by Year (Assets Under Management) (Unit : KRW trillion) Stable Fund Management We strive to maximize the management of income under five fund management 469.8 principles: profitability, stability, public good, liquidity, and independence in management. As of 2014, KRW 212.4 427.0 trillion, that is, 45% of KRW 469.8 trillion has been raised as accumulated fund management earnings since 1988. 392.0 348.9 For certain years, return of the fund management was relatively low, but the annualized average rate of return of the 324.0 277.6 National Pension Fund stood at 6.21% since the scheme started, achieving stable performance over the long haul. 235.4 219.5 189.6 163.9 Return on Investment Rate of Return in 2014 The Annualized Average Rate of Return KRW 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 212.4 trillion 5.25 % 6.21 % 28 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 29 Investment Investment Diversification to Secure a Stable Profit Base In an economy defined by continued low growth and Increasing Earning Rates of Overseas Fixed income The amount of overseas fixed income investments reached KRW Diversification low interest rates, we have expanded investment in global high-yield assets in order to generate stable profits, and 21,519.2 billion in 2014, up KRW 3.063 trillion compared to 2013. The directly managed fixed income went up KRW we have initiated the development and adoption of new management strategies to help achieve higher profitability. 1,723.6 billion, and consignment management increased KRW 1,339.4 billion year on year, so the portion compared to and Securing The portions of domestic and overseas equities, alternative investments, and overseas investments have increased the total financial assets stood at 4.6%, which is similar with the level for 2013. As for the percentage held by type of of Comfrom the past, when our investment strategy was mostly oriented toward fixed domestic income. The portion overseas fixed income, government fixed income and corporate fixed income turned out to be as high as 48.29% and petitiveness of investment in equities stood at 23.1% in 2010 and increased to 29.9% as of 2014; alternative investments 33.52%, respectively, while government-related fixed income and securitized fixed income were as low as 17.7% and in Overseas increased from 5.8% to 9.9%; and overseas investments went up from 12.5% to 21.8%. By identifying asset 0.49%, respectively. The return of overseas fixed income in 2014 reached 9.23%, significantly up 0.39% from 2013. Investments groups and products not previously invested and the conditions attached in order to enhance mid-and long-term Directly managed fixed income exceeded the target by 0.36%p via-vis the benchmark thanks to the effective management management income despite low growth and low interest rates, we plan to continuously diversify investment of EM fixed incomes of China, etc., as well as the use of currency-specific differentiation strategies. The portion of targets and strategies at home and abroad. consignment management soared 0.91% to 9.03% compared to 2013. The excess return of overseas fixed income visà-vis the benchmark reached -0.44%p in 2014. The average return for the past three years dropped 0.31%p, while the 17.0% 17.9% 20% over Domestic Equities 0.2% 0.1% average excess return for the past five years was 6.10%. The excess yield for overseas fixed income based on US dollars 5.8% 9.9% 10% over 4.1% 6.1% 4.6% 10% less Overseas Equities dropped 0.48%p, which is attributable to slowed performance in emerging markets due to shrinkage in the raw materials 12.0% 10% over Domestic Fixed markets. Income KRW KRW KRW 324 2010 trillion 470 2014 trillion 669 2018 trillion Overseas Fixed Income Alternative U.K. Gatwick Airport 40 Grosvenor Place Helmsley Building Macerich Shopping Mall U.S.A. Colonial Pipeline Investment 66.8% 55.5% 50% less Others London Office New York Office Germany Sony Center Expansion of Overseas Investments A need has emerged for the national pension to step outside the domestic Seoul capital market, whose scale is smaller than the fund’s, and to minimize the market shock resulting from asset France O’ Parinor liquidity. We plan to raise the stability of our portfolios through globally diversified investment and expand new Spain Islazul Shopping Mall Singapore Office Brazil Mining Companies investment targets to include assets structured for various types of incomes and risks. Since the beginning of the national pension’s overseas investments (KRW 100 billion) in 2001, the amount of the fund’s overseas investments Singapore Jem Shopping Mall has continued to rise, reaching KRW 102.6 trillion as of 2014 (21.8%). The portion of overseas investments is expected to steadily increase up to 2019 (to exceed 25%), and its value is expected to reach about KRW 200 trillion. There are Global Equity Division and Global Alternative Division under the Fund Management Office for global investment. Following the opening of New York Office in 2011, London and Singapore office was launched in 2012 Aurora Place Australia East Link and 2015 respectively. For the National Pension Fund, a planning office dedicated to the creation of a master plan for overseas investments was formed mostly from mostly private specialists, in line with our plans to expand overseas investments. We have clarified our strategies for overseas investments and execution tasks for the next five years, based on which we plan to devise and execute detailed plans. ● Scale and Composition of Overseas Investment Status by Year (Unit: KRW trillion, (%)) Increased Rates of Return for Alternative Investments The amount of alternative investment as of late 2014 aggregates to KRW 46,655 billion with an increase of 15.7% compared with 2013. The total return of alternative investments in 2014 Type 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 takes 12.3%, showing significant increase from 6.4% of 2013. The return in domestic alternative investments accounts Total Fund 324 348.9 392 427 469.8 for 9.2%, along with 15.2% of global alternative investment. Such decrease in performance is because of: clearer signals 40.6 45.9 64.1 82.6 102.6 Overseas Investment of the U.S. economic recovery, improved performance for enterprises, economic turnaround in the real estate market in (12.5) (13.2) (16.3) (19.4) (21.8) major advanced countries, and a lower interest rate. Overseas Overseas Equities 19.9 19.7 31.3 44.4 56.6 Investment Overseas Fixed Income 13.3 14.6 18.1 18.4 21.5 Overseas Alternative 7.4 11.6 14.7 19.8 24.5 Expansion of Overseas Equities As of late 2014, the amount of investment for overseas equities for the national pension stood at KRW 56,611.3 billion based on current market value, up KRW 12,225.1 billion compared to 2013. In terms of the percentage by region, it stands at 53.5% in the North America and 24.2% in Europe. As for the MSCI AC World Index ex Korea, there was a drop of 3.3%p for the North America and an increase of 0.8%p for Europe. In the overseas equities investments, the yield reached 8.94% due to continued economic recovery in the U.S. and reforms in the emerging Asian markets. With shrinkage of active consignment management due to spreading concerns over the ending of quantitative easing in the U.S., the return has fallen 0.02%p below the benchmark. 30 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 31 Risk The Risk Management System Due to the diversification of its portfolios including expanded investment in risky assets the Reinforcement Professional Fund Management Division The NPS established the Fund Management Division in November 1999 Management NPS is striving to strengthen its risk management and capabilities for responsiveness. We manage risks preemptively and of the Fund to systematically and professionally manage the National Pension Fund. The division mostly consists of specialists systematically to effectively respond to changes in the investment environment through an integrated risk management diversely experienced in professional investment including analysis of the financial market, investment in financial in Fund Management system that oversees all of the fund’s assets. The entire risk management process, including awareness, diagnostics and products and risk management. Multifaceted efforts are underway to secure human and physical infrastructure to Management Capacity setup of response measures is constantly reviewed and improved, and preemptive risk management capacities such as efficiently initiate investment diversification and preemptively respond to changes in the investment environment scenario analysis have been intensified. Risk management business units have been sophisticated by specific asset group, over the medium and long haul. We will continue to strive in establishing an advanced IT system, creating a stable and their linkage with the fund management performance analysis system has been strengthened in order to support work environment to secure and maintain competent human resources and improving the compensation scheme. effective investment decision making. In 2014, we carried out initiatives to implement tasks for specific application of national risk management by revising organization of investments, including investment portions by country, refining ways Talented Workforce for Fund Management NPS is taking systematic approach with medium-term workforce to diagnose the status of risk reduction and outlining guidelines for consignment management. Seeking to beef up risk plan to strengthen global competitiveness. Under the slogan that the top expertise lies in ability of stable fund management for alternative investments, we expanded a list of items for review based on the Key Risk Indicator (KRI). As a management, we explored investment opportunities preemptively. We opened Singapore Office in 2015 to serve result, we can now ensure the diversification of the risks of items under review and the recognition of prevention functions as a gateway for global investments, and recruited 69 employees dedicated to fund management. By steadily for risk signals prior to yield aggravation. We have also launched the Investment Management Committee as an exclusive increasing the number of specialists amid a greater scale of the fund and expansion of overseas and alternative follow-up management body tasked to carry out in-depth risk inspection for risky assets. investment, we will ensure that fund amount per manager which stood at KRW 2.2 trillion in 2014, could be reduced to the level of amount in advanced countries. (KRW 0.43~0.91 trillion per head). Dedicated Risk Management Division In order to intensively manage risks related to fund management, the NPS has launched the Risk Management Department as part of the Fund Headquarters. The department was subsequently upgraded to the Risk Management Center in 2014. Due to the need to strengthen foreign exchange management capacity and exchange risk management in order to meet increased investments abroad, we launched dedicated division for foreign exchange management. In addition, we operate the Risk Management Committee led Reinforcement Facilitation of Socially Responsible Investment Considering the ● NPS SRI Investment (Unit: KRW 100 million) by the chief executive as a chairman with members of external specialists. Moreover, the Investment Management impact of the fund on the national economy and a greater national of Public Roles 62,610 60,007 Committee as a post-investment management review body that deliberates on major matters related to the postinterest in social responsibilities, we are phasing in activities meant management of assets acquired by the fund. Internal control of fund management is independently carried out by of the Pension 52,444 to intensify the public roles of the national pension over the medium compliance officers. Internal audit is conducted by NPS along with constant audit by external auditors, the Board of Fund and long term. We started management of the SRI Fund in 2006 as 34,497 Audit of Inspection of Korea and the National Assembly. a form of consignment management of domestic equities, as part of 23,632 our socially responsible investment strategy. The SRI Fund was worth National Finance Act, National Pension Act KRW 6.0007 trillion as of the end of 2014. Its yearly average yield, National Assembly Fund Management Committee since its setup until the end of 2014, stood at 6.73%, hinting at an National Assembly Inspection Policy Determination excess yield of 2.93% vis-à-vis the benchmark. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 Fund The NPS strives to diversify investment targets by adopting the concept of ‘corporate partnership’ with domestic Management enterprises, and seeks for global joint investment opportunities with high-yield domestic enterprises so that new · Developing investment opportunities yields and investment schemes can be secured. The targets for corporate partnership have been broadened from the · Preliminary Review · Execution of Investment existing high-yield large enterprises to SMEs and mid-sized firms with relatively big growth potentials. Through such Board of Audit and Inspection Ministry of Health and Welfare · Follow-up Management partnerships, we have been able to diversify the fund’s global investment portfolios and at the same time contribute Institution Audit Oversee·Supervision to the growth of promising SMEs and mid-sized firms. Minimum prerequisites for partnership must be met among Risk Management Center, Compliance Officer, Internal Audit domestic management candidate enterprises as we continue to invest in overseas equities and fixed income under the initiative of shared growth with SMEs and mid-sized firms. Risk Management for Global Investment It has become essential for us to strengthen foreign exchange Expansion of External Management External management of the fund is in place to enhance investment return management functions due to expanding portfolios of overseas investment. In this regard, we devised measures and hedge risks by leveraging the expertise of external management companies. We have diversified schemes for for risk management as we started to manage short-term funds in foreign currencies, while reviewing measures to external management by expanding the utilization of preliminary management companies in the fields of domestic manage exchange risks. We also adopted the country risk management standard for the first time in Korea, taking fixed income and domestic alternatives, while expanding the types of domestic equity assets outsourced to external preemptive approach on different level of sovereign risk by country. NPS internally performed risk rating on 71 managers. Internal management and external management are used in parallel, giving consideration to the scale countries in total, established risk exposure* ceiling and selected 5 counties with investment restriction including of the fund. However, the portion and amount of external management by asset is subject to the approval of the Egypt. We also came up with measures on the integrated management system for foreign exchanges, setting the Fund Management Committee. Selection and supervision of management companies must be performed in a appropriate hedging ratio** vis-à-vis the overall overseas investment scale. We strengthened our control over foreign fair manner by following the standard guideline. NPS encourages the adoption of GIPS to external managers for exchange risks by managing the currency basket in consideration of the exchange rate outlook, and established an the objective comparison on the investment performance. This contributes to the development of the domestic efficient counter mechanism against foreign exposure risks. financial in addition to the selection and supervision of consignment management companies. We conduct constant * Exposure: the amount exposed to risks review of the reporting content, the investment records for consignment funds, yields, and trends of management ** Hedge ratio: the unit of futures or option contracts needed for one unit of cash equivalents in using the futures or options market to avert price volatility risks of assets held 32 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 33 companies/fund managers of management companies, trustee companies, and rating agencies. We also periodically evaluate and try to determine whether management companies comply with the consignment management Special Report Depletion of the National Pension Fund agreements and management performance standards in order to decide on whether or not to continue working Should I expect to get no pension at all when the fund is depleted? with any of the associated management companies. Voting Right Execution Voting rights on equities held by the fund are exercised for the purpose of increasing the Q. I am 25 years old and I just started working at a company. This year I got paid for first time, and I signed up pension assets. The voting is duly conducted in good faith to benefit of the insured and beneficiaries, and is expcted for the national pension plan. However, I heard in the news that the pension funds will run out in 2060, so even to contribute to the shareholder value over the long term. Standard and procedure as well as public announcement though I'll be paying into the program for 40 years, I won't get any money back. What am I supposed to do? regarding voting right execution will follow the ‘Guideline on the Exercise of the Voting Right for the National Pension Fund’ prescribed by the Fund Management Committee. In principle, NPS will be the one in charge of voting A. The scale of the National Pension Fund is closely linked to the national pension scheme. In the Korean national right execution. However, for decisions with difficulties to reach an agreement, the special committee on voting pension scheme, which is not fully mature yet, there is a significantly higher number of insured persons than right execution will make decision instead. In the 2010 Guideline on the Exercise of the Voting Right, it is indicated, beneficiaries, leading to a buildup of reserves on end. Pension experts categorize Korea’s scheme as a ‘partially “The Fund shall exercise the voting right in consideration of socially responsible investment factors including the funded system’ based on this phenomenon (where a portion of the premiums is paid to beneficiaries in the form of environment (E), society (S) and governance (G).” The related guideline was revised in February 2014: “The Fund pension benefits, with the remainder accumulated as a fund). The partially funded system will inevitably convert to a shall exercise the voting right in consideration of socially responsible investment factors including the environment, ‘pay-as-you-go system’ once the pension scheme matures. The fund’s reserves, now exceeding KRW 500 trillion, will society and governance to achieve a stable yield.” Since there are differing stances on the exercise of the likely reach a peak of KRW 2,561 trillion in 2043. However, as the number of pensioners continues to rise amid low shareholders’ right let alone the voting right, we strive to devise rational methods and procedures to strike a balance birth rates and aging societal trends, the fund will be subject to greater expenses than premium incomes starting between the shareholder value and corporate management right by taking internal and external opinions fully. from 2043, and will be depleted by around 2060. In order to enhance a long-term investment return, fulfill our roles of an institutional investor as a management watchdog, and contribute to higher corporate transparency and advancement of the capital market, we will do Yet, this projection is merely based on a scenario that maintains the current premium rate (9%) and the payment our best to ensure equitability and transparency by comprehensively considering the impact on the market while rate (1%). The government, as the managing entity of the fund, makes estimates of the national pension every five considering the opinions of experts and stakeholders. years and amends the fund management plans accordingly. Thus, the fund might increase if premium rates go up and the payment rates are modified through pension reform. In other words, the scheme is constantly being revised Transparent Information Disclosure of the National Pension Fund We transparently disclose information on to stabilize and finance the national pension and assure its sustainability. Even if the current pension scheme is left fund management so that the insured, beneficiaries and other stakeholders can easily understand the operational intact by 2060 and the fund becomes depleted, pensioners would still get their pensions. In Korea, a part of the status and directions chosen by the fund. The head of the Fund Management Committee discloses the following premiums is accumulated as a fund, but in advanced countries, where pension schemes have been up and running according to Article 107-4 of the National Pension Act and Article 87 of its Enforcement Decree: fund management for over 100 years, a pension fund is accumulated only at the beginning, and once the pension scheme matures, guidelines, fund management plans, fund management regulations, financial statements, status and yield of the resources needed to be paid for a certain year are collected in the same year under a pay-as-you-go system. portfolio management, records of investments, and records of the exercise of the voting rights. Information on fund management is available on the NPS website (fund.nps.or.kr) and the website of the Ministry of Health and In the U.S., Japan, and Europe, which have adopted their pension schemes in the early 1900s, their respective funds Welfare (www.mw.go.kr). Disclosure of information on the national pension is restricted in cases that might hugely were almost depleted in the mid-1990s, so these countries now take the pay-as-you-go approach. However, there impact the market upon disclosure and thus disrupt the normal operations of fund management. In other words, has been no single country to date that has stopped payment of ● Trend of National Pension Fund (Unit : KRW trillion) we strive to disclose the related content as much as possible within the scope of causing no side effects due to pensions among the 170 countries that have implemented a public In case of maintaining premium rate (9%) and the payment rate (1%) the disclosure of the information. This prevents the loss of the pension ― an invaluable public asset ― due to lower pension system. 2,561 external competitiveness in fund management resulted from excessive exposure of strategies for portfolios and their management, and assures the removal of disruptive factors against equitable transactions in the small domestic Nevertheless, significant anxieties over the pension fund’s depletion capital market. Maintaining transparency of the management of the National Pension Fund and its management are attributable to the public’s mentality that assumes that the 1,732 performance is essential to build trust among the public and understanding of our relationship with related national pension is a form of ‘saving,’ where you get as much as pay: institutions, as well as maintaining our principles of equitability and good faith. Therefore, We will therefore do our when the fund is gone, no money will be paid back. However, the 847 best to disclose information within a rational scope and to maintain the trust in the management of the National national pension is a social insurance whereby the economically active 514 Pension Fund. generation supports the previous generation, and the following -280 generation supports the current one, so this form of social insurance 2015 2020 2030 2043 should rather be looked upon as cross-generational solidarity. 2060 34 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 35 03Ethical Management with Integrity WHY Why is an ethical management HOW How is an ethical management material? managed? NPS will Ethical management is deemed as a critical The NPS has authorized the National Evaluation of the Management Status for practice factor that can have a huge impact on the Pension Service Charter in 2000 to enact a 87.09 Information Security of Public Institutions sustainability of a company, going beyond process of transparent ethical management. a company’s basic steps of achieving In order to put this process of systematic clean and compliance. Accordingly, public demand for social responsibility from companies has and organized ethical management in practice, we stipulated and announced points transparent heightened, and companies that have failed to respond appropriately have become the a code of ethics, a charter of ethics, and a code of actions for employees, in a Awarded the‘Most Excellent’grade on the National Intelligence Service's evaluation for 3 years in a row targets of criticism, putting their survival proactive effort to engage the participation ethical at risk. Due to the nature of a public institution, its impact on the society is of employees. The NPS places a top priority on ethically managing the actions and Cyber Attacks and Infringement Incidents management. zero significant, requiring more stringent ethical value judgments of its employees across all management principles than a private of its management activities. We minimize entity. The NPS, as a public institution that unjust acts and risks that might result from is accountable for the post-retirement life a lack of ethical awareness on the behalf of of the public is, no doubt, in operation employees and suppliers. For this, various Achieved‘Zero’ cyber infringement incidents based on the public’s trust. The principles systems are in place: the Integrity Pact, an for 3 consecutive years of ethical management, therefore, will be external accounting audit, the mandatory enshrined more thoroughly, and employees usage of the Clean Card, an electronically Number of Participants in Ethical Training will be required to do their work with an negotiated contract system, and the ethical mind-set. operation of the Clean Reporting Center. 11,135 people Participation averaged 2 times per person through various education programs, including on/offline Since the NPS deals with the public’s personal information, it thoroughly reviews whether this information is being used for official purposes through a constant monitoring system, and stringently applies its policies upon identification of any Stakeholder Opinion GRI Aspect Material Issue Material Assessment Results wrongdoings. All employees take part in Employees 88.3points ethical training and apply these lessons in Demand of stakeholders for anti-corruption and integrity Ethics and Integrity their daily work with a full sense of ethical A need for information disclosure and satisfying people’s right to Anti-corruption Ethical accountability.” know such as Government 3.0 Customer InformaManagement Suppliers Customer Support Division Assistant Manager Strengthening information protection following private information leaks tion Protection 71.2points Ahn, Hong-sik 36 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 37 key role in making decisions on the direction and action guidance of the ethical management system. The Social Responsibility Management Committee was launched within the Board of Directors to intensify corporate-wide monitoring of the ethical management system we employ. We also operate an Integrity Ombudsman system through use of national pension advisors who monitor the integrity of on-site organizations (by district). In addition, we ensure that members of the Anti-Corruption & Integrity Promotion Group include members of the public to secure transparency, as part of our anti-corruption checks. Site -oriented Promotion of Preventive Ethical Measures We enact preventive ethical measures by identifying the areas of Ethical work vulnerable to ethical management based on the analysis of internal and external issues and the gathering of stakeholder opinions. In order to safeguard the management of the fund, were view phone and email usage records Management and approve the use of email and messenger systems for fund management positions on a quarterly basis, and Measures make use of an exclusive space and personnel in order to maintain information security and block any risks of fund Level of ethical awareness among information leakage. We also make an effort to prevent any potential acts of inequitable transactions based on inside employees We will enhance reliability by reinforcing ethical management. information by monitoring the employees’ (and their families’) dealings in equities associated with fund management. As for the area of contracting, a system to select contracts by evaluators was put in place to enable random selections 94.5 points We will further strive to raise the stakeholder’ ethics in our decision-making process and actions. s trust upon us under the principle on by the Contract Supervision Department (previously, departments involved in the selection of contracts conducted their own selection of contracting parties). Efforts to Promote Ethical Management Measures The NPS encourages the application of ethical principles in the daily lives of our employees. To this end, we offer incentives, encourage leaders to apply ethics in their work, run Reinforcement Ethical Management Values and Implementation of its Principles The NPS has authorized the National Pension integrity action units, and provide integrity training to public officials throughout their service cycle. We offer ethical Service Charter in 2000 to put in practice a transparent and ethical management process, and stipulated a code of management promotion programs befitting each category of participants, and provide related institutions with the of the Ethical actions for its employees, which served as the ethical standard for their actions. We strive to create a transparent know-how to prevent bloated management structures within parent companies. Management corporate culture under the goal ‘Realization of trusted and clean NPS,’ which aligns well with our corporate-wide ● Operation of Ethical Management Promotion Programs Suitable for Each Class System management strategies. We have made the ethical norms we employ more robustly reflective of our ethics charter, Propagating the NPS’ commitment for ethical management action including the inclusion of the code of ethics, and code of actions. General Public integrity slogan via available media e.g. ring tone with a message on the NPS at call centers (the number is 1355), letters of introduction to beneficiaries and subscribers ● The Ethical Norms System Conducting meetings with suppliers for integrity practice and the sharing of challenges particular to Ethics charter Code of Ethics Code of actions Suppliers each company (declarative standard) (basic regulations for action) (a specific standard for actions) * Held in September 2014 with CEOs and employees representing 51 suppliers The National Pension Ethics Regulations for Practicing Social Regulations on the Management of Job Integrity Contract Reviewing activities among participating institutions and sharing best practices by operating an Charter Responsibility Management for Executives (executives) By class Related Institutions autonomous body for preventing corruption and promoting integrity among related institutions* Covers pledges on legal Social responsibility management, Integrity Pact (heads of departments ad above) * Five institutions including the Ministry of Health and Welfare, The National Health Insurance Corporation, and The compliance, respect for social contribution, ethics & Code of Actions for All employees (all employees) Government Employees Pension Service character and customer integrity, responsible investment, Code of Ethics for the National Pension Fund Publishing the Social Responsibility Management Report for three consecutive years and satisfaction, etc. and basic regulations on By job type Integrity Pact conducting activities to endorse the UN Global Compact (UNGC*) Local & International Communities environmental conservation Code of Ethics for Consultant on Successful Aging (CSA) * UNGC: an international body under the umbrella of the UN that demands companies and institutions to fulfil their social responsibilities Improvement of the Organizational System for Ethical Management In order to systematically respond to such issues as ethics and integrity, the Social Responsibility Management Committee headed by the chairman plays a Ethical Ethical Training for All Employees We run layered ethical training programs for all employees, which are Management different from uniform and standardized ones: Step 1.Overview of basic theories; Step 2.Case studies; and Step 3. Discussions. Various programs are in operation, including online and offline courses. In 2014, 11,135 employees Social Responsibility Management Committee Audit Training participated in ethical training. Advisory Committee on Social Responsibility Programs ● Operation of Various Online and Offline Training Programs (Unit: Number of people) Expert Committee on Social Responsibility Management Type Program Personnel Working-Level Committee on Social Responsibility Management Officers in charge of the code of actions Training on dilemmas of ethical training 2,259 Social Responsibility Risk Management Planning & Legal Management Compliance officers Division Department Accounting Audit Division Online CSR Cyber Training 498 internal control of the Department Department asset operation & management of integrity ethics fund management legal risks deliberating on contracts Video training on integrity 4,955 Integrity Action Group Integrity Ombudsman On-site training on integrity 3,392 107 branches 230 people Ethical & Integrity Action Committee Anti-Corruption & Integrity Promotion Group Offline Group training 31 38 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 39 Customized Training for Relevant Employees We offer customized training for employees required to have a and branches. Of particular note, the resident registration number of people was replaced with the NPS number, thorough sense of ethics. In this regard, we have conducted training on sustainable management to meet ISO blocking any possibilities of leakage. As a result, the NPS registered the maximum score in the personal information 26000 guidelines, as well as intensive training on socially responsible management for employees involved in protection survey of the Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2014, and was designated as ‘an excellent institution’ for contracting and leaders expected to practice principles of ethics and integrity. For employees involved in overseas five consecutive years. investments, training on the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) aimed to prepare trainees against potential ethical risks in the process of conducting overseas investments. Operation of Higher Expertise and Independence in Audits We run programs to develop audit specialists, including a system the Internal for mandatory taking of audit courses suitable for individual careers and aimed at strengthening expertise in auditing. We have also implemented a promotion system based on the length of service in the Audit Division, and Special Report Spreading Best Practices of Ethical Management Control NPS recognizes ethical management as a core factor for sustainable growth and development. reinforced the Audit Advisory Committee’s operations. Additionally, we have expanded collaborative audits led System by working-level employees in charge, while also fully utilizing external specialists in order to raise effectiveness in specific-area audits. We strive to achieve more equitable audits by securing independent working conditions for auditors, and by preventing any unfair treatment in the appointment or evaluation of auditors. Communicating Our Practices of Ethical Management through UN Global Compact In order to improve sustainable growth through the pursuit of international standards and corporate social responsibility, Efficient Management of the Internal Audit System Current auditing methods need to change with the increase the NPS has been in compliance with its corporate citizenship and social justice responsibilities since October 2012, when in the number of auditing targets and a changing audit environment. To meet these changes, we put in place risk it joined the UNGC (UN Global Compact), a voluntary and international agreement for social responsibility. The UNGC evaluation models that take job features into consideration, converting to a risk-based audit system focused on was created at the proposal of Kofi Atta Annan, former Secretary-General of the United Nations. The Compact was four areas (control level, job, customers, and discipline) whereby business units are subject to risk evaluation (eight inaugurated in 1999 and launched in 2000 to implement social and environmental principles across the globe. Its purpose evaluation items for departments at the headquarters and 13 items for the branches). We have also launched an is to provide the framework for combining the UN Global Compact’s 10 principles with corporate strategy in the form of audit unit tasked to prevent a bloated management system, and an audit unit for reviewing the fund’s alternative human rights, labor, and environment, as well as to develop a social rationality among global corporations and markets. investments and risk management. Moreover, our IT-based internal audit system, which includes the e-audit system, At NPS, we communicate our practices of ethical management by forwarding our social responsibility report as a CoP and the fund audit system have been further strengthened. (Communication on Progress) to the UNGC website. UNGC Enrolled Communication on Progress Activity Verification (UNGC) Impact (Spread) Declaration of implementing 10 Social responsibility activities; Reviewing the adequacy Registering the report ReinforceCountermeasures Against Cyber Threats Thorough inspections and stringent controls must be instituted at principles in the form of human Social Responsibility of the report on the UNGC website the NPS in light of personal information leakage. To this end, we revised upward the position of the CISO (Chief rights, labor, environment, and Management Report ment of the anti-corruption Information Security Officers) to the head of IT Division (an executive level position) and launched the Information Information Security Department for the exclusive purpose of information protection. We also increased the number of Security Sharing the Values of Ethical Management through the UNGC Youth CSR Conference information security personnel to eight, including specialists capable of security management. We are continuously Management The UNGC Network Korea organized the 2nd Youth CSR Conference in July 2014 at Kyung Hee University under the blocking cyber attacks through our 3-Step Response System, and we continue to uncover and resolve weaknesses theme of ‘Challenges for Building a Sustainable Future.’ With participating university students and graduate students from System in security to protect against cyber terrorism threats. As a result, we were awarded the highest level of points (96.9) ASEAN 5 countries (Malaysia, Vietnam, Singapore, Indonesia and the Philippines), the proposal for the NPS’s CSR strategy in the national infrastructure security level inspection, up 3.1 points from the previous year. was selected for an excellence award at the conference. It is meaningful that the NPS, as a member of UNGC, is leading ● Flow chart for the 3-Step Response System the efforts on socially responsible management and that our employees are doing their best for developing a pension Step 1 in Security Control Step 2 in Security Control Step 3 in Security Control system that is thoroughly communicated to the young generation, who are to be its future pension subscribers. (NPS) (Cyber Security Center under the Ministry of Health and Welfare) (National Cyber Security Center) Presenting Best Practices at the UNGC Round Table Conference of Korea, China and Japan Real-time log compilation and detection against intrusion threats The NPS presented the best practices of our ethical management system at the UNGC Round Table Conference between Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Step 4 Step 5 Step 6 Step 7 Korea, China, and Japan, which was held in Tokyo in August 2014. This annual conference was started in 2009 in a Preventing Blocking bid to increase and spread the public’s awareness in ethical management and CSR in East Asia through a strengthening Outside Countering Server DB DB intrusions intrusions WEB firewall partnership among the UNGC network of Korea, China, and Japan. The NPS presented cases of ethical management in intrusion DDoS security firewall encryption (IPS) (firewalls) areas such as the strengthening of policy for proxy voting rights and the evaluation of ethical management of bidding companies, and revealed our willingness to be an exemplary institution for socially responsible management. Stronger Protection of Personal Information As we hold a massive amount of sensitive information (such as income information, family relations, etc.), our ability to perform our given tasks is critically dependent on the protection of personal information. When employees seek to access personal information, the due reason is 100% verified by our improved monitoring system. We have also developed the NPS Privacy Impact Assessment (NPSPIA) model, through which we explore tasks for improvement and take relevant actions. Training on personal information protection takes place for all employees, as suitable for their job type. The managerial level of the NPS is also monitored along with the review of the personal information protection system in all departments 40 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 41 04Community Development and Welfare Services WHY Why is community development and HOW How is community development and NPS will grow welfare service material? Corporate social contribution activities welfare services managed? The NPS strives to contribute to the Social Contribution Awareness Survey together 1 have recently developed in the directions society by leveraging its techniques and of donation, volunteerism, and resolving competencies to the best of its abilities. To social issues in communities. The duties this end, we seek to enhance our mediumwith local and functions of the NPS are significantly broad and are closely linked to people’s and long-term competitive edge beyond reaching out to the underprivileged; we st place Recorded 1st place in social contribution (in the communities. lives. We extend old-age pensions to people who have reached a threshold in also seek to contribute to the growth of communities by developing and running category of public institutions) for 5 consecutive years in awareness surveys of nationwide university students age and fulfilled subscription requirements, strategic social contribution programs. as well as pensions for the disabled and Since the opening of our headquarters Generation of jobs in the private sector 3,944 the bereaved with some conditions building in Jamsil in October 2011, the attached. Moreover, we also conduct tasks NPS has launched ‘NPS Café 36.5’ in in support of the public’s preparation for five locations. As a result, some spaces post-retirement life, as well as tasks related in our buildings could be used free of people to the disabled, including making decisions charge, leading to job creation for the on the grades of disabilities. Since the underprivileged and enabling us to fulfill Launched investment businesses and strengthened scope of stakeholders impacting and being our social responsibilities by donating 50% private partnerships impacted by the NPS is wide, the NPS’ of the revenues from cafes to those in Satisfaction with the National Pension roles of contributing to the community need. We also support traditional markets Silver Loan 91.8 and disseminating social responsibilities are to invigorate the local economy (and a becoming ever more important. certain revenue portion is deducted from the traditional markets and contributed as a social contribution fund), while our % employees are proactively engaged in volunteering. We also systematically assist Provided KRW 27.6 billion in National Pension the public in navigating through their Silver Loans elderly life with retirement preparation services. The relocation of the NPS is expected to serve as a new growth engine for the local economy. The know-how and competencies of the NPS will enable local residents to live a better life, and bigger synergies are expected if the NPS continues to serve as a driving force for Stakeholder Opinion GRI Aspect Material Issue Material Assessment Results other institutions that have already been Beneficiaries 73.9points relocated to the Innovative City in JeonjuWorsening job insecurity due to youth Community si, Jeollabuk-do, for the shared growth in Community A need for social contribution activities in line Establishment of · the community.” with the character of the NPS own aspect for Welfare Community 75.7points Department of Local Economy in Jeonju business Service Expanding welfare services such as designing City Government, Manager post-retirement lifestyles Kim, Gi-peyong 42 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 43 found it difficult to secure sales channels due to a lack of promotion or marketing efforts. To address this setback, the NPS started a program named ‘Don't worry Kim Daeri’ (a shopping service), aimed at expanding shopping and delivery services to companies. The service provides customized service (slicing, washing, and plating of refreshments and snacks) for the convenience of employees in need of snacks. The Promotion Team at the NPS has promoted the service to various companies through corporate networking, and developed a customer management training program, as well as a brochure. The project was extended to university festivals and alumni reunion events, thus continuing to raise revenues. With its relocation to the Innovative City in North Jeolla Province, the NPS plans to revitalize the shopping and delivery service in the Shin Jungang Market in Jeonju. Job Creation Job Creation Through the Expansion of Outsourcing The NPS creates jobs by outsourcing to the private sector in the Private in selected areas with high private efficiency and low criticality. The targets include the 1355 Call Center, IT, and facility management, and we minimize the number of non-regular positions and improve the working environment Employee volunteering hours Sector for ‘emotional laborers.’ The number of outsourced personnel has reached 1,024, up 68 from the previous year, We will contribute to community development through social contribution. and the rate of employees with a long service period of over 10 years at the 1355 Call Center has increased 19% 69.6 thousand hours We will instill win win growth that will spread the culture of sharing and contribute to problem solving in community. year-on-year. Despite the economic downturn, we have increased the number of jobs in consignment management companies for fund management, and have induced the conversion of management positions into regular ones. As a result, the number of consignment management funds increased by 26 to 276, while the stability in the management personnel is reflected in the evaluation of consignment management companies. Job Creation Through Private Partnerships The NPS creates jobs by partnering with the private sector in the undertaking of its projects with specific purposes, including the management of the national pension subscribers Efforts in Community Uplifting Scheme The NPS is deeply involved in resolving community issues, beyond the running of and providing services for the disabled. In this regard, we signed a business contract with national associations of tax Community charity work programs. We are creating a virtuous cycle of reducing the number of the insured exempted from attorneys, labor attorneys, and accountants on the provision of agent services that report on the national pension Development payment and expanding the pension recipients’ rights by creating jobs in the domestic employment market and (340 such jobs have been created so far). Additionally, the NPS took part in job fairs aligned with local governments, resolving labor shortages for SMEs. and using the information of the insured at our disposal, we brought together the jobless with prospective employers, thus generating 368 jobs. Moreover, we recruited 56 welfare planners who can provide professional Goal Contribution to fund sustainability and national economy through job creation counseling based on our available welfare service to the disabled, in tandem with providing other services for the disabled. We have also made efforts to increase job diversification by leveraging our competencies. (Unit: Number of people) Partnering with Type Total Contracting-out Order placement for Partnership with the Strategies Outsourcing Investing in business launches the private sector investment projects private sector Regular 3,703 1,254 1,720 729 Increase of consortium 1355 Call Center outsourcing with the private sector Non-regular 241 46 139 56 Execution Expansion of fund investment Tasks Social welfare business Social job creation Relocation of new HQ in local areas Total 3,944 1,300 1,859 785 IT business extension Linkage of job opportunity ICT Center establishment Office building management with the insured exempted from payment NPS Café 36.5 – Job Creation for the Underprivileged In order to create new jobs and help the underprivileged Social ‘Love Plus for Subscribers’ For low-income people requiring stable funding, support to secure the pension recipient Contribution right is more essential than any other. We extend contributions for ‘Didim Siat Bankbook’ (Seed Bankbook) for the achieve economic self-sufficiency, the NPS established the NPS Café 36.5 Cooperative in 2011. The NPS Café 36.5 is self-sufficiency of underprivileged children receiving the survivor pension, while supporting annunity premiums for a café built on the image of ‘a world as heart-warming as the human temperature’ (36.5 °C) that sells coffee with a Based on low-income subscribers including single mothers. loving attitude 365 days a year. The NPS also avails spaces in its main building for free to these cafés, which recruit Core the socially vulnerable (basic livelihood security recipients, single parent families, immigrant married women, and Competencies ‘Love Plus for Beneficiaries’ We have strengthened our roles as a robust pension management institution by career interrupted women). The café sells coffee at lower prices compared to large franchises, uses fair-trade coffee adding social responsibility functions to our given tasks by linking our tasks with social contribution. We have beans produced in Vietnam, Nepal, and other countries, and donates 50% of its sales to those in need. In 2015 we identified 7,777 senior citizens of high age who live alone and have severe disabilities, and duly engaged in heart-toadded another Café 36.5 in the Jeonju Branch of our new local headquarters building. Starting with the café’s initial heart social charity work. A total of 991 employees and operators at the call centers periodically make phone calls to opening in the Jamsil Branch, we have expanded the number of branches to include Daejeon, Daegu, Gangnam, the elderly living alone and engage in a heart-to-heart phone conversation on their pressing issues. and Busan. ‘Love Plus for the Disabled’ The NPS is engaged in projects to enhance the commitment of the disabled to Revitalization of the Local Economy Through Small Business Support Our ‘shopping and delivery service’ initiative become self-sufficient. We conduct activities of Eogge Dongmu (shoulder-to-shoulder friendship), engaging talented in the Mangwon markets kicked off with support from the government in the form of labor subsidies, but we people with disabilities to care for the disabled with more severe symptoms. In order to resolve the emotional 44 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 45 alienation of the severely disabled, we have changed the focus of the tour programs for the disabled from empathyExpansion of Activity Support for the Disabled The NPS provides activity support services for the disabled who based experiences to more experience-oriented ones. struggle to do things by themselves due to physical or mental disabilities, including daily life services such as providing meals, washing one’s face, or assisting with movement outsideone’s house. Once the severely disabled (Grades ‘Love Plus for Community’ In order to make our communities healthier and happier, voluntary charity work is 1 through 3 and aged six to 65) apply for service to their neighborhood community center or the NPS, they can underway at our headquarters, hoping to take full advantage of local opportunities. We continue to initiate social receive services by being designated as beneficiaries after the NPS completes its determination review and the local contribution activities in consideration of community needs, including opening a marketplace for direct transactions of government’s beneficiary qualification review. The services offered are: Activity Assistance Service, where activity local specialties, improving the environment, and engaging in local events. Our sharing initiatives have spread as far as assistants visit the houses of the disabled to help them with physical activities, house chores, and movement; HomeCambodia and Mongolia through overseas volunteering efforts, as we have transferred our national pension scheme Visit Bath Service, where caregivers bring bathing equipment to bathe the disabled; and Home-Visit Nursing Service, model to those countries and provided support for residential facilities, thus carrying out our global CSR vision. to provide such services as nursing, diagnostic assistance, and mouth hygiene check-up. ● Status of Service Recipients (Unit: Number of people) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015.6 Enhancement of Promotion of Consulting Services on Successful Aging Thanks to medical advancements, the average life span 46,621 50,520 60,435 64,419 67,848 Welfare Services in Korea has rapidly increased in tandem with a great interest in this leap. As a social insurance institution, the NPS has responded to this public interest by opening the Happy Retirement Plan Center at 152 branches and counseling Provision of Emergency Livelihood Funds for the Aged The loan service for the Old-Age Emergency Fund (the centers nationwide. The retirement plan service helps the public prepare for their post-retirement life, assisting with National Pension Silver Loan) is a program that extends emergency livelihood funds to pensioners aged 60 and finance, health, interpersonal relationships, and leisure. Lectures on ‘The Retirement Plan’ and on ‘Counseling on above. The types of the emergency funds provided include medical expenses, funeral grants, housing deposits/ Customized Retirement Plan’ are provided by professionally trained employees. Various other information is offered monthly rents, and disaster rescue with the Silver Loan. The funds are available at all times, and about 7,000 at ‘My Pension’ (http://csa.nps.or.kr), a website dedicated to the retirement plan. Thanks to site-oriented proactive applicants were provided for a total of KRW 27.6 billion. The Silver Loan, which has been up and running since training sessions and counseling provided, the number of training participants increased by 3,744 and the number 2012, has contributed to the stabilization of the beneficiaries’ retirement age living conditions by expanding loan of counseling cases went up by 4,289 from the previous year. The quality of retirement plan services was also opportunities to pensioners struggling to get loans through other channels, and resolving the need for emergency upgraded, so the public knowledge of the retirement plan showed an increase of 2.1 points year-on-year to 87.8 funds. User survey results revealed a 91.8% satisfaction rate, with 97.4% of the respondents wanting the service to points. be continued. The Silver Loan was expected to be in service for three years, but it will continue to stay in operation continuously to provide support to the post-retirement life of pensioners. Service for Consulting on Successful Aging for the Public The NPS has operated the CSA (Consulting on Successful Aging) as a public institution since 2008. In 2015, the NPS’ Consulting on Successful Aging was selected as ‘Korea’s Representative Brand’ in the old-age welfare service category. Since December 2015, and with the passing of the Act of Old Age Preparation Support, the NPS has been designated as a ‘Central Old Age Preparation Support Center.’ In this capacity, it manages the development of experts in preparation services for the aged, conducts research, studies, training, promotions, and partners internationally on projects in this field. The NPS’ 107 branches are designated and in operation as ‘Local Old Age Preparation Support Centers.’ They provide CSA services for Special Report Relocation into the Innovative City in Jeonbuk adequate preparation for the aged in areas of finance, health, leisure and interpersonal relations through diagnosis, We strive to seek the best way for mutual living and cooperation. counseling, training, linkage with related institutions, and follow-up management. step 1 Securing pension recipient rights step 2 Financial planning With the relocation of its main building to the Innovative City of Jeonbuk in June 2015, the NPS has continued on its Counseling on the increase of the amount of the national pension Diagnosing soundness in household finance and suggesting course for mutual development with the communities in the form of social contribution activities. Counseling on income received, counseling on ways to secure the recipient rights measures to prepare for old-age expenditures those in their 30s and 40s The NPS has signed the ‘Agreement for Mutual Cooperation’ with North Jeolla Provincial Government, and decided to recruit over 15% of its local workforce as new employees. It has also signed an MOU with six universities in Jeonbuk to step 1 Providing information step 2 Linkage with social resources facilitate the development and recruitment of local employees. Diagnosing non-financials including health, job, interpersonal Linking with specialized services in demand Counseling on lifestyle relationships and hobbies and providing relevant information those above the 50s Additionally, in July 2014, the NPS signed the ‘Business Agreement to Revitalize Traditional Markets’ with the Shin Jungang Market in in Jeonju, in accordance with the 'Government 3.0' initiative, taking a lead in reviving the local economy. After signing the MOU, the NPS purchased customized summer health products from the market and distributed them to 1,221 Convenient Disability Review for the Disabled The NPS is a key institution in the provision of welfare services for seniors living alone across the nation, including 200 living in the Jeonbuk area. the disabled,including disability registration review and activity support. With the reshuffle in the comprehensive disability determination system recently emerging as a new paradigm in the disability sector, the importance of the Employees were involved in a tour program with the disabled at the NPS as a disability determining review body has been spotlighted more than ever. We now support the expenses Jeonju City Council of the Jeonbuk Association of Persons with Physical associated with the preparation of documents to be reviewed, and extend services for people with disabilities to Disabilities, and in a ceremony to launch the ‘Jeonju Eoggedongmu receive medical records directly from hospitals. We also provide a convenient disability review process by sharing Volunteers Group,’ which was held with the disabled in Jeonju. The NPS documents to be reviewed with relevant institutions. The process for reviewing the disability pension and grade will strive to achieve mutual development with and as a part of the 1.88 has been made uniform ― we have streamlined the entire review process so that a review for each step can now be million Jeonbuk people through social contribution activities. completed all at once. 46 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 47 05Talent Management with Respect for Employees WHY Why is talent management material? HOW How is talent management managed? The NPS In the present global economic downturn Under the principle of open recruitment, New Recruitment will improve 422 and faced with a shrinking domestic the NPS prohibits discrimination economic growth, securing work throughout the entire process of force talent is critical for improving our recruitment and appointment, and recruits corporate future competitiveness. The NPS selects and develops competent workforce personnel based on their capabilities and competencies. Fair opportunities are people culture and talent through open recruitment, fair appointment, and various competency created by: recruiting talent in Jeonbuk based on proactive promotion; recruiting Increasing the organization's vitality by expanding new recruitment development programs. We also seek to based on an open recruitment scheme; system through create a decent workplace that protects the rights of its employees and guarantees and allocating a certain quota of openings to the socially underprivileged. We run a Participants in Part-time Work 67.4 respect and the quality of their work and life. The NPS strives to boost the satisfaction of fair personnel recruitment system, focusing on capabilities regardless of academic employees by enacting a systematic welfare background or gender. Continued female understanding. benefit scheme as a part of the corporate culture. Securing competent employees talent development programs are up for grabs based on a gender-equal corporate % through these endeavors is a must for the culture, leading to a higher rate of women Establishing flexible work activation plans, revising NPS to achieve future sustainable growth. managers. In order to protect employee rules, test running intensive work, etc. rights, we operate channels to register employees’ complaints on issues of sexual Ratio of Female Managers harassment, discrimination,and the 14.9 working environment, and we enable a seamless follow-up to these complaints through direct communication. We are % building a corporate culture that facilitates a happier work life for employees through The percentage of female managers was up 1.4% from the previous year the expansion of part-time employment and a flexible work scheme that enhances the quality of life for our employees. I can work in the morning and take care of my child in the afternoon. It is normally Stakeholder Opinion GRI Aspect Material Issue Material Assessment Results difficult to return to work after a childcare leave, but I was even promoted after Diversifying talent employment and intensifying talent fostering Training and returning to work, so I can sense that the Education Employee company is being considerate to me.” Establishing a productive labor-management culture Employment Diversity and Equal Employment 78.3points Mokpo Branch of the NPS, Assistant Manager Creating a necessity for a favorable workplace culture Opportunity Yu, Min-yeong 48 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 49 Expansion of Employment Opportunities to All Members of the Society We strive to recruit competent workforce talent suitable to our employee ideal by adopting an open recruitment scheme that looks beyond one’s career/ academic background. After analyzing the recruitment results, we remove the items least relevant to competencies, and overlook unfair elements in each recruitment step. We also strive to recruit a diversified workforce to fulfill our social responsibilities and roles for a public institution. According to a 2013 recruitment analysis, our performance in open recruitment was superior to those of other institutions, as we recruited a higher number of the disabled, women, local talent, and high school graduates. However, the portion of local talent recruited in areas where we have newly relocated was somewhat low. To address this shortcoming, we implemented a talent recruitment target system in the new areas, creating a total 1,455.5 jobs: 435 interns, 642 employees for counseling, 334 employees in charge of consignment tasks, and 44.5 local employees in the new areas. Employee satisfaction level Fair Operation of a Performance/Competency-Oriented Evaluation System The NPS operates a systematic performance We will respect the diversity of employees and guarantee equal work opportunities. Performance evaluation system based on MBO*, raising rationality and reliability through step-specific feedback. We spearheaded 78.2 points Employees are stakeholders and members of the NPS. We will strive to offer equitable evaluation and compensation, and non discriminatory opportunities. Evaluation and Personnel the adoption of a competency evaluation system based on performance in selecting executives to establish a fairer appointment management system, while raising objectivity based on multilateral validation of candidates to be promoted. Appointment * MBO (Management by Objectives): It refers to an organizational management system that measures and evaluates track records by setting clear goals for a business unit and its employees and enabling them to put them into action. Rational Appointment Management System The NPS operates a rational appointment management system for competency and performance-based evaluation. In evaluating new employees, we evaluate on their attitude to work, Talent Employee Status The NPS’s ideal employees are ‘specialists in pension and welfare who create a happy future with character, and competencies in performing their work. We have also raised the fairness in managing appointments Recruitment passion and belief.’ We do our utmost to create a corporate culture which allows employees to work with joy and by allocating performance-based positions. Efficiency in organizational management has been boosted through passion based on this belief. To this end, we respect the diversity of our employees, and operate a talent recruitment balanced recruitment of personnel by gender and job rank. In addition, we strive to develop individual competencies process excluding such discriminating factors as gender, disability, and academic background. The number of through systematic management appointments, including promotion, training and compensation for new employees employees at the NPS stood at 4,992.5 as of the end of 2014. By gender, men amounted to 2,810.5, that is, who are high school graduates. Meanwhile, we have continued to offer rational welfare benefits. 56.3%; women numbered 2,182, taking up 43.7%. The portion of women managers in team leader positions and above took up 14.9%, up 1.4% from the previous year. The employment rate of the disabled was 3.7%, which exceeds the 3.0% threshold set by the government. Development Reinforcement of Specialized Job Training The NPS makes an effort to develop human resources for each strategic of Employees’direction it takes by analyzing the competencies and needs of employees. We have so far strengthened on-site Percentage of women employees Portion of women in deputy manager Percentage of the disabled Competencies leadership training to develop strategic leaders, and adopted senior mentoring in all leadership training courses. ● ● ● (unit: %) positions and above Level-specific job training takes place under a mentor-mentee job training program to foster pension experts, and 43.7 42.8 14.9 specialized training is available and customized for each area. In addition, our ‘Rookie Course’ (a one-year course 13.4 42.0 11.3 4.2 4.0 3.7 reflecting the features of the entrants) provides corporate culture guidance to new employees. Moreover, we have facilitated learning units and smart learning to create a corporate culture that fosters the growth of each unit and employee. Training on retirement planning is also provided for (expected) retirees among employees, as labor and management leaders have agreed on the necessity of training for retirement preparation. 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Strategy 3 Strategy 4 Strategy 1 Strategy 2 Reinforcing competencies Creating a corporate culture Developing strategic leaders Fostering specialists for new employees for mutual growth Leadership Leadership High school Core leaders Job Fund Common Work-life balance Learning units Change Toward a More Youthful Organization As a result of analyzing the factors influencing our present labor develop-ment improvement graduates Developing conditions, we found it necessary to move toward a more youthful organization by recruiting new employees. We On-site leader Developing job specialists in global training Consignment professionals Basic thus had to re-calculate the number of new hires due to a massive volume of retirements or resignations. To this training for investment competency Improvement in Diversification Training for the Improvement specialized Devising a development end, we newly employed 422 people in 2014, and scaled up regular positions to substitute those on a childcare promoted by training for those areas (business yearly training course the training system and facilitation Job training for Reinforcing for retirement of learning job rank in their fifth year management, scheme (support for leave. We also increased the number of options for employees by facilitating honorary retirement for retirement-age with their work public adminieach level of operational university preparation units difficulty support employees, while raising the number of specialized personnel. As a consequence, the average age of our employees Development of stration, etc.) entrance) women leaders in 2014 was lowered to 41.0, and the percentage of employees in their 20s went up to 12%. 50 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 51 Implementation of the Women Talent Development Project In order to create a gender-equal corporate culture, Work Life Easing of Long Working Hours and Creation of Part-Time Jobs In order to enhance the quality of life for employees the NPS has taken measures to ensure no disadvantage might result from taking a childcare/maternity leave. We Balance and raise work efficiency during working hours, we seek to propagate a culture of leaving work on time, along also prevent career interruption for women by operating flexible work systems, including part-time work and ‘flexwith an intensive working system. We set intensive working hours (9~10am, 4~5pm) for efficient job performance, time’ work. We have also implemented a project to foster the promotion of women by scaling up the number minimizing unnecessary tasks, including non-essential meetings, negotiation on work, and phone calls. On the Day of women managers on end. We are ensuring that many women employees can engage in leadership training of Family Love (falling twice a week, on Wednesday and Friday), employees are discouraged to dine out together and programs for leaders under this project, and continue to allocate women mangers to major positions such as or work extra time. Leave Work on Time is announced once a week (on Wednesday) so that employees may leave compliance officers and the head of the Audit Division. work on time to spend time with their families. We have simplified the process to apply for part-time work and enabled employees with children aged nine and below to apply. As a result, 58 full-time employees were moved Increases in the number of women managers 128 2013 people 145 people 2014 (exceeding the target by 0.3%p) into part-time positions, and we recruited 14 part-timers as regular employees. Facilitation of the Flexible Work Scheme Due to recent government policies aimed at addressing the issue of career interrupted women and continued rise in the percentage of the women employees, we have expanded the Establishment Efforts to Protect the Rights of Employees The NPS is making multifaceted efforts to protect the rights of its flexible work scheme to support the continued social activities of women, and as an alternative, so as to prevent employees. The Grievance Committee, for example, consists of one representative from the labor and one from the withdrawal of specialized workforce in fund management, IT, etc. The flexible work scheme is in operation of Sound Laborthe management, in order to efficiently treat grievances and complaints in the workplace. We routinely listen for employees to flexibly adjust their regular working hours in consideration of individual conditions and work Management to employees’ grievances through the Labor-Management Council, held four times a year. In accordance with situations. The flexible work scheme is categorized into part-time work, customized work time, and flexible workingCulture hour system. Employees may choose a work system that is most suitable to their circumstances from among the the Act on the Promotion of Workers’ Participation and Cooperation and the Operating Regulations of LaborManagement Committee, a grievance system has been in operation, resolving 259 cases (69.5%, accepted) in three types. The utilization of the flexible work scheme in 2014 reached about 6.6%, and is expected to increase in 2012, 183 cases (74.9%) in 2013 and 203 cases (59.1%) in 2014.Additionally, management information system the future. application channels are in operation along with grievance receipt channels for in-house messengers, e-payments, etc. Grievance officers are designated for each department (branch) for the efficient handling of grievances. The Harmony Between Work and Family We strive to create a culture where both employees and their families can be Gender Equality Grievance Committee is focused on handling sexual harassment-related grievances in a systematic happy through a work-life balance. We conduct mentoring concerts for new employees to strike a balance between and thorough manner. The Healing Program (‘Report on My Mind’) is up and running to protect employees stricken their life and work, and Happy Mirae Dream training for would-be retirees among employees. The W-Mentoring by violent language/actions and sexual harassment due to malicious grievances, and we have also launched a program is available for women employees returning to work after a childcare leave to support their smooth return program on a recreational leave for the victims of sexual harassment. Once it is determined that employees stricken to work. We have expanded the period for taking a leave for overseas study for self-development of employees by malicious actions are incapable of continuing their work in a proper manner due to psychological shock, they from three to four years, and we are holding seminars in pursuit of GWP (Great Work Place). We have changed the may take a leave of three days is awarded to them by the head of the department. style of work to pursue what is essential (such as one-page reporting) in order to discourage the customary culture of working late at night, and encourage employees to take long-term leaves to enjoy a better quality of life. Organizational Revitalization through Communication Transparent management activities are in place based Type Explanations Targets (Reasons) on cooperative labor-management relations. Labor-management communication channels are in operation in Employees engaged in childcare, family two ways: Pending agenda for the two parties is shared based on official and non-official meetings, and bilateral Part-time care, self-development, pregnancy, Part-time Working four hours a day consultative meetings are held to arouse strategic consensus on key agendas. We have also organized labor work arrival/departure traveling long management seminars that gather top management and all executive members of the labor union to discuss ways distances, researcher/fund management to normalize bloated management structures and appointment/evaluation schemes, and to improve the corporate Employees engaged in childcare, family Customized work-time* Adjusting arrival and departure time culture. Various siteoriented communication channels are in operation to enable employees to express their Flex-time care, self-development thoughts freely and thus facilitate communication with the top management on various ideas from the sites, and to work Adjusting arrival and departure time on Employees without any connection with Flex-time** get feedback from them. In 2014, the chairman of the NPS met employees at 76 branches; that year, the NPS took Monday and Friday a region they have been transferred to 218 cases submitted for suggestion and resolved 111 of them. Another 107 cases made the last stage, awaiting * Customized Work-Time System: a system to autonomously select arrival and departure time within a statutory hour (8 hours) scope per day Working type: Type A (08:00 17:00), Type B (08:30 17:30), Type C (09:30 18:30), Type D (10:00 19:00) management decision. Based on this mutual growth effort between labor and management, the NPS was awarded ** Flex-time system: Adjusting arrival and departure time for travelling between one’s place of connection and a workplace without changes in the number of working hours (40 hours the presidential commendation for labor-management cooperation in May 2014. a week) . Official Communication Channels Non-official Communication Channels Improvement of the Welfare Benefit System The NPS has dramatically reduced the welfare benefit system for ㆍCollective negotiations, labor-management council meetings, Long-term ㆍMeetings of labor-management representatives, labor-management Development Committee meetings by region employees for the sake of rehabilitating management as early as possible. Instead of increasing welfare benefit ㆍHolding of labor-management discussions and workshops ㆍLabor-management strategic council meetings, labor-management work expenses, we run the non-wage welfare benefit system. We support work-life balance by operating family-friendly ㆍSeminars on management agenda touring nationwide and workshops for meetings branch heads nationwide ㆍSmall-scale vertical meetings for employees, new employee meetings programs, and strive to create a happy workplace by revitalizing flexible work. The ‘Healing Program’ is up and ㆍIndustrial Safety and Health Committee, Grievance Committee ㆍMeetings with former managers in labor affairs, labor union website running for the health benefits of our employees as we pay attention to the stress levels of our employees. 82.6 84.3 Bottom-up Communication Channels Top-down Communication Channels the satisfaction level ㆍJunior board for each regional headquarters, CS Board ㆍOn-site management by the top management and special courses lectured with welfare benefits by the top management participating as special lecturers points points ㆍMentoring system, suggestion system ㆍOperation of Help Desk for work, and Labor-Management Cop ㆍDirect communication channels between labor-management representatives 2013 2014 (1.7 points higher) ㆍOperation of on-site grievance counseling channels ㆍEmotional letters of the chairman (to parents of new employees, etc.) ㆍNPS’ Daily News, alert on pending management agenda 52 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 53 Appendix Social Responsibility Management Performance Social Responsibility Management Performance Memberships & Principles Independent Assurance Statement Economic GRI Content Index Statement of Financial Position (Unit : KRW million) FY 2012 2013 2014 Current assets 131,388 187,629 171,750 Non-current assets 555,581 674,159 745,486 Total assets 686,969 861,788 917,236 Current liabilities 104,061 124,340 80,131 Non-current liabilities 698,474 840,971 933,445 Total liabilities 802,535 965,311 1,013,576 Deficit -110,231 -99,513 -95,224 Other components of earnings -5,335 -4,010 -1,116 Total Equity -115,566 -103,523 -96,340 Liabilities and Total Equity 686,969 861,788 917,236 Statement of Comprehensive Income (Unit : KRW million) FY 2012 2013 2014 Operating revenue 12,049,434 13,637,200 14,333,688 Operating expense 12,026,503 13,609,422 14,307,536 Operating income 22,931 27,778 26,152 Other expense 2,610 3,007 3,599 Other income (loss) -14,908 -18,080 -22,457 Finance income 4,242 5,158 5,655 Finance expense 1,563 1,095 1,110 Profit before income tax 8,092 10,754 4,641 Corporate tax Net profit for the term 8,092 10,754 4,641 Other inclusive gains and losses -5,335 1,325 2,893 (after tax) Total inclusive gains and losses 2,757 12,079 7,534 Economic Value Distribution (Unit : KRW million) Customer (Pension payment) 13,779,943 Employees (Wage, severance pay, benefits ) 352,408 Government (Taxes & dues) 25,762 Local community (Social Contribution expense) 820 Suppliers (Purchase from SMEs) 105,100 54 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 55 Society Hours of employee training and satisfaction with training Type 2013 2014 Variations Status of Employees (Unit: number of employees) Number of trainees (number of people) 55,804 63,603 7,799↑ Type 2012 2013 2014 Satisfaction with training (number of points) 4.39 4.52 0.13↑ Quota (including 5 executives) 4,604 4,786 5,149 Actual number of employees (excluding an addiTrack Records of the Board of Directors 4,578 4,709.5 4,992.5 (Unit: %) tional quota such as those on childcare leave, etc.) No. Date Agenda Attendance Rate Regular employees 4,570 4,709.5 4,992.5 Employees under indefinite term contracts 2 7 1 2014. 1. 28 5 agenda in addition to the 2014 business management plan (draft) 90.9 Non-regular employees 225 605 454 2 2014. 2. 25 6 agenda in addition to the 2013 fiscal year closing for the NPS (draft) 90.9 Indirect employment 601 655 673 3 2014. 3. 25 Some revisions for regulations on the organizational title (draft) 90.9 Women managers 103 129 145 3 agenda in addition to some revisions for the regulations on the management of 4 2014. 4. 22 81.8 The disabled 209 225 208 the National Pension Review Committee Total 183 226 422 5 2014. 5. 12 Some revisions for regulations on the organizational title (draft) 90.9 Women 101 140 259 6 2014. 5. 27 5 agenda in addition to the second supplementary budget for 2014 (draft) 100 The disabled 4 2 7 2014. 6. 24 3 agenda in addition to some revisions for the personnel appointment regulations (draft) 90.9 New regular Local talents 62 96 243 8 2014. 7. 16 Composition of the Executive Recommendation Committee (draft) 90.9 employees (non-metropolitan area) High school graduates* 38 53 18 3 agenda in addition to some revisions for the regulations on the management of 9 2014. 8. 28 100 Specialized high schools 32 38 the National Pension Research Institute Science & engineering majors 78 66 163 10 2014. 10. 29 7 agenda in addition to the NPS’ mid-term management goals (draft) 100 Total 2,117 1,307 1,411 3 agenda in addition to changes in the budget for a project to evaluate working capabilities of 11 2014. 11. 25 100 Interns 304 269 435 basic livelihood security recipients (draft) Non-regular employees Counsellors 1,331 908 616 12 2014. 12. 23 6 agenda in addition to some revisions for the Articles of Incorporation (draft) 100 Exclusively in charge of con482 130 360 signment tasks Retirement Scope of Subscribing to the Labor Union and its Targets The NPS operates the rational collective agreement and employment rules (including the superannuated and 44 19 59 (appointment, disciplines, etc.) in compliance with the Labor Relations Act and other related acts and government regulations. The honorary retirees)** eligible ones are those prescribed by the provisions of the labor union as employees of the NPS. However, employees in Grade 2 and * In 2014, the portion of recruiting job categories (review, social welfare, fund management, researcher, etc.) which is difficult for high school graduates to apply for went up (63%, 266 out of 422), so the recruitment record for high school graduates is low. above, higher-ranks among Grade 3 employees, general manager positions in Grade 3 (including heads of centers), and employees ** Since the post-retirement career of retirees is not tracked, so there is no data on employee turnovers. in Grade 3 involved in personnel appointment, wage and welfare benefits, those involved in labor affairs, audit (those accessing audit information), secretaries and drivers shall be disqualified during the period of their service. As of June 2015, 3,913 eligible employees Facilitating the flexible work system (Unit: number of employees) (90.6%) are subscribed to the labor union. Type 2013 2014 Part-time work system 43 72* Promotion of Shared Growth by Leveraging Competencies We adopted the preliminary management company scheme in 2012 to Flex-time work 180 249 explore competitive small-and medium-sized management companies by reflecting the features of the national pension and equitably Flexible work system provide opportunities for transactions. We also expand investment in small-and medium-sized venture companies with growth Intensive work 7 potentials and support SMEs and mid-sized firms lacking in finance to advance abroad. The amount of investment of our fund through * Recruited 14 people (regular positions), and converted 58 employees in their positions the investment fund in venture capital and investment in small-and medium-sized equities funds amounts to KRW 6.0959 trillion in total as of 2014-end. Our fund is striving to promote growth and create an investment atmosphere in related industries by initiating joint Support for childbirth and childcare (Unit: number of employees) investment in promising SMEs and mid-sized firms advancing abroad through the Corporate Partnership Program. Continued expansion Childbirth leave prior and post to giving multiple births (120 days for multiple gestation) 2 of investment in social infrastructure is underway for highways, ports and schools, etc. Hours of maternal protection Support for companies advance ㆍ Expanding from large enterprises to SMEs and mid-sized firms as investment targets of Co-Pa Fund* 88 (reducing two working hours a day for the pregnant of less than 12 weeks and over 36 weeks) abroad (agreed) KRW 559 billion → (executed) KRW 196.2 billion Infertility leave (one day each for infertility treatment and egg retrieval) 2 ㆍ Singing an MOU for joint discovery of and investment in overseas project with EXIM Bank of Korea** (May 2014) Childcare leave for men (maximum three years) 10 Investment in SMEs including ㆍ Expanding investment through venture funds and small-and medium-sized equities funds, etc. with great potentials venture funds (Venture fund) KRW 559 billion newly agreed upon, and KRW 265.9 billion executed for investment Childbirth leave for one’s spouse (five paid days) 68 (Investment in small-and medium-sized equities funds) KRW 5.3 trillion (2013) → KRW 5.689 trillion (2014) Infant childcare leave (once a month for childcare of infants less than three years old) 212 Management of preliminary ㆍOperating the preliminary management companies of small-and medium-sized equities funds to raise interest in the Fetus check-up leave (once a month during pregnancy) 131 management companies of smallsmall-and medium-sized equities funds and discover competent management firms (4 companies, KRW 141 billion) and medium-sized equities funds → 2 of the companies promoted as regular management companies * Private equity fund formed for the purpose of overseas M&A ** Raising stability in investment by leveraging debt guarantee of EXIM Bank of Korea for overseas alternative investment 56 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 57 Support for Stronger Competitiveness of SMEs The NPS continues to initiate performance sharing tasks in consideration of features of the institution. Performance sharing refers to mutual sharing of performance of trust companies’ support for trustee companies Memberships & Principles among the two sides. In order to propagate performance sharing with partner companies, we initiate performance sharing with call centers and with IT maintenance companies, consign the management of resorts and extension of free-of-charge lease for social enterprises that are small in scale. Associations and Memberships Pension Premium Support for SMEs In order to secure the pension recipient rights of the underprivileged including low-income Organization Organization workers and ease the cost burden of SMEs, we have supported pension premiums for low-income workers whose income falls below Korean Social Security Association Korea Insurance Research Institute the threshold income level* for a business with less than 10 employees since 2012. Premium support worth KRW 985.5 billion has Social Service Network Korea Employers Federation been extended to 2,253,000 workers by 2014. Korean Academy of Social Welfare PPI (Pacic Pension Institute) * Threshold income level for premium support: KRW 350,000~KRW 1.25 million (2012) → Less than KRW 1.3 million (2013) → Less than KRW 1.35 million (2014) Korean Association of Public Finance Korean Association for Survey Research Efforts to Settle Fair Cooperative Relationships The NPS has expanded the direct payment for service proceeds to raise transparency Korea Development Institute IPC (International Pensions Conference) in subcontracting fee payment to secondary and tertiary partner companies. We also adopted the Payment Monitoring System Korean Association of Social Welfare Policy Korean Economic Association (PMS) while transparently disclosing the payment status. We have also expanded the scope of advance payment, contributing to the Russell 20-20 (20-20 Investment Association) Seoul Economist Club financial shortage of such companies, and made 100% advance payment for 16 of the cases applying for advance payment. Korean Labor Economic Association Korea Institutional Finance Association (Unit : KRW 100 million, (%), (Number of cases)) Korea Labor Institute Korean Pension Association Type 2012 2013 2014 Records of Total amount of purchasing SME products (A) 703 748 1,051 purchasing products The budget for total purchase (B) 937 960 1,287 Support and Principles from SMEs A/B (75.0) (77.9) (81.7) With the recognition of social responsibility, the National Pension Service signed up the ‘UN Global Compact’, an international Advance payment (23) (23) (16) agreement on corporate social responsibility under a UN scheme, in October 2012. Now NPS is in compliance with the UNGC’s ten Performance Payment of subcontracting price (11) (99) (37) principles in the four areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. in financial support Support for overseas advancement 1,300 4,300 5,400 Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Investment in SMEs including venture capital investment 54,000 59,000 60,959 Human Rights Principle 2 : make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Labour Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environment Environment Principle 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Efforts to Reduce GHG Emission With establishing greenhouse gas emission management system in 2011, NPS reviewed and controlled the source of green house gas over all buildings and vehicles across all the branches as well as own buildings etc. Total AntiCorruption Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery emission of green house gas in 2014 was 7,833 tCO2e, which NPS reduced 18.8% of the emission against emission standard (9,649 tCO2e). (Unit : tCO2e) Greenhouse Gas Emission Principle for Responsible Investment Type 2012 2013 2014 With obtaining membership of the UN PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment) in 2009, NPS is in line with six principles for Direct emission 7,831 9,094 9,649 responsible investment of the United Nations. Indirect emission 6,905 7,036 7,833 Principle 1 We will incorporate ESG issues into investment analysis and decision-making processes. Total 926 2,058 1,815 Principle 2 We will be active owners and incorporate ESG issues into our ownership policies and practices. Principle 3 We will seek appropriate disclosure on ESG issues by the entities in which we invest. Principle 4 We will promote acceptance and implementation of the Principles within the investment industry. Principle 5 We will work together to enhance our effectiveness in implementing the Principles. Principle 6 We will each report on our activities and progress toward implementing the Principles. 58 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 59 Independent Assurance Statement To the Readers of NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015: Foreword Our conclusion The Korea Management Association Registration Inc. (hereinafter “KMAR”) has been requested by of National Pension Service Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with the NPS on the revision (hereinafter “NPS”) to verify the contents of its Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 (hereinafter “the Report”). The NPS is of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. KMAR’s responsibility is to carry out assurance revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate engagement on specific data and information in the assurance scope stipulated below. contents in the Report regarding compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the data included in the verification scope are not presented appropriately. Scope and standard ■ Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to The NPS describes its efforts and achievements of the social responsibility activity in the Report. KMAR performed a Type 2, moderate sustainability. level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) as an assurance standard. KMAR’s assurance team (hereinafter “the team”) evaluated NPS is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a the adherence to Principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI G4 indices as below, commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder that the NPS has where professional judgment of the team was exercised as materiality criteria. left out during this procedure. The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4which covers the following: ■ M  ateriality Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A ■ Reporting Principles material issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. ■ General Standard Disclosures NPS is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own materiality ■ Specific Standard Disclosures evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. Generic DMA of each of the following material aspects ■ R  esponsiveness Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance Economic Performance: EC1 and is realized through decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. Indirect Economic Impacts: EC7 The assurance team could not find any evidence that the NPS’ counter-measures to critical stakeholder issues were Procurement Practices: EC9 inappropriately recorded in the Report. Emissions: EN15, EN16 Employment: LA1, LA2 We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Core Option’ of GRI G4. Training and Education: LA10, LA11 Diversity and Equal Opportunity: LA12 Recommendation for improvement Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms: LA16 We hope the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the following for improvements. Local Communities: SO1, SO2 Anti-corruption: SO3, SO4, SO5 ■ T  he NPS has been implementing socially responsible management activities according to core issues appropriately identified by its stakeholders. Furthermore, we suggest that the NPS advances the goals of socially responsible This Report excludes data and information on joint corporations, contractors,etc., which are outside the organization, i.e. NPS, among management with stakeholders by improving the evaluation process of Social Responsibility Management activities in report boundaries. accordance with the stakeholders’ views. Our approach ■ T  he social responsibility concept includes a balanced approach into triple bottom line,e.g., economic, social, In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, the environmental aspects. Although the NPS has low impacts on environment as it is a non-manufacturing organization, team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: the NPS needs to improve contents of environmental aspects in the next report to achieve a balance of social responsibility. ■ Reviewed overall report ■ Reviewed materiality test process and methodology Our independence ■ Reviewed sustainability management strategies and targets With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMAR is not involved in any other NPS’ business operations that are ■ Reviewed stakeholder engagement activities aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. ■ Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report Nov, 9th, 2015 CEO Ki Ho Park 10 NPS Social Responsibility Management Report 2015 11 GRI Content Index (Core Option) GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES External External page Assurance page Assurance STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS CATEGORY: ECONOMIC G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 3 MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE COMPANY PROFILE G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 17, 25 G4-3 Name of the organization 2 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 53 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services 2 MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-5 Headquarter location 2 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 17, 25 G4-6 Countries in operation 2 Development and impact of infrastructure EC7 18-23, 44-45 investments and services supported G4-7 Nature of ownership 2 MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-8 Markets Served 2 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 55-56 G4-9 Scale of the organization 2 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant G4-10 Total workforce by region and gender 2, 48, 54 G4-EC9 56 locations of operation Percentage of total employees covered by collective G4-11 55 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENT bargaining agreements MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-12 Supply chain 55 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 56 Significant changes regarding size, structure, or G4-13 55-56 ownership G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions 56 G4-14 Precautionary approach 30, 38 G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions 56 G4-15 Initiatives to which the organization subscribes 57 CATEGORY: SOCIETY G4-16 Memberships of associations 57 LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT All entities included in the organization’s G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 47 G4-17 53 consolidatedfinancial statements G4-LA1 New recruitment 48, 54 G4-18 Process for defining report content 14-15 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees 51, 54 G4-19 Material aspects 15 MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-20 Aspect boundary within the organization 15 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 49-50 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside the organization 15 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning G4-LA10 49 Restatements of information provided in previous that support the continues employement G4-22 reports Employees receiving regular performance and career G4-LA11 49 G4-23 Significant changes in the scope, boundary 14 development reviews STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT MATERIAL ASPECT: DIVERSITY and EQUAL OPPORTUNITY G4-24 Stakeholder groups 8 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 48-49 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 8 G4-LA12 Composition of Human Resources 48, 54 G4-26 Approach to stakeholder engagement 8-9 MATERIAL ASPECT: LABOR PRACTICES GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS Key topics and concerns that have been raised G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 50 G4-27 8-9 throughstakeholder engagement G4-LA16 Grievances about labor practices 50 REPORT PROFILE SOCIETY G4-28 Reporting period About This Report MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITY G4-29 Date of most recent previous report About This Report G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 41 G4-30 Reporting cycle About This Report Percentage of operations with implemented local G4-31 Contact point for questions About This Report G4-SO1 communityengagement, impact assessments, and 42 development programs G4-32 GRI Content Index 60 Operations with significant actual and potential G4-33 External assurance 58-59 G4-SO2 42 negativeimpacts on local communities GOVERNANCE MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-34 Governance structure 6 G4-DMA Generic disclosures on management approach 35 Report the composition of the highest governance Total number and percentage of operations assessed G4-38 6 body and its committees G4-SO3 for risks related to corruption and the significant risks 36-37 Report whether the Chair of the highest governance identified G4-39 6 body is also an executive officer Communication and training on anti-corruption policies G4-SO4 37 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY and procedures The organization’s values, principles, standards and G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 39 G4-56 36 norms of behavior http://csr.nps. Report the internal and external mechanisms for or.kr/jsppage/ reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful G4-58 contribution/ behavior, and matters related to organizational incorrupt/clean/ integrity clean_01.jsp ??? 03060 Eco-Design To minimize environmental impact throughout the entire lifecycle 180, Giji-ro, Deokjin-gu, Jeonju-si, Jeollabuk-do, Korea Tel. +82 1355 of this eco-design report, NPS has used soybean oil and 9 shunned 7 8 8 the 9 6use 3of 3 spot 8 color 2 8 printing 5 2 or coating. ISBN 978-89-6338-285-2
