2015 CSR Report May … Posted advertisement in Shinosaka Station Oct. … Made e-Globaledge Corp. a consolidated subsidiary April 2014 March 2015 Activities Report Dec. … Made Suda Shoji, Inc. a consolidated subsidiary TABLE OF CONTENTS Message from the President 2 CSR Activities 3 CSR Management 4-5 Work Customs & Practices 6-7 Occupational Safety & Health 8-9 Environmental Protection 10-13 Social Contributions 14-15 Feb. … Feted 10th year of business at Wuxi Plant (China) Mar. … Built daycare center at Nabari Plant NKC is always looking ahead; we never accept things as they are. • Quick rundown About 10 years ago, we started CSR activities for and with our stakeholders and, as of 2015, we are participating in the United Nations Global Compact and throwing our support behind their principles and activities. Our CSR efforts have been ranked AA -the second highest grade possible -by major banks in Japan. I am greatly pleased by such an assessment because, for one, it is hard for even large listed companies to attain this kind of raking and, two, they have objectively judged our efforts as heading in the right direction both in terms of benefitting society and growing our organization. • Results of CSR activities and future topics For some time now, we have been pushing energy conservation as part of our CSR in relation to the environment, but what should be pointed out is that, through those efforts, we managed to keep the rise in energy costs, which came because of the power shortages after the Great East Japan Earthquake, to about 25%. Also, we have begun looking inward at ourselves, rather than just outside the company, for ways to improve our CSR. At our Head Office, while incessantly working to improve the workplace environment, we are consolidating and outsourcing non-core operations and concentrating our workforce in core operations. With regards to shorter working hours, we analyzed the situation in Sweden where people work 1,500 hr/year and starting promoting efforts to eliminate overtime so that employees at NKC work less than 1,900 hr/year. Then, we are encouraging our workforce to use the free time they are gaining to bettering themselves through study that can improve their lives. All of the CSR activities mentioned above are, when looked at individually, rather simple and plain and certainly not anything that will revolutionize the workplace, but if you compare things to how they were 10 years ago, you can see just how big of a change has been made. • Final word In FY2014, we added new members to the NKC Group through M&A. Each of these companies has built a distinctive corporate culture and has much to teach us, so our job is to share and permeate that throughout the group so as to enhance our corporate value. In our midterm business plans, we are targeting sales of 100 billion JPY. We Tatsuo Nakanishi, President ＜＜NKC's CSR Policy＞＞ CSR is formulated on the idea that a company can contribute to the sustainable development of society by responsibly and faithfully conducting business activities with regards to their stakeholders, i.e., shareholders, employees, customers, etc. (See below figure.) At NKC, we conduct activities based on the flowing CSR policy. CSR activities at NKC draw their basic concepts from NKC's Vision and Code of Conduct. Our mission in those activities is to meet the expectations of all of our stakeholders. NKC Vision Important Fields A company that constantly Shareholders reinvents itself and its employees are proud to be a part of Customers Employees NKC Code of Conduct 1. Principal Mission 2. Compliance with Laws and Social Norms 3. Information Disclosure 4. Providing a Good Workplace See pg. 2 Environment 5. Environmental Protection 6. Social Contributions 7. Opposition to Antisocial Inﬂuence Suppliers Global 8. International Contributions environment 9. Promoting Corporate Ethics Local 10. Enforcement communities 2                    FY2014 FY2015 Important fields Self-grade Page Target Result Target • Improve operational efficiency and build a compliance system by conducting internal audits. Improve operational efficiency and build a compliance system by 3 Internal controls Conducted internal audits of group company payment practices. (Manage trade secrets. Comply with Subcontractor Act.) implementing internal controls. • Ensure the appropriateness of business by putting internal controls in place. • Imparted training for new recruits. Compliance Educate workforce in work-related legalities. • Educated persons in charge on work-related laws (Security export controls, ○ 3 Educate workforce in work-related legalities. CSR management Subcontractor Act). • BCPs established by local offices and group companies. • BCP development started at 2 sites in the Philippines. • Conduct activities for making BCPs a regular practice at offices/plants in Japan. Establish BCPs for natural disasters at offices/plants in Japan. ○ 4 • Continued activities for enhancing resilience to disasters. (Purchased additional • Continue to encourage group companies to develop BCPs. Start developing BCPs at overseas offices/plants. Risk management emergency supplies, conducted internal audit of appendices and circulated awareness • Continue to encourage overseas offices/plants to develop BCPs. information.) Improve information security and maintain/improve office ○ 4 Adopted flash drive management policy. Improve information security and maintain/improve office equipment/environment. equipment/environment. • Started encouraging working from early morning. Provide forms of employment/treatment that consent various • Promoted diversity in our workforce. (Certified as Leading Company for 5 Human resource utilization Provide forms of employment/treatment and environments that consent various ways of working. ways of working. Women. Registered Declaration of Gender Equality . ) Work customs and • Imparted training to new recruits in the Philippines. • Imparted follow-up training for 2nd and 5th year employees. ○ 6 Workforce training Plan and implement level-based and elective internal training. Plan and implement level-based and elective internal training. practices • Expanded target management system. • Started training for new managers/supervisors. • Launched general commission on work safety/health/environment. Work safety/health • Promote a system of work safety/health management. ○ 7 • Promote a system of work safety/health management. • Launched overseas commission on work safety/health/environment. management • Document NKC work safety/health standards. • Document and apply NKC work safety/health standards. • Applied safety standards. • Stepped up work safety/health training for 7 important jobs at NKC. • Conferred Zero Accident Awards to Kawachi Plant and the Shiga Plant. ○ 7 Accident prevention Remove unsafe equipment and eliminate unsafe behavior. Remove unsafe equipment and eliminate unsafe behavior. • Analyzed alertness and near misses. Commended the Mie Plant. • Conducted internal audit of work safety/health. Verified regulatory compliance using government-issued check list, and collected ○ 7 Work safety and health Regulatory compliance Verify the state of regulatory compliance via internal audits. Verify the state of regulatory compliance via internal audits. information on regulatory updates, etc. • Conduct fire safety inspections. • Conduct fire safety inspections. • Implement fire patrols. (Verified use of electrical equipment, wiring, etc.) ○ 8 Fire prevention • Implement fire patrols. • Implement fire patrols. • Conducted fire drills (alarms, firefighting and evacuation). • Conduct fire drills. • Conduct fire drills. • Provide instruction in safe driving. • Implemented awareness activities on driving etiquette. ○ 8 • Provide instruction in safe driving. Road safety • Promote safe-driving awareness activities. • Took part in safe-driving contest sponsored by Osaka Pref. • Promote safe-driving awareness activities. • Provide regular/special health exams. • Provide regular/special health exams. • Provided regular health exams and personal interviews. • Provide mental health exams. ○ 8 • Provide mental health exams. Personal health management • Promoted mental health awareness via training, etc. • Conduct environmental health patrols. • Conduct environmental health patrols. • Improved workplace environments. • Conduct follow-up interviews on lifestyle-related diseases. • Conduct follow-up interviews on lifestyle-related diseases. Creating comfortable • Improve workplace environments. • Developed workplace environments for less fatigue/stress by adding rest areas, ○ 8 • Improve workplace environments. workplaces • Improve work methods. improving staircase handrails, etc. • Improve work methods. • Accept audits to update ISO14001 certification. • Underwent environmental audits (ISO14001 recertification/internal). • Accept periodic audits for ISO14001 certification. Environmental management • Conduct internal audits. • Nabari Plant was conferred MOE award. ○ 9 • Conduct internal audits. • Propose improvements. • Centrally managed licensed personnel in a database. • Propose improvements. • Compliant with noise/vibration regulations. • Compliant with wastewater regulations. • Evaluate compliance with environmental regulations. ○ 10 • Evaluate compliance with environmental regulations. Regulatory compliance • Verified operations of industrial waste handlers at their sites. • Take preventative measures to protect the environment. • Take preventative measures to protect the environment. • Used public certification system for selecting industrial waste handlers. • Impart general environmental education. Environmental protection • Impart general environmental education. • Impart advanced environmental education. ○ 11 Environmental education Imparted general/field-specific environmental education. • Impart advanced environmental education. • Impart education and training aimed at acquiring environmental • Impart education and training aimed at acquiring environmental licenses. licenses. • Introduced LED lighting and took other energy-conservation measures. • Reduce CO2 emissions. ○ 11 12 • Reduce CO2 emissions. Environmental load reduction • Reduced metallic waste, etc. • Reduce waste. • Reduce waste. • Took part in carbon offset initiative. [Special Feature] • Take part in Fun to Share campaign. • Took part in Fun to Share campaign. ○ 12 Environmental protection • Take part in Fun to Share campaign. • Create food recycling group. • Created food recycling group. • Donated money and services to hosting local communities. • Support social contribution activities implemented by • Supported blood-drive and fundraising activities of charity organizations. Interaction with hosting local ○ • Support social contribution activities implemented by governments and other organizations. governments and other organizations. • Cleaned up and beautified local areas. communities • Increase social welfare for the elderly and handicapped. • Increase social welfare for the elderly and handicapped. • Hired elderly/handicapped persons and accepted interns. • Donated canes to the needy. • Continually implement and improve an internship program. • Cooperated in environmental education events organized by NPOs. ○ • Continually implement and improve an internship program. Promotion of learning • Provide student aid via fundraising. • Managed a scholarship fund for internships and plant tours. • Provide student aid via fundraising. Social contributions Strengthen disaster preparedness and cooperate in emergencies • Strengthened disaster preparedness of local hosting communities. Disaster relief Strengthen disaster preparedness and cooperate in emergencies both in Japan and overseas. both in Japan and overseas. • Provided relief to disaster-stricken areas. [Newly added in FY2015] Start involvement in social contribution activities by offices/plants 3 overseas. Achieved better-than-expected results / 〇: Achieved target as stated / : Greater efforts needed to achieve target / × : Not implemented ＣＳＲ経営 -CSR ManagementInternal Controls 内部統制 CSR Management ●Internal audits At NKC, we place importance on operating audits as an internal control tool and use them to check and monitor the operations and organizational structures of departments. On a particular note, because of increasingly stiffer regulations in Japan's Subcontractor Act that have emerged in recent years, we have been making sure that payment practices are appropriate. During the subject fiscal year, we followed up on payment operations of a group company to verify their regulatory compliance and correct any irregularities, if necessary. FY2014 internal audits Internal Audit Plans <Subject> The scope of internal audits, past and present, are as follows. Payment practices of 1 group company <Until FY2013> <FY2014> <After FY2015> <Findings> Issues were detected and the below improvements were Audits of payment Audits of payment Audits of payment verified. practices intended practices intended practices intended • Operating flow was changed to ensure smooth for Head Office for important for offices/plants transactions. and plants in Japan group companies in Japan in line with • The operations manual was revised to prevent business the Subcontractors Act operations from being dependent on any single person. Compliance コンプライアンス ●New recruit training ●Internal training in work related laws and regulations raining that new recruits undergo every year when joining the There are numerous laws and regulations that have to be upheld company was imparted during this subject fiscal year to 32 high when performing one's duties, but particularly in regards to school and college graduates. The program lasts 5 days and serves subcontractor business transactions and security export controls, to familiarize recruits with corporate systems at NKC and teach we believe that continuing education for persons engaged in those them about important legal matters related to their duties as a areas of operation is necessary to ensure appropriate handling member of society and the bare minimum that they need to know and, therefore, encourage participation in outside learning to engage in work. After completing this initial training, new opportunities. As a result, not only has there been an increase in recruits are taught more basics via foreign language training the number of inquiries from persons in charge asking how to do overseas and/or job training at plants in Japan, and are then things properly but also internal audits have shown improved assigned to a department. understanding of indicated matters. Nonetheless, for a company doing business globally via multiple offices just in Japan, it is important to conduct business not only in line with laws and Training program regulations but also with a high standard of ethics. Therefore, we • Explanation of corporate rules will be working to improve awareness in this area through internal • Safety and environmental education training • CSR training • English language training • Mental health training, etc. Participation in outside seminars <Subcontractor business Starting in 2015, transactions> we are stepping up • FY2012 … 13 persons internal training • FY2013 … 12 persons and periodically • FY2014 … 4 persons <Security export checking its controls> effectiveness in • FY2013 … 9 persons penetrating the • FY2014 … 8 persons necessary mindset. English class at the Head Office 4 We conduct business through sound practices, in full compliance with the law and with a high standard of ethics. Risk Management リスク管理 [Special Feature] BCP for natural disasters CSR Management [What does BCP mean?] BCP is short for Business Continuity Plan. It is what businesses use to plot contingencies against foreseeable risks that could shut down their operations like natural disasters, epidemics and serious accidents, and quickly recover business in the event thereof. At NKC, we have formulated and adopted a BCP on Harada-kun, BCP awareness mascot natural disaster hypotheticals, though earthquakes are obviously our first concern. ● BCPs established for almost all business ●BCP development started at business sites oversites in Japan seas BCPs were established for important administrative and BCPs have been sequentially established by our business production sites such as our Head Office and plants in Japan sites in Japan and since we expected all domestic sites to during the course of FY2013. In FY2014, 2 branch offices in have a BCP by the end of FY2014, we started developing Japan established BCPs, which means that almost all of our plans at our business sites overseas. Outside Japan, the risks business sites in Japan have a BCP in place. Also, in parallel that threaten corporate operations differ according to with the establishment in 2 branch offices, 1 group company country. For this reason, we began by identifying foreseeadopted a BCP. able risks, all the while bearing natural disasters in mind, in order to carefully develop BCPs based on a correct understanding of the situation in each country where we have operations. <Until FY2012> <FY2013> <FY2014> <FY2014> <After FY2015> Established Established Establish BCPs Diffusion of Established Established BCPs at Philippine BCP company-wide at all remaining BCPs at 5 BCPs at 2 2 business as model for BCP at the sites in the business sites major plants branch offices business sites Head Office Philippines in the Philippines in other countries * For descriptions of Business sites with a BCP conduct preparedness activities so that plans work in an emergency. these activities, see below. ●Continually planning and conducting activities for enhancing our resilience to disaster (Japan) Since FY2013, we have been undertaking various activities to augment the effectiveness of our BCP. For example, in FY2014, we conducted activities, such as evacuation drills at the Head Office and 5 major plants, to make the workforce aware of our BCP. And, we are continuing preparedness activities on a regular basis so that, in an emergency, lives are protected and business can continue as best possible. Main preparedness activities • Evacuation drills • Additional purchases of emergency supplies • Internal audits • Awareness-oriented publications Fire drill at the Head Office Emergency supplies Awareness-oriented publication ●Information security maintain/improve office equipment/environment At NKC, we have continually taken measures against information leaks and, in FY2014, we restricted use of flash drives. This included distributing company-issued flash drives, prohibiting the use of personal flash drives for copying data from company computers,and making these rules known to the workforce. Going forward, we will continue to take measures against information leaks. 5 労働慣行 -Work Customs & PracticesHuman resource Human resource utilization utilization 人材活用 ●Encouraging early morning work As part of the company's efforts to help employees properly balance their work and personal lives, NKC is encouraging its people to come to work early. This is being done by paying a special allowance for work done between 5:00 and 7:00 in the morning, and serving breakfast at the Head Office cafeteria to early-bird employees who cannot eat at home. This new arrangement has been introduced on a trial basis, but plans are to continue the practice if liked by those working the early morning hours. Additionally, we are taking the environmental consequences of this Work Customs & Practices early morning work program into consideration by using a garbage disposer sold by the EPD Room to convert raw food waste from breakfast into bio-compost. Example breakfast ●Promotion of diversity in our workforce NKC has been certified twice under programs aimed at the empowerment of women in the workplace, for its efforts to promote workforce diversity. The company is also creating workplace environments that respect differing values and draw out the skill and motivation of every individual. Certifications acquired in FY2014 ・Certified as a Leading Company for the Empowerment of Women by Osaka City certificate ・Registered Declaration of Equal Opportunity Employment with Osaka Pref.certificate <Logos and Certificate> Declaration of Equal Opportunity Leading Company for the Empowerment of Employment logo Women logo Leading Company for the Empowerment of Women certificate Projects launched under certification programs • To encourage more women to join the workforce In FY2013, we began analyzing the corporate environment from the perspective of training, systems and facilities in search of ways that would encourage more women to join the workforce. In FY2014, we updated rules on childcare leave to benefit parents more and remodeled restrooms. For FY2015 and beyond, plans have been crafted to build childcare centers at some plants, explore the possibilities of providing educational structures, and more. • Support for work-life balance Besides our efforts to bring more women into the workforce, NKC continues to push for lesser overtime work and encourage employees to take paid holidays. The shorter working hours that result from these efforts are expected to get dads more involved in raising children and family activities. 6 NKC is promoting diversity in its workforce and creating workplace environments where each and every employee can be who they are. Human Resource Development 人材育成 ●Training for new recruits in the Philippines Given that continuous study and practice are instrumental to learning English, English language studies are imparted to new recruits soon after they enter the company as a part of that process. In FY2014, a month-long training program in the Philippines was started in addition to English lessons at our Head Office. Work Customs & Practices Philippine Plant visited during training in the Philippines ●Follow-up training <For 2nd year employees> Every year, follow-up training is imparted to employees starting their second year with the company, to go over basic operating and communication procedures again. In the program, same-year employees form groups and together solve problems. It is meant to reinforce the importance of looking outward and working with others on the job. <For 5th year employees> Training for employees who have been with the company for 5 years is based on a 360˚ evaluation in which the employee is evaluated by superiors, colleagues and others with whom he/she engages via work. By learning what others think of you, employees recognize their strengths and weaknesses, and learn what it takes to be a leader in the workplace. ●Expanded target management system Target management had long been a responsibility of managers and supervisors, but in order to better understand how superiors determine work priorities and what is important, it was decided to expand target management to chief class employees starting in FY2015. But, before the new system was introduced, presentations were given 2 times at every business site in FY2014 to explain the purpose and details of the new system, how to set targets and other relevant matters. ●Training for newly appointed managers and supervisors Special training in target management was imparted to employees who were newly appointed to manager and supervisor positions in FY2014. The program consisted of both theoretical and practical training in the roles of managers/supervisors, personnel evaluations, target setting and management, document preparation and more. 7 安全衛生 -Occupational Safety and HealthWork Safety & Health Management 安全衛生管理 ●General commission on work safety, health and environments Four times a year, representatives from NKC's 6 plants in Japan gather for each a general commission on work safety, health and environments and a meeting on work safety, health and environments. The commission rotates the meeting venue amongst the participating plants each time and combines the meeting with a plant tour. The purpose is to raise the bar on safety and health by sharing information, learning about and witnessing the activities of other plants. ●Overseas commission on work safety, health and ●Use of safety standards environments In compliance with occupational safety and health laws and codes, As a way to improve work safety and health, the 7 overseas plants NKC prepares and applies safety standards and health protocols of the NKC Group share information and learn about what each with content that is both standardized for the entire group and other is doing 6 times a year via teleconferencing. Moreover, specific to individual plants. Head Office staff visits the plants every other year to verify the situation in person. Accident Prevention 災害の防止 ●Upscaled training in work safety and health NKC has identified 7 jobs that present a particularly high degree of risk. In addition to legally mandated employee training, NKC is required to provide work-specific safety training to persons who perform dangerous jobs at least once a year, in order to enhance safety Occupational Safety and Health awareness and skill. Moreover, training records are managed in a database and blocks are in place to prevent even licensed personnel from performing certain jobs if they have not completed the routine safety training. 7 risky jobs at NKC (1) Forklift safety training at the Shiga Plant （1） （2） （3） • Operating forklifts (2) Safety training for grinding stone change-out at the Nabari Plant • Operating cranes • Rigging slings (3) Welding training at the Mie Plant • Pressing work including mold mounting, (4) Safety training for operating cranes and adjustment and removal （4） （5） （6） rigging slings at the Kawachi P;ant • Changing out and testing grinding stones (5) Press safety training at the Osaka Plant • Gas and arch welding • Operating industrial robots including teaching and adjustments (6) Industrial robot safety training at the Tenma Plant ●Zero accident awards ●Analyses of alertness and near misses The number of accidents that result in near-injury and worse are As part of the effort to improve work safety and health, NKC anatabulated on an annual basis for each plant separately, and plants lyzes alertness and near misses. Emphasis is placed on risks that that attain a zero accident record for the year are given an award only factory workers would recognize and sampling is done on a and all employees in their workforce are given a memento of plant basis. The plant that scores the highest is given an award and their achievement. In FY2014, awards were given to Kawachi all employees in their workforce are given a memento of their Plant and the Shiga Plant. achievement. In FY2014, the award went to the Mie Plant. ●Internal audits of work safety and health Every plant in the NKC Group includes periodic workplace patrols in its annual action plan and any unsafe acts or situations discovered in patrols are noted and improved. Additionally, Head Office staff conduct an internal audit once a year to raise the bar on work safety and health across the group and in every workplace. Regulatory compliance 法令遵守 Every plant prepares a list of safety regulations that they use to assess and verify their compliance therewith. This list is checked in internal audits, as well. Head Office staff routinely collects information on regulatory updates, which they share with the general commission on work safety, health and environments. Safety laws and regulations that require NKC's compliance Laws Ordinances Industrial Safety and Health Law/Labor Standards Act/Labor Contract Act/Health Osaka Municipal Fire Prevention Ordinance/Fire Fighting Union in Hirakata Promotion Act/Fire Services Act/Poisonous and Deleterious Substances Control & Neyagawa Municipal/Nabari Municipal Fire Prevention Ordinance/ etc. Act/Electric Utility Industry Law/High Pressure Gas Safety Law/etc. 8 NKC promotes activities intended to prevent accidents and disasters so that our workforce can feel safe and secure at work. Preparedness for Emergencies 防災管理 ●Fire patrols Periodic patrols are conducted according to an annual action plan for checking how hazardous materials that could lead to fire are managed and the condition of electrical equipment and wiring. Moreover, smoking areas are routinely checked and firefighting equipment is subjected to legally mandated inspections and servicing, in an effort to prevent fires. ●Firefighting dills Every plant in the NKC Group prepares a manual of alarm, firefighting and evacuation procedures and periodically conducts firefighting drills based on firefighting plans. At the Nabari Plant, representatives from the local fire department witness firefighting drills conducted at an employee dormitory every year. Moreover, at a contest where businesses Fire hose drill at the Fire extinguisher drill compete to see who operates indoor fire extinguishers the best, NKC posts good results Tenma Plant at the Osaka Plant every year. Road Safety 交通安全 ●Awareness activities ●Participation in contests At every plant in the NKC Group, road safety seminars are periThrough the Head Office, NKC takes part in safe driving contests odically staged with the cooperation of local police. Moreover, organized by the Osaka Prefectural Police and others, to raise driving behaviors are observed to raise awareness of the imporawareness of road safety. An award ceremony was held at the tance of road safety and improve how employees drive. AdditionOsaka Plant in FY2014 to recognize 9 employees who exhibited Occupational Safety and Health ally, all employees who cycle to work are required to get bicycle exemplar driving skills and behavior during a safe driving campaign insurance in order to make them aware of the company's conin autumn. cerns over road safety. Health Management 健康管理 ●Health management ●Mental health NKC provides the regular and special health exams required by To prevent psychological disorders, awareness activities and law and coordinates with physicians specialized in industrial medimental health exercises are imparted amongst the workforce. cine to follow-up on personal interviews and results. Moreover, as Moreover, every employee undergoes a mental health exam as seasonal measures in health management, activities are conducted part of the company's EAP. Private counseling by an industrial to raise awareness of ways to avoid heat exhaustion in summer health specialist is also provided as needed to help the workforce and the flu in winter. stay mentally fit. ●Environmental health activities In an effort to improve workplace environments, NKC periodically measures noise levels, vibrations, lighting and other environmental factors that cause health damage. Providing a Good Workplace Environment 快適環境づくり When it comes to providing workplace environments, NKC aims at a comfortable environment where employees suffer minimally from job fatigue and stress. The company exams workplaces from the 4 perspectives of workplace management, improvements to work procedures, providing and maintaining facilities and equipment that allows operators to recover from both physical and mental fatigue, and maintaining and managing other facilities and equipment. In the process, problems are identified and corrective measures taken to fix them. Primary action taken in FY2014 to improve workplace environments • Lessened steel door weight to reduce the load placed on employees. • Improved doorknobs to facilitate opening/closing. • Added and remodeled rest areas. • Improved water supply equipment and routing. • Updated bulletin boards. • Repaired and resurfaced floors and pavements. Improved rest area at Improved doorknob at Improved floor at • Improved and repaired staircase handrails. the Nabari Plant the Shiga Plant the Osaka Plant 9 環境保全 -Environmental ProtectionEnvironmental Management環 境 管 理 環境管理 Our environmental slogan at NKC is to pass on a clean Earth to future generations. With this in mind, we devised an environmental policy for directing environmental efforts at protecting the entire planet and built an environmental management system to implement that policy. NKC Environmental Policy (excerpt) <Principle> Protect the global environment by reducing the environmental load exerted by our products, services and business operations in Japan and abroad. <Approach> (1) Build, maintain and improve an environmental management system. (4) Build production systems of low environmental load. (2) Prevent pollution as required by law. (5) Cooperate in environmental protection activities of (3) Make this environmental policy known to plant national, regional and local governments, etc. personnel via environmental training. <Requirements placed on our workforce> (4) Set coolers to no lower than 28˚C and heaters to no 1. CO2 reduction higher than 20˚C. (1) Turn off unnecessary lights. 2. Landfill waste reduction (2) Turn off lights during lunch. Separate waste by material as indicated. (3) Shut power off to PCs if not planning on using them for * Slogan: When sorted, waste is a resource. When 30 min or more. mixed, it's just trash ●Environmental audits: ISO14001, internal audits and renewal audits In order to verify that the environmental management system we built works properly, we have Head Office specialist do internal audits Environmental Protection and outside certification organizations conduct renewal audits as specified in ISO14001. FY2014 audit findings Site ISO14001 certification Verification method Result Osaka, Mie and Nabari Plants Acquired in 2006 Renewal audit by DNV (Third party certification Cited non-compliances: 0 Tenma Steel, EPD Room Acquired in 2009 organization) Head Office, Jig Plant, Shiga Plant, Kawachi Plant Internal audits by Minor things only Not acquired assigned department ●Management of licensed personnel NKC encourages its workforce to seek licensing in pollution (noise, vibrations, and water and air pollution) prevention, energy management, designated industrial waste management, etc., and centrally manages licensed personnel in a database. 10 NKC is helping to protect the global environment by reducing environmental load across all business operations. Regulatory Compliance 法令遵守 ●Compliance with noise and vibration regulations Noise and vibrations were measured at all plants subjected to regulations and all sites cleared the specified standards Regulatory standards that plants must clear Noise level (dB) Vibration (dB) Site Zoning Early morning/ Daytime evening Nighttime Daytime Nighttime Head Office Quasi-industrial Zone 65 60 55 65 60 Osaka Plant Quasi-industrial Zone 65 60 55 65 60 Nabari Plant Not Zoned 60 55 50 65 60 Mie Plant Quasi-industrial Zone 65 60 55 65 60 Shiga Plant Industrial Zone 70 65 60 70 65 Quasi-industrial Zone (Plant) 65 60 55 65 60 Kawachi Plant Category 1 Residential District (Parts Warehouse) 55 50 45 60 55 ●Compliance with wastewater regulations Quality was measured of wastewater released from all plants subjected to regulations and all sites cleared the specified standards. Note that the Nabari Plant, Shiga Plant and Kawachi Plant are not subjected to these regulations. Regulatory standards that plants must clear Standard Site Environmental Protection H ion BOD SS Dissolved n-hexane N content P content concentration (mg/L) (mg/L) Fe content (mg/L) (mg/L) (mg/L) (mg/L) Head Office 5～9 600 600 10 None None None 5 (Mineral oil) Osaka Plant 5.7 ～ 8.7 300 300 None 30 (Animal/Vegetable oil) 150 20 Mie Plant 5～9 120 600 10 5 None None ●On-site verifications of industrial waste handlers ●Certification system for industrial waste handlers The biggest issue concerning industrial waste treatment for NKC Under this system, prefectures and designated cities screen and is not to be embroiled in illegal dumping. We, therefore, visited all certify industrial waste handlers that clear stricter standards than 17 industrial waste handlers with whom we contract and verified those of ordinary permits. NKC contracts with 12 of the 26 hanthat they are treating our industrial waste properly. dlers certified under this system. 11 環境保全 -Environmental ProtectionEnvironmental Education 環境教育 In FY2014, we continued to impart general and field-specific environmental education, and centrally manage those records in a database. Moreover, concerned personnel were summoned and tested on emergency response procedures in the event of a leak of spent oil, sulfuric acid, wastewater and other substances. Environmental Load Reduction 環境負荷逓減 ●Measures against Climate Change Again, in FY2014, we implemented a number of activities intended to conserve energy, but because of increased production turnout, CO2 emissions from our operations increased 7.2% from the previous year. Activities in FY2014 Site Main activities Head Office Automated annealing furnace damper control. Replaced fluorescent lighting with LED lighting. Installed double-pane windows. Osaka Plant Replaced high voltage transformers with amorphous models. Replaced fluorescent and mercury-vapor lighting with LED and electrode-less lighting. Replaced hydraulic injection molding machines with all-electric machines. Eliminated Nabari Plant surfacing for radial retainers (eliminated continuous vibration unit). Painted plant exterior walls in insulating paint. Replaced fluorescent and mercury-vapor lighting with LED and electrode-less lighting. Replaced electric and gas-burning air-conditioners with gas heat pump models. Replaced high voltage transformers with Mie Plant amorphous models. Replaced fluorescent and mercury-vapor lighting with LED and electrode-less lighting. Shiga Plant Replaced fluorescent and mercury-vapor lighting with LED and electrode-less lighting. Operated cranes using recycled energy. Kawachi Plant Planted vegetation and bamboo as shields. Replaced fluorescent lighting with LED lighting. Double-pane windows Plant shield at High efficiency at the Head Office Kawachi Plant transformer at the Mie plant ●Waste Reduction Environmental Protection Like every year, we kept our waste recycling rate above 99.9% in FY2014, Activities in FY2014 Site Main activities Reduced rubber waste via process improvements. Changed packaging from Head Office wood to fiberboard. Automated waste treatment tabulations. Osaka Plant Reduced metallic waste via process improvements. Reduced pollution by eliminating surfacing. Nabari Plant Treated, recycled and reused effluent from retainer degreasing unit. Reduced pollution by eliminating surfacing. Mie Plant Reduced rubber waste via process improvements. Reduced pollution by eliminating surfacing. Shiga Plant Reduced wooden waste by modifying packaging procedures. Kawachi Plant Improved resin recycling rate. Reused fiberboard. 12 NKC is helping to protect the global environment by reducing environmental load across all business operations. [Special Feature] Carbon Offset Program NKC signed a purchasing agreement with Iwate Prefecture under their J-Ver Offset Credit program and was awarded a memorial plaque from them to commemorate the initiative. Iwate Prefecture's J-Ver Offset Credit program offers businesses a way to offset CO2 emissions that they cannot reduce on their own, by letting them purchase credits against increasing CO2 levels that are resulting from lumbering. The concept is modeled after a similar program launched by Japan's Ministry of the Environment, to combat climate change and fund reconstruction efforts in areas stricken by the Great East Japan Earthquake. By purchasing J-Ver credits, NKC was able to offset a portion of the CO2 emissions generated by lifters made by Kolec and garbage disposers sold by the EPD Room. Offsets amounted to 34t-CO2 for the lifters and 40t-CO2 for the garbage disposers. Memorial plaque presentation ceremony Environmental Protection 環境保全 ●Participation in the MOE's Fun to Share program All of NKC took part in the Fun to Share program promoted by Japan's Ministry of the Environment in the interest of creating a lowcarbon society. Again in FY2014, NKC took simple steps to reduce its CO2 emissions by setting coolers no lower than 28˚C and heaters no higher than 20˚C. ●Creation of food recycling group One very significant undertaking in building a recycle-oriented society is to recycle the vast amount of unsold foods in stores, leftover foods on plates and food discards from processing lines into feed and compost so that it can be effectively utilized. At NKC, raw waste generated in the company cafeteria is composted with the garbage disposer and supplied to growers in Hyogo Prefecture. NKC then buys the Environmental Protection rice grown with that compost and serves it in the company cafeteria. This food recycling group was created in FY2014. 13 社会貢献 -Social ContributionInteraction with Hosting Local Communities 地域参画 ●Community support ●Support for charity NKC supports local communities where we have business operaNKC indirectly contributes to social issues that we cannot solve tions by donating money and manpower for festivals and other on our own, by making financial and in-kind donations to charity events near our facilities. organizations involved in activities in Japan and abroad. FY2014 community support activities (Abridged) FY2014 charity support activities (Abridged) • ACCJ Kansai Charity Walk <Manpower support (Employee participation)> • Blood donation (Support for workplace improvement for working women) <Financial support> <Financial support> • Hilton Osaka Christmas Train • Tenjin-Matsuri Festival • Radio Charity Musicthon • Tenma Music Festival • Medecins Sans Frontieres • Midosuji Illumination • Green Fund • Neyagawa-Matsuri Festival • Nabarigawa Fireworks Show • Shimoda Dororinpic Lion dance at Tenjin-Matsuri Festival • Nobenojinja Akimatsuri (Fall Festival) Hilton Osaka Radio Charity Christmas Train Musicthon ●Community cleanups and beautification Most of NKC's business sites in Japan get involved in cleanup activities in neighborhoods near them. We have been continuing these activities not only because cleaned roads and sidewalks benefit everyone but also because interacting with local residents doubly works as a pipeline of communication. These activities vary in size and scope, and some even require the business site to register with local authorities, but each business site handles the activities on its own. FY2014 activities <Volunteer activities> Cleanup of roads around the business site <Sponsorship of campaigns run by local governments, etc.> Cleanup work by Tenma Steel Cleanup work by the Shiga Plant • Osaka Marathon Cleanup (Osaka City) • Community-driven road beautification (Neyagawa City) • Biwako Cleanup Campaign (Shiga Pref.) • Adopt-a-Road Program (Osaka Pref.) Biwako Cleanup Campaign Cleanup work by the Nabari Plant ●Job creation ●Social welfare support NKC is helping to create jobs and stimulate local economies by NKC donated a large quantity of Hyokkorizue canes that group Social Contribution ordering work from local placement centers (elderly, handicapped, company Neues handles, to local welfare centers, to assist handiex-convicts, etc.) and seeking human resources from staffing cencapped and elderly person with walking. ters. 14 We recognize the role that NKC plays as a member of the local communities that host our operations and apply our wherewithal as a business to contribute to those communities. Promotion of Learning 学術振興 ●Participation in environmental learning events organized by NPOs The EPD Room, which deals in environmental products, provided a helping hand in the Nushima Island Natural Energy Tours. Nushima Island is located south of Awaji Island and is striving to become 100% self-reliant on renewable energy. The tours were planned to get families from Hyogo Prefecture to think more deeply about energy by visiting demonstration facilities on the island. The EPD Room made snowballs using a mobile battery they sell, which turned out to be a big hit with the Snowball tent operated by the EPD Room organizers and participants alike. ●Internships and plant tours To assist young people in planning careers and hunting for jobs, NKC offers internships and plant tours. ●Management of a scholarship fund NKC has created a scholarship fund that awards scholarships to students and provides grants to research institutes. <Scholarships> NKC added 45 new students to its scholarship program in FY2014. Counting scholarship recipients who were continuing their education from the previous fiscal year, a total of 37,639,000 JPY in scholarship money was provided to 105 students. Moreover, in September 2014, a get-together was held for the college and Counseling from Commemorative photo graduate school students who were awarded scholarships employees to scholarship taken at scholarship that year and company employees were on hand to provide students social advice on job hunting. <Research grants> In FY2014, a record high 7 grant applications were received for research into the industrial sciences and NKC doled out a total of 6,000,000 JPY to 6 of them (1,000,000 JPY each). The recipient institutions are required to submit reports at each the halfway point and end of the fiscal year in order for NKC to verify that the grant is being used meaningfully. Disaster Relief 災害支援 ●Strengthening of the disaster preparedness of hosting local communities NKC donated about 2,500,000 JPY in emergencies supplies like mobile toilets to Osaka City's Kita Ward. Future plans are to equip Tsunami Evacuation Buildings (registered buildings where anyone can flee in the event of a tsunami) with these kinds of emergencies supplies. Commendation received ●Support for disaster-stricken areas from the head of Kita Ward Social Contribution NKC donated financial aid to victims in Fukuchiyama, Kyoto Pref. and Hiroshima, Hiroshima Pref., which were hit by flooding and landslides caused by heavy rains from a typhoon in August 2014. 15 [Backcover Story] Overseas Contribution Activities: The Philippines NKC will begin using this CSR Report to introduce the activities of our overseas offices and plants via feature articles. As the first shot at this, we want to present the bigger social contribution activities of our Philippines operations in this year's report. ●Aid for typhoon and earthquake victims ●Donations to local elementary schools Like Japan, the Philippines live with the risk of earthquakes and NKC's local offices in the Philippine periodically conduct activities typhoons. 2013, in fact, saw heavy damage from both in many to help elementary schools that lack capital or materials necessary locations across the country. To provide aid to the disaster victims, for them to operate. This includes donating books, chairs and NKC's operating base in the Philippines conducted various activiother school items, and serving lunches. ties, amongst which were a fund-raising marathon and the collection and distribution of supplies. Donated books for students Lunch in the classroom ●Tree planting In the interest of environmental protection, NKC's local offices in the Philippine plant mangroves and other tree species. Participants from the charity Staff and collected relief supplies marathon Volunteers after a day of tree planting ■Editorial policy ■Corporate profile NKC prepares and releases this CSR Report in order to share information on our CSR activities with our customers, communities that host our operations and others who have a vested interest in us. If you have any thoughts or opinions about our CSR activities, please share them with us either Established: June 19, 1941 via the questionnaire included with this report or via our Capital: 2,512.50 million JPY corporate website, so that we can reflect them in future activities. Representative: Tatsuo Nakanishi, President This report can also be viewed and downloaded from our Employees; About 2,000 CSR & Environment[Their E-site has an Environmental Line of business: Manufacture and sale of bearing retainers, Policy page, but no CSR reports for viewing or download. conveyor systems, sash rollers, pressed metal products, etc. page of our corporate website. • Period reported: April 2014 March 2015 • Scope: NKC Head Office, all offices and plants in Japan, some offices and plants overseas • Date released: 09/15/2015 (Next report slated for release in June 2016) • Send inquiries to: CSR Group, Head Office Management Dept., Nakanishi Metal Works Co., Ltd. 3-3-5 Tenmabashi, Kita-ku, Osaka 530-8566 TEL: 06-6351-4832 FAX: 06-6351-7822 URL: www.nkc-j.co.jp Consideration for the environment was shown in the preparation of this report.
