Sustainability Report 2015 engage your senses Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Contents Profile disclosures Labour practices Appendix 02 Strategy and analysis 51 Employment 74 Performance indicators – environmental 10 Organisational profile 53 Labour/management relations 75 Performance indicators – restatement table 18 Identified material aspects and boundaries 54 Occupational health and safety Assurance 23 Stakeholder engagement 56 Training and education 77 G4 content index 27 Report profile 58 Diversity and equal opportunities 80 The principles of the UN Global Compact 28 Governance 59 Equal remuneration for women and men 81 Assurance statement 30 Ethics and integrity 60 Supplier assessment on labour practices and decent work Economic Human rights 32 Economic performance 62 Child labour 34 Procurement practices 63 Supplier human rights assessment Environment Society 38 Energy 65 Local communities 40 Water 67 Anti-corruption 42 Emissions 68 Public policy 44 Effluents and waste Product responsibility 46 Products and services 70 Customer health and safety 47 Transport 72 Product and service labelling 49 Supplier environmental assessment Profile disclosures This section provides a highlevel view of Givaudan’s strategy and governance related to sustainability. It also provides context for other sections of this report. In this section: 02 Strategy and analysis 10 Organisational profile 18 Identified material aspects and boundaries 23 Stakeholder engagement 27 Report profile 28 Governance 30 Ethics and integrity 2 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis G4-1: Statement from the most senior decision-maker Finally, I would emphasise the progress we have made in our survey, as well as the guidance from professional management of the organisation commitment to mitigate climate change. Givaudan has already coaches. In 2015, we had the first graduation of the ‘Evolve’ class met most of its original 2020 eco-efficiency targets, set back in on a global level, and the graduations of the ‘Begin’ classes in In a world that no longer views financial measures as the main 2010, leading us to introduce strengthened targets in 2015. each region. metric of success, Givaudan continues to define itself beyond the numbers. The Company’s strategy for 2020 is to ensure What specific progress did Givaudan make in 2015 against Gilles Andrier: One of our strategic ambitions is to leverage responsible growth and shared success for its shareholders, its sustainability priorities? Givaudan’s expertise in natural bioscience to become a customers and other key stakeholders. Givaudan CEO Gilles Joe Fabbri: I would highlight our progress in two areas: ecosignificant player in active cosmetics ingredients (ACI), part of Andrier and Joe Fabbri, Head of Global EHS and Sustainability, efficiency and employee engagement. I was especially proud the growing health and wellness space. Following the acquisition discuss how anchoring sustainability into the strategy at the when Givaudan was recognised in November as a global leader of Soliance in 2014, we took further steps towards this goal highest level of the organisation is providing a clear roadmap for for its strategies and actions in response to climate change in 2015 by acquiring Induchem, a Swiss company with an the next five years. and awarded a top score of 100A on The Climate A List by innovative portfolio and deep research expertise. We further CDP, the international not-for-profit organisation that drives consolidated our future in this field with the inauguration of an 2015 saw the conclusion of a five-year strategy cycle for sustainable economies. expanded ACI production line in Pomacle, France. Givaudan. What do you see as your key achievements during this period? Eco-efficiency is nothing new for Givaudan; as Gilles mentioned, We continued to progress on our certification for palm oil. As a Gilles Andrier: Let me begin with sustainable innovation. we have already achieved significant reductions in CO2 responsible manufacturer of products for the food industry, As early as 2009, Givaudan reported on how we were working emissions, energy consumption and waste production. In 2015, Givaudan supports the production of sustainable palm oil and to create consumer preferred flavours and fragrances in line we announced strengthened targets: to stabilise our carbon derivatives, as defined by the Round Table on Sustainable Palm with sustainability principles. Our innovative TasteSolutions® footprint by reducing absolute CO2 emissions by at least 4% Oil (RSPO). In 2015, Givaudan certified its European flavour programme was developed from 2011 to address obesity and year on year in order to compensate for our growing production production sites with the RSPO supply chain certification. other health issues by finding ways to reduce salt, sugar and fat volumes. At the same time we will work to reduce waste The Company further commits to source our palm oil, palm content in consumer products without compromise to taste. production and energy consumption per tonne of product by 4%, kernel oil and their derivatives in a way that is traceable to Another market-leading innovation has been our development of also on a year-on-year basis. known certified sources by 2020. in-vitro methods of skin sensitisation testing. In 2015, Givaudan We believe that inspiring our 9,907 employees to take action Givaudan continues to work towards achieving our European began making our proprietary KeratinoSens® assay openly is the most effective way to reach our sustainability goals. REACH registration goals and in 2015 met and surpassed all available to external partners, working with the OECD to adopt Engaging people in sustainability is a mindset that runs through of our objectives. Work is on-going on over 100 key chemical and promote the solution globally. This methodology, a costeverything we do: participating in Green Teams, inspiring our substances and we anticipate fulfilling our registration effective alternative to animal testing, is being used by some 30 perfumers and flavourists to create greater sensory impact requirements ahead of the 2018 deadline. outside laboratories around the world. with fewer resources, developing new ingredients based on What key challenges have you faced over the past year? Responsible sourcing is another key area for us. Givaudan began sustainable sources. Joe Fabbri: Givaudan places a high priority on workplace safety. pioneering an ethical sourcing approach in the flavour and As an employer, Givaudan aims to offer people a chance to grow This means both striving to eliminate accidents and injuries in fragrance industry a decade ago. Starting out with partnerships through rewarding, enriching careers while providing them with the workplace and providing the training and systems needed to with local producers, we now use different sourcing models opportunities to impact their world. This is encapsulated in our ensure the health and safety of our employees. including our own collection networks. Givaudan’s Origination new Leadership Senses initiative, launched in 2014 by our Global team creates a human chain from growers to consumers by As Givaudan expands into new markets and businesses Learning & Development team. Its four programmes – Begin, deploying dedicated employees in the countries of origin, through acquisitions and joint ventures, we face periods of Grow, Evolve and Enhance – include specific modules created fostering best practices in sourcing and ensuring that producers adaptation in terms of institutionalising the Givaudan safety by 50 members of top management, inputs from top-ranking and local communities benefit in the long-term from supplying culture. Our mandate is to swiftly support and onboard business schools, feedback from our 2013 employee engagement the industry. our new colleagues to the integrated safety platform of 3 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis Continued Givaudan. We help them build internal networks, complete risk opportunity to take action. Our signing of four commitments ‘Partnering for shared success’ is the key pillar for achieving assessments, and support them with any behavioural changes on the ‘Road to Paris’ initiative in June 2015, ahead of the UNGivaudan’s sustainability goals in the next five years. It supports necessary to successful comply with our Global EHS policy. organised COP21 conference on climate change, is one way our strategy in four different ways. Partnerships enable us we’re working to ensure the long-term availability of the natural to leverage external innovation and further our research Our commitment to Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) resources we rely upon for our creations. These commitments into flavour and fragrance ingredients based on bioscience is formalised in our EHS policy, a set of principles embraced include 100% renewable electricity, reporting climate change techniques, for example. By closely collaborating with our by the highest level of our leadership. As a signatory to the information in mainstream reports, adopting science-based suppliers, we are able to innovate breakthrough sourcing Responsible Care® Global Charter, Givaudan voluntarily commits emissions reduction targets, and removing commodity-driven models for a sustainable, transparent and secure supply chain. to drive continuous improvement and deliver excellence in our deforestation from supply chains. We partner to strengthen the social and economic fabric of environment, health and safety performance. the communities in which we operate and, most importantly, Climate change and habitat loss are leading to a reduction in Where do you see sustainability risk and how do you with our employees to encourage responsible practices in the biodiversity, which is not only a key issue for our Company but a transform this into long-term opportunity for Givaudan and workplace and beyond. threat to humanity itself. Givaudan actively supports the Nagoya its partners? Protocol and has developed comprehensive policies to support We have further anchored sustainability into Givaudan’s Gilles Andrier: In an increasingly complex and challenging the conservation of the environment and protect biological expanded Executive Committee. Our top management macro-economic climate, Givaudan will only be able to realise its diversity, from our Principles of Business Conduct to our renewed team now includes dedicated roles for Human Resources, ambitions through long-term value creation. This requires close EHS Policy to specific position papers. Procurement, and Science and Technology. Joe Fabbri is now able collaboration with partners and key stakeholders to understand to focus exclusively on leading global Environment, Health and changing consumer expectations and leverage opportunities To fully reflect these challenges and integrate emerging issues Safety (EHS) and Sustainability, reflecting our enhanced focus on for growth. such as biodiversity protection into our sustainability priorities, these priorities. we are currently working on an update to our materiality matrix Consumers want more sustainable products and it is our mission in 2016. This analysis of both Company and stakeholder priorities to help our customers adequately respond to this demand. will ensure that Givaudan continues to focus on the most One of the ways we achieve this is through our industrypertinent risks and opportunities. leading investment in research and development. Our science and technology teams are working on new ways to create Can you explain what is meant by anchoring sustainability low-carbon products, for example through innovative uses into the 2020 strategy? What will be the key areas of focus of Green Chemistry, biodegradability, biofermentation and for Givaudan over the next five years? waste reduction. Gilles Andrier: Givaudan’s strategy for 2020 is ‘Responsible growth, Shared success’. Sustainability is embedded into all three With traceability and transparency becoming increasingly pillars of this roadmap: growing with our customers, delivering important to consumers, we will continue to strengthen our with excellence, and partnering for shared success. relationships with suppliers through trust and transparency. While working on our own social compliance, we must also ‘Growing with our customers’ means leveraging our ensure the same standards are upheld across the entire supply consumer insights and creative capabilities to best meet chain. Our newly created Responsible Sourcing Leader position tomorrow’s demand for sustainable products and support will enable Givaudan to optimally manage supply chain risks and growth opportunities. deliver the best palette of ingredients for our creations while ‘Delivering with excellence’ is about demonstrating excellence meeting our customers’ expectations on sustainability. all across the value chain, specifically in terms of the operational Joe Fabbri: As a Company inspired by nature for almost 250 performance needed to deliver on our strengthened ecoyears, climate change represents both a tremendous risk and an efficiency targets. 4 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis Continued G4-2: Description of key impacts, risks and opportunities Our commitment to UNGC principles As a global Company, we face many evolving sustainability This Sustainability Report serves to reaffirm Givaudan’s challenges as well as numerous opportunities that may affect strong commitment to UNGC principles. Givaudan aligns our business. These challenges and opportunities are formally with the ten principles of the UNGC on human rights, labour, captured in our materiality matrix (see page 18). Consequently, the environment and anti-corruption and commits to our Sustainability programme is based on a five-pillar approach, integrate these ten principles into our culture and day-to-day which extends across the full life cycle of our business, including: operations, and to ensure the same level of respect for these values within our sphere of influence. –Procurement – This Sustainability Report acts also as our UNGC annual –Employees – Communication On Progress (COP) and is an expression of –Innovation – and Development our commitment to public accountability and transparency. –Operations – This sixth annual report has been prepared ‘in accordance’ option ‘Core’ with the Global Reporting Initiative’s –Customers – and Markets. G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and has been These pillars provide us with an overarching framework to independently assured by Ernst & Young LLP. drive sustainability principles right across, and beyond, our organisation in five crucial areas. For each area, our teams have developed a challenging set of aspirations, which clearly show our desired end goal. The journey to get there will take a considerable amount of time but our commitment is a long-term one. 5 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis Procurement Our vision Our impact We source materials in ways that preserve our environment, stimulate CHF 2,400 million >10,000 >2,000 >14,000 the development and well-being Annual procurement spend Raw materials purchased annually Raw material suppliers Indirect materials and service suppliers of communities and safeguard the efficient use of precious resources. Our KPIs and progress in 2015 Identify and develop additional ethical Continue to build, repair and maintain Our commitments Communicate with all suppliers about sourcing initiatives schools in our vanilla sourcing areas in procurement requirements relating to social –Our – dedicated Origination teams, based in Madagascar Expanding our responsible sourcing responsibility our countries of origin, continued working –To – date, we have been involved in the initiatives ensures security of supply –The – Vendor Expectation document was to establish collection networks to source construction or repair and maintenance of 18 revised to reflect supply chain risks such as natural ingredients directly from producers. schools in Madagascar. Working with our suppliers on anti-corruption, money laundering and human –Our – project pipeline has continuously evolved Other key achievements sustainability throughout our value trafficking. A link to the revised document is and expanded since 2008 (see pages 34 to 36). –We – have created the new position of chains contributes to our customers’ sent to all existing and new suppliers as part Responsible Sourcing Lead, in order to increasing supply chain requirements of our procurement process, which has been in Develop third-party certification projects further enhance our commitment to place since 2014. for raw materials Conducting regular reviews of –We – provided continued support to a responsible sourcing. our portfolio and implementing Conduct audits with 200 of our top cooperative of three villages and a local –Continued – to source certified sustainable palm improvements through our ethical 400 suppliers by 2015; 200 of our top distiller to grow and distil certified ESR vetiver (kernel) oil and derivatives. sourcing initiatives 400 suppliers to have joined the Sedex (according to Ecocert standards). programme by 2015 Gather information on the origin of our –In – 2015, we continued evaluating additional –192 – suppliers have been audited, and 322 ingredients to contribute to regulatory supply chains to be certified. suppliers are now on Sedex (including indirect requirements, food safety and issue material and services suppliers). management Trends, risks and opportunities –The– world population is projected to increase by more than one billion people within the next 15 years, reaching 8.5 billion in 2030. Beyond this it is expected to increase to 9.7 billion in 2050.1 This growth will place intense pressures on ecosystems and the supply of natural resources. –As – developing countries industrialise rapidly, global demand for material resources is increasing. This brings about global competition for resources, increased trade restrictions and price volatility. –Globally, – more people live in urban areas than in rural areas. 54% of the world’s population resided in urban areas in 2014; an increase from 30% in 1950. By 2050, 66% of the world’s population is projected to be urban.2 This accelerated rural exodus brings an additional challenge to the growing and sourcing of natural feedstock. –Building – trust with customers and consumers. 1 UN – Department of Economic and Social Affairs – World Population Prospects: The 2015 Revision: http://esa.un.org/unpd/wpp/Publications/Files/Key_Findings_WPP_2015.pdf 2 W WF Living planet Report 2014: http://wwf.panda.org/about_our_earth/all_publications/living_planet_report/ 6 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis Employees Our vision Our impact We attract, develop and retain talented, creative professionals who 9,907 94 feel passionate and proud of the work Full-time employees Local communities they do in our Company and who are empowered to contribute to a Our KPIs and progress in 2015 Senior leadership positions will represent Other key achievements sustainable society. Launch of the Givaudan leadership the wider Givaudan workforce –We – published our new Employer Value framework with the roll out of the first two –The – current percentage of female employees Proposition (EVP) in 2015, which includes our Our commitments programmes in 2015 in Givaudan’s senior leadership positions has promise to current and future employees that –Approximately – 150 employees attended the increased to 20.7% in 2015, an improvement they will be able to impact their world. Work together with our local first two courses of our Leadership Senses on last year’s performance. communities on projects and causes For more information programme in 2015. that benefit the communities where Lost time injury (LTI) rate below 0.1 by 2020 www.givaudan.com/careers we work Investing in Green Team network and –Our – LTI rate reduced by 59% against our 2009 –We – launched several initiatives in 2015 to collaboration baseline. However it increased by 17% since increase collaboration and inclusiveness Engage employees in making a –The– 2015 Executive Committee Green Team 2014 (see page 54). throughout the Company. These included: positive difference Awards were distributed in each of the three All populations in scope of annual performance award categories: –rolling – out recognition programmes in Embrace diversity throughout our and development discussions by end 2016 Asia Pacific and Latin America that reward organisation and create an engaged and –manufacturing – site; –At – end of 2015 6,579 of the employees employees who demonstrate best practice in inclusive workforce –commercial – site; used our ‘Engage’ platform for their annual applying what we call the Givaudan DNA; performance and development plans. –eco-efficiency – project. –running – coffee networking events, ‘lunch Reduce incidents by strengthening Build partnerships with non-profit & learns’ and open door mentoring in workplace environment, safety organisations and work on charitable North America; behaviour and awareness themes: blindness, family nutrition, –running – Mindset of Best meetings between Extend the reach of annual performance supporting local communities the management and employees. and development discussions, enabling –We – provided continued support for charitable our people to get feedback and discuss commitments (see pages 65 and 66). their career goals Trends, risks and opportunities Develop visionary, inspiring and –Across – the world, every 15 seconds, a worker dies from a work-related accident or disease. Every 15 seconds, 153 workers have a work-related challenging leaders who will achieve accident.1 our ambitious targets, and ensure our –Women – account for half of the global labour supply and about 70% of the world’s consumption demand. Yet women occupy only about 13% of future success top management positions.2 –At – Givaudan, we have clear strategies on safety and security at work and on how to develop, attract and retain the best talents, both male and female. 1 ILO: Safety and health at work: http://www.ilo.org/global/topics/safety-and-health-at-work/lang--en/index.htm 2 W  orld Economic Forum’s Global Gender Gap Report 2014 – Credit Suisse study: The CS Gender 3000: Women in Senior Management https://publications.credit-suisse.com/tasks/render/file/index.cfm?fileid=8128F3C0-99BC-22E6-838E2A5B1E4366DF 7 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis Innovation and development Our vision Our impact ––Our in-vitro skin sensitisation work won the This supports our design-to-safety approach Lush Black Box prize, aimed at stimulating for delivering novel ingredients with a Givaudan leads in creating consumer CHF 366 million worldwide research on human toxicity particularly good profile of environmental preferred flavours and fragrances that pathways, with a view to replacing animal and human safety. Invested in R&D in 2015, 8.3% of revenue are designed and developed in line with tests in toxicology. Givaudan is one of four ––We completed our acquisition of Induchem. sustainability principles, in order to satisfy organisations sharing this prize. In combination with Soliance, acquired current and future needs. Our KPIs and progress in 2015 Enable our customers to develop healthier, last year, this forms the new Active Fragrance Division compliance with great tasting products Cosmetic Ingredient business within the Our commitments European REACH registrations as they –In – 2015, we expanded our business around Fragrance Division. become applicable in 2018 TasteSolutions® Richness, our flavour Continue to supply products which are –We – successfully launched the Compliance ––We continue to work towards achieving our solution that captures the authentic flavours safe for people and the environment Engine, our state-of-the-art, automated REACH compliance goals. From the inception of home-made cooking for use in prepared platform for regulatory compliance of REACH, through pre-registration and two foods. TasteSolutions® Richness also allows Ensure Givaudan products are safe management in flavour ingredients phase-in registration deadlines we have met our customers to reduce their reliance on salt for people and the environment when and formulas. our objectives. We are now working towards and other traditional taste ingredients in their used as intended fulfilling our registration requirements ahead products and meet consumers’ demands for –Our – collaboration with the University of of the 2018 deadline. healthier products. California, Riverside (UCR) demonstrates Full regulatory compliance of commitment to UCR’s citrus research all products KeratinoSens® to become a globally Other key achievements and sustainability efforts. recognised standard in-vitro test for ––Using our biotechnology expertise, Ensure our products are not persistent assessing skin sensitisation, with we launched our new active cosmetic ––Representatives of the Flavour Division were pending validation from the Organisation ingredient, Mariliance™. invited to present Givaudan’s salt reduction in the environment after their use for Economic Co-operation and capabilities at a conference organised by –Using – Green Chemistry principles, we Reduce animal testing and develop Development (OECD) by 2016 Università Cattolica S.Cuore, in Cremona. demonstrated continued progress with Process At this conference, salt reduction experts alternative test methods ––The OECD validated and adopted our Mass Intensity (E-factor reduction) across KeratinoSens® test method in February 2015. showcased Givaudan’s TasteSolutions® process development. Create superior products in a During the remainder of 2015 we rolled-out capabilities to more than 70 senior sustainable way our methodology to about 30 laboratories –All – of our in-vitro methods have been representatives from the Italian processed worldwide. It is now used globally. implemented into a workflow for early meat industry. Promote health and wellness through assessment of new fragrance ingredients. our products Trends, risks and opportunities Do more with less, promoting innovative ––The market for health and wellness products is increasing due to growing consumer and government awareness of the obesity epidemic and other design based on concentrated quality nutrition-related diseases such as diabetes. and compacted fragrances ––Climate change and resource depletion demand a proactive business response. Apply Green Chemistry principles ––Introduction of bans for the use of animal testing (e.g. EU Cosmetics Directives). ––Development of products which are more efficient to make, have fewer negative by-products, and minimise impact on the environment. ––Increasing regulations for the flavour and fragrance industry, e.g.: laws deriving from Nagoya Protocol. 8 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis Operations Our vision Our impact We continuously drive operational excellence without compromising 36 383,353 tonnes 59,922 146,317 Manufacturing sites*, **,*** Manufacturing sites*, **,*** Inbound shipments in 2015**** Outbound shipments in 2015**** the environment or the health and well-being of our employees and the communities in which we operate. Our KPIs and progress in 2015 Direct and indirect CO2 emissions: 25% * G ivaudan completed the Induchem acquisition in August 2015 Per tonne of product against 2009 baseline reduction, per tonne of product, by 2020 Our commitments ** Induchem manufacturing data are not included in this Energy consumption: 20% reduction, per tonne (indirect relates to purchased energy and report. This data will be included for the full year in our 2016 report of product by 2020 not energy used by others e.g. our raw Improve eco-efficiency of factory *** T he new fragrance site in Singapore and the new flavour materials suppliers) manufacturing sites with a focus on ––15.4% reduction in energy consumption site in Nantong, China will be both fully operational in 2016 and are not included in the reported manufacturing data greenhouse gas emissions, waste and ––30.9% reduction in direct and indirect Water use: 15% reduction, per tonne of product, **** A  shipment is defined as the transport of raw materials water, and reduce our overall footprint CO2 emissions or products between our suppliers and Givaudan sites, by 2020 (for municipal and groundwater) between Givaudan sites, and from Givaudan sites to against a 2009 baseline, focusing ––10.4% reduction in municipal and Total weight of incinerated and land-filled our customers. on eco-efficiency for energy, carbon groundwater use waste by type and disposal: 15% reduction, emissions, incinerated and land-filled per tonne of product, by 2020 waste and municipal and groundwater ––Our total weight of incinerated and land-filled waste decreased by 42.8% Sustainable logistics offers opportunities to improve the efficiency through reduced fuel usage and therefore lower transport costs Trends, risks and opportunities ––Climate change remains a global megaforce that directly impacts others. Released in March 2015, conclusions of the IPCC Climate Change 2014 Synthesis Report confirmed that impacts from recent climate-related extremes, such as heat waves, droughts, floods, cyclones and wildfires, reveal significant vulnerability and exposure of some ecosystems and many human systems to current climate variability. Impacts of such climate-related extremes include alteration of ecosystems and disruption of food production and water supply.1 ––Fossil fuel markets are likely to become more volatile and unpredictable because of higher global energy demand as well as changes in consumption patterns. ––It is predicted that by 2030, global demand on water will exceed supply by 40%. Business will be subjected to water shortage, water quality decline and water price volatility.2 1 IPCC Climate Change 2014 Synthesis Report: http://www.ipcc.ch/pdf/assessment-report/ar5/syr/AR5_SYR_FINAL_All_Topics.pdf 2 World Economic Forum water initiative: http://www.weforum.org/global-challenges/projects/global-water-initiative/ 9 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Strategy and analysis Customers and markets Our vision Our impact We actively engage with our customers Received in excess of More than to ensure that all of our products 35,000 briefs promote the health and well-being of people and preserve our planet. 6,000 customers each year from customers We do this by encouraging our Our KPIs and progress in 2015 All Givaudan manufacturing sites to be ––We participated in a panel about multibusiness partners to support our goals Establish joint initiatives to further progress SMETA compliant stakeholder partnerships at COP21 in Paris. throughout the complete life cycle of towards Givaudan sustainability targets and ––At the end of 2015, 19 of our 20 Flavour ––During a successful workshop with their products. those of our partners Division sites were compliant with SMETA. representatives from the German food and ––A s an active member of AIM-PROGRESS, ––We initiated our SMETA audit schedule in our beverage industry, we discussed topics Our commitments Givaudan hosted a Responsible Sourcing event Fragrance Division, with 9 sites of 13 audited including health and wellness trends, in Seville. During the event, we demonstrated Foster stakeholder partnerships to make in 2015. To date, 8 of these sites are compliant such as regulations and sustainability. the improvements made in the harvesting progress together with SMETA. ––The implementation of the Globally process of Cistus Labdanum. Other key achievements Harmonized System of Classification and Collaborate to create responsible ––We were awarded the RAPS excellence award ––The Givaudan Flavour Division has brought the Labelling of Chemicals (GHS) in the US has supply chains by Reckitt Benckiser. industry together to debate new health and standardised the way Givaudan communicates ––Givaudan was recognised as a member of the wellness trends. about hazards to employees and customers Drive value for customers through American Cleaning Institute’s sustainability around the world. superior products and services ––We extended CSPO Mass Balance certification programme in North America. and segregated ingredients certification ––Our Naarden manufacturing site received Engage with customers to develop ––Our partnership with the Natural Resource for palm derived ingredients in European the UTZ coffee certification. new technologies for healthier and Stewardship Circle (NRSC) focused on Flavour sites. sustainable products initiatives around vetiver, ylang ylang, palm ––Our European Flavour manufacturing sites are oil and styrax. all RSPO Mass Balance supply chain certified. Dialogue with stakeholders on priorities Trends, risks and opportunities ––Many organisations are working together in groups and forums to make a positive impact on sustainability aspects like AIM-PROGRESS, NRSC and The Sustainability Consortium. For example, AIM-PROGRESS is a forum of consumer goods manufacturers and suppliers assembled to enable and promote responsible sourcing practices and sustainable production systems. ––Organisations are increasingly seeking to understand their full supply chains and are requesting suppliers to provide data on environmental and social aspects. 10 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile G4-3: Report the name of the organisation G4-6: Report the number of countries where the G4-7: Report the nature of ownership and legal form organisation operates, and names of countries where Givaudan SA Givaudan SA, the parent company of the Givaudan Group, either the organisation has significant operations or that with its registered corporate headquarters at 5 Chemin de la G4-4: Report the primary brands, products and services are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered Parfumerie, 1214 Vernier, Switzerland, is a ‘société anonyme’, in the report We create fragrances for personal and home care brands that pursuant to art. 620 et seq. of the Swiss code of obligations. range from prestige perfumes to laundry care. Our expertise We have principal companies of the Group that are fully owned It is listed on the SIX Swiss Exchange under security number in flavours spans beverages, savoury, snacks, sweet goods and unless otherwise indicated (percentage of voting rights). A list 1064593. The Group has subsidiaries, none of which is publicly dairy products. of these principal Group companies can be found in the Annual listed. Information on Givaudan SA’s significant shareholders Report 2015, on page 167 of the Financial Report. as per art. 20 Swiss Stock Exchange Act can be found at: For more information on our brands and products please see: www.six-swiss-exchange.com We have 36 manufacturing sites in 19 countries. Details about www.givaudan.com/flavours our sustainability activities in Argentina, Brazil, China, France, The Swiss Stock Exchange Act can be found at: www.givaudan.com/fragrances Haiti, India, Indonesia, Madagascar, Mexico, Singapore, Spain, www.six-swiss-exchange.com Switzerland, Thailand, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom G4-5: Report the location of the organisation’s More detailed financial information about the scale of our are included in this report. headquarters organisation and our operational structure is available in our 2015 Annual Report. Vernier, Switzerland. For more information www.givaudan.com/media/corporate-publications 11 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued G4-8: Report the markets served (including geographic G4-9: Report the scale of the organisation breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers As of 31 December 2015 we had: and beneficiaries) –94 – locations worldwide Mature markets represent 54% of the annual sales and include North America, Western Europe and Japan. Developing markets –25% – global industry market share (approximately) account for 46% of our annual sales in Asia Pacific, Latin America, –36 – manufacturing sites Eastern Europe and the Middle East. We are active in over 100 –9,907 – full-time equivalent staff countries and have sites and branches in more than 40 countries. –CHF – 4,439 million revenue Our Fragrance Division specialises in Fine Fragrances, Consumer Products, Fragrance Ingredients and Active Cosmetic Ingredients –over – 6,000 customers – through which we create scents for leading brands worldwide. The Soliance and Induchem acquisitions strengthened our process development and research capabilities in active cosmetic ingredients. In-depth consumer understanding, a high-performing research and development organisation and an efficient global operations network support our business. Our perfumery team is the largest in the industry. Our Flavour Division works with food and beverage manufacturers to develop flavours and tastes for marketleading products around the world. We are a trusted partner to the world’s leading food and beverage companies, combining our global expertise in sensory understanding, analysis and consumer-led innovation in support of unique product applications and new market opportunities. 12 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued G4-10 Employees By employment type Region Full-time – female Full-time – male Part-time – female Part-time – male Total – female Total – male Asia Pacific 1,021 1,319 5 0 1,026 1,319 Europe, Middle East, Africa 1,497 2,954 125 37 1,622 2,991 Latin America 431 826 3 0 434 826 North America 719 1,197 2 0 721 1,197 Total 3,668 6,296 135 37 3,803 6,333 By employment contract Region Permanent – female Permanent – male Temporary – female Temporary – male Total – female Total – male Asia Pacific 1,011 1,305 15 14 1,026 1,319 Europe, Middle East, Africa 1,577 2,918 45 73 1,622 2,991 Latin America 434 822 0 4 434 826 North America 721 1,197 0 0 721 1,197 Total 3,743 6,242 60 91 3,803 6,333 G4-11: Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Collective agreement in % Yes 29% No 71% 13 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued G4-12: Describe the organisation’s supply chain G4-13: Report any significant changes during the reporting Ensuring the safety and regulatory compliance of our products period regarding the organisation’s size, structure, is a priority which at Givaudan relies on a team of in-house Givaudan is the largest player in the flavour and fragrance ownership, or its supply chain scientific experts and an external network of international industry. This translates into an annual procurement spend of experts. Our product regulatory compliance teams work at local CHF 2,400 million with more than 10,000 different synthetic and Givaudan acquired the Swiss company Induchem Holding AG and global levels to meet the increasing demands of customers natural ingredients sourced from over 100 countries, more than in 2015. Induchem’s portfolio of products is based on a wide and consumers alike. We pride ourselves in leading efforts 2,000 raw material suppliers, and more than 14,000 indirect range of innovative and highly functional active ingredients with to help shape the industry through the commitment of our materials and service suppliers. proven efficacy results, as well as research expertise in fields resources and sharing of our expertise, and we are advocates for such as biocatalysis, metagenomics, and biochemical synthesis. Our procurement position varies from being small in large our industry through the support of regulatory developments Induchem primarily operates from Volketswil, Switzerland, markets to being large in small markets, yet the goal of the which are science-based and in the best interests of consumers Toulouse, France and New York, USA. global Procurement team is consistent. It is to ensure continuous of fragranced and flavoured products. supply at competitive and predictable cost, optimal quality, and G4-14: Report whether and how the precautionary Fragrances taking into account sustainability standards. approach or principle is addressed by the organisation We strive to strictly comply with local, regional and international As Head of Global Procurement, Willem Mutsaerts will be Our approach regulations, and in many cases we go beyond these responsible for developing differentiating sourcing strategies, Givaudan, an the industry leader, is committed to adhere to requirements. We also seek to be ready for future regulatory leveraging novel sources such as biotransformation and further high ethical standards in business conduct and comply with challenges so we can be well-positioned to serve our customers enhancing the Company’s responsible sourcing programme. laws and regulations, as well as with Company policies, practices and their consumers. With the support of his team he will drive our continuing efforts and procedures. We are proud to support the critical work of the International to secure the long-term supply of raw materials and foster close Givaudan recognises its obligation to carry out all of its activities Fragrance Association (IFRA) in representing the industry. collaboration with suppliers. in a manner that preserves and promotes a safe and healthy IFRA needs the full support of all fragrance companies to We continuously seek to create a more agile supply chain and environment. While conducting its activities, Givaudan takes continue its work effectively, and we are actively engaged in to place the customer at the centre of what we do. With that into consideration the efficient use of energy and materials; helping IFRA move forward, and encourage other companies in mind, in 2011 we embarked on a Supply Chain Excellence the minimisation of adverse environmental impact and waste to increase their resource contributions to the association. It is programme aimed at improving customer service levels generation; and the safe and responsible disposal of residual important that participation and commitment from all members while optimising inventory and other supply chain costs. wastes. Givaudan’s Directive on Environmental Protection in the global fragrance industry increase to enable IFRA to better This programme is now fully embedded in the organisation underlines the Company’s commitment in this area. anticipate and strongly manage issues that affect the industry and has been successfully implemented. globally and regionally. Environment, Health and Safety (EHS) regularly carries out comprehensive risk assessments for all of Givaudan’s production Givaudan continues to be on track to meet the registration sites. Any actions identified through such assessments are obligations of Europe’s REACH regulations governing chemical managed internally using a proprietary EHS Management control by 2018. We would like to see more suppliers committing System with formally documented solutions and closure records. to registrations, and we are working through our Procurement Additionally, Givaudan Operations carries out continuous risk organisation and our suppliers to ensure that these companies assessments and management of all chemical processes in meet their commitments well ahead of the deadline. accordance with leading industry standards. 14 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued From a regulatory point of view, the integration of Soliance Complementing the increased regulatory push on GMO Another important aspect of our advocacy activities is was successfully completed in 2015 and work is well under way labelling, there was an increase in activity around independent the sharing of knowledge and expertise about the use of for the integration of Induchem, our second active cosmetic third-party certifiers for organic and natural labelling. flavourings in foods with members of the broader food industry ingredients (ACI) company acquisition. We have also completed The impetus behind these activities stems from a heightened and regulatory authorities. Givaudan has supported several the development of the Regulatory and Product Safety consumer desire to know more about the contents and safety associations including the International Organization of the organisation for the active cosmetic ingredients business unit in of the foods they eat. We have been active in supporting trade Flavor Industry (IOFI), the China Association of Fragrance Flavor 2015. The ACI business has some different regulatory and safety association activities to educate and inform government and Cosmetic Industries (CAFFCI) and the European Flavour requirements to that of fragrance materials and so we have authorities, NGO representatives and the general public Association (EFFA) in meetings with regulatory authorities and developed a structure for appropriate support for the newly about the safety and quality of flavours sold today. international scientific organisations. The result of our advocacy acquired companies. We intend to enhance the capabilities of programme has significantly improved the understanding of the In Europe, 2015 saw successful approvals for over 100 these companies through the strengths of our Regulatory and use and safety of flavourings and has led to the adoption of more flavourings that were provisionally accepted by the European Product Safety organisation. harmonised regulations around the world. Continuing advocacy Commission in 2012. These substances have been permanently activities focus on allowing the use of new technologies in the There have been continuing pressures around toxicology added to the European positive lists of flavourings. Through our development and production of new flavouring ingredients. issues with raw materials, and so the effective management active support of the industry trade associations, we are working of these issues through strategies to find replacements has to gain approval of the remaining 250 substances that are under In 2015, we launched a state-of-the-art SAP-based Flavours been a focus for our technology development teams. A recent evaluation by the European Food Safety Authority. It is expected Compliance Engine that enables us to rapidly evaluate the example is the successful launch of the fragrance ingredient that the review and approval of the remaining substances will regulatory status of our flavour products created, produced and Mahonial™ to replace a product that is being withdrawn from continue through 2018. In all regions, our science and advocacy used anywhere in the world. Once we have fully integrated our the market because of changes in regulation. We are also efforts are focused on supporting a global, harmonised list of Compliance Engine with other commercial systems – expected looking at the introduction of captive technologies to replace approved ingredients. to be completed in early 2017 – it will allow consistent and other key materials to ensure that our customers’ products are seamless utilisation of regulatory knowledge, from the initial In addition to potential changes in food labelling regulations, minimally affected by the ever-increasing impact of regulatory stages of flavour development to product certification at the Givaudan maintains leadership positions within national, decisions, mainly from Europe through REACH and the European operations level. This improved capability will significantly regional and international trade associations that have been Commission Scientific Committee on Consumer Safety. increase the reliability of our customer support. It will also effective in working with government authorities to ensure With continued investment in the work of our Product Safety reduce our response time to customer requests for critical that new regulations and flavour requirements are harmonised and Science and Technology teams in this area, we are seeing data that support demands by consumers for regulatory around the world. This ensures a consistent approach to the significant benefits in proactively managing the impacts of and safety information. commercialisation of new flavour technology and the free these decisions. flow of flavours on a global basis. This has been especially Flavours important in the USA, where efforts to undermine the Food Consumer perception and expectations influence our business, and Drug Administration’s (FDA) GRAS (generally recognised and in 2015 we continued to see the increased development as safe) process have intensified. Through the efforts of the of new food and flavour regulations in high growth markets Flavor and Extract Manufacturers Association (FEMA), Givaudan in response to consumer demands. In addition, there was a continues to support the FEMA GRAS™ programme which has significant increase in the activities of non-governmental been identified by the FDA and NGOs as the ‘gold standard’ for organisations (NGOs) in the areas of organic food certification GRAS determinations. and genetically modified organism (GMO) labelling in the US market, Latin America and parts of Asia. 15 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued G4-15: List externally developed economic, environmental Since we began participating in the CDP in 2007, we have G4-16: List memberships of associations (such as industry and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which disclosed our greenhouse gas emissions every year, in addition associations) and national or international advocacy the organisation subscribes or which it endorses to our reduction strategy and performance for both the investor organisations in which the organisation views membership and supply chain surveys. These surveys assess company as strategic We participate in and endorse a number of external, global transparency via a disclosure score, for which Givaudan received commitments and initiatives that promote sustainable We engage in a series of strategic collaborations with relevant 100/100 in 2015 versus 89 in 2014. Our performance score was business practices: organisations and partners to support and inform our work on A in 2015, versus B in 2014. the most material sustainability issues. Collaboration across The United Nations Global Compact For more information our supply chain, as well as other businesses and non-profit The United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) is a strategic www.cdp.net/CDPResults/CDP-global-climate-changeorganisations is key: the more we do, the quicker we drive policy initiative for businesses that are committed to aligning report-2015.pdf sustainable solutions. Particular organisations that we have their operations and strategies with ten universally accepted engaged with over the past year include: principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and The Global Reporting Initiative anti-corruption. Givaudan committed to the principles of the The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) is the leading global AIM-PROGRESS UNGC in February 2010. standard, and the standard most widely adopted, for AIM-PROGRESS is an association of consumer goods companies sustainability reporting. The GRI guidelines have been seeking to enable and promote responsible sourcing practices We measure our progress towards sustainability against the designed to align with other prominent standards, including: and sustainable production systems. principles of the UNGC. As a signatory to the UNGC we use the OECD guidelines for multinational organisations; ISO this Sustainability Report as our annual Communication on Relevance to material issues: 26000; the United Nations ‘Guiding Principles on Business and Progress (COP). Human Rights: Implementing the United Nations “Protect, –responsible – sourcing For more information Respect and Remedy” Framework’; and the UNGC’s ‘Ten –workplace – safety www.unglobalcompact.org Principles’. We started using the GRI guidelines in our 2010 –transparency – The Carbon Disclosure Project Sustainability Report. The Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) is an international, not–diversity – We disclose our sustainability achievements in a Sustainability for-profit organisation providing the only global system for Report which follows the GRI’s G4 reporting framework. –stakeholder – dialogue. companies and cities to measure, disclose, manage and share Our report is independently assured. We have been an active member of AIM-PROGRESS since 2012. vital environmental information. In 2015, Givaudan continued to participate in the Organizational Through this membership we are enhancing our supplier and Through the CDP, we demonstrate Givaudan’s commitment to Stakeholder Program, a network of more than 600 customer partnerships to help create a more responsible supply action relating to carbon emissions reduction, both in theory organisations from over 60 countries committed to advancing chain. In 2015, Givaudan hosted a Responsible Sourcing event in and in practice. sustainability reporting. Seville. During the event, we demonstrated the improvements We aim to communicate our strategic direction, motivation, made in the harvesting process of Cistus Labdanum. Givaudan’s current report adheres to GRI G4 ‘in accordance’ goals, development and progress relating to sustainability option ‘Core’. For more information with our stakeholders in a transparent way. As part of our CDP www.aim-progress.com For more information submission, we report annually on greenhouse gas emissions, www.globalreporting.org/Pages/default.aspx energy use and the risks and opportunities associated with climate change. 16 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued Supplier Ethical Data Exchange Natural Resources Stewardship Circle Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil The Supplier Ethical Data Exchange (Sedex) is a not-for-profit The Natural Resources Stewardship Circle (NRSC) is a group The Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) is an membership organisation dedicated to driving improvements in of industry leaders in beauty, flavours and fragrances taking international multi-stakeholder organisation and certification responsible and ethical business practices in global supply chains. collective action to reduce their impact on biodiversity, model to advance the production, procurement, finance and use taking into account the social and economic development of of sustainable palm oil products. Relevance to material issues: local communities. Relevance to material issues: –responsible – sourcing Relevance to material issues: –responsible – sourcing –traceability – –community – support –transparency – –transparency – –transparency – –traceability. – –workplace – safety. –responsible – sourcing. Givaudan joined RSPO in 2011 to promote the production and Givaudan has been an active user of the Sedex platform since In 2015, Givaudan engaged in several working groups about use of sustainable palm oil. As members, we continue to support 2008. To date all Givaudan manufacturing sites are registered supply chain actions, international activities and workshops. the aim of sustainable production of palm oil and palm oil on Sedex and have completed the Sedex Self-Assessment derivatives. Our ultimate objective is to obtain all of our palm oil Questionnaire (SAQ) to share information with customers. We continued our participation in a working group to develop derived ingredients from certified traceable sources once they Givaudan annually reviews and updates the SAQ. the NRSC Dashboard, which monitors progress on all the NRSC become technically and commercially available. activities. Additionally, we are part of the NRSC-TFT partnership, At the end of 2015, 19 of our 20 Flavour Division sites were working towards palm oil traceability. We recognise our responsibility to ensure that the palm compliant with the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA). oil and palm oil derivatives we source do not contribute to During 2015 the SMETA audit schedule was also initiated in our For more information deforestation. We also reiterate our ambition to source our palm Fragrance Division, with 9 of our 13 sites audited. To date, 8 of www.nrsc.fr oil derived ingredients from certified sources, and to address key these sites are compliant with SMETA. issues such as traceability and deforestation-free principles. We fully support our suppliers’ engagement with Sedex; today, Givaudan aims to eliminate deforestation from our supply chain 322 suppliers are on Sedex, with 289 SAQs completed. and create a positive difference for workers, farmers and local We also participate in the Sedex working group responsible for communities. As a result, we are committed to sourcing our reviewing the SAQ to ensure it reflects current legislation, codes palm oil, palm kernel oil and their derivatives in a way that is and standards. traceable to known certified sources. In 2015, Givaudan attended the Sedex conference and joined the Givaudan Annual Communication on Progress (ACOP) is AAG (Associate Auditor Group) to contribute to an enhanced available on the RSPO website. audit protocol for 2016. For more information For more information on our approach to supplier engagement www.rspo.org and capacity building, see pages 49, 60 and 63. www.rspo.org/members/882/Givaudan-SA For more information www.sedexglobal.com 17 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Organisational profile Continued GreenPalm American Cleaning Institute Alliance Française for Sustainable Palm Oil GreenPalm is a certificate trading programme which is designed The American Cleaning Institute (ACI) is an association which The Alliance Française for Sustainable Palm Oil is an association to tackle the environmental and social problems created by the aims to support the sustainability of the cleaning product and of French companies with the objective of developing the use of production of palm oil. GreenPalm is an efficient solution for oleo chemical industries. sustainable palm oil, which prevents deforestation and respects supporting RSPO-certified palm because it bypasses the supply the needs of local populations. Relevance to material issues: chain. In this way, GreenPalm opens up the opportunity to Relevance to material issues: support sustainability to a much wider audience. –eco-efficiency. – –responsible – sourcing Relevance to material issues: Givaudan has been an ACI member since 2012 and was recognised in 2015 as a member of the ACI sustainability –transparency – –responsible – sourcing programme in North America. –traceability. – –transparency. – For more information In 2015, Givaudan participated at the Convergences Word Forum We see GreenPalm as part of the mix of options that support www.cleaninginstitute.org held in Paris on the fight against deforestation and climate the supply of sustainable palm oil and palm oil derivatives. EcoVadis change. Givaudan was also represented on a TV panel about Givaudan adopted GreenPalm certificates in 2011. EcoVadis aims at improving environmental and social practices multi-actor partnerships for the climate at COP 21. In 2015, we sourced palm derived ingredients with Mass of companies by leveraging the influence of global supply chains. For more information Balance and Segregated certifications. We also used GreenPalm EcoVadis’ reliable ratings and easy to use monitoring tools allow www.stop-deforestation.org/ certificates to ‘book and claim’ 100% of our palm usage and we companies to manage risks and drive eco-innovations in their www.youtube.com/watch?v=KtWXBC0qcFI undertook a GreenPalm audit. global supply chains. www.huiledepalmedurable.org GreenPalm is helping to drive up the scale of physical sustainable Relevance to material issues: palm. Until global volumes of segregated sustainable palm oil –responsible – sourcing increase significantly, and until entire supply chains from refiners through to end users can switch to only using segregated –sustainable – innovation sustainable palm oil, there will remain a need to offer ‘book and –eco-efficiency – claim’, especially for products that use complex derivatives of –corporate – governance. palm oil. Givaudan filled out the EcoVadis CSR assessment for the first Givaudan GreenPalm, ‘Book and Claim’ certificates are available time in 2008 and received the silver recognition level. In 2013, on the GreenPalm website. we received the gold recognition level, which was reconfirmed For more information in 2015. In 2016, we will review and update our EcoVadis www.greenpalm.org/the-market/redeemed-certificate-owners CSR assessment. www.greenpalm.org For more information www.ecovadis.com 18 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17: Entities in financial statement covered by the report Our Company comprises two divisions, Flavours and Fragrances. Our Flavour Division has four business units: Beverages, Dairy, Savoury and Confectionery. Product safety and regulation Our Fragrance Division has four business units: Fine Fragrances, Higher Responsible sourcing Consumer Products, Fragrance Ingredients and Active Cosmetic Workplace Ingredients (ACI). Sustainable safety Level of importance to stakeholders innovation G4-18: Process to define boundaries and report content Economic Traceability performance The prioritisation of the issues of highest material importance to Givaudan and our stakeholders is a critical component of our Corporate Eco-efficiency Sustainability programme strategy. governance Stakeholder Diversity For several years, we have monitored and evaluated emerging dialogue of workforce Transparency sustainability themes on an on-going basis. We describe challenges faced in the five different pillars of our Sustainability Community programme. (see G4-2, pages 4 to 9) support We use the Givaudan materiality matrix to map out the Sustainable Employee key aspects we understand our customers and other key logistics engagement stakeholders to be most concerned about, and to help prioritise our Sustainability programme initiatives. The Givaudan materiality matrix is revisited on a regular basis and key stakeholders are asked to discuss the Company’s Medium Level of importance for Givaudan sustainability success Higher critical issues and strategic priorities, identify opportunities for improving management and relationships and co-create projects with Givaudan. We are currently working on an update to our materiality matrix in 2016 to fully reflect these challenges and integrate biological diversity, among other emerging business and societal issues, into our sustainability priorities. Our last review in 2013 led to the identification and prioritisation of 14 material aspects as follows: 19 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Identified material aspects and boundaries Continued G4-19: List of material aspects identified in the process for defining report content G4-20: Aspect boundary in the organisation for each material aspect G4-21: Aspect boundary outside the organisation for each material aspect The content of this report is defined considering the GRI aspects list and identifying equivalents within Givaudan’s materiality matrix. The list of all material aspects identified in this process is as follows: Material aspects 2015 Equivalent G4 material aspects What makes this aspect material to Givaudan or our stakeholders Boundaries Product safety and regulation The safety of our products and the Product responsibility relates to the social and environmental impacts of Givaudan’s Within and outside Givaudan processes that are used to comply with products that directly affect customers. This includes health and safety, information and The safety of our products and the Gather information on the origin of our local laws and regulations. labelling, marketing, and privacy. This is of primary importance to the Company for the processes that are used to comply ingredients to contribute to regulatory following reasons: with local laws and regulations. requirements, food safety and issue management. ––Ensuring our consumers’ safety when using Givaudan products is vital for ethical and Ensure Givaudan products are safe for people and legal reasons. the environment when used as intended. ––Health and safety is key for all of our stakeholders. Through product labels and Material Promote health and wellness through Safety Data Sheets we maintain trusted relationships with our customers. our products. ––We are a business-to-business organisation, so our marketing communications are not Engage with customers to develop new aimed at consumers. It is crucial that our marketing communications accurately reflect technologies for healthier and more the reality of our products and services. sustainable products. ––Information is one of our most valuable assets and we are committed to maintaining strict confidentiality on proprietary customer information. ––As a minimum requirement, we ensure compliance with local laws and regulations. Workplace safety Labour practices and decent work: The health and safety of our employees, and the protection of the environment we Within Givaudan occupational health and safety operate in, are key to being a responsible company. Minimising accidents and injuries in Reduce incidents by strengthening the workplace the workplace, including the training environment, safety behaviour and awareness. and systems to ensure the health and safety of our employees. Economic performance Economic: economic performance Our 2020 strategy ‘Responsible growth, Shared success’, speaks about the focus on Within and outside Givaudan economic performance as a long-term measure of Givaudan’s success. Economic success Operating a Sustainable Business Provide suppliers with the ability to secure cannot be separated from environmental and social stewardship. Model. This means respecting continuity of supply. the planet, including the people Ensure that Givaudan’s business is financially living on it, while running a viable, sustainable in the short-, mediumand profitable business. long-term. Support our customers’ own market expansion plans providing growth opportunities by using our products. 20 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Identified material aspects and boundaries Continued Material aspects 2015 Equivalent G4 material aspects What makes this aspect material to Givaudan or our stakeholders Boundaries Responsible sourcing Economic: procurement practices Expanding our responsible sourcing initiatives ensures security of supply, while reducing Outside Givaudan Environmental: supplier environmental our environmental and social impacts. It also helps to mitigate the risks inherent to our The process of purchasing goods Ensure that standards related to health and assessment complex supply chains. and services without causing harm safety, environment, social responsibility, Labour practices and decent work: to, or exploiting, humans or the including labour and human rights, and business supplier assessment for labour practices natural environment. integrity – ethics and anti-corruption – are Human rights: supplier human rights consistently applied by our vendors. assessments Human rights: child labour Sustainable innovation Environmental: products and services Innovation is critical for Givaudan’s on-going growth and success. The optimal way to Within Givaudan support the business with innovation is to make it part of the Sustainability programme. Development of products which Develop new technologies for healthier and At the heart of our approach is the belief that innovation must not only respond to global are more efficient to make, have sustainable products. trends, such as resource scarcity, climate change and biodiversity loss, but also anticipate fewer negative by-products, or Do more with less, promoting innovative design and influence change. Givaudan has the ambition and ability to shape the future within the have a positive impact when used such as concentrated quality and compacted fragrances and flavours industry. by the consumer (health and fragrances, based on applying the 12 principles of wellness/environmentally-friendly Green Chemistry. innovation). Ensure our products are not persistent in the environment after their use. Traceability Product responsibility: product and Our customers increasingly seek assurances of responsible supply chain practices, Within and outside Givaudan service labelling traceability and provenance. The ability to track, trace and Be able to trace the vendor provenance of a predict the location of a batch, its batch, its sub-components and raw materials, sub-components and raw materials and to identify the destination of deliveries. throughout the supply chain. Eco-efficiency Environmental: energy, water, effluents Climate change is a global megatrend that directly impacts and influences other key Within Givaudan and waste, emissions sustainability and business issues. Improving the efficiency of Improve the eco-efficiency of manufacturing sites Released in November 2014, conclusions of the fifth IPCC assessment report confirmed operational activities with regard to with a focus on greenhouse gas emissions, waste the increased likelihood of severe, pervasive and irreversible impacts for people and harmful emissions, water efficiency and water. ecosystems. As a global company, we face many evolving sustainability challenges and and waste disposal. opportunities; they are formally captured in our materiality matrix. Our commitment is long-term: improve eco-efficiency of manufacturing sites with a focus on reducing our overall footprint for energy, GHG emissions, incinerated and land-filled waste, and municipal and groundwater. Corporate governance Society: anti-corruption, public policy Corporate governance systems ensure that our Company is managed in the interests of Within Givaudan shareholders (including minority shareholders). Our management systems include checks Ensuring our practices are in Ensure our practices are in alignment with and balances in order to control risk and to oversee accountability of management. alignment with international international standards and safeguard the standards and safeguard the effective functioning of the governing bodies effective functioning of the of the Company. governing bodies of the Company. 21 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Identified material aspects and boundaries Continued Material aspects 2015 Equivalent G4 material aspects What makes this aspect material to Givaudan or our stakeholders Boundaries Diversity of workforce Labour practices and decent work: Diversity is a key driver in helping manage our complex operating environment. Within Givaudan diversity and equal opportunity, Having a diverse workforce which Embrace diversity throughout our organisation employment, equal remuneration for reflects the societies in which and create a diverse and inclusive workforce. women and men we operate. Stakeholder dialogue Stakeholder engagement is key to the on-going management and evolution of our Within and outside Givaudan Sustainability programme. The quality of our interactions with stakeholders strongly Engaging with stakeholders Engage with stakeholders to build understanding influences our material issues and strategic priorities. to build understanding of their of their priorities and to find opportunities for priorities and to find opportunities collaboration on sustainability initiatives. We for collaboration on sustainability have identified six stakeholder groups that are initiatives. of primary importance to our Sustainability programme (Customers, Suppliers, Employees, Owners and Investors, Local communities, Public and Regulatory agencies). Community support Society: local communities Sourcing is one of the most significant areas of interest for our stakeholders, especially our Outside Givaudan customers. Building relationships for the Work together with our local communities on It is vital that we ensure a secure supply of raw materials so that our business, employees benefit of the communities in which projects and causes that benefit the communities and customers can thrive over the long-term. In turn, we are helping to protect we operate. within which we work. ecosystems, support livelihoods and contribute to local communities. Transparency Transparency is becoming increasingly expected in all areas of our business, from supply Within and outside Givaudan chain data to R&D information and formulas. The level of disclosure of such sensitive Being open to sharing data and Being open to sharing data and information; information can have a positive or negative impact on our ability to protect our knowledge. information; disclosure of data. disclosure of data both internally and externally. Sustainable logistics Environmental: transport Sustainable logistics has an impact on our customers and suppliers. The way that our Within and outside Givaudan logistics partners manage sustainability can have an impact on our business. Therefore, Eco-efficient management of Improve logistics efficiency through reduced we need to develop strong partnerships in order to manage logistics elements proactively product flow including: packaging, materials and energy usage including: packaging, and efficiently. warehousing and transportation. warehousing and transportation. Employee engagement Labour practices and decent work: We focus on employee development to improve employee skills and productivity, which Within Givaudan training and education, employment, helps reduce costs and increase our revenue. Engaging and inspiring employees Provide an engaging and inspiring environment labour/management relations to be a motivated workforce. for employees to realise their career aspirations. For each material aspect we determined the following boundaries and the impact and/or relevance for us: –‘Within – Givaudan’: Aspects relevant inside Givaudan’s organisational boundary defined as the entities reported in G4-17 (environmental workplace safety data are limited to manufacturing locations only) –‘Outside – Givaudan’: Aspects relevant outside Givaudan’s organisational boundary, either upstream (supply chain) or downstream (customers) –‘Within – and outside Givaudan’: Aspects relevant both inside Givaudan’s organisational boundary and outside Givaudan’s organisational boundary. 22 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Identified material aspects and boundaries Continued G4-22: Report the effect of any restatements of 2014 data corrections are as follows: G4-23: Report significant changes from previous reporting information provided in previous reports, and the reasons periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries –The – energy and the CO2 load corrections are less than 0.02%. for such restatements They are caused by a calculation error and the additional The acquisition of Soliance was completed during 2014. Following the validation of quarterly reported figures, and site reporting of a small volume of oil that was not reported Therefore, our eco-efficiency and social KPIs reported in this audits, independently conducted, against reporting definition in 2014. report include manufacturing data for Soliance for the full sheets by Ernst & Young LLP, we have made a number of year 2015. –The – one-off waste figure increased by 12.25% because of a corrections to the 2009 baseline data and 2014 data reported in typing error in the 2014 report. The acquisition of Induchem was completed in August 2015. this report. With one exception, the corrections are minor and As the company was not part of the Givaudan Group during less than 1% of the target parameter. –The – municipal and groundwater figures have undergone the entire financial year, no Induchem manufacturing data minor changes due to a faulty volume meter at one of our For more information, see the restatement tables on pages 76 are included in this report. This data will be integrated in our manufacturing sites and a validation issue at another site. and 77. 2016 report. –Emitted – SO2 load was corrected by 100 kg (+0.9%) due to a Corrections for 2009 baseline: Similarly, eco-efficiency and social KPIs for our new fragrance calculation correction. site in Singapore and the new flavour site in Nantong, China, The 2009 correction is a 0.135% decrease in production –Due – to the development and implementation of a new both of which will become fully operational in 2016, are not volumes. This volume adjustment is the result of a detailed calculation model for the carbon footprint related to transport, included in this report. screening of historic production logbooks at one of our the figure for outbound product transport to customer is manufacturing sites. This volume adjustment slightly modifies about 6% higher. the 2009 efficiency indicator value for total energy and for water. –The – figure for the carbon footprint of used packaging decreased by about 1% due to the introduction of an enhanced extrapolation calculation methodology. 23 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Stakeholder engagement G4-24: Stakeholder groups engaged by Givaudan Local communities Stakeholder mapping Including local site community engagement programmes. For each direct engagement with an external organisation we Givaudan’s key principles of sustainability outline our aspiration (see G4-SO1, page 66) check alignment according to several dimensions: to establish open dialogue and to take a collaborative approach with stakeholders in order to ensure the best understanding of Public and regulatory agencies –relevance – with our stakeholder groups mutual expectations and interests. Our key stakeholders are Including engagement with IFRA, IOFI, EFFA and other not-for–relevance – with key issues in our materiality matrix the people who impact our business or who are affected by profit international organisations such as GRI, UNGC, CDP. it. Listening and responding to them is a core element of our (see G4-15 and G4-16, pages 15 to 17) –relevance – with the five pillars of our Sustainability programme. sustainability management practices. The feedback we receive Engagement in-depth analysis There are other stakeholder groups, but they have less capacity from these stakeholders helps us understand their expectations, We then look at every current or potential external engagement to directly impact our business, or Givaudan has less capacity enables us to prioritise issues effectively and contributes both to along several criteria and we make several decisions about to directly impact them. That is why we are limiting our focus our overall sustainability strategy and to helping deliver against our engagement. to the above six stakeholder groups. These are the ones we can our sustainability goals. develop a close relationship with. Our criteria are: For several years, Givaudan has been developing specific G4-25: Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders –local – or global engagement stakeholder groups to: discuss the Company’s critical issues and strategic priorities; identify opportunities for improving with whom to engage –membership – criteria and membership fees management and relationships; and co-create projects with Givaudan has been developing specific tools for several years –participating – customers and suppliers Givaudan. Out of the list of our many stakeholder groups to support stakeholder dialogue and interaction with the we have selected six which, at the moment, are of primary various stakeholder panels at both global and local level. –participating – competitors importance to our Sustainability programme: In 2010, we began a process of reviewing and evaluating the –participant – profiles Customers diverse stakeholder engagement initiatives that exist across our –type – of sessions Including global key accounts for Flavours and Fragrances and Company. The starting point was the identification of all of our stakeholder groups. Following an internal survey and subsequent –size – of groups industry associations (NRSC, ACI, AIM-PROGRESS). (see G4-15 and G4-16, pages 15-17) analysis, our primary sustainability stakeholders are listed in –impact – on our Sustainability programme pillars section G4-24. Suppliers –risks – and benefits. Including Tier 1 Naturals and Synthetics suppliers, partnerships We split our external engagement in two categories: Based on the above we decide whether or not to pursue a at origin with growers and farmers, and supplier events at –engagements – with reporting or certification organisations current engagement, or to engage with new organisations; and AIM-PROGRESS. we then suggest actions to be taken within the engagement for –engagement – with multi-stakeholder organisations. Employees the next three years. We continuously monitor the relevance of our stakeholder Including European Works Council consultations, Givaudan’s engagement through a two-stage assessment: firstly, through Green Teams, Internal Employee Engagement Survey and annual stakeholder mapping and secondly through an in-depth analysis. performance dialogues. Owners and investors Including engagement with the Board of Directors, SRIs, institutional investors and pension funds. 24 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Stakeholder engagement Continued Pillar’s impacted or Focuses significantly on issues impacting Stakeholder group impacted or impacting Product safety Eco-efficiency Procurement Responsible Sustainable Economic Corporate Customers Owners and Local Traceability Employees Innovation Operations Customers Employees Workplace Public and and regulation Others Suppliers regulatory sourcing safety innovation performance governance and markets Investors communities agencies Organisation 1. Current engagement with reporting/certification organisations Global Compact • • • • • • • • • • • • Sedex • • • • • • • • • • • • GreenPalm • • • • • • • ECOCERT • • • • • • • • • • CDP • • • • • • • • • GRI • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • EcoVadis • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • EcoDesk • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • DJSI • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 2. Current engagements with multi-stakeholder organisations NRSC • • • • • • • • • • • • AIM-PROGRESS • • • • • • • • • • RSPO • • • • • • • • • • • Alliance Française pour l’huile de Palme Durable • • • • • • • • • • • Conservation International • • • • • ACI Sustainability Committee • • • • • • IFRA Sustainability Committee • • • • • • • • IDEA programme: IFRA and EU commission • • • • EPAA • • • 25 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Stakeholder engagement Continued G4-26: Givaudan’s approach to stakeholder engagement, Employees Dialogue groups including frequency of engagement by type and by –European – Works Council consultation We regularly ask our stakeholders to discuss the Company’s stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of critical issues and strategic priorities, identifying opportunities –Employee – engagement initiatives the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the for improving management and relationships and co-creating report preparation process –Annual – performance dialogue projects with Givaudan. Targeted categories, such as local –Talent – management processes communities, suppliers and specialists in annual reports, Givaudan has many channels for stakeholder dialogue, spread are asked to co-create an annual plan for the evolution of across different departments and teams. Often, we already have –Learning – and development opportunities relationships with Givaudan. information and feedback from stakeholders as a consequence –Green – Teams, engagements and on-going dialogue. of interactions during the ordinary course of business. In such Our main objective is to understand how our business affects cases, information from previous interactions can be used to Owners and investors our stakeholders and to determine what the most material identify interests and priorities. The following list formalises –AGM/half-year – meeting impacts to be managed are. Sustainability aspects listed in the dialogue channels: –Annual – investor road show Givaudan materiality matrix are presented to stakeholders during engagement to let them confirm the topics they would Customers –Briefings – with analysts rank as the most important for them, the ones they would like –On-going – dialogue –Local – communities to discuss or would like to know more about. Co-creation of –Customer – sustainability request projects and collaboration with mutual benefits are the ultimate –Community – development programme survey –SMETA – audits goals of stakeholder dialogue – thereby allowing us to focus our –Local – site community engagement programme sustainability efforts in those areas that are most important to –Customer – innovation days –Givaudan – Foundation our key stakeholders. –Conferences – and events –Local – partners (NGOs or cooperatives) acting as How dialogue groups support our materiality process –At – associations and advocacy organisations. Givaudan agents. The dialogue groups give stakeholders a genuine and explicit role (see G4-15 and G4-16, pages 15 to 17) in setting the direction of our Sustainability programme – and Public and regulatory agencies contribute on a regular basis to prioritising Givaudan’s material Suppliers –Commenting – on emerging legislation/regulation –Assessments – via Sedex registration issues. Outcomes from dialogue panel sessions are also fed –Membership – of working groups/forums back to the Sustainability Steering Team (our main governance –Issues – raised at supplier audits body for sustainability) and management committees to shape –IFRA/IOFI – consultation –Collaborations – to improve performance strategy and improve decision-making. –UNGC – consultation –Multi-stakeholder – groups –CDP – project workshop –Supplier – events – capacity building, discussing issues. –Media. – 26 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Stakeholder engagement Continued G4-27: Report key topics and concerns that have been Sustainable innovation raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the Sustainable innovation is of growing importance as issues such organisation has responded to those key topics and as health and wellness, climate change and resource depletion concerns, including through its reporting. Report the become more pressing for our customers and consumers. stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics Transforming these issues into opportunities and researching and concerns new technologies are key for Givaudan. As the industry leader we invest heavily in research and development. Givaudan is We regularly identify sustainability topics based on their well-placed to respond to these opportunities given our wide importance for Givaudan and our stakeholders and we prioritise spectrum of products, processes and services. them on the principle of materiality. In our materiality matrix we highlight key sustainability issues and their significance for Traceability stakeholders. (see materiality matrix in G4-18, page 18) Traceability is increasingly a business requirement connected with regulatory requirements, food safety and issue We analyse stakeholder feedback and identify changes that management. It reflects the growing need for more information have the greatest effects. The result is a set of environmental on the origin of our ingredients. Traceability is about where and and social trends that we believe influence our business over the how the product is produced. mid-term: Community support Product safety and regulation Community support from companies like Givaudan is a Product safety and regulation remains a key topic for our requirement. As part of our responsible sourcing approach stakeholders. There are more regulations and more public Givaudan engages with suppliers, including producers at source pressure for greater transparency. Our primary focus is to in remote rural communities, to meet environmental and continue to develop and produce safe and compliant products. social standards and support community needs. Moreover, at Responsible sourcing Givaudan, we act responsibly and constructively in relation to Responsible sourcing is a growing concern as developing the communities in which we operate. We support activities and countries industrialise and global demand for material resources projects which improve the quality of life of our local and global increases. Responsible sourcing is about knowing under which communities and that support our divisional focus areas: Flavour social and environmental conditions Givaudan raw materials Division: family nutrition; Fragrance Division: blindness. and products are made. It is now becoming one of the most The Company’s long-term commitment to sustainable material aspects for key stakeholders who are demanding more sourcing of natural ingredients and community support is accountability from brands on supplier ethics regarding workers further reinforced by the actions of the Givaudan Foundation. and the environment. Givaudan’s supply chain is complex and Launched in 2014, the non-profit organisation is dedicated to the Company plays a pivotal role with more than 2,000 raw improving the social conditions of local communities through material suppliers and more than 6,000 customers. This is where programmes for education, health and protection of the Sedex provides value with common requirements. We made a environment. Since 2014, some of our Origination initiatives are commitment to conduct audits with 200 of our top 400 suppliers supported by the Foundation. by 2015. (see progress under G4-16, page 16) For more information www.givaudan-foundation.org 27 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Report profile G4-28: Reporting period for information provided G4-32: GRI content index All data are for wholly-owned Givaudan companies, and are for Please refer to pages 77 to 79. the full financial year ending December 2015. G4-33: Assurance G4-29: Date of most recent previous report This report has been prepared ‘in accordance’ option ‘Core’ with Our previous report was published in March 2015. the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. The GRI materiality disclosure service verified that G4-30: Reporting cycle the General Standard Disclosures G4-17 to G4-27 were correctly We have an annual sustainability reporting cycle. located both in the GRI Content Index and in the text of the final report. G4-31: Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report content The data and commentary in this report are assured by Ernst & Young LLP in accordance with the principles of the International We welcome your comments and questions, which can be sent Standards on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000. For more to: global.sustainability@givaudan.com information please see the Assurance statement on page 81 of this document and a United Nations Global Compact principles reference table on page 80. 28 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Governance G4-34: Report the governance structure of the organisation, –the – notification of the court in case of insolvency The Compensation Committee including committees of the highest governance body. The primary function of the Compensation Committee is to –the – decisions regarding the subsequent performance of Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on review and recommend the compensation policies to the Board contributions on shares not fully paid in economic, environmental and social impacts of Directors. Within the boundaries of the maximum aggregate –the – ascertainment of share capital increases and resulting compensation amount defined by the Annual General Meeting The Board of Directors is the highest governance body of modifications of the articles of incorporation of shareholders annually, the Compensation Committee Givaudan SA. In accordance with Swiss law, the Articles of –the – verification of the special professional qualifications of approves the remuneration of the CEO and the other members Incorporation and the Board Regulations of Givaudan SA, the the auditors. of the Executive Committee as well as all performanceduties of the Board of Directors include the following matters: related remuneration instruments and pension fund policies. –the – ultimate management of the Company and, in particular, Except as otherwise provided by Swiss law, the Articles of The Committee prepares the Compensation Report to be the establishment of mediumand long-term strategies and Incorporation and the Board Regulations, all other areas of established by the Board. The Compensation Committee of directives defining Company policies and the giving of the management are fully delegated by the Board of Directors to the consists of three members of the Board who are elected directly necessary instructions CEO, the Executive Committee and its members in accordance by the Annual General Meeting of shareholders. The Committee with art. 716b of the Swiss Code of Obligations. –the – establishment of the organisation takes advice from external independent compensation According to the Articles of Incorporation of Givaudan, the Board specialists and consults with the Chairman and the CEO on –the – approval of the annual Group budget of Directors may consist of between seven and nine members specific matters where appropriate. –the – structuring of the accounting system and of the financial who are elected annually by the Annual General Meeting of The Nomination and Governance Committee controlling as well as the financial planning shareholders. Re-election of Directors is possible. As of the The primary function of the Nomination and Governance AGM in March 2015 Givaudan’s Board of Directors included –the – assessment of the Company’s risk management as Committee is to assist the Board in applying the principles of two women. reported by the Audit Committee good corporate governance. It prepares appointments to the The Board of Directors has established three Committees: Board of Directors and the Executive Committee and advises on –the – decision on investments in, or divestments of, fixed and an Audit Committee, a Compensation Committee and a the succession planning process of the Company. It consists of tangible assets of a global amount exceeding the limit set by Nomination and Governance Committee. three members of the Board. the corporate investment guidelines established by the Board of Directors The Audit Committee Executive Committee The primary function of the Audit Committee is to assist the The Executive Committee, under the leadership of the CEO, is –the – appointment and removal of the persons entrusted with Board in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities by reviewing the responsible for areas of management of the Company that are the management and representation of the Company, in financial information, the systems of internal controls and the not specifically reserved for the Board of Directors. particular the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) and the other audit process. It carries out certain preparatory work for the members of the Executive Committee The CEO, subject to the powers attributed to him, has the task of Board of Directors as a whole. The Audit Committee currently –the – ultimate supervision of the persons entrusted with the achieving the strategic objectives of the Group and determining consists of three members of the Board. The Audit Committee management, in particular with respect to compliance with the the operational priorities. In addition, he leads, supervises and ensures that the Company’s risk management systems are law, the articles of incorporation, regulations and instructions coordinates the other members of the Executive Committee, efficient and effective. It promotes effective communication given in any areas relevant to the Company, such as working including convening, preparing and chairing the meetings of the among the Board, management, the internal audit function and conditions, environmental protection, trade practices, Executive Committee. external audit. It reviews and approves the compensation of the competition rules, insider dealing, and ad hoc publicity external auditors for the annual audit. The Chief Financial Officer –the – preparation of the business and compensation reports attends the meetings of the Audit Committee on the invitation of its Chairman. –the – preparation of the General Meeting of shareholders and the implementation of its resolutions 29 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Governance Continued The members of the Executive Committee are appointed by Governance of sustainability the Board of Directors on recommendation of the CEO after The framework and governance of our Sustainability programme evaluation by the Nomination Committee. The Executive was strengthened in 2011 by the approval by our Executive Committee is responsible for developing the Company’s strategic Committee of our Key Principles of Sustainability. as well as long-term business and financial plans. Key areas of Our Sustainability programme is headed by our Executive responsibility also include the management and supervision of Committee, supported by our corporate Sustainability Steering all areas of business development on an operational basis, and Team (SST), whose members are drawn from all areas of approving investment decisions. the Company. The tasks and powers of the Executive Committee include the The implementation of our sustainability strategy is coordinated approval of investments, leasing agreements and divestments by our Sustainability Programme Management Organisation within the corporate investment guidelines. The Executive (PMO) – internal specialists in corporate responsibility Committee approves important business projects and and sustainability. prepares the business plan of the Group and the budgets of the individual divisions and functions. In addition, it plays a key To ensure alignment between these groups, both our SST role – together with the Human Resources organisation – in team and the PMO are sponsored by a member of the the periodic review of the talent management programme, Executive Committee. including succession planning for key positions. Alliances and The Head of Global Environment, Health and Safety and partnerships with outside institutions, such as universities, think Sustainability reports once annually to the Board. tanks and other business partners, are also monitored by the Executive Committee. The members of the Executive Committee are individually responsible for the business areas assigned to them. 30 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Ethics and integrity G4-56: Describe the organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Givaudan’s ‘Principles of Business Conduct’ is our code of conduct for the entire Givaudan Group. The principles include: –Compliance – with the Law –Conflicts – of Interest –Bribes, – Gifts and Entertainment (including corruption and bribery) –Fair – Treatment of Employees (including discrimination) –Working – Environment and Child Labour Environmental Compliance –Competition – Law (including anti-trust and anticompetitive practices) –Insider – Dealing –Protection – of Confidential Information and Trade Secrets –Conduct – in Research and Development –Application – and Creation –Implementation – (including whistleblowing). The Principles of Business Conduct have been translated into all major Company languages and compliance training on the Principles has been provided in all Company languages too. The Principles can be downloaded here: www.givaudan.com/our-company/corporate-governance/ compliance Economic This section concerns the economic dimension of sustainability and Givaudan’s impacts on the economic conditions of its stakeholders and on economic systems at local, national and global levels. In this section: 32 Economic performance 34 Procurement practices 32 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Economic performance It is our fiduciary duty to –Reduction – of waste production and energy consumption per tonne of product by 4% year on year for additional paid-in capital which Givaudan shows in equity as at the end of 2015, with the remainder being paid out of shareholders to ensure that –Reiterated – commitment to reducing water usage by 15% per available earnings. Givaudan’s business is financially tonne of product between 2010 and 2020 How we manage this issue sustainable in the short, medium Progress in 2015 Our five-pillar growth strategy (2011-2015) helped guide our and long-term. Sales focus and decisions in a very consistent way to 2015. It permitted us to increase our footprint in high growth markets, expand Givaudan Group full year sales were CHF 4,396 million, an beyond fragrances and flavours, deliver innovation to customers increase of 2.7% on a like-for-like basis and a decline of 0.2% in and develop innovative sourcing strategies. Highlights of our Our commitments Swiss francs when compared to 2014. Fragrance Division sales achievements in each pillar are outlined below. In 2010, Givaudan announced its five-year strategy up to were CHF 2,096 million, an increase of 1.9% on a like-for-like the year 2015. This came to a close at the end of 2015 and it basis and a decline of 0.6% in Swiss francs. Flavour Division sales Developing markets articulated the following ambitions: were CHF 2,300 million, an increase of 3.5% on a like-for-like Consumer demand continued to grow in the developing markets basis and 0.2% in Swiss francs. of the world, and through targeted investments we focused –Mid-term, – the overall objective is to grow organically between our efforts on best serving our customers and maximising our 4.5% and 5.5% per annum Earnings before Interest, Tax, Depreciation and growth opportunities. Investments in these markets included a Amortisation (EBITDA) –Givaudan – expects to outgrow the underlying market and to fragrance hub in Singapore, a technical flavour centre in Dubai The EBITDA increased to CHF 1,070 million in 2015 from continue to achieve its industry-leading EBITDA margin while and offices in Pakistan, Nigeria and Myanmar. CHF 1,053 million in 2014, an increase of 1.6% in Swiss francs achieving an annual free cash flow of 14% to 16% of sales and 8.0% in local currency. A continued focus on internal costs Research and Development by 2015 was the main enabler of the improvement. The EBITDA margin We made industry-leading financial investments in innovative –Givaudan – confirms its intention to continue to return above increased to 24.3% in 2015 from 23.9% in 2014. In 2015, the ingredients, technologies, platforms and partnerships to 60% of the Company’s free cash flow to shareholders, while Group recognised a net one-off non-cash gain of CHF 20 million, create tastes and scents that delighted our customers maintaining a medium-term leverage ratio target of below 25%. mainly following a change in pension plans. As a reminder, in and consumers. We introduced the Mahonial™ fragrance In 2015, Givaudan announced new ambitions for the five-year 2014 the Group recognised a one-off gain of CHF 42 million on ingredient, Mechacaps™ microcapsule technology and our period to 2020. They contain financial and eco-efficiency targets the disposal of land at its Dübendorf location in Switzerland. TasteSolutions® Richness as well as a range of new enzyme and for the first time: fermentation technologies. Cash flow –Average – organic sales growth of 4 5%1, in close partnership Givaudan delivered an operating cash flow of CHF 915 million in Health and Wellness with our customers 2015, compared to CHF 806 million in 2014, driven by a slightly As consumers around the world took more care in their choice higher EBITDA and an improvement in working capital. As a of foods and snacks, our flavour innovations focused on reducing –Average – free cash flow of 12 17% of sales1, with an increased percentage of sales, working capital decreased as a result of fat, sugar and salt in food and drinks, while our fragrances focus on operational excellence lower inventories at the end of the year. enhanced everyday tasks by communicating freshness, –Responsible – growth, by decoupling growth and environmental cleanliness and calmness. We made acquisitions in active Dividend proposal impact through ambitious new eco-efficiency targets cosmetic ingredients that will increase our capabilities in the At the Annual General Meeting on 17 March 2016, Givaudan’s –Stabilise – our carbon footprint by reducing our absolute CO2 health and wellness arena. Board of Directors will propose a cash dividend of CHF 54.00 emissions by at least 4% year on year in order to compensate per share for the financial year 2015, an increase of 8.0% for our growing production volumes versus 2014. This is the fifteenth consecutive dividend increase following Givaudan’s listing at the Swiss stock exchange in 1 over a five-year period by 2020 2000. This distribution will be primarily made out of reserves 33 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Economic performance Continued Responsible sourcing of raw materials Performance indicators Our materials continued to be sourced in ways that preserve EC1: Direct economic value generated and distributed, EC3: Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit the environment, stimulate the development and well-being including revenues, operating costs, employee plan obligations of communities, and safeguard the efficient use of resources compensation, donations and other community for the long-term. In seeking security of supply, we entered The Group operates a number of defined benefit and defined investments, retained earnings, and payments to into a fragrance ingredients joint venture in China and contribution plans throughout the world, the assets of which capital providers and governments formed innovative sourcing partnerships in Indonesia, Haiti are generally held in separate trustee-administered funds. and Madagascar. 2009 2014 2015 The pension plans are generally funded by payments from Revenue 3,973 4,459 4,439 employees and by the relevant Group companies, taking Targeted customers and segments million million million account of the recommendations of independent qualified We built on strategic partnerships with our main customers and Operating costs 2,536 2,684 2,653 actuaries. The most significant defined benefit plans are developed our presence with accounts and product categories million million million held in Switzerland, the United States of America and the where we were under-represented and had the opportunity Payments to governments 55 111 109 United Kingdom. to expand. Through our acquisition of Soliance and Induchem million million million we extended our capabilities in active cosmetic ingredients. Payments to providers 213 496 522 For full details of our defined benefit and defined contribution In Flavours, we expanded our TasteTrek® programmes and of capital million million million plans, in line with the requirements on EC3, please see our launched TasteSolutions® Richness. Employee wages and 964 1,003 981 2015 Financial Report, note 7 (page 141). benefits million million million Our financial ambitions and roadmap for the next five years Economic value retained 205 165 174 seek to ensure responsible growth and shared success for million million million shareholders, customers and all key stakeholders. All figures in CHF Building on the success of our 2011 2015 strategy, we want to create further shareholder value through profitable, responsible growth and acquisitions. To create long-term value, we will capitalise on our market leadership and, most importantly, continue to build close partnerships with our customers. Continued ambitious financial targets are part of our roadmap to 2020, and we aim to outpace the market and deliver a continued strong free cash flow. These targets are an average organic sales growth of 4-5% and an average free cash flow of 12 17% of sales1. Our 2020 strategy is built on three strategic pillars: growing with our customers; delivering with excellence; and partnering for shared success. For more details on our new 2020 strategy, visit www.givaudan.com/media/media-releases/2015/responsiblegrowth-shared-success 1 over a five-year period by 2020 34 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Procurement practices As a global business with Progress in 2015 Identify and develop additional sustainable sourcing initiatives Communicate with all suppliers about procurement operations in over 40 countries, requirements relating to social responsibility Our Origination team, which is part of our Procurement it is imperative that we develop All suppliers are informed of our requirements through a Global function, reinforces a direct presence in the countries where Vendor Expectations document. We have been continuously we source our key natural ingredients. Most members of the a strong network of suppliers to revising this document to reflect supply chain risks such as antiOrigination team are based in countries of origin, where we are meet customer and consumer corruption, money laundering and human trafficking. The latest setting up collection networks to source natural ingredients directly from producers. demand and to expand our revision was done 2014. Since then a link to the revised document is sent to all existing and new suppliers as part of the We continuously follow up and monitor the implementation of market footprint. procurement process. these initiatives and we are convinced that they each provide In 2015, Givaudan hosted an AIM-PROGRESS meeting in Seville value to our business in terms of risk alleviation and by increasing Our vision is to source materials in ways that preserve the on responsible sourcing. Givaudan’s Procurement employees the quality of our products and services. environment, stimulate the development and well-being of gave a presentation about their experience on implementing Cistus Labdanum communities from which we source, and safeguard the efficient supplier audits as well as suppliers’ challenges and achievements In Andalusia, Spain, traditional methods of processing the use of resources for the long-term. in their journey to responsible sourcing. These meetings also fragrant Cistus Labdanum gum were outdated and not facilitate deeper relationships with key customers and bring optimised for local workers or the environment. It had been The responsible sourcing of raw materials is an integral part support to the supplier community. challenging to industrialise these artisan operations and in of our operations and one of the five pillars of our 2011 2015 strategy, as well as being part of our Sustainability programme. In addition, a plantation visit at our supplier Biolandes facility 2013, recognising the crude nature of this process and the It is a key issue for many of our customers who increasingly want was organised to demonstrate improvements made in the potential to make positive changes, Givaudan collaborated assurances of responsible supply chain practices, traceability transformation process of Cistus Labdanum. This was the first with local producer Biolandes to set up a new labdanum gum and provenance. time an AIM-PROGRESS conference had included a plantation extraction unit and bring operations up to date. The aim was visit, and the trip was highly appreciated by attendees; it is likely to support Biolandes’ industrial investment to modernise this Our commitments that this format will be used at future meetings. traditional supply chain, knowing that the additional cost of the –Expanding – our responsible sourcing initiatives ensures security investment would be absorbed by the higher new price of the of supply labdanum extract. Conduct audits with 200 of our top 400 suppliers by 2015; –Working – with our suppliers on sustainability throughout our 200 of our top 400 suppliers to have joined the Sedex Encouraged by Givaudan’s support, Biolandes decided to value chains contributes to our customers’ increasing supply programme by 2015 construct a new building in which to process the gum. To ensure chain requirements In 2015, we surpassed our 2015 objective to have 200 top the longevity of the project, Givaudan committed to continue –Conducting – regular reviews of our portfolio and implementing suppliers register with Sedex. In total, 297 key raw material purchasing from Biolandes and to pay a premium for the improvements through our ethical sourcing initiatives suppliers are now registered with Sedex. These suppliers gum over the subsequent five years. The project has enabled represent over 70% of our raw materials spend. Biolandes to anticipate sustainability needs for the future. –Gather – information on origin of our ingredients to contribute to regulatory requirements, food safety and issue management. In 2014, we started to include our Indirect Material & Services Clove leaf oil (IM&S) suppliers in the Sedex initiative. To date, 25 IM&S The Givaudan Origination team has set up a collection network suppliers have joined Sedex. in Madagascar for the sourcing of clove leaf oil, a key ingredient for many of our fragrance and flavour products. Similar to our We have also made good progress towards our supplier audits collection network in Indonesia, we have developed a strong target. The total number of our suppliers audited was 192 at the presence in Madagascar where locally based Givaudan field end of 2015. 35 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Procurement practices Continued buyers travel the country to buy directly from distillers, village To date, we have been involved in the construction or repair and 2015 – Clove leaf oil collection network and partnership associations and collectors, guaranteeing a regular purchase of maintenance of 18 schools as well as the building of two health in Madagascar their product as well as technical advice. centres, one of which was constructed in 2015. The Company’s long-term commitment to sustainable sourcing From the end of 2016, we will also be able to process clove leaf In 2013, our rural development programme for vanilla beans in of natural ingredients is further reinforced by the actions of oil into clove derivatives at NATEMA, a new factory on the island. Madagascar won a Creating Shared Value award from Nestlé in the Givaudan Foundation. Launched in 2014, the non-profit The NATEMA transformation facility is a joint venture announced the Responsible Sourcing Vanilla category. We are continuing organisation is dedicated to improving the social conditions of in late 2014. The project was established with Givaudan’s longour collaboration with Nestlé. local communities through programmes for education, health term partner, Henri Fraise Fils, a well-established company and protection of the environment. Since 2014, some of our Other sourcing initiatives in Madagascar which shares the same ambition as Givaudan. Origination initiatives are supported by the Foundation. Givaudan began pioneering an ethical sourcing approach in Together we aim to support local value creation. the flavour and fragrance industry a decade ago. Starting out For more information In developing our strong ties and deepening the trust with local with partnerships with local producers, the Company today www.givaudan-foundation.org producers and their communities, we also recognise the role that uses different sourcing models including its own collection Develop third-party certification projects for raw materials we play in supporting the preservation of the local environment. networks. Givaudan’s Origination team creates a human chain In Haiti, Givaudan has been working since 2012 with a local We are therefore supporting a natural resources preservation from growers to consumers by deploying dedicated employees vetiver essential oil producer and a cooperative of vetiver programme in Madagascar, working with a local NGO and village in the countries of origin, fostering best practices in sourcing and growers spanning three local villages. Growers are supported associations to plant fast-growing trees for firewood in clove leaf ensuring that producers and local communities benefit in the in improving their environmental and harvesting practices, distillation areas; in 2015, 40,000 trees were planted. long-term from supplying the industry. and consequently the quality of the roots. The vetiver sourced Patchouli Projects in pipeline since 2008 that are continuously evolving is certified ESR (Fairness, Solidarity, Responsibility) according In December 2015, we signed a contract with a local agency and expanding: to Ecocert standards, with the added benefit that the crop is to work with farmers in our collection network in Indonesia. organic and fair-trade. 2008 – Project on biodiversity for tonka beans with The agency will support us in conducting investigations on Conservation International in Venezuela During 2015, work has gone into evaluating additional supply current farming conditions and provide training to the farmers chains to be certified. to improve their agricultural practice and yield. 2009 – Support to benzoin harvesting communities through secondary education in Laos Vanilla In 2010, we initiated a rural development programme for 2010 – Rural development programme for vanilla farmers vanilla beans together with Henri Fraise Fils in Madagascar. in Madagascar Vanilla supply from Madagascar is complex, due to a rural 2010 – Project on ylang ylang quality and environmental structure made up of thousands of small-holder farmers. conservation in Mohéli, Comoros This raises traceability questions in the supply chain as well as 2012 – Cooperative and research partnership to preserve social and sustainability issues. lavender and lavandin in France Our Ecocert certified organic vanilla and rural development 2013 – Partnership with farmer cooperative and distiller for programme aims at improving supply chain transparency and organic and fair-trade vetiver oil in Haiti producers’ living conditions. When the programme began in 2010 we initially worked with 14 villages that rely on vanilla 2014 – Patchouli collection network in Sulawesi, Indonesia and production for their livelihood. This figure has since increased to farming partnership in Borneo, Malaysia 27 villages, representing some 2,200 organic vanilla farmers in total. Support is in the areas of food security and education. 36 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Procurement practices Continued How we manage this issue Ethical sourcing initiatives Performance indicators Each raw material we purchase has a potential supply risk. Our pioneering ethical sourcing initiatives aim to achieve a EC9: Proportion of spending on local suppliers at Givaudan’s Procurement function monitors and manages supply mediumand long-term supply of unique raw materials in significant locations of operation chain risks arising from raw material purchases. Australia, Laos, Venezuela, the Comoros Islands, Haiti, France and Madagascar. Givaudan’s Ethical Sourcing programme It is the Company’s common practice to prefer sourcing from We have successfully implemented a risk management system addresses both social compliance and supply risk, and covers locally based suppliers (defined as suppliers who are based in that allows us to identify the materials at high risk in terms materials with a strategic role in our supply chain. Supply chain the same country as the Givaudan ‘facility’). This is reflected of sourcing and to correlate these risks with the potential solutions for these materials are tailored by region but also in the 83% by value of non-raw material purchased locally in business impact. Almost all the materials in our portfolio have encompass the four key pillars of Labour Standards, Business 2015. For raw materials, 27% by value were sourced locally in been screened through this sophisticated SAP-based system Integrity, Environment, and Health and Safety. Givaudan’s 2015. Several of the raw materials we buy cannot be sourced that combines quantitative and qualitative input to provide Origination team, set up in 2013, takes this commitment to in countries other than the ones where it naturally grows. information that helps us reduce the supply risk to our portfolio. new levels and is focused particularly on alleviating supply risk. This risk management process, integrated with global supply chain management, enables us to identify and mitigate raw Preserving biodiversity materials sourcing risks. Climate change and habitat loss are leading to a reduction in biodiversity, which is not only a key issue for our Company but a Beyond this, there are three main ways we raise standards in threat to humanity itself. Givaudan actively supports the Nagoya our supply chain. Protocol and has developed comprehensive policies to support Global Vendor Expectations the conservation of the environment and protect biological As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), diversity, from our Principles of Business Conduct to our renewed we use our Global Vendor Expectations document to notify raw EHS Policy to specific position papers. material suppliers that they need to comply with its principles. All suppliers are informed of our sustainability requirements through this document. Sedex and SMETA We encourage selected suppliers to improve performance. One way we do this is by inviting suppliers to register with Sedex, a data-sharing platform to improve supply chain practices. Some then voluntarily go on to complete the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA) which requires compliance in four key responsible sourcing pillars including Labour Standards, Business Ethics, Environment, Health and Safety. Non-compliance with these standards is not an option for Givaudan. One of the benefits of SMETA is that ‘an audit for one is an audit for all’. Across AIM-PROGRESS this process is known as Mutual Recognition (MR), and it helps reduce supplier ‘audit fatigue’. Internally, these processes are managed by Procurement. Our category managers, located around the world, play a vital role in helping to ensure compliance. Environment This section concerns the environmental dimension of sustainability and Givaudan’s impacts on living and non-living natural systems, including ecosystems, land, air and water. In this section: 38 Energy 40 Water 42 Emissions 44 Effluents and waste 46 Products and services 47 Transport 49 Supplier environmental assessment 38 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Energy Givaudan’s stated vision is to local engineering teams. Some of these projects are described later in this section. Performance indicators continuously drive operational The absolute total energy figure in 2015 has increased against EN3: Energy consumption within the organisation excellence without compromising the 2009 baseline by about 5% while the production volume over 2009 2014 (restated) 2015 the environment. This is good the same period has increased by almost 25%. Direct energy: from primary 1,632,589 1,678,084 1,712,690 for the environment and good How we manage this issue sources (GJ) Indirect energy: purchased 897,286 922,754 950,117 The Environment Centre of Expertise, as part of the for business. corporate EHS function, strongly encourages and supports electricity and steam (GJ) our manufacturing sites to deliver against our global ecoefficiency targets. Our commitments EN5: Energy intensity Improve eco-efficiency of manufacturing sites with a focus on Four drivers support our local Eco-efficiency Management Teams and local Green Teams in their on-going success in 2014 greenhouse gas emissions, waste and water, and reduce our (restated) 2015 overall footprint against a 2009 baseline focusing on delivery against these targets: Energy saved (per 17.4% 15.4% eco-efficiency for energy, carbon emissions, incinerated and –Most – of our manufacturing sites have developed their site tonne of product) land-filled waste, and municipal and groundwater. eco-efficiency plan (SEEP) setting individual eco-efficiency against 2009 baseline In 2010, Givaudan set itself challenging eco-efficiency targets targets to be achieved over a period of two to three years. for 2020 which will be achieved ahead of schedule for energy, Motivated to achieve these targets, site teams identify waste and CO2 . Therefore, Givaudan announced in 2015 a additional saving projects or improve existing ones on an strengthening of its 2020 eco-efficiency targets to reflect the ongoing basis. Company’s ambition to decouple growth and environmental –Most – successful Green Team eco-efficiency projects are impact. Givaudan aims to stabilise environmental impact while rewarded with a dedicated eco-efficiency Green Team award increasing production volumes. that the Company introduced in 2014. Our strengthened target for energy as of 2016 is the following: –The – introduction of regular eco-efficiency performance –reduce – the energy consumption by 4% per tonne year on year reporting on site, regional, divisional and global level. Progress in 2015 –The – implementation of the ‘Green Chapter’ to capital Energy consumption: 20% reduction, per tonne of product, expenditure project proposals as decided by the Executive by 2020 Committee in 2014. The chapter has to outline eco-efficiency aspects, a cost/benefit analysis and a ‘price on carbon’ of the -15.4% (against restated 2009 baseline) proposed investment. During 2015, the energy per tonne figure slightly deteriorated The target setting, documentation of improvement initiatives from -17.4% (restated 2014 figure) to the stated -15.4%. and regular performance reporting by individual sites are The increase in energy consumption is a result of severe winter aligned with the requirements and principles of the ISO 14001 conditions, the investment in additional production capacity, Environmental Management System. To date, five Givaudan and acquisitions. However, the increase has been partially offset manufacturing locations have been certified against the ISO through efficiency projects rolled-out by local Green Teams and 14001 standard. 39 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Energy Continued EN6: Reduction of energy consumption EN7: Reductions in energy of products and service Switching off the summer heating in Vernier, Switzerland Buying in green energy to reduce emissions In summer 2015, the gas heating at our administrative To further reduce our carbon footprint, Givaudan’s Indirect buildings in Vernier was switched off, from the first week of Material & Services (IM&S) department started the transition June to the second week of September. This saved on both to green energy in 2011 by buying electricity produced from the natural gas used to heat the building overnight and the renewable sources. electricity used to cool it during the day. Electricity accounts for almost one-third of the total energy As a result, gas consumption was reduced by 115MWh, which consumption of our manufacturing sites, but contributes represents 23 tonnes of CO2. The results were positive and around half of our total scope 1 and scope 2 CO2 emissions. encouraging, and this will now be standard procedure in future. Highlights in 2015 of the transition were: A bigger, more efficient nitrogen plant in Vernier, Switzerland –Givaudan, – ahead of the United Nations Conference on The improved nitrogen production plant at Vernier has Climate Change (COP21), signed the commitment ‘100% created an ‘eco-virtuous cycle’ providing several benefits. renewable electricity’ put forward by the CDP’s ’Road to The plant’s higher efficiency now saves 238MWh of electricity Paris’ initiative. per year. These savings secured Givaudan a grant from a local partnership, ‘Ambition Negawatt’. With the approval –Eight – manufacturing sites moved to greener electricity. of Vernier’s Management Committee the grant was used –Three – additional sites moved to full 100% green to invest in a more efficient lighting system that is better electricity, which makes a total of 10 sites out of our for employees and for the environment – saving an extra 34 manufacturing sites. 2.5MWh per year. –The – CO2 emission load per purchased KWh of electricity The new plant’s efficiency means fewer deliveries of nitrogen was further reduced by 20.6% compared to 2014; against are needed. It also means 30 trucks fewer per year, which the 2009 baseline this figure is 31.7%. Of all electricity would have emitted 12 tonnes of CO2 annually. purchased, about 40% (33% in 2014) is produced from Planting a second photovoltaic tree in Argenteuil, France renewable sources, while 55.8% is carbon free (52% in 2014). A second photovoltaic tree was installed to produce extra electricity, through solar cells, for the Argenteuil site and its vehicles. It produces approximately 5,350KWh of electricity per year, whereas the first tree produced 4,300KWh per year. The seven vehicles, in Givaudan’s all-electric fleet, travel 8,000km per year on average, using a total of about 8,400KWh of electricity. As a result, the two trees together are enough to power the entire fleet with 100% renewable energy, also supporting our commitment to 100% renewable electricity – and cutting CO2 emissions by 7.65 tonnes per year. The Argenteuil site itself uses the remaining electricity. 40 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Water Givaudan’s stated vision is to How we manage this issue Performance indicators The Environment Centre of Expertise, as part of the continuously drive operational corporate EHS function, strongly encourages and supports EN8: Total water withdrawal by source excellence without compromising our manufacturing sites to deliver against our global ecoWater intake (m3) 2009 2014 (restated) 2015 efficiency targets. the environment. This is good Municipal water 2,286,999 2,370,368 2,340,554 Four drivers support our local Eco-efficiency Management for the environment and good Teams and local Green Teams in their on-going success in Groundwater Municipal and groundwater 1,074,035 3,361,034 1,307,663 3,678,031 1,405,028 3,745,582 for business. delivery against these targets: Surface water 7,432,649 5,007,034 5,006,361 –Most – of our manufacturing sites have developed their site Total water* 10,793,683 8,685,065 8,751,943 eco-efficiency plan (SEEP) setting individual eco-efficiency *Includes sanitary, cooling and process water Our commitments targets to be achieved over a period of two to three years. Improve eco-efficiency of manufacturing sites with a focus on Motivated to achieve these targets, site teams identify greenhouse gas emissions, waste and water, and reduce our additional saving projects or improve existing ones on an overall footprint against a 2009 baseline focusing on ongoing basis. eco-efficiency for energy, carbon emissions, incinerated and land-filled waste, and municipal and groundwater. –Most – successful Green Team eco-efficiency projects are rewarded with a dedicated eco-efficiency Green Team award In 2010, Givaudan set itself challenging eco-efficiency targets that the Company introduced in 2014. for 2020 which will be achieved ahead of schedule for energy, waste and CO2 . Therefore, Givaudan announced in 2015 a –The – introduction of regular eco-efficiency performance strengthening of its 2020 eco-efficiency targets to reflect the reporting on site, regional, divisional and global level. Company’s ambition to decouple growth and environmental –The – implementation of the ‘Green Chapter’ to capital impact. Givaudan aims to stabilise environmental impact while expenditure project proposals as decided by the Executive increasing production volumes. Committee in 2014. The chapter has to outline eco-efficiency Our water target was reconfirmed as 15% reduction per tonne aspects, a cost/benefit analysis and a ‘price on carbon’ of the by 2020 against the baseline 2009. proposed investment. The target setting, documentation of improvement initiatives Progress in 2015 and regular performance reporting by individual sites are Water use: 15% reduction, per tonne of product, by 2020 aligned with the requirements and principles of the ISO 14001 (for municipal and groundwater) Environmental Management System. To date, five Givaudan -10.4% (against 2009 baseline) manufacturing locations have been certified against the ISO During 2015, the water consumption per tonne figure slightly 14001 standard. deteriorated from -11.7% (restated 2014 figure) to the stated -10.4%. The increase in water consumption is a result of the investment in additional production capacity and acquisitions. 41 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Water Continued EN8: continued More improvements in rainwater harvesting in Jigani, India Saving municipal water in Naarden, the Netherlands In 2012, Givaudan’s Jigani site in India began using dry The powder scrubbers at the Naarden site no longer run on boreholes to harvest rainwater instead of purchasing water. municipal (drinking standard) water. Instead, Givaudan is now This made water supplies completely self-sufficient, removing treating and reusing effluent water from its existing waste the costs and CO2 emissions of having water delivered by water treatment plant. trucks. This new H2O harvesting system captured water that drained from the surrounding higher grounds. This saves 10,512m3 per year in municipal water. It not only reduces financial costs, but also has a very high environmental Data for 2015 show that the site now collects 11,000m3 of benefit – municipal water is energy-intensive to produce, water per annum. In 2015, the site consumed 7,000m3 and and water suitable for the process is increasingly scarce. returned the remaining 4,000m3 to the local community. Reusing treated effluent water lessens the impact on these In 2015, the total groundwater consumption was 10% lower natural resources, and in addition reduces the volume of compared to 2014 – meaning even more water was returned discharged waste water into the local environment. to the local community. Reducing water use in Daman, India After collecting and analysing water usage data, the Daman team set about reducing water needed for production through a training and awareness programme, together with engineering solutions to stop leakages and improve flow control. After the training campaign, staff worked together to further decrease water requirements. This resulted in a 28.46% reduction in water consumption per tonne of production, despite the very limited scope for technology improvements. The team also achieved a 17.4% reduction in absolute water consumption compared to 2014. 42 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Emissions Givaudan’s stated vision is to improvements and investments implemented by local Green Teams and local engineering teams. aspects, a cost/benefit analysis and a ‘price on carbon’ of the proposed investment. continuously drive operational The decrease of direct and indirect CO2 emissions is further The target setting, documentation of improvement initiatives excellence without compromising supported by the fact that several sites purchased greener and regular performance reporting by individual sites are the environment. This is good for electricity. In addition, seven of our manufacturing sites use electricity produced from 100% renewable sources. aligned with the requirements and principles of the ISO 14001 Environmental Management System. To date, five Givaudan the environment and good for This electricity is partially covered with the purchase of manufacturing locations have been certified against the ISO business. renewable energy certificates. Some examples of efficiency 14001 standard. projects are described later in this section. Monitoring carbon emissions The absolute total direct and indirect CO2 emission has We participated in the annual CDP survey for investors as well Our commitments decreased against the 2009 baseline by 30,380 tonnes (i.e. 14%), as in the supply chain survey at the request of a number of Improve eco-efficiency of manufacturing sites with a focus on while the production volume over the same period has increased customers. This year’s performance score was A (on a scale of greenhouse gas emissions, waste and water and reduce our by almost 25%. A-E with A being the highest) and the disclosure score was 100 overall footprint against a 2009 baseline focusing on (against a CDP-average of 80). The scores demonstrate that we eco-efficiency for energy, carbon emissions, incinerated and How we manage this issue regard the mitigation of climate change as a critical issue for land-filled waste and municipal and groundwater. The Environment Centre of Expertise, as part of the our business and that we manage our carbon emissions through corporate EHS function, strongly encourages and supports In 2010, Givaudan set itself challenging eco-efficiency targets rigorous internal data management and the implementation of our manufacturing sites to deliver against our global ecofor 2020 which will be achieved ahead of schedule for energy, improvement initiatives. efficiency targets. waste and CO2 . Therefore, Givaudan announced in 2015 a strengthening of its 2020 eco-efficiency targets to reflect the Four drivers support our local Eco-efficiency Management Performance indicators Company’s ambition to decouple growth and environmental Teams and local Green Teams in their on-going success in EN15: Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) impact. Givaudan aims to stabilise environmental impact while delivery against these targets: 2014 increasing production volumes. –Most – of our manufacturing sites have developed their site GHG emissions (tonnes)1 2009 (restated) 2015 Our strengthened target for CO2 emissions as of 2016 is eco-efficiency plan (SEEP) setting individual eco-efficiency Scope 1: from direct 102,453 98,016 99,740 the following: targets to be achieved over a period of two to three years. energy sources Motivated to achieve these targets, site teams identify 1 Greenhouse gas data are limited to CO 2 emissions –stabilise – our carbon footprint by reducing our absolute CO2 additional saving projects or improve existing ones on an emissions by at least 4% year on year in order to compensate ongoing basis. for our growing production volumes –Most – successful Green Team eco-efficiency projects are EN16: Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Progress in 2015 rewarded with a dedicated eco-efficiency Green Team award (Scope 2) Direct and indirect CO2 emissions: 25% reduction, per tonne that the Company introduced in 2014. 2014 of product, by 2020 (indirect relates to purchased secondary GHG emissions (tonnes)1 2009 (restated) 2015 energy and not energy used by others, i.e. our raw materials –The – introduction of regular eco-efficiency performance Scope 2: from indirect 113,687 104,470 86,019 suppliers or transport service providers) reporting on site, regional, divisional and global level. energy sources -30.9% (against 2009 baseline) –The – implementation of the ‘Green Chapter’ to capital 1 Greenhouse gas data are limited to CO 2 emissions expenditure project proposals as decided by the Executive During 2015, the CO2 per tonne figure improved from -24.6% Committee in 2014. The chapter has to outline eco-efficiency to the stated -30.9% as a result of further energy efficiency 43 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Emissions Continued EN17: Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions EN19: Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions EN21: NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions (Scope 3) Other significant 2014 In 2015, a significant intensity based and absolute reduction GHG emissions air emissions 2009 (restated) 2015 of CO2 emissions has been realised. (approximate tonnes) 2013 2014 2015 Nitrogen oxides – 104.5 79 80 Scope 3: Business travel 14,950 14,020 9,790 This is the result of the many initiatives at our manufacturing NOx tonnes1 14,700 not 14,900 sites to reduce energy consumption (see examples under Sulphur dioxide – SO2 tonnes 359 1.21 1.12 Scope 3: Commuting (as 2012) available EN6) as well as an increased use of electricity produced Volatile organic compounds not 438 476 Scope 3: Packaging 50,385 51,812 50,586 from renewable sources (EN7). For further initiatives on (tonnes) available (restated) greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved, please 1 Q  uantity is calculated by multiplying the annual fuel consumption by the refer to EN6 and EN7. corresponding emission factor for fuel type Transport of goods1 The strong drop in SO2 emissions against the 2009 baseline is Aiming for Gold LEED certification Scope 3: Inbound not 27,902 31,322 related to the fact that the use of heavy fuel oil ceased at one One example of the ‘Green Chapter’ being implemented in raw material available our CAPEX projects can be seen in Zurich, Switzerland, where of our sites in 2014. Scope 3: Outbound products 37,000 36,638 32,370 to customers a new administration/laboratory building under construction (restated) has been designed to LEED standa rds, with the goal of Scope 3: Outbound not 12,894 12,416 intercompany deliveries available achieving Gold LEED certificate requirements. Total transport 77,524 76,108 The Zurich Innovation Centre (ZIC) features an innovative scope 3 emissions approach for a minimal resources consumption, covering Scope 3: Waste disposal not not 14,842 the entire life cycle of the building, including planning, available available construction, operation and possible termination. Scope 3: Fuel and energy not not 78,136 related activities2 available available Eco-efficiencies at the ZIC are expected to result in 15% less energy use, 20% less water use, and a reduction of up to 75% in CO2 emissions compared to a non-certified equivalent The majority of this data was collected through our global travel agent and we added an estimate, based on purchased tickets, to cover the few countries which building. Photovoltaic panels will be used at the ZIC. book business travel locally. 1 T he figures include outbound transport by air, ship and road 2 T he figures cover CO 2 emissions related to the exploitation, production and transport of primary energy carriers and electricity, which are not included in scope 1 or 2 emissions; data are extracted from Ecoinvent database 2.2 (method: IPCC 2007) EN20: Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Ozone-depleting substances 2009 2014 2015 CFC inventory (kg) 15,714 11,253 10,018 CFC 11 equivalent not 654 624.96 inventory (kg) available CFC loss-replacement (kg) 1,393 854 1,701 CFC 11 equivalent loss/ not 52 99 replacement (kg) available 44 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Effluents and waste Givaudan’s stated vision is to Progress in 2015 Total weight of incinerated and land-filled waste by type and targets to be achieved over a period of two to three years. Motivated to achieve these targets, site teams identify continuously drive operational disposal: 15% reduction, per tonne of product, by 2020 additional saving projects or improve existing ones on an excellence without compromising -42.8% (against 2009 baseline) ongoing basis. the environment. This is good for During 2015, the waste reduction per tonne figure improved –Most – successful Green Team eco-efficiency projects are rewarded with a dedicated eco-efficiency Green Team award the environment and good for from -36.7% (restated 2014 figure) to -42.8%. This is the result of further efficiency projects and investments implemented by that the Company introduced in 2014. business. local Green Teams and local engineering teams. These projects –The – introduction of regular eco-efficiency performance focused on reducing waste and/or moving waste from reporting on site, regional, divisional and global level. incineration or land filling to recycling. As a result 71% of all Our commitments –The – implementation of the ‘Green Chapter’ to capital waste generated in 2015 was recycled. Improve eco-efficiency of manufacturing sites with a focus on expenditure project proposals as decided by the Executive greenhouse gas emissions, waste and water, and reduce our In addition to the stated local activities, this significant Committee in 2014. The chapter has to outline eco-efficiency overall footprint against a 2009 baseline focusing on improvement against the 2009 baseline is a result of Givaudan aspects, a cost/benefit analysis and a ‘price on carbon’ of the eco-efficiency for energy, carbon emissions, incinerated and applying the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI) programme’s proposed investment. land-filled waste and municipal and groundwater. waste classification definitions since 2014. According to these The target setting, documentation of improvement initiatives definitions, waste material that can be used as fuel in boiler In 2010, Givaudan set itself challenging eco-efficiency targets and regular performance reporting by individual sites are houses or sold to waste handling companies has a positive value for 2020 which will be achieved ahead of schedule for energy, aligned with the requirements and principles of the ISO 14001 for the Company and is therefore classified as ‘recycled waste’. waste and CO2 . Therefore, Givaudan announced in 2015 a Environmental Management System. To date, five Givaudan Over the past years of reporting we have seen that parts of strengthening of its 2020 eco-efficiency targets to reflect the manufacturing locations have been certified against the ISO our waste materials have a positive value and meet the DJSI’s Company’s ambition to decouple growth and environmental 14001 standard. classification criteria. impact. Givaudan aims to stabilise environmental impact while Biodegradability increasing production volumes. Some of our waste reducing initiatives are described further in Givaudan’s biodegradability programme has been built on the this section. Our strengthened target for waste production as of 2016 is expertise of our internationally recognised scientists who have the following: Reducing land filling of waste is a key priority and in 2015 about developed novel methods to understand the fate of fragrance 9% less waste, compared to 2014, was sent to land filling. raw materials in the environment. This has resulted in the –reduce – our waste production per tonne of product by 4% year development and use of biodegradable fragrance materials that on year How we manage this issue today represent over 50% of the total number of materials used The Environment Centre of Expertise, as part of the To reduce our waste production we particularly focus on: for creation. This commitment to environmentally responsible corporate EHS function, strongly encourages and supports –encouraging – the redesign of resource life cycles so that waste materials has enabled Givaudan to meet ever-increasing our manufacturing sites to deliver against our global ecogeneration is minimised, with any unavoidable waste products requirements of regulators such as REACH in Europe or the efficiency targets. being reused or recycled. Our ultimate aspiration is to achieve EPA in the US who are encouraging industry to incorporate Four drivers support our local Eco-efficiency Management safety into designs. As an example, the US EPA has recognised zero waste Teams and local Green Teams in their ongoing success in delivery Givaudan through its Sustainable Futures Program to be –reducing – the volume of effluents by reducing the intake of against these targets: consistently delivering new fragrance materials to the market water from municipal and/or groundwater sources. –Most – of our manufacturing sites have developed their site with high environmentally responsible designs. eco-efficiency plan (SEEP) setting individual eco-efficiency 45 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Effluents and waste Continued Performance indicators EN22: Total water discharge by quality and destination EN23: Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Three ways to reduce waste in Cuernavaca, Mexico Water discharge (m3) 2009 2014 2015 Hazardous waste (tonnes) 2009 2014 2015 The Cuernavaca Green Team achieved a significant reduction To the environment without 7,509,123 4,607,643 4,584,657 Incinerated 14,050 9,536 8,521 in waste through taking a focused and methodical, threefold biological treatment Incinerated with not available 4,673 4,129 approach. This included reducing waste by using up more raw To the environment after 1,928,725 1,952,078 1,883,521 energy recovery1 materials before they expire and recovering materials from biological treatment Land-filled 728 533 396 rejected batches. To external treatment facility 355,458 424,394 429,375 Recycled 3,313 14,197 14,997 without pre-treatment Comparing 2015 to 2014, the ‘kg incineration and landfill per Total hazardous waste 18,091 24,266 23,914 To external treatment facility 1,311,436 1,754,174 1,725,231 production tonne’ indicator improved by 66%. The amount after pre-treatment of incinerated waste fell from 17 kg per tonne to 5.7 kg per Total discharged water 11,104,742 8,738,289 8,622,783.3 Non-hazardous waste 2009 2014 2015 tonne; 85 tonnes (70%) of rejected products no longer needed Incinerated 3,058 2,245 2,145 to be destroyed. All of this reduced CO2 emissions. Quality monitoring of waste water Incinerated with energy not available 843 949 During 2014, as part of our Sustainability programme, we started recovery * Driving waste improvements in Cuernavaca, Mexico to monitor the quality of waste water which is discharged into The old waste disposal system involved sending waste cocoa Land-filled 6,695 6,973 6,412 the environment after or without biological treatment. The water and tamarind by tank truck to a single waste-handling site 25 Recycled 16,350 29,866 27,911 quality is monitored through Chemical Oxygen Demand (COD) km away. After some useful testing in 2014, adjustments made Total hazardous waste 26,103 39,084 36,468 analysis. The resulting 2015 total quantity of COD discharged has it possible to send waste by pipeline to the CIVAC Industrial 1  uantity of total incinerated waste which is incinerated with an energy recovery Q been measured and calculated at 466.7 tonnes. of at least 75% Park Waste Water Treatment Plant (ECCACIV). Reusing waste water in Naarden, the Netherlands The percentage of the total recycled waste grew from 45% in baseline year 2009 This new waste disposal system resulted in a ‘Scope 3’ CO2 to 71% in 2015. This figure increased to almost 80% when incineration with 75% The powder scrubbers at the Naarden site no longer run on energy recovery is also classified as ‘recycled’. emission reduction. By using 75% fewer tank trucks for waste municipal (drinking standard) water. Instead, Givaudan is now transportation – 25 as opposed to 103 – CO2 emissions from treating and reusing effluent water from its existing waste tank trucks fell from 1,878 kg annually to just 456 kg per year. water treatment plant. This saves 10,512m3 per year in municipal water. It not only reduces financial costs, but also has a very high environmental benefit – municipal water is energy-intensive to produce and water suitable for the process is increasingly scarce. Reusing treated effluent water lessens the impact on these natural resources, and in addition reduces the volume of discharged waste water into the local environment. 46 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Products and services Most of the products we Performance indicators manufacture and sell are EN27: Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and service used as an ingredient in Eco-efficiency progress consumer products. For many years we have been working to reduce our water and energy use, and the amount of waste going to landfill or incineration. The table below indicates our progress in Our commitments 2014-2015. –Engage – with customers to develop new technologies for healthier and sustainable products Average indicator value per tonne of product produced by Givaudan –Do – more with less, promoting innovative design based on % reduction % reduction concentrated quality and compacted fragrances improvement improvement –Ensure – our products are not persistent in the environment Indicator 2013-2014 2014-2015 after their use. Used energy (Gjoules/tonne) 4.6% -2.4% Emitted CO2 (kg/tonne) 6.3% 8.3% How we manage this issue Water usage (m3/tonne) 5.2% -1.8% Our innovation and development teams regularly conduct Waste* generated (kg/tonne) 6.4% 9.4% research programmes to design more sustainable products *Waste going to land-filling or incineration using Green Chemistry principles and through sustainability profiling studies. The slight increases for indicator value on a per tonne basis for water and energy is related to newly installed Givaudan has completed the biodegradability screening of all and acquired production capacity. our perfumery ingredients, including natural materials. Rich with more than 20 years’ experience in the biodegradability testing of fragrance ingredients, Givaudan has an extensive database of this information. Disposal is not an issue for our flavour products, which are consumed at the end of their life cycle. 47 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Transport Delivery of finished or intermediate Supply chain project to reduce our carbon footprint In 2012, we set up a Global Transportation Project to reduce Performance indicators products to our customers or other freight spend and share best practices across the Company. EN30: Significant environmental impacts of transporting Givaudan manufacturing sites as The initiative also focused on identifying carbon savings through products and other goods and materials for the organisation’s operations, and transporting members transport and distribution efficiency – in particular through well as inbound transport of raw shipment consolidation and by changing the mode of transport of the workforce materials are an important step to less carbon intensive forms. Through close cooperation with Product transportation supply chain managers in each of the regions, customer care in our value chain. managers and local site transportation managers, we have Using the newly developed calculation model and applying these to both 2014 and 2015, shipment data confirmed an consolidated our approach to transportation across air, sea and almost 2% lower footprint in 2015 compared to 2014 at The carbon footprint related to our transport is significant road freight modes of transport. The project has also improved an almost constant annual production volume output compared to the footprint of our manufacturing activities. It is consolidation of products distributed between production sites (see EN 17 table in Emissions section). about 40% of our manufacturing footprint. and warehouses and production sites and customers. Regarding the air cargo reduction project as starting in the Flavour Division in 2014, another 5% lower footprint was Our commitments realised in 2015. Due to some temporary supply chain issues –Sustainable – logistics offers opportunities to improve the the total Givaudan air cargo footprint increased by 3%. efficiency through reduced fuel usage and therefore lower transport costs. How we manage this issue We monitor the environmental impact related to different transport modes by calculating CO2 emissions. In 2015, cooperation with the Global Transport Governance team was established with the goal of improving the quality and reliability of reported data regarding inbound transport. For that purpose a calculation model was developed by our logistics team by tracking through our SAP system all transport movements (by mode of transport) from delivery to receipt locations of raw materials, intercompany deliveries and deliveries to customers. Subsequently, to calculate the carbon footprint, CO2 emissions factors per mode of transport were used as per the Cefic guideline of 2011. In 2015, we continued our programme of reducing reliance on air cargo to transport products. 48 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Transport Continued EN30: Continued Packaging of finished product Transport-related incidents Our SAP systems allow us to retrieve global data for the Eight small transport/packaging related incidents were different types of packaging used. Combining these data with reported via our external emergency response provider. standard carbon footprint information from our suppliers With the help of this provider all incidents were controlled. enabled us to estimate the 2015 footprint for packaging at Most of the incidents were without any exposure to people or 50,860 tonnes, which is about 2.5% lower compared to the contamination of the environment and often were reported (restated) the 2014 footprint of 51,812 tonnes; at a constant for notification only (i.e. not requiring any further assistance). production output (see EN 17 table in Emissions section). One incident, a leaking drum, resulted in a small spillage into a drain; advice was given on how to avoid more material ending up in the drains and the need for a local specialist for cleanup. In another incident the local fire brigade was involved in the successful clean-up because of a potential risk of environmental contamination. Employee air travel In 2015, employee travel – in terms of distance flown – was significantly reduced (by 23% compared to 2014). In addition, a significant shift from business to economy class, using DEFRA 2013 CO2 conversion factors, has resulted in a 30% lower total footprint of 9,790 tonnes of CO2 (see EN 17 table in Emissions section). Employee commuting During 2015, a new employee survey about commuting practices was organised through our Green Teams. Based on collected responses, the footprint was estimated at 14,020 tonnes of CO2 . Compared to the 2012 survey estimate the 2015 figure is 1.4% higher, but at a 5% higher number of employees. 49 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Supplier environmental assessment Responsible sourcing of raw How we manage this issue Performance indicators Givaudan initiates the vendor management programme as early materials is an important element as possible when developing new relationship with suppliers. EN32: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria of Givaudan’s Sustainability This is communicated using the vendor expectation document. All new relationships between Givaudan and vendors programme, and a key issue Givaudan’s suppliers are categorised by assessing their potential are developed under vendor requirement guidelines as risk on health and safety, labour standards, the environment and for many of our customers who business integrity. We then look to what extent our suppliers reference material. increasingly want assurances of have the possibility of introducing positive changes in their One way of encouraging our suppliers to improve system to mitigate these assessed risks. performance is to invite them to register with Sedex, a responsible supply chain practices, data-sharing platform to improve supply chain practices. One way of encouraging our suppliers to improve performance traceability and provenance. is to invite them to register with Sedex, a data-sharing platform –Total – number of significant suppliers identified: 400 to improve supply chain practices. Some then voluntarily go on –Total – number of suppliers assessed to date: 289 As a signatory of the ten principles of the United Nations Global to complete the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA), –Total – number of suppliers assessed in 2015: 33 Compact, Givaudan holds itself to a high ethical and social which requires compliance in four key responsible sourcing standard of human rights, labour standards, and anti-corruption. pillars including Labour Standards, Business Ethics, Environment, –Percentage – of suppliers assessed to date: 72% Givaudan’s Principles of Business Conduct require, among others, Health and Safety. Non-compliance with these standards is –Percentage – of suppliers assessed in 2015: 8% compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. not an option for Givaudan. One of the benefits of SMETA is that ‘an audit for one is an audit for all’. Across AIM-PROGRESS Givaudan has similar expectations of its vendors. this process is known as Mutual Recognition (MR), and it helps As per the United Nations Global Compact principles 7 9, reduce supplier ‘audit fatigue’. Internally, these processes are Givaudan expects its suppliers to support a precautionary managed by our Procurement function. Our category managers, approach to environmental challenges, to take initiatives that located around the world, play a vital role in helping to promote greater environmental responsibility, and to encourage ensure compliance. the development and implementation of environmentally friendly technologies. Labour practices This section concerns the social dimension of sustainability and Givaudan’s impacts on, and responsibilities to, employees of the Company, including how people issues are managed. In this section: 51 Employment 53 Labour/management relations 54 Occupational health and safety 56 Training and education 58 Diversity and equal opportunities 59 Equal remuneration for women and men 60 Supplier assessment on labour practices and decent work 51 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Employment Rather than viewing Recruitment and development During 2015 we developed our new Employer Value Proposition In 2015, we reviewed our leadership programmes to build on the launch in 2014 of our culture and values. These aim to develop organisational processes as ways (EVP) with our promise to current and future employees that our employees, whether first-time managers or members of our of extracting more economic value, they will be able to impact their world. More information, executive community, and to build the awareness of our leaders including a variety of employee testimonials that showcase around how best to foster and develop our culture, which we call the best companies have a purpose our culture and attractiveness as an employer, can be found at: our DNA. All our programmes, conducted throughout all regions, beyond this. For Givaudan, this www.givaudan.com/careers. now prepare our leaders to be role models and custodians of our DNA. includes providing meaningful Recognising that we need to be where the people are, we have developed and implemented a digital branding and recruiting We also introduced a development tool to enable our leaders and rewarding jobs, and enhancing strategy. People can follow and engage with us on LinkedIn to gather 360° feedback in relation to our DNA. Finally, the employees’ quality of life. and Twitter. end of year evaluation of our employees’ performance in 2015 in ‘Engage’ will take into account how they live our values and www.linkedin.com/company/givaudan sustain our culture. Our commitments https://twitter.com/Givaudan Compensation and benefits –Engage – employees in making a positive difference. We also launched an enhanced employer profile on Glassdoor, Compensation is a key component of Givaudan’s people We are committed to offering a workplace where people are an online platform that allows users to rate their experience as a management strategy. Our philosophy is to provide marketable to achieve their career aspirations, be rewarded for their candidate, employee or ex-employee. competitive and fair compensation, while rewarding employees performance, and be given the best development opportunities. https://de.glassdoor.ch/%C3%9Cberblick/Arbeit-bei-Givaudanfor individual and business achievements. Givaudan’s wideEI_IE10735.11,19.htm ranging benefits package is constantly assessed to make sure How we manage this issue Once candidates are attracted to Givaudan, we need to assess it is competitive and thorough. It includes comprehensive As long-term success is built with the strength of our people, their suitability in the best possible way. To this end we have benefits to help employees meet their retirement, healthcare, Givaudan aims to equip our business leaders with the skills designed and rolled-out the ‘Selecting the Best’ training for income-protection and time-off needs. Our rewards strategy they need to excel while developing and challenging them, our managers to equip them with the right tools and skills to is currently being updated to meet management and and rewarding talents in a performance-driven culture which perform competency-based interviews and deliver a great employee expectations, especially in terms of providing more promotes respect, openness and diversity. candidate experience. benchmarking transparency and filling in the gaps in the areas of rewards, education and communication. We are committed to helping our employees develop their full potential through attractive opportunities. We also actively Work-life balance manage our talent pipeline to ensure the sustainability and Givaudan published a work-life balance position statement in leadership positions of Givaudan. We give our people the time March 2012. to learn and the right exposure to ensure their career growth, adopting a flexible approach to each person’s skills and personal situation, wherever we can. We continued to enhance ‘Engage’, our integrated and comprehensive online platform for people processes. For example, this year we equipped managers and employees with a toolkit to conduct effective mid-year reviews. Calculation basis All labour-related indicators in this report are related to headcounts, except on pages 6 and 12 where numbers of employees are full-time equivalent. 52 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Employment Continued Other examples of engagement initiatives from around the Performance indicators Givaudan world To strengthen our performance and career discussions, Givaudan LA1: Total number and rates of new employee hires and launched a mid-year review toolkit to help both employees and employee turnover by age group, gender and region managers have effective discussions. Employment contracts initiated Age Age Age Among other initiatives: range range range Region <30 30-50 >50 Female Male –Asia – Pacific initiated a ‘Mindset of Best’ Recognition Asia Pacific 144 149 6 118 181 programme in each country in the region. This programme is Europe, Middle designed to facilitate a company culture of appreciation and East, Africa 157 201 13 157 214 recognition for outstanding performance. Latin America 99 98 2 65 134 –North – America launched Flavour Forums – coffee networking, North America 71 119 15 71 134 ‘lunch and learns’ for all employees. These sessions include Total 471 567 36 411 663 internal and external speakers giving presentations on Employment contracts terminated different topics to employees during lunch periods; crossAge Age Age functional moves between Fine Fragrances and Consumer range range range Products business units to work on short projects and share Region <30 30-50 >50 Female Male and learn from each other; open door mentoring; and career Asia Pacific 60 150 27 102 135 management sessions. Europe, Middle East, Africa 105 205 87 140 257 –France – has a ‘vis ma vie’ (‘live my life’) programme for people Latin America 40 86 12 46 92 who want to find out about activities in other departments. North America 38 93 56 64 123 This is a way for employees to discover other jobs and decide Total 243 534 182 352 607 whether a new job is relevant for them. Quarterly Mindset of best meetings have been established where the management Turnover rate (%)1 Age Age Age committee gathers all employees to share the business range range range vision and highlight personal initiatives and innovations. Region <30 30-50 >50 Total Female Male All employees must attend at least two mandatory trainings Asia Pacific 15% 9% 11% 10% 10% 10% centred on developing creativity through new ways of working Europe, Middle and change management. East, Africa 19% 7% 8% 9% 9% 9% Latin America 16% 10% 9% 11% 11% 11% –Latin – America launched a pilot Recognition Plan in Mexico reflecting the Givaudan DNA; sessions on branding at North America 19% 9% 8% 10% 9% 10% universities with the participation of Commercial and FC&A Total 17% 8% 8% 9% 9% 10% teams; breakfast with directors with a number of selected 1  Turnover calculation is based on number of terminations divided by total headcount during the reporting period employees; business results Town Halls; and a Pink October initiative aimed at raising breast cancer awareness. 53 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Labour/management relations Businesses face many Performance indicators uncertainties in the rapidly LA4: Minimum notice periods regarding operational change changing global market. Legal local notice period prior to the implementation of Establishing genuine dialogue significant operational changes that could substantially with freely chosen workers’ affect our employees is respected either through direct communication to our employees or through their representatives enables both elected representatives. workers and employers to better Works councils or other employee representatives are present understand each other’s challenges in most of our locations. and find ways to resolve them. Our commitments –Embrace – diversity throughout our organisation and create an engaged and inclusive workforce. How we manage this issue Givaudan supports the freedom of employees to join trade unions or other employee representative bodies, provided these bodies are properly constituted and in line with local laws and practices. Givaudan does not discriminate based on employee membership of, or association with, these bodies and seeks to enter into constructive discussions when issues arise. One example is the recent amendment of the European Works Council Agreement to take into account the most recent EU directives. We continue to hold regular European Works Council consultations with a group of employees, which represents works council members from all EU member states where we have operations. The purpose is to keep employees informed about significant structural changes in the organisation, and to report any feedback to the Executive Committee. Updates on sustainability within Givaudan are regularly discussed with the European Works Council. The last European Works Council was held on 25 September 2015. 54 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Occupational health and safety An essential part of being a adaptation in terms of institutionalising the Givaudan safety culture. The increase in LTI rate in 2015 is mostly related to this Execution of ‘Zero is possible’, an instrumental programme of our Global EHS Strategy responsible company and employer challenge, thus boosting our mandate to swiftly support and The execution of our Global EHS Strategy is facilitated by our is the health and safety of our onboard our new colleagues to the integrated safety platform of Givaudan. We help them build internal networks, complete risk network of local, regional and global EHS professionals, recognised as valued partners for our operations and business teams. employees, and the protection assessments, and support them with any behavioural changes Guidance, project management support and governance advice is of the environment in which necessary to successfully comply with our Global EHS policy. provided by our corporate EHS Centres of Expertise in the fields of: we operate. How we manage this issue –environmental – protection (optimal eco-efficiency targets At Givaudan we manage occupational health and safety in numerous and action plans, data reporting and analysis, support for ways, including training sessions on health and safety risks, ‘Green Chapter’ capital expenditure and encouraging local Our commitments prevention measures and emergencies management, in addition to Green Teams) –Reduce – incidents by strengthening workplace environment, documentation and guidelines to disseminate information. We track –hazardous – material compliance (industrial safety, dangerous safety behaviour and awareness. our efforts through leading indicators such as the number of hours goods transport, data compliance management, material spent on training, and by measuring the number of safety contacts Our ultimate health and safety aspiration is to eliminate accidents. stewardship, packaging and labelling) (proactive behavioural safety audits) and near-miss reports, thus Our primary means of achieving this aspiration is through a ‘Zero –occupational – health (identification, evaluation and control of reducing exposure to work-related risks or incidents. is possible’ behavioural-based safety awareness programme potential health hazards in the workplace, medical surveillance designed to develop a strong culture in which every employee takes Our dedicated global EHS Training Directive and documentation) responsibility for their own safety, the safety of the people around Our EHS Training Directive describes the requirements to them and the safety of the environments in which we operate. –process – safety management (standardised approaches to implement specific training in occupational safety and health process risk assessment, odour emissions control, engineering to ensure that all employees have the knowledge and skills to Progress in 2015 support, internal audits, business continuity planning and protect themselves and others from occupational incidents and Conduct ‘Zero is possible’ behavioural safety programme global safety laboratory) exposures leading to occupational illness. We continued to build on our SafeStart™ safety awareness –occupational – safety (technical safety, behaviouralThe scope of this directive includes the target audience, principal training, which is part of our global behavioural safety based safety). and specific responsibilities of the global environment, health programme ‘Zero is possible’. This included further roll-out and safety (EHS) manager, the company manager, the local EHS With actions visible on a daily basis, the ‘Zero is possible’ of Our Safety Ground Rules (introduced in 2014). These rules, manager, and the line manager (supervisor) as well as discipline programme started in 2009 with the ultimate goal of zero designed by employees, are a catalyst to take our safety for violation for training-related aspects. occupational incidents. This programme consists of safety performance to the next level by addressing common situations leadership training for line managers, a set of Safety Ground that may be encountered every day. The ground rules leverage The directive covers all sites, activities, processes and products Rules and globally rolled out employee awareness training the benefits of SafeStart™ training and key learnings from of Givaudan and its affiliates and addresses all managers, covering the behavioural aspects of occupational health and all accidents, near-misses and unsafe situations reported employees, visitors and contractors. The training includes: safety. As part of this programme, we are rolling out SafeStart™ throughout Givaudan since 2009. induction training and initial briefing at the work station, training in all our manufacturing locations and progressively emergency training, line manager training, office safety, and LTI rate below 0.1 by 2020 expanding it to commercial sites. These activities facilitate the selection and training of trainers, EHS management system The 2015 LTI rate increased by 17% compared to 2014 and at implementation of safety contacts as well as periodic workplace training, continuing education for EHS manager and EHS staff, 0.42 (against our 2015 target of 0.27). inspections. Last but not least, every location receives a yearly supplemental and refresher training, and additional training to pre-defined local safety target aligned with and contributing to As Givaudan expands into new markets and businesses allow them to work independently. through acquisitions and joint ventures, we face periods of the global objective in accident reductions. 55 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Occupational health and safety Continued Performance indicators LA6: Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational Total recordable cases by region and gender diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number Number of total Number of total of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender recordable cases recordable cases Region – female – male Health and safety data Asia Pacific 3 10 2014 Europe, Middle East, Africa 6 47 2009 (restated) 2015 Latin America 1 5 Fatalities 0 0 0 North America 4 26 Number of LTIs 79 31 37 Total 14 88 LTI rate 1.03 0.36 0.42 Lost day1 rate N/A 9.38 8.43 LTI rate – Lost day rate by region – Absenteeism Number of Restricted Work 28 32 25 Region LTI rate Lost day rate Absenteeism Cases (RWC) Asia Pacific 0.15 2.17 0.87% Number of Medical Treatment 28 40 40 Europe, Middle East, Africa 0.76 11.69 3.40% Cases (MTC) Latin America 0.22 0.73 1.37% Number of Total Recordable 135 103 102 North America 0.07 12.43 2.39% Cases (TRC) Total Recordable Case Rate2 1.76 1.21 1.17 Number of lost days N/A 801 734 (including (including 238 days 184 days carried carried over from over from previous previous years) years) Number of hours worked 15,341,093 17,080,935 17,417,9883 Absenteeism N/A 2.84% 2.41% 4 1 N  umber of lost work days resulting from work-related accidents per 200,000 working hours. Calculation based on scheduled work days lost from the day after the accident 2 LTI and TRC are both according to the official OSHA definitions 3  .5% of these represent external contractors for whom the Company is liable 9 (Temps) 4  ompared to the number of normal available working days, includes correction C for employees working on a part-time basis 56 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Training and education An employee who receives the Our learning strategy encourages the 70/20/10 concept: –Challenge – – encourage individuals to be the best they can, while they learn from both internal and external experts about necessary training is better able to –learning – by doing (70%) key global trends and economic forecasts likely to impact perform his or her job. Continuous –learning – from others (20%) Givaudan, the financial drivers underpinning our business, and how to inspire as a leader. training also keeps employees –structured – learning (10%). –Be – delivered with heart and soul – use the best education informed of cutting-edge industry Leadership Senses We have introduced a number of different management providers at all levels so we have the right insight, support and developments. training programmes. guidance on the leadership journey. –Have – a ‘Mindset of best’ – participants apply their learning to Employees selected to participate in our Leadership Senses a strategic business project to cement the learning and enable Employees who are competent and on top of changing industry programmes can register and start the mandatory online them to lead and role model these behaviours and practices standards help companies hold a position as a leader and a courses through our Learning Management System (LMS) for others. strong competitor within the industry. available in ‘Engage’, our integrated people processes online platform launched in 2013. Participants in the ‘Evolve’ programme must develop and lead Our commitments a strategic project, which should have a direct financial impact. –Develop – visionary, inspiring and challenging leaders who will Approximately 150 employees attended the courses in 2015. Evaluation of this project takes place six months after the achieve our ambitious targets, and ensure our future success. Leadership Senses ‘Begin’ training, and participants go through a 360° assessment. How we manage this issue Designed for new managers, our Leadership Senses ‘Begin’ Both the Fragrance and Flavour divisions are now conducting We foster a learning culture where more employees can programme recognises that managing people for the first Business Master Classes to train, educate and develop their take stock of their own progress on their skills and education time can be challenging, especially when moving from doing global sales force. The Fragrance Division has extended the needs. Employees may deal with challenging and stretching the work oneself to working through others. The programme Business Master Class concept to its Fragrance Development assignments, and constructive team feedback is becoming equips our new managers with the insights and tools they need teams. In 2016, we will be redesigning the Master Classes in line more widespread. to lead themselves and others more effectively. They learn to with our 2020 strategy. communicate more effectively, influence across the organisation, We are keen that our line managers regard themselves as and lead others to achieve their goal, as well as to coach them Academia ‘talent champions’: they should be committed to offering people and develop them. Participants have a leadership challenge after Other functions also conduct their Academies, such as flexible and wide-ranging development opportunities so they the course, which is evaluated three months after the end of the Procurement, IT and EHS. can maintain and increase their employability and boost their training. They then go through a 360° assessment. job satisfaction. –More – than 60 EHS experts – 40 men and 24 women – Leadership Senses ‘Evolve’ representing over 20 nationalities and many different teams Givaudan has developed a Learning & Development strategy to came together for the inaugural EHS Academy in early June At the next stage, our ‘Evolve’ programme focuses on future strengthen capabilities and develop a high-performance culture. 2015. This diversity was a strength of the event, enabling senior leaders. Supported by the Executive Committee, the This strategy is articulated around four priorities: sharing, listening and understanding. Stakeholders were at the course is designed to: 1. Culture and onboarding heart of the programme, and several Givaudan contributors –Inspire – – provide personalised development which starts with from outside of EHS took part in the Academy. 2. People management and leadership a self-assessment and deep dive into leadership preferences. Participants work on their own self-awareness throughout –Givaudan – is using several assessment tools to build self3. Core business skills the programme, supported by personal coaches and awareness, and to date over 50 internal coaches have been 4. Functional excellence trained to use them. their managers. 57 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Training and education Continued –In – September 2015, a Perfumery School opened in Performance indicators Singapore, becoming the second Givaudan campus for the LA11: Percentage of employees receiving regular art of perfumery. The school will train future perfumers in performance and career development reviews, by gender partnership with the Givaudan Perfumery School in France and continue the development of existing perfumers aligned with Female 86% Perfumery Learning Path. Male 52% 58 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Diversity and equal opportunities Equal opportunity is necessary in How we manage this issue Performance indicators It is Givaudan’s policy to recruit, employ and promote employees order to cultivate a set of leaders on the sole basis of the qualifications and abilities needed for the LA12: Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, with legitimacy in the eyes of work to be performed, without regard to race, age, sex, national age group, minority group membership, and other origin or any other non-relevant category. We embrace diversity employees. throughout our organisation and are fully committed to creating indicators of diversity a diverse and inclusive workforce. Composition governance (Executive Committee and Board of Directors) It is therefore necessary that the path to leadership is visibly Executive In particular, we try to promote women as much as we can into open to talented and qualified individuals of every race, gender Committee/ managerial positions, and we produce analytics to track progress in Board % <30 30–50 >50 and ethnicity. Respecting and celebrating diversity also adds this regard (including percentage of women in leadership positions). Female 2 11 0 0 2 value to the experience of working for and with Givaudan. Our Diversity Position Statement outlines our commitment to Male 16 89 0 2 14 Our commitments ensuring a representative workforce that reflects the diverse Employees’ categories and composition of governance bodies –Embrace – diversity throughout our organisation and create a communities in which we operate. diverse and inclusive workforce. Male Female Total For more information <30 30–50 >50 <30 30–50 >50 Progress in 2015 www.givaudan.com/sustainability/expert-corner/governance Senior A wider Givaudan workforce is represented in senior The Executive Committee has approved the appointment in 2016 management* 0 65 69 0 17 18 169 leadership positions. of a dedicated Talent & Diversity Programme Manager who will be Middle management 27 1,077 407 42 1,058 208 2,819 The current percentage of female employees in Givaudan’s responsible for developing processes and driving different global, Associates 804 2,810 1,074 542 1,502 416 7,148 senior leadership positions has increased to 20.7% in 2015, an regional and functional initiatives around talent management Total 831 3,952 1,550 584 2,577 642 10,136 improvement on last year’s performance. and diversity. Including the Executive Committee 59 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Equal remuneration for women and men Companies with a reputation How we manage this issue Performance indicators A robust process and a continuously updated rewards strategy for compensating men and for Givaudan employees are in place to ensure our compensation LA13: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category, by significant locations women equally may have access offering is competitive and enables us to attract, retain and of operation motivate qualified employees. This process includes all markets to a larger talent pool when where we operate, all job functions and all levels. We achieve We do not report average salary by gender because we recruiting and hiring. this by conducting annual (and in some cases bi-annual) consider this information as confidential. benchmarking studies. Salaries are reviewed by taking into We are committed to promoting diversity. account various macroeconomic data (including cost of living) Highly qualified candidates may be more likely to consider and market evolution. In developing markets and high-inflation In 2011, we launched our Diversity Position Statement, working for a company if they believe opportunities for environments, we may review compensation more frequently. defining what diversity means to Givaudan and explaining economic growth will be available to them as they demonstrate We also have a profit sharing scheme which allows our nonwhere we are successful in managing diversity. We defined their value, regardless of their gender. Once hired, productive management employees globally to share in Company profits. our main areas of focus on diversity as continuing our current workers may be more likely to remain with the organisation if These elements are also reviewed at the senior management successful practices and increasing the representation of they believe they are being compensated fairly. level each year. females in senior leadership positions. Our commitments Our Principles of Business Conduct state: “It is Givaudan’s policy Since the publication of our position on diversity, a number –Embrace – diversity throughout our organisation and create a to recruit, employ and promote employees on the sole basis of activities have been taking place across the organisation diverse and inclusive workforce. of the qualifications and abilities needed for the work to be in active support of Givaudan’s commitment. Of particular performed without regard to race, age, sex, national origin or significance, we interviewed more than 50 female employees any other non-relevant category.” and senior leaders globally for their insights and perspectives. We needed to listen and learn from Givaudan’s community Our Diversity Position Statement reinforces our commitment to in relation to diversity, career progression and leadership. equal pay. Their input gave us a better understanding of what we do For more information well and also highlighted our areas of development. www.givaudan.com/sustainability/expert-corner/governance As a next step, the Executive Committee has approved the appointment in 2016 of a dedicated Talent & Diversity Programme Manager who will be responsible for developing processes and driving different global, regional and functional initiatives around talent management and diversity. 60 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Supplier assessment on labour practices and decent work Responsible sourcing is an Our Givaudan vendor management programme is available to our direct suppliers, and the wider public, on our website. Performance indicators important element of Givaudan’s We review the current practices of our direct suppliers and LA14: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour practices criteria Sustainability programme, identify issues, before working together to put them right. Our goal is to increase the scope of suppliers assessed and the All new relationships between Givaudan and vendors and a key issue for many of our number that become fully compliant. are developed using vendor requirement guidelines as customers who increasingly want Givaudan’s suppliers are categorised by assessing their potential reference material. assurances of responsible supply risk on health and safety, labour standards, the environment and We encourage selected suppliers to improve their business integrity. We then look to what extent our suppliers performance. One way we do this is by inviting suppliers chain practices, traceability have the possibility of introducing positive changes in their to register with Sedex, a data-sharing platform to improve and provenance. system to mitigate these assessed risks. supply chain practices. One way of encouraging our suppliers to improve performance –Total – number of significant suppliers identified: 400 is to invite them to register with Sedex, a data-sharing platform As a signatory of the ten principles of the United Nations Global –Total – number of suppliers assessed to date: 289 to improve supply chain practices. Some then voluntarily go on Compact, Givaudan holds itself to a high ethical and social to complete the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA), –Total – number of suppliers assessed in 2015: 33 standard of human rights, labour standards, and anti-corruption. which requires compliance in four key responsible sourcing –Percentage – of suppliers assessed to date: 72% Givaudan’s Principles of Business Conduct require, among others, pillars including Labour Standards, Business Ethics, Environment, compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. –Percentage – of suppliers assessed in 2015: 8% and Health and Safety. Non-compliance with these standards Givaudan has similar expectations of its vendors. is not an option for Givaudan. One of the benefits of SMETA is As per the United Nations Global Compact principles 1-6, that ‘an audit for one is an audit for all’. Across AIM-PROGRESS Givaudan expects its suppliers to respect human rights this process is known as Mutual Recognition (MR), and it helps standards. In particular, we ask our vendors to abide by all laws reduce supplier ‘audit fatigue’. Internally, these processes are regarding the abolition of child labour and human trafficking. managed by our Procurement function. Our category managers, located around the world, play a vital role in helping to See Givaudan’s communication on progress: ensure compliance. www.unglobalcompact.org/COPs/active/137921. As a member of AIM-PROGRESS organisation, we are following We also participated in the UNGC Switzerland chapter hosted by the recommendations on how to address human rights issues: the Richemont company in Geneva. www.aim-progress.com How we manage this issue Additionally, Givaudan is a member of the Natural Resources Responsible sourcing is concerned with the origins of raw Stewardship Circle, which is also strongly involved in defending materials and how they are produced. Our raw materials have a human rights and labour standards, particularly in remote long journey from local producers around the world to Givaudan local communities: warehouses. These journeys involve thousands of people and their wider communities. nrsc.fr/Performance%20indicators Ensuring that social and environmental practices are upheld across the entire supply chain is a particular challenge relating to responsible sourcing. Our approach is to work with our direct suppliers. Human rights This section concerns the social dimension of sustainability and the extent to which processes have been implemented by Givaudan to mitigate incidents of human rights violations, including how incidents are managed and remediated. In this section: 62 Child labour 63 Supplier human rights assessment 62 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Child labour All forms of child labour are against “elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour”. Principle 5 seeks the “effective abolition of child labour”. – –these policies and procedures shall conform to the provisions of the relevant International Labour Organization (ILO) standards. our Company principles and values Givaudan’s Principles of Business Conduct represent a governing Givaudan complies with California Senate Bill 657, the California and therefore we have a corporate charter for ethical behaviour including, amongst others, the fair Transparency in Supply Chains Act, which requires retail and principle, risk assessment processes treatment of employees with mutual respect and without any form of discrimination. These Principles also outlaw all forms of manufacturing companies to disclose the precautions they have taken or will take to eliminate slavery and human trafficking and prevention measures in place exploitation of children, including by suppliers, and stipulate that from their supply chains. to help prevent child labour at Givaudan will not provide employment to children before they have completed their compulsory education. We will also not Givaudan and in our supply chain. knowingly do business with suppliers that use child labour. Performance indicators Givaudan’s suppliers are categorised by assessing their potential HR5: Operations and suppliers identified as having Eliminating the risk of child labour in our supply chain is of risk on health and safety, labour standards, the environment and significant risk for incidents of child labour, and paramount importance to Givaudan. We deeply value the business integrity. We then look to what extent our suppliers measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition transparent and trusting relationships we have with all our have the possibility of introducing positive changes in their of child labour stakeholders, including our suppliers, our customers and system to mitigate these assessed risks. Child labour or young workers exposed to hazardous work ultimately our employees, who expect us to operate at the We select and audit strategic suppliers based on risks to ensure can be an issue across the entire supply chain covering our highest level of corporate social responsibility. they are in compliance with the Givaudan vendor management own operations and our suppliers. As a signatory of the ten principles of the United Nations Global programme, available publicly in our website. They should also 100% of operations assessed for risk Compact since February 2010, Givaudan holds itself to a high be in compliance with their own local laws, and that they are not ethical and social standard of human rights, labour standards, Since 2008, Givaudan has been an active user of the Sedex using child labour, slaves or those subjected to human trafficking. and anti-corruption. Givaudan has its Principles of Business platform which incorporates human rights risks in its One way we do this is by participating in the Supplier Ethical Conduct, which require it, among others, to comply with all assessments. Since 2010, all Givaudan manufacturing sites Data Exchange (Sedex). A core principle of the Sedex model applicable laws and regulations. have been registered on Sedex and completed Sedex selfis the avoidance of unfair or unsafe labour practices, which Givaudan has similar expectations of its vendors. As per the assessment questionnaires (SAQ) to share information with includes slavery and human trafficking. United Nations Global Compact principles 1-6, Givaudan expects customers. Givaudan annually reviews and updates the SAQ. We respect the Ethical Trade Initiative base code and audit To date, 28 Givaudan sites have been audited according to its suppliers to respect Human Rights Standards. In particular, supplier practices regarding child labour using the same code SMETA standards. we ask our vendors to abide by all laws regarding the abolition of that states “Child labour shall not be used”: child labour and human trafficking. Significant suppliers assessed for risk –there – shall be no new recruitment of child labour See Givaudan’s communication on progress in UN Global compact In 2015, we surpassed our 2015 objective to have 200 priority website: www.unglobalcompact.org/COPs/active/137921 –companies – shall develop or participate in and contribute to suppliers registered with Sedex. In total, 297 key raw material policies and programmes that provide for the transition of any suppliers are now registered with Sedex. These suppliers How we manage this issue child found to be performing child labour to enable her or him represent over 70% of our spend. Givaudan is a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, to attend and remain in quality education until no longer a child which is a strategic policy initiative for businesses committed to aligning their operations and strategies with ten universally –children – and young persons under 18 shall not be employed at accepted principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, night or in hazardous conditions Environment and Anti-Corruption. Principle 4 seeks the 63 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Supplier human rights assessment Responsible sourcing of raw Our Givaudan vendor management programme is available to our direct suppliers, and the wider public, on our website. Performance indicators materials is an important element We review the current practices of our direct suppliers and HR10: Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria of Givaudan’s Sustainability identify any issues, before working together to put them right. Our goal is to increase the scope of suppliers assessed and the All new relationships between Givaudan and vendors programme, and a key issue for number that become fully compliant. are developed under vendor requirement guidelines as many of our customers who Givaudan’s suppliers are categorised by assessing their potential reference material. increasingly want assurances of risk on health and safety, labour standards, the environment and We encourage selected suppliers to improve their business integrity. We then look to what extent our suppliers performance. One way we do this is by inviting suppliers responsible supply chain practices, have the possibility of introducing positive changes in their to register with Sedex, which is a data-sharing platform to traceability and provenance. system to mitigate these assessed risks. improve supply chain practices. One way of encouraging our suppliers to improve performance –Total – number of significant suppliers identified: 400 is to invite them to register with Sedex, a data-sharing platform As a signatory of the ten principles of the United Nations Global –Total – number of suppliers assessed to date: 289 to improve supply chain practices. Some then voluntarily go on Compact, Givaudan holds itself to a high ethical and social to complete the Sedex Members Ethical Trade Audit (SMETA), –Total – number of suppliers assessed in 2015: 33 standard of human rights, labour standards, and anti-corruption. which requires compliance in four key responsible sourcing –Percentage – of suppliers assessed to date: 72% Givaudan’s Principles of Business Conduct require, among others, pillars including Labour Standards, Business Ethics, Environment, compliance with all applicable laws and regulations. –Percentage – of suppliers assessed in 2015: 8% and Health and Safety. Non-compliance with these standards Givaudan has similar expectations of its vendors. As per the is not an option for Givaudan. One of the benefits of SMETA is United Nations Global Compact principles 1-6, Givaudan expects that ‘an audit for one is an audit for all’. Across AIM-PROGRESS its suppliers to respect Human Rights Standards. In particular, this process is known as Mutual Recognition (MR), and it helps we ask our vendors to abide by all laws regarding the abolition of reduce supplier ‘audit fatigue’. Internally, these processes are child labour and human trafficking. managed by our Procurement function. Our category managers, located around the world, play a vital role in helping to How we manage this issue ensure compliance. Responsible sourcing is concerned with the origins of raw materials and how they are produced. Our raw materials have a long journey from local producers around the world to Givaudan warehouses. These journeys involve thousands of people and their wider communities. Ensuring that social and environmental practices are upheld across the entire supply chain is a particular challenge relating to responsible sourcing. Our approach is to work with our direct suppliers. Society This section concerns the social dimension of sustainability and the extent to which processes have been implemented by Givaudan to mitigate incidents of human rights violations, including how incidents are managed and remediated. In this section: 65 Local communities 67 Anti-corruption 68 Public policy 65 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Local communities Local communities where we training of community health workers, the programme is expected to be self-sustaining after the three-year period. Other outreach such as health education and culture Using recycled materials for gift creations, Argentina operate have the ability to impact Givaudan Argentina’s Social Committee, with the participation Nutrition our business – and they in turn can Tackling schoolchildren obesity, Brazil of the Green Teams from two sites, has developed a sustainable be impacted by our activities. They Overweight and obesity is an increasing problem in Brazil, programme for the rehabilitation of drug addicts. For six years, patients at a rehabilitation farm for drug addicts near have therefore been designated and our team at Jaguaré site has been addressing this Buenos Aires in Argentina have been using industrial wooden through a project called My Healthy Dish, aimed at educating as one of the six key stakeholders schoolchildren about healthier nutrition choices throughout pallets and other recycled materials from Givaudan to design and create gifts for our customers. Having gained experience with whom we conduct on-going the day. The project was introduced in 2013 at a school near and confidence in these skills over the years, patients taking the site for children aged 10-13, in partnership with the health stakeholder dialogue. institute of the University of São Paulo. The programme, which part in the therapy programme were encouraged in 2015 to complete their woodwork design and gifts for Givaudan within has reached a total of 340 pupils since it started, focuses on set timelines. Twenty-five patients successfully took part in this encouraging better eating habits and adding more nutrients Our commitments challenge, making 200 gifts using 30 pallets within two weeks. to their diet, helping reduce the number of overweight and –Work – together with our local communities on projects and obese children. In 2015, there was seen to be an overall increase Toy safety day for migrant children, China causes that benefit the communities where we work in better eating habits through higher fruit and vegetable Our Green Team and employees from our logistics department –Build – partnerships with non-profit organisations and work on consumption, as well as more physical activity and a decrease in partnered with local authorities and an NGO to organise a toy charitable themes: blindness, family nutrition and supporting the intake of sweets and soda. safety day for pupils at a migrant school at Junde in the Pudong local communities. New Area of Shanghai. As well as strengthening links with other Supporting malnourished orphans, India organisations, the day brought practical benefits on safety to Progress in 2015 Nutritional support over three years for a total of 600 children children. The event used a specially designed classroom programme Givaudan developed a number of partnerships in 2015 around in orphanages is being organised by our Green Team at Mumbai and was followed by the donation of books and toys to the children its three charitable themes: blindness, nutrition and other in India in a two-phase programme that started in July 2015. and school. The toy safety day was an extension of our sponsorship charitable initiatives. Projects on our charitable themes are Following a survey by a partner NGO showing a high level of of eye care programmes for migrant children in China. carried out by our local Green Teams – cross-functional teams of malnutrition (50%) in 20 orphanages, children aged 6-18 are volunteer employees. receiving support with the aim of increasing their BMI (body Making the most of waste, France mass index) to satisfactory levels. In consultation with health Our social contribution is made in many different ways, Blindness experts, our team launched the first phase by supplementing the for example through the collection of waste items such as Looking to long-term eye care, India diet given by the orphanages, providing food of improved quality spectacles/glasses, bottle caps and corks to help children in A three-year eye care programme to help a large Indian and quantity as well as appropriate kitchen equipment. This first Africa and people with disabilities. These items were collected community of more than 100,000 people is being sponsored by phase, over 18 months, impacts 300 children; the second phase at our Argenteuil and Kléber sites in France in special recycling Givaudan India at Jigani in Bangalore in partnership with two will involve 300 more. containers that were funded through the prize money from other organisations – Operation Eyesight Universal of Canada a previous Green Team award. Under the programme, the (our technical partner) and the Vittala Eye Hospital in Bangalore, collected waste is redistributed to three different organisations: a charitable eye hospital. In 2015, the programme focused on two of these make money from the waste and were able to training community health workers and screening the residents fund wheelchairs and training of guide dogs for the blind; the of what is an economically challenged community to classify eye third organisation sends spectacles to Africa where, after being conditions, ahead of treatment and rehabilitation. Through the tested, they are redistributed to children and disabled people. 66 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Local communities Continued Enhancing the sensory experience of museum visitors, Bringing the environment to life, UK –35 – of our 36 manufacturing sites (97%) have implemented Singapore About 120 children from a local primary school spent two effective local community development programmes. The smell of special new fragrances from Givaudan accompanied days at the Great Stour Meadow at Ashford to pond dip, hunt The Company’s commitment to local communities is further the reopening of the permanent galleries of the National for insects and learn about camouflage and wildlife habitats reinforced by the actions of the Givaudan Foundation. Museum of Singapore in September 2015. From the smell of in general. This education project brought nature and the Launched in 2014, the non-profit organisation is dedicated to rain to that of a previously polluted local river, our fragrances environment to life for the enthusiastic children and enhanced improving the social conditions of local communities through enhance the sensory experience of gallery visitors via seven their learning, building on class-based lessons. From the programmes for education, health and protection of the scent stations. These scents help to accentuate the significant Givaudan perspective it enhanced our links with the local environment. Some of our Origination initiatives have been historic artefacts as well as create greater emotional connection community. The visit, which may become an annual event, was supported by the Foundation since 2014. between visitors and the compelling historical stories and part of a partnership operating since 2000 between Givaudan background. This project and collaboration with the museum, and the Kentish Stour Countryside Partnership. Charitable giving which is expected to continue for 10 years, is relevant to our We also monitor charitable spend on every site. Since 2012, sustainability aspirations of engaging the community and nation. How we manage this issue we have implemented an annual budget allocation process Actively developing and sustaining relationships with affected for charitable giving for all our sites. Spend is controlled and Hands-on lessons for healthy behaviour, Thailand communities and other stakeholders throughout the life consolidated by a sustainability controller. Every site manager Our Green Team in Bangkok visited Baan Dek Raeron, a local of our operations, and understanding how we interact is responsible for the way the site budget is spent. He or she foundation for homeless children, to help them teach healthy with markets and social institutions, are key components has some freedom to allocate funding to local organisations behaviour through sessions on hygiene and nutrition. Using hand of our Sustainability programme. In particular, we listen to providing they comply with Givaudan guidelines and local wash and toothpaste products, our team worked with 20 community representatives to make sure we take their point laws on non-profit organisations. In 2015, the total spend on children aged 3-12 to demonstrate how washing their hands of view into account, and integrate this feedback into our charitable giving for local communities was CHF 810,334. and brushing their teeth can keep them healthy. The children sustainability activities. particularly liked using a model mouth showing how to properly On most sites, formal relationships have been established Performance indicators use a toothbrush and the importance of preventing dental both with local authorities and with significant organisations SO1: Percentage of operations with implemented local problems. We also provided healthy food for the children and representing neighbours, or working on specific environmental community engagement, impact assessments, and donated money, clothes and toys. and social issues. development programmes Keeping a traditional country skill alive, UK In 2011, we undertook an internal global audit to understand 35 of our 36 manufacturing sites (97%) have implemented Hedge-laying, in which natural vegetation is partially cut and the extent of our interaction with stakeholder groups such effective local community development programmes.1 positioned to grow and create a natural hedge, is a traditional as affected communities, local government authorities, non1 F  or the site that does not have a formal local communities development skill being lost to mechanisation. The Great Stour Meadow governmental and other civil society organisations, local programme, employees participate in social activities with the other sites in the same country. at Givaudan’s Ashford site is a long-term biodiversity project institutions and other interested or affected parties. The internal with the Kentish Stour Countryside Partnership. Through this audits included assessments of impacts, and the topics covered partnership Givaudan engaged one of the small number of local environmental and social programmes and local community people able to carry out hedge-laying to lay about 180 metres complaints procedures. Every year we monitor this programme, of hedge in the meadow, adjacent to a main road. This work, and in 2015 the results established: carried out over about eight weeks, resulted in improvements in –all – our sites have ongoing interactions with local authorities security and natural habit to increase meadow biodiversity. regarding regulatory affairs 67 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Anti-corruption Ethical behaviour by Givaudan’s –Givaudan – has included corruption and gifts/entertainment in its basic compliance training for all permanent Givaudan Performance indicators employees, agents and business employees. Moreover, Givaudan has introduced specific SO4: Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures partners is of utmost priority anti-bribery training for employees with material outside stakeholder relations. Both trainings are available in all major Basic anti-bribery training, as part of our general code to Givaudan. We can be held Company languages of conduct training, has been completed by 92% of all responsible not just for our own –Givaudan – discloses charitable contributions and sponsorship eligible employees outside the US (active and those who have left the Company), including all members of our actions, but also for the actions of –as – part of the monitoring activities, Givaudan has introduced a Executive Committee. our agents, consultants and certain compliance helpline to allow employees to report compliance issues in confidence. The compliance helpline has been Additionally, 5,044 employees whose work involves regular other business partners. opened in all sites worldwide. It is also available in all major and direct contact with external stakeholders, including the entire Executive Committee and all employees in the US, have Company languages so far been invited to complete a specific anti-bribery training Penalties for violating bribery and corruption laws are severe, –Givaudan – has enacted a procedure for the selection and and 4,968 employees (98%) including all members of the including prison sentences and significant fines. In addition, engagement of agents and distributors, which includes a Executive Committee have completed it. mere allegations of bribery or corruption violations can damage formal due diligence review and minimum requirements for Givaudan’s reputation. agent contracts and payments How we manage this issue Our Principles of Business Conduct apply to all the employees of Most countries where we operate have anti-bribery laws, any Givaudan company across the world. including the UK Bribery Act, the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-bribery laws and regulations of other countries where Givaudan either already does business or intends to do so. Our actions will be particularly scrutinised whenever public officials are involved. Corruption is managed as part of the Givaudan compliance management system through the following instruments: –corruption – is one of the risk areas regularly reviewed by the Corporate Compliance Officer as part of a compliance risk assessment –corruption – and inappropriate gifts and entertainments are prohibited in Givaudan’s Principles of Business Conduct. In addition, in 2011 Givaudan introduced a Global Anti-Bribery, Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality policy addressing the issue in more detail, including reporting of gifts and entertainment. Both documents are available to employees in all major Company languages. The policy was reconfirmed in 2013 68 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Public policy As the largest fragrance and Givaudan continues to drive the regulatory advocacy activities within the IOFI. For example, this committee, chaired by Performance indicators flavour company, Givaudan takes Givaudan, works closely with the European Union (EU) Food SO6: Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary responsibility to support, and in Safety Authority, the EU Commission and the European Flavour Association (EFA) to ensure smooth implementation of the No funds are used to benefit organisations of a many cases lead, the development most important reforms to flavour regulations in the EU over political nature. of public policy that impacts the the past 30 years. Givaudan also actively participates in national trade associations in the United States (Flavor and Extract fragrance and flavour industry. Manufacturers Association – FEMA), Japan (Japanese Facility Management Association – JEFMA) and Europe to respond to questions and issues raised by local and regional health How we manage this issue authorities. In each case, Givaudan educates regulators in the Givaudan supports, and in many cases leads, industry-wide development of sound regulations promoting the safe use programmes with international industry associations – the of flavourings. International Fragrance Association (IFRA) and the International Organization of the Flavor Industry (IOFI) – and many The Fragrance Division provides leadership to the global industry national associations for assuring the safe use of flavours and in regulatory advocacy activities within the IFRA, both at global fragrances in consumer products. No funds are used to benefit and regional level. organisations of a political nature. Givaudan is leading industry efforts to enhance the regulation of allergens in Europe, as well as to protect the intellectual property of fragrances in both Europe and the US. Product responsibility This section concerns the social dimension of sustainability and the extent to which processes have been implemented by Givaudan to mitigate incidents of human rights violations, including how incidents are managed and remediated. In this section: 70 Customer health and safety 72 Product and service labelling 70 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Customer health and safety Ensuring consumer safety for use How we manage this issue REACH regulation update We continue to work towards achieving our REACH compliance Givaudan has a long history of investing in safety evaluation of Givaudan’s fragrance and flavour of its raw materials. Critical data to support these evaluations goals. From the inception of REACH, and throughout the products is a core responsibility of are developed by Givaudan or our suppliers. This enables us pre-registration and two in-registration deadlines, we met to comply with safety regulations around the world. With our our objectives. We are now working towards fulfilling our the business, both for ethical and regulatory expertise we not only provide essential advice to our registration requirements ahead of the 2018 deadline. legal reasons. customers, but also ensure that our products meet or exceed The challenge for the 2018 deadline is twofold. Firstly, we must all requirements. complete more than double the number of registrations that were required in the first two phases of REACH. Secondly, we Our commitments Regulatory assessments are working with our suppliers to ensure they fulfil their REACH –Gather – information on the origin of our ingredients The ingredients we use are subject to regulatory assessment by obligations, and cover our downstream user needs as a preto contribute to regulatory requirements, safety and government agencies and international organisations worldwide requisite for doing business with Givaudan. It is a challenge issue management that approve their use based on a review of their safety profile. we intend to meet to ensure REACH compliance, not only for For flavours these include the US Food and Drug Administration –Ensure – Givaudan products are safe for people and the Givaudan but also for our customers in the EU, as well as our (FDA); the Flavor and Extract Manufacturers Association of the environment when used as intended downstream users. US (FEMA); the European Food Safety Authority (EFSA); the –Promote – health and wellness through our products International Organization of the Flavor Industry (IOFI); and the See also our Principles of Business Conduct – sections 1, 5 and 9: Joint Expert Committee on Food Additives of the World Health www.givaudan.com/our-company/corporate-governance/rules–Engage – with customers to develop new technologies for Organization (JECFA). Fragrance materials meet mandatory and-policies healthier and more sustainable products. IFRA requirements for safety in addition to specific country or Progress in 2015 regional regulatory requirements, such as those of the European Fragrance Division compliance with European REACH Chemicals Agency and US Environmental Protection Agency. registration requirements, as they become applicable, in We maintain stringent methodologies to assure the safety and 2010, 2013 and 2018 quality of our products. To enhance these, and to ensure we meet We continue to work towards achieving our REACH compliance ever-changing regulatory requirements, we have developed a goals. From the inception of REACH, through pre-registration SAP-based global Regulatory Compliance Engine (RCE). and two in-registration deadlines, we have met our objectives. We are now working towards fulfilling our registration requirements ahead of the 2018 deadline. Flavour Division with new flavour regulations around the world As the regulatory requirements around the globe are enhanced to ensure a safe food supply for the world’s growing population, Givaudan continues to improve the quality of its flavours. 71 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Customer health and safety Continued Performance indicators PR1: Percentage of significant product and service Marketing and promotion categories for which health and safety impacts are Health and safety is not applicable at this stage of the product assessed for improvement life cycle. Life cycle stages in which health and safety impacts of Use and service products and services are assessed for improvement, and a All products sold to customers are subject to product percentage of significant products and services categories are information requirements. Environment and health and safety subject to such procedures. information about our products is made available to the users through product labels and safety data sheets. In the Flavour Product registration/certification Division, additional information is also provided in the format The ingredients we use are subject to regulatory assessment of an ingredient declaration and instructions for application. by government agencies and international organisations worldwide that approve their use based on a review of their Disposal, reuse or recycling safety profile. Finished products are created to comply with all appropriate end consumer product safety and regulations in the markets Manufacturing and production where they will be sold. Our product safety assessment programme is designed to ensure that 100% of our products are safe for consumer use. Our programme to establish a biodegradable palette of At the core of the programme is a systematic safety evaluation fragrance ingredients began in 2007. We have completed the of the ingredients used in our fragrance and flavour products, biodegradability screening of all perfumery ingredients of our and control of their use. All new ingredients are evaluated creation palette, including natural materials. Givaudan has for human and environmental safety, as required, prior to more than 20 years’ experience in the biodegradability testing their use. of fragrance ingredients, and a database of the results. All our flavour products are consumed at the end of their life cycle, so We maintain stringent methodologies to assure the safety should not cause disposal issues. and quality of our products. To enhance these and to ensure we meet ever-changing regulatory requirements, we have developed a SAP-based global Regulatory Compliance Engine (RCE). The compliance calculation is performed by the Compliance Engine (proprietary technology exclusive to Givaudan), using calculation technology from SAP across all sites and regions. The Compliance Engine is connected with all commercial systems used for fragrance creation, development and sales. 72 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Product and service labelling Givaudan recognises that health Performance indicators and safety is key for all of our PR3: Type of product and service information required by the organisation’s procedures for product and service stakeholders. Through product information and labelling, and percentage of significant labels and safety data sheets we products and service categories subject to such information requirements can support relationships of trust with our customers. Report whether the following product and service information is required by the organisation’s procedures for product and service information and labelling How we manage this issue The ingredients used in our formulas are evaluated for safety, Yes No health and environmental impact. This information is disclosed Sourcing X and filed with the relevant regulatory bodies. 100% of our Content X sold products delivered to customers are subject to product Safe use X information requirements and regulations. Quality and Disposal X environmental data about our products, including safety Other information, are made available to the users through product labels and safety data sheets (SDS). The SDS are available in more Report the percentage of significant product or service than 45 different languages. categories covered by and assessed for compliance with such procedures For flavour products, information related to allergen, GMO, organic, nutritional and religious criteria can be provided. 100% of our sold products delivered to our customers are subject to product information requirements and regulations. Givaudan operates regional hazardous materials competence Quality and environmental data about our products, including centres and in 2012 appointed a global packaging engineer to safety information, are made available to the users through globally coordinate and reinforce expertise on packaging and product labels and safety data sheets (SDS). The SDS are labelling activities. available in more than 45 different languages. Appendix In this section: 74 Performance indicators – environmental 75 Performance indicators – restatement table 74 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Performance indicators – environmental Key performance Indicators 2009 2014 2015 Key performance Indicators 2009 2014 2015 Energy Water intake Energy (GJ) Direct energy (from primary sources a) 1,632,589.20 1,678,083.81 1,712,689.51 Water intake Municipal water 2,286,998.90 2,370,367.79 2,340.554.35 Indirect energy: purchased electricity & 897,286.10 922,754.39 950,117.36 (m3) Ground water 1,074,034.90 1,307,622.73 1,405,027.62 steam Total municipal and groundwater 3,361,033.80 3,678,030.51 3,745,581,.97 Total energy 2,529,875.30 2,600,838.20 2,662,806.87 Surface water 7,432,649.00 5,007,034.40 5,006,361.00 Energy efficiency Direct energy efficiency 5.30 4.38 4.47 Total water b 10,793,682.80 8,685,064.91 8,751,942.97 (GJ/tonne Indirect energy efficiency 2.91 2.41 2.48 Water efficiencyg production) Total energy 8.21 6.79 6.95 (m3/tonne of production) 10.91 9.60 9.77 CO2 emissions Water discharge CO2 emissions Scope 1: from direct energy sources 102,452.60 98,016.12 99,739.80 Water discharge To the environment w/o biological (tonnes)c Scope 2: from indirect energy sources 113,687.00 104,470.34 86,019.35 (m3) treatment 7,509,122.80 4,607,642.77 4,584,656.65 Total CO2 emissions 216,139.60 202,486.46 185,759.71 To the environment after biological CO2 emissions Scope 1: from direct energy sources 0.33 0.26 0.26 treatment 1,928,725.00 1,952,077.78 1,883,520.51 efficiency (tonnes Scope 2: from indirect energy sources 0.37 0.27 0.22 To external treatment facility w/o CO2/tonne of Total CO2 emissions 0.70 0.53 0.48 pre-treatment 355,458.40 424,394.41 429,375.40 production) To external treatment facility with Waste pre-treatment 1,311,436.40 1,754,173.90 1,725,230.78 Hazardous waste Incinerated 14,050.30 9,536.02 8,520.91 Total discharged water 11,104,742.60 8,738,288.84 8,622,783.34 (tonnes) Incinerated with energy recoveryh – 4,673.28 4,128.74 COD (tonnes) of waste water discharged to the Land-filled 728.40 533.06 396.27 environment 255.5f 466.74 Recycled 3,312.90 14,197.34 14,996.65 Other data Total hazardous waste 18,091.60 24,266.42 23,913.82 Nitrogen oxides – NOx tonnesd 104.50 78.94 79.76 Non-hazardous Incinerated 3,058.00 2,244.95 2,145.47 Sulphur dioxide – SO2 tonnes 359.30 1.21 1.12 waste (tonnes) Incinerated with energy recoveryh – 843.38 949.01 VOC (tonnes) – 437.81 475.48 Land-filled 6,695.30 6,973.27 6,411.99 CFC inventory (kg) 15,714.05 11,252.77 10,018 Recycled 16,349.60 29,865.64 27,910.63 CFC 11 equivalent inventory (kg) – 654.34 624.96 Total non-hazardous waste 26,102.90 39,083.86 36,468.09 CFC loss-replacement (kg) 1,393.14 853.68 1,700.67 Total incinerated and land-filled waste 24,532.00 19,287.30 17,474.64 CFC 11 equivalent loss/replacement (kg) – 51.76 99.01 (HZ and NHZ) Production One-off waste – 27,487.49 2,177.76 Production quantities (tonnes) 308,050.10 383,217.24 383,353.00 (tonnes) Waste efficiencye 0.0796 0.0503 0.0456 c Greenhouse gas data are limited to CO 2 emissions (tonnes of waste/ d Quantity is calculated by multiplying the annual fuel consumption by the corresponding emission factor for fuel type tonne of production) e Includes incinerated and land-filled waste (HZ and NHZ) a I ncludes natural gas (0.0345 GJ/m3), light fuel (36.12 GJ/m3), heavy fuel (39.77 GJ/m3), liquid petroleum gas (22.65 GJ/m3), town f Covers the period from April to December 2014 gas (0.0186 GJ/m3) g Includes municipal and groundwater b Includes sanitary, cooling and process water h  mong the quantity of HW and non-HW incinerated, this is the quantity incinerated with an energy recovery A of at least 75% per tonne 75 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Performance indicators – restatement table 2009 (as 2009 % 2014 (as 2014 % published in (corrected in change published in (corrected in change Key performance indicators 2014 SR) 2015) 2009 2014 SR) 2015) 2014 Energy (GJ) Direct energy 1,678,076.00 1,678,083.81 0.0005% Total energy 2,600,830.40 2,600,838.20 0.0003% Energy efficiency (GJ/tonne production) Total energy 8.20 8.21* 0.12% CO2 emissions (T) Scope 1 98,001.20 98,016.12 0.015% Scope 2 104,455.30 104,470.34 0.014% Total CO2 emissions 202,456.50 202,486.46 0.015% Waste (T) One-off waste 24,487.50 27,487.49 12.251% Water intake (m3) Municipal water 2,379,183.10 2,370,367.79 -0.370% Ground water 1,309,788.90 1,307,622.73 -0.162% Total municipal and 3,688,972.00 3,678,030.51 -0.300% groundwater Total water 8,696,006.40 8,685,064.91 -0.126% Water efficiency (m3/tonne of – – – production) Total water 10.90 10.91* 0.092% 9.63 9.6 -0.312% Other data Sulphur oxide – SO2 tonnes 1.20 1.21 0.885% Production (T) Production quantities 308,466.70 308,050.10 -0.135% * The 2009 production volume correction slightly affects this baseline indicator value Assurance In this section: 77 G4 content index 80 The principles of the UN Global Compact 81 Assurance statement 77 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix G4 content index General standard disclosures External External General standard disclosures Page assurance UNGC Principles General standard disclosures Page assurance UNGC Principles Strategy and analysis yes Stakeholder engagement G4-1 2 yes, page 81 G4-24 23 yes, page 81 G4-2 4 yes, page 81 G4-25 23 yes, page 81 Organisational profile G4-26 25 yes, page 81 G4-3 10 yes, page 81 G4-27 26 yes, page 81 G4-4 10 yes, page 81 Report profile G4-5 10 yes, page 81 G4-28 27 yes, page 81 G4-6 10 yes, page 81 G4-29 27 yes, page 81 G4-7 10 yes, page 81 G4-30 27 yes, page 81 G4-8 11 yes, page 81 G4-31 27 yes, page 81 G4-9 11 yes, page 81 G4-32 27 yes, page 81 G4-10 12 yes, page 81 Principle 6 G4-33 27 yes, page 81 G4-11 12 yes, page 81 Principle 3 Governance G4-12 13 yes, page 81 G4-34 28 yes, page 81 G4-13 13 yes, page 81 Ethics and integrity G4-14 13 yes, page 81 G4-56 30 yes, page 81 Principle 10 G4-15 15 yes, page 81 Principle 1 G4-16 15 yes, page 81 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 18 yes, page 81 G4-18 18 yes, page 81 G4-19 19 yes, page 81 G4-20 19 yes, page 81 G4-21 19 yes, page 81 G4-22 22 yes, page 81 G4-23 22 yes, page 81 78 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix G4 content index Specific standard disclosures Identified Identified omissions and omissions and Specific standard disclosures Page reasons External assurance UNGC Principles Specific standard disclosures Page reasons External assurance UNGC Principles Economic Emissions G4-DMA 42 yes, page 81 Economic performance G4-EN15 42 yes, page 81 Principles 7,8 yes, assured as part of G4-EN16 42 yes, page 81 Principles 7,8 audit of Financial report G4-DMA 32 2015, page 109 G4-EN17 43 yes, page 81 Principles 7,8 yes, assured as part of G4-EN19 43 yes, page 81 Principles 7,8 audit of Financial report G4-EN20 43 yes, page 81 Principles 7,8 G4-EC1 33 2015 G4-EN21 43 Principles 7,8 yes, assured as part of Effluents and waste audit of Financial report G4-DMA 44 yes, page 81 G4-EC3 33 2015, page 141 G4-EN22 45 yes, page 81 Principle 8 Procurement practices G4-EN23 45 yes, page 81 Principle 8 G4-DMA 34 yes, page 81 Products and services G4-EC9 36 yes, page 81 G4-DMA 46 yes, page 81 Environmental G4-EN27 46 yes, page 81 Principles 8,9 Energy Transport G4-DMA 38 yes, page 81 G4-DMA 47 yes, page 81 G4-EN3 38 yes, page 81 Principles 7,8 G4-EN30 47 yes, page 81 Principle 8 G4-EN5 38 yes, page 81 Principle 8 Supplier environmental G4-EN6 39 yes, page 81 Principles 8,9 assessment G4-EN7 39 yes, page 81 Principles 8,9 G4-DMA 49 yes, page 81 Water G4-EN32 49 yes, page 81 Principle 8 G4-DMA 40 yes, page 81 Social: Labour practices and decent work G4-EN8 40 yes, page 81 Principles 7,8 Employment G4-DMA 51 yes, page 81 G4-LA1 52 yes, page 81 Principle 6 79 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix G4 content index Specific standard disclosures Identified Identified omissions and omissions and Specific standard disclosures Page reasons External assurance UNGC Principles Specific standard disclosures Page reasons External assurance UNGC Principles Labour/management relations Supplier human rights G4-DMA 53 yes, page 81 assessment G4-LA4 53 yes, page 81 Principle 3 G4-DMA 63 yes, page 81 Occupational health and safety G4-HR10 63 yes, page 81 Principles 1,2 G4-DMA 54 yes, page 81 Society G4-LA6 55 yes, page 81 Local communities Training and education G4-DMA 65 yes, page 81 G4-DMA 56 yes, page 81 G4-SO1 65 yes, page 81 Principle 1 G4-LA11 57 yes, page 81 Principle 6 Anti-corruption Diversity and equal opportunity G4-DMA 67 yes, page 81 G4-DMA 58 yes, page 81 G4-SO4 67 yes, page 81 Principle 10 G4-LA12 58 yes, page 81 Principle 6 Public policy Equal remuneration for women G4-DMA 68 yes, page 81 and men G4-SO6 68 yes, page 81 Principle 10 G4-DMA 59 yes, page 81 Product responsibility G4-LA13 59 yes, page 81 Principle 6 Customer health and safety Supplier assessment for labour G4-DMA 70 yes, page 81 practices G4-PR1 71 yes, page 81 G4-DMA 60 yes, page 81 Product and service labelling G4-LA14 60 yes, page 81 Principle 4 G4-DMA 72 yes, page 81 Human rights G4-PR3 72 yes, page 81 Child labour G4-DMA 62 yes, page 81 G4-HR5 62 yes, page 81 Principle 5 80 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix The principles of the UN Global Compact The UN Global Compact asks Environment companies to embrace, support Principle 7 B  usinesses are asked to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and enact, within their sphere of Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater influence, a set of core values in environmental responsibility the areas of human rights, labour Principle 9  ncourage the development and diffusion of E environmentally friendly technologies standards, the environment and Anti-corruption anti-corruption: Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Human rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 81 Givaudan SA – Sustainability Report 2015 Profile disclosures Performance Appendix Ernst & Young LLP Tel: +91 124 464 4000 Golf View Corporate Tower-B Fax: +91 124 464 4050 Sector-42, Sector Road ey.com Gurgaon-122002 Haryana, India Limitations of our engagement The Management and Board of Directors Givaudan S. A. The assurance scope excludes: 5 Chemin de la Parfumerie st st  Data and information outside the defined reporting period (1 January 2015 to 31 December 2015); CH-1214, Vernier  The ʻeconomic performance indicatorsʼ included in the Report; Switzerland  The Company's statements that describe expression of opinion, belief, inference, aspiration, expectation, aim or future intention. Independent Assurance Statement Our assurance team and independence Ernst & Young LLP (EY) has been engaged by Givaudan S. A. (the 'Company') to provide independent assurance to its GRI Report 2015 (the ʻReportʼ) covering the Companyʼs sustainability performance during the period 1 st Our assurance team, comprising of multidisciplinary professionals, has been drawn from our Climate Change and st January 2015 to 31 December 2015. Sustainability network, and undertakes similar engagements with various companies. As an assurance provider, EY is required to comply with the independence requirements set out in International Federation of Accountants The development of the Report, based on G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (GRI-G4) of the Global Reporting (IFAC) Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants. EYʼs independence policies and procedures ensure Initiative, its content and presentation is sole responsibility of the management of the Company. EYʼs responsibility, compliance with the Code. as agreed with the management of the Company, is to provide independent assurance on the report content as described in the scope of assurance. Our responsibility in performing our assurance activities is to the management Conclusion of the Company only and in accordance with the terms of reference agreed with the Company. We do not therefore accept or assume any responsibility for any other purpose or to any other person or organization. Any dependence On the basis of our procedures for this limited assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us not to that any such third party may place on the Report is entirely at its own risk. The assurance report should not be believe that the Company has reported on sustainability issues materially significant to its business and its taken as a basis for interpreting the Companyʼs overall performance, except for the aspects mentioned in the scope stakeholders. below. Observations and opportunities for improvement Assurance standard • The company has developed the report as per the ʻin accordanceʼ core criteria of GRI G4 Guidelines. The Report presents a fair description of the Companyʼs materiality assessment and includes performance Our assurance is in accordance with International Federation of Accountantsʼ International Standard for Assurance disclosures under all the aspects identified as material. The Report provides Companyʼs progress update on its Engagements Other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information (ISAE 3000), and our conclusions sustainability roadmap targets and communicates details of future targets and commitments; are for ʻlimitedʼ assurance as set out in ISAE 3000. • Company has demonstrated a structured approach towards data management for sustainability performance Scope of assurance and methodology reporting in line with GRI G4 Guidelines. At the sites visited, improvement has been observed regarding monitoring and compilation of environmental performance data. However, some indicators were identified The scope of our work for this engagement was limited to review of information pertaining to environmental and where the Company can further improve on accuracy of data compilation, such as EN23 (waste) and LA1 (new social performance for the period 1st January 2015 to 31st December 2015. We conducted review and verification employee hire and turnover). of data collection/ measurement methodology and general review of the logic of inclusion/ omission of necessary relevant information / data and this was limited to: • Review of the standard disclosures regarding the companyʼs material sustainability aspects contained in Ernst & Young LLP the report; • Review of consistency of data / information within the report as well as between the report and source; • Verification of the sample data and information reported at the following manufacturing units and corporate headquarter at Vernier, Switzerland: 1. Mount Olive, USA 2. Devon Cincinnati, USA 3. Mako, Hungary 4. Jaguare Sao Paulo, Brazil 5. Cuernavaca, Mexico 6. Pedro Escobedo, Mexico Sudipta Das 7. Cimanggis, Indonesia 8. Smithfield Sydney, Australia Partner 9. Sant Celoni, Spain 10. Dortmund, Germany Dated: March 11, 2016 • Review and execution of audit trail of selected claims and data streams to determine the level of accuracy Place: Kolkata, India in collection, transcription and aggregation processes followed; • Review of Companyʼs plans, policies and practices, so as to be able to make comments on the completeness of the reporting and degree to which EY believes the report provides a fair and honest representation of the Companyʼs sustainability related activities. Page 1 of 2 Page 2 of 2 Ernst & Young Private Limited, (a company with registration number U74120WB2008PTC121768) converted into Ernst & Young LLP (a Limited Liability Partnership with LLP identity No. AAB-4343) effective 1st April, 2013. A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited, Regd. Office at 22 Camac Street, 3rd Floor, Block C, Kolkata – 700016 EY refers to the global organization, and /or one or more of the independent member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited
