EWP Sustainability Report 2016 10th Sustainability Report Happy World with Hearty Energy www.ewp.co.kr (44543) 395, Jongga-ro, Jung-gu, Ulsan, Korea TEL 070-5000-1544 FAX 070-5000-1599 Copyrightⓒ 2016 KOREA EAST-WEST POWER CO.,LTD(EWP). All rights reserved. About this report Content G4-18 G4-28 G4-29 G4-30 G4-31 G4-32 G4-33 Introduction 02 CEO Message Purpose of Report This is the 10th sustainability management report published 04 Highlights of the 10th Anniversary of the Report by East-West Power Co., Ltd. (EWP). 06 About EWP The EWP is a public energy company. It takes its CSR 12 EWP's Value Creation Process into account in all decision-making process. This report is intended to disclose the economic, social, and environmental Sustainable 16 EWP Strategy System efforts and outcomes in terms of corporate sustainability Approach 18 Governance during the reporting period to all its stakeholders in the most 20 Ethical Management transparent way. 23 Risk Management Reporting Guideline 24 Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Test This report is prepared in accordance with GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 Guidelines Core with an emphasis Economic 30 Economic Performance DMA placed on the company's progress in fulfilling ISO 26000 requirements and implementing the UN Global Compact Performance 31 Stable Power Supply principles. This report has followed International Financial 34 Enhancement of Future Growth Engines Report Standards (IFRS) as the reporting standards of 38 Overseas Business financial information including the definition of terms used in 40 Financial Soundness the area. All the information contained in this report has been verified by the Business Institute for Sustainable Development Environmental 44 Environmental Performance DMA (BISD) of the Korean Chamber of Commerce considering principles of AA1000 Assurance Standard (2008). Performance 45 Green Management 46 Coping with Climate Change Reporting Period and Scope 48 Environment Management This report outlines the company's sustainability management 52 Establishing a basis for New Growth Engines activities from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. For qualitative performance, the data from 2013 to 2015 have 54 Establishment of Green Infrastructure also been included to enable a time series trend analysis. The reporting scope includes the company's headquarters in Social Performance Employees Ulsan and its five plant sites across the country. The reporting 58 Employees DMA cycle is one year. 59 Safety-First Business Management Purpose HAPPINESS Characteristics of Report 62 Human-centered Happy Workplace MISSION orienting Contributing to a happier human life This report has focused on reporting the values that the company has created during the past 10 years in terms of Social Contribution & Economic Activation We Make Energy for Happiness Offered ENERGY its sustainability management in commemoration of the 10th 66 Social Contribution & Economic Activation DMA Value Boosting quality of life and clean living conditions anniversary of the company's sustainability management We make stable, economical and eco-friendly energy 67 Sharing and Growth for Everyone's Happiness report. that brings happiness to humanity Our 69 Job Creation WE MAKE This report has also attempted to reflect diverse opinions of Company Production and supply of the highest quality energy the company's stakeholders identified through a stakeholder in the most economical and stable way survey as well as a materiality test. It includes a statement Win-win Growth about the relevance of UN Sustainable Development Goals 71 Win-Win Growth DMA (SDGs), a new global sustainable development agenda for 72 Win-Win Growth with Business Partners 2030, to the company's roles. 74 Enhancement of Transparent and Fair Transactions Growth Expansion of the business scale and area as a Vision Value comprehensive energy provider Additional Information Appendix 77 Data Center 2030 Most Valuable Power Company 81 Awards in 2015 For additional information, please visit the corporate website Financial Enhancement of financial stability and sustained or contact the department indicated below: 82 GRI G4 Application An energy powerhouse that creates the Value profitable growth Website: http://www.ewp.co.kr 89 UN Global Compact Advanced Level highest value in all business areas while Customer Energy security, respect for human life, integrity and Department: Climate & Environment Team, Power 90 Third Party Assurance treasuring its employees as most valuable Generation Division Value ethics, and social responsibilities 92 Memberships and Related Companies players (MVPs) Contact: Tel) +82-070-5000-1544 2 3 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix CEO Message G4-1 Dear EWP stakeholders, I am deeply grateful for your keen attention and support of the sustainability management efforts of East-West Power Co., Ltd. (EWP). In 2006, EWP declared its full support of the ten principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas of labor, human rights, environment and anti-corruption and published its first sustainability management report. This year marks the 10th anniversary of the report, which I am extremely happy about and proud of. EWP has continued to achieve outstanding management results over the years despite the difficult business environment caused by changes in the government's policies at home and fluctuations in the international energy markets. However, the demand for eco-friendly energy keeps rising throughout the world in the wake of the firstever universal global climate deal that was adopted in 2015, weakening the stature of the thermal power generation industry. EWP has re-established the corporate vision for its sustainability management. It accelerates innovation in the following three areas with the purpose of actively coping with the ongoing changes in the worlds' social and environmental paradigms and developing into a power generation company that continues to achieve sustainable corporate growth down the road. First, EWP strives to gain momentum for sustainable corporate growth through the development of new growth engines and supplying stable and economic electricity. We raked 1st in fuel costs for standard coal-fired power generation for six straight years through economical procurement of power generation fuels. In addition, we achieved another accident-free period of 200 days for all of our power generators in 2015. We build and operate a 1,000 MWclass high-efficiency USC power plant in Dangjin for the first time in Korea. Second, to make sustainable society and govern corporate social responsibility EWP actively handles global environmental initiatives issues such as developing renewable energy, and the Paris Agreement on Climate Change. Remarkably, we are also enhancing our portfolio of new and renewable energy having shifted focus away from fossil fuels. In addition, EWP reduced 1.82 million tons of GHG emissions more than allocated by the government, and achieved the highest score in the power generation industry in the Competitiveness Index in Climate Change for five consecutive years. Third, EWP strives to create a flexible, creative corporate culture in the safest work environment to be able to thrive in any business environment in the future. We are currently making 'innovations in the way we operate' by incorporating flexible, creative software including systematic arrangements to our well-established 'Smart Office' hardware so that all of our employees can put their creativity to work. Meanwhile, EWP has placed the utmost priority on its employees' safety. In recognition of our extraordinary achievements in this field, we were able to be ranked the highest in the 2016 Safe Korea Anti-disaster Exercise for three consecutive years, a first among public institutions under the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy; topped the list of exemplary companies in the government's Disaster & Safety Management Evaluation for two straight years. I would like to take this opportunity to convey my special thanks to you for your extraordinary support and cooperation during the past 10 years, without which we could not have made the achievements that we have claimed in our annual sustainability reports over the past decade. In a bid to live up to your expectations, EWP will continue to fulfill its social responsibilities based on its high level of ethical awareness and integrity. I personally pledge to continue to listen to your voices through diverse communication channels with humility and open-mindedness. I will be looking forward to your continuous encouragement and support for the company's sustainable growth and promising future. August 1, 2016 Thank you. Kim, Yong-jin President of Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. 2030 Most Valuable Power Company We will make stable, economical and eco-friendly energy that brings happiness to humanity. 4 5 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Highlights of the 10th Anniversary of the Report 경제 환경 사회 Congratulatory message for the 10th anniversary of the EWP sustainability report. I wish to congratulate EWP, one of the most esteemed public companies in the energy sector, on the 2011 Won the 2009 Won the Grand Won the 10th anniversary of its sustainability report. EWP joined the UN Global Compact in August 2006 and Longest Run Prize at the 2nd Outstanding has implemented the Ten Principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and made Award Green Technology Business Award reports of its progress in these areas ever since, setting a good example for businesses not only at home but abroad as well. hosted by EUCG(Electric Utility Cost Group) Awards hosted by the Ministry of Patriots and Veterans Affairs I hope that EWP will continue to integrate the 2030 Sustainable Development Goals adopted by the international community into its midto long-term vision and strategies and develop into the country's Ranked 1st among 14 SMEs assessed by the proud global leader in the energy sector. Won the 2010 Green Company Award Ministry of Knowledge Economy 2016. 8. 1. Hong-Jae Im, Representative UN Global Compact Network Korea 2012 The Unit Won the Grand Won the Minister of the Year Prize of UNGC of Gender EWP Award History in Sustainability Management Award in the category of eco-friendiness Equality&Family Economic Environmental Social hosted by Guam Power Authority Award 2007 Won the award UN registration Gained the national at BSC Hall of approved quality master Won the grand prize at the National Green certificate Business Presentations for two years in a row Won the Minister of Health and Welfare Award Fame for the clean photovoltaic development mechanism and won the Presidential award at the Increased in net income for four consecutive Won the Minister of Trade, Industry & Energy 32nd National Quality Competition Won first prize at the 2nd Power Companies' 2013 The Best Certified as an Won the Prime years for the first time among local power award at the 28th Energy Conservation SME Support Performance Competition in the Performer Award outstanding Minister award companies Promotion Contest category of ethical management 2012 business in terms to fo EWP family-friendly policies 2008 competitiveness in response th Won the grand prize Gained eco-friendly Won the hosted by EUCG(Electric Utility Cost Group) climate change at the 2007 Korea Technological Innovation Management Awards business Presidential Won the Korea Labor-Management certification award Cooperation Grand Prize and ISO 14001 accreditation for all its at the 33rd National Quality Competition plant sites, a first among local power Won the Shared Growth Excellence Award Won the award for the best power generator of the year 2007 companies Won the Presidential award at the New Technology Practical Application Promotion Secured the best lending interest rate among local Competition in the category of SME marketing support 2014 Won the 2013 Won the Won the power companies for four consecutive years Transparent Grand Prize Minister award 2009 Won first prize Registrain Won the award Management Grand at the Korea New Growth Management Awards in the category of excellence in the cultivation of technical talents in 2013 in the area of breakdown-free perations in CDM projects at 2008 Korea Corporate Community Involvement Awards Prize of green technologies for the first time in the world *Clean Development Mechanism Won the management grand prize and the outstanding manager award at the Korea Idea Won the Minister of Knowledge Economy Management Awards Won the grand prize in the category of energy Won the 2013 Privacy Protection Grand Prize award at the 2008 Digital Innovation for two Won the Presidential award at the 3rd consecutive years Beautiful Partnership Awards 2015 Won the Korea Won the special Won the 2010 Won the award Won the 2009 Won the Economic Leader award at the 2014 Carbon Presidential for 8th Digital Korea Green 8th Safety Grand Prize Disclosure Project Award in the area of win-win cooperation as an outstanding organization in the Innovation Award Awards Grand Prize cultivation of SMEs Ranked 1st in climate competitiveness index in Won the grand prize Won the grand prize at the 2009 Korea Won the Knowledge Economy Customer the power generation sector for 4 consecutive Won the Minister of Health and Welfare at the Korea IT Innovation Awards Green Energy Awards Service Award Won the Ministry of Strategy and Finance Award years 'Sharing Happiness Award' * EWP award achievements based on its sustainability report on the date of publication 6 7 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix About EWP G4-3 G4-4 G4-5 G4-7 G4-8 G4-9 Corporation Overview Supporting Global Initiatives EWP is one of the six power companies created as a result of the separation of the power generation Head Office EWP supports global CSR initiatives including UN Global Compact, ISO 26000 and CDP. As a global sector from KEPCO (Korea Electric Power Corporation) in 2001 in accordance with the Act on the 395, Jongga-ro, corporation, EWP actively engages in socially responsible business management through the minimization Promotion of Restructuring the Electric Power Industry. EWP is a wholly owned subsidiary of KEPCO with Jung-gu, Ulsan, Korea of its environmental impact and the maximization of its employees' safety and health based on the its core business being power generation. EWP operates five power stations across the country such as Date of Establishment principle of transparency. its flagship power station Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Complex, Honam Thermal Power Plant, Donghae April 2, 2001 Biomass & Coal Fired Power Complex and Ilsan Coal Fired Power Complex. The company's total power UN Global Compact ISO 26000 CDP (Carbon No. of Employees generation capacity stands at 9.139MW or 9.3% of the country's total power generation. EWP sells its Disclosure Project) 2,300 electricity to KEPCO through Korea Power Exchange for final consumption by consumers. In 2015, EWP Composition of In August 2006, EWP joined UN Global EWP intends to achieve sustainable corporate CDP is a global standard used to evaluate produced a total of 45,840GWh of electricity. Shareholders Compact, a voluntary initiative among growth as recommended by ISO 26000, environmental information including climate KEPCO 100% corporations which urges and encourages international standards governing corporate change data. CDP assesses companies' GHG companies to fulfill their social responsibilities. social responsibilities. emissions and their efforts to reduce them Organizational Chart Executive Total Power Output EWP complies with the ten principles in the EWP undertakes diverse efforts to help nurture through the carbon disclosure project. CEO Auditor 49,525GWh areas of human rights, labor, environment local communities and protect the environment EWP joined CDP in 2012 and its competiAudit Inspection and anti-corruption as a clear indication of by fulfilling the seven core subjects of ISO tiveness in terms of response to climate change PR Team Sales Volume its commitment to meet the global guidelines 26000 such as organizational governance, has since been evaluated. Division 45,840GWh regarding corporate social responsibilities and to human rights, labor practices, the environment In 2015, EWP acquired 90 points from the CDP. its pursuit of sustainability management. and fair operating practices etc. Engineering & Future Business Capital Strategic Management Group Division KRW 3.9917 trillion Management Group How we’re connected with UN SDGs Power Generation New Business Total Assets Keeping with global trends, EWP is fully committed to participating in finding the solutions for economic, Division Development Division Planning & Strategy KRW 8.8286 trillion Department Corporate Partnership Office of International environmental and social issues in order to achieve sustainable growth and development. The company Engineering Division Business Sales has carried out analysis about how the 17 Sustainable Development Goals announced at the end of 2015 KRW 4.0477 trillion are related to its operations. It plans to derive specific strategies and action plans in the near future. HR Department How we're connected with UN SDGs Net Profit Dangjin Coal New Dangjin Ulsan Oil Fired Honam Coal Donghae Biomass KRW 454.9 billion SDGs Goals EWP's Actions Page SDGs Goals EWP's Actions Page Co-prosperity Fired Power Fired Power Coal Fired Power Power ConstrucC.C Power Procurement Complex tion Complex Complex Complex Complex Department Major Business Goal 2 Promotion of new energy business P.55 Goal 10 Respect for diversity P.65 Development of power Zero Hunger Reduced Inequalities Enhancement of social equality P.70 Security Planning resource, Ilsan Combined Technical Shared Service power generation, etc. Division Heat Power information Guam Office Goal 5 Cultivation of female talents and P.65 Goal 11 Promotion of recycling P.50 Center(SSC) Complex Department Gender Equality gender equality Sustainable Cities and Development of new and P.52 Communities Promotion and monitoring of gender P.65 renewable energy business equality policies and practices Efforts to reduce air and water P.48, 49 History pollution Goal 7 Overhaul of regulations to promote P.52 Goal 13 To reduce GHG emissions P.46 1898 01 1915 09 1943 08 Chosun 1946 05 1961 07 1982 01 2001 04 2014 06 Affordable and Clean new and renewable energy Climate Action EWP Voluntary participation in CDP P.47 Hansung Kyoungsung Electricity Namseon Korea Electricity KEPCO Head office Energy convergence complexes Electricity Business Electricity Corporation public company restructuring of the relocation Electricity Establishment of policies to a merger of power industry to Ulsan Innovation Development of onshore wind farm P.53 Korea's first 3 power respond to climate change P.46 power company companies City Reduction of fuel costs P.33 Goal 8 Efforts to promote work-life balance P.62 Goal 14 Post-environmental impact P.51 Characteristics of Power Industry G4-12 Decent Work and Life Below Water surveys Enhancement of employee fringe P.65 The Korean power industry was monopolized by KEPCO. On April 2, 2001, the Act on the Promotion of Economic Growth benefits Management of the environment P.51 Restructuring the Electric Power Industry went into effect, which was aimed at eliminating inefficiencies surrounding the company’s Profit sharing and compensation P.64 associated with the industry's explosive growth. According to the legislation, the power generation operating sites systems sector of KEPCO was transferred to six new power companies including EWP. EWP produces power in conjunction with private power generation companies and district electric power operators and sells Goal 9 Development of technologies for the P.54 Industry, Innovation recycling of cinder power to KEPCO through the Korea Power Exchange. KEPCO sells power to general customers through and Infrastructure its nationwide power transmission and distribution networks. In 2015, EWP sold a total of 45,840GWh of Development of technologies for the P.54 recycling of fly ash electricity to KEPCO. 8 9 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix About EWP Donghae Biomass Business Areas G4-4 G4-9 & Coal Fired Power Complex Overview of Overseas Power Plants G4-6 G4-9 Location: Donghae, Gangwon EWP has successfully carried out a number of overseas power plant projects including the trial operation Overview of Domestic Power Plants Domestic/Foreign Coal: 400MW of Nueva Ventanas Coal-Fueled Power Plant, Chile in 2008 and O&M of CFBC in Cebu, Philippines in EWP's electric power facilities include coal-fired plants fueled largely by bituminous coal, combined-cycle Biomass: 30MW Solar energy: 1MW 2009. Since 2015, the company has been carrying out self-financing development projects in Indonesia power plants fueled by LNG, oil power plants, and various plants powered by new and renewable energy. and Vietnam and is currently engaged in overseas power plant operation business in the United States, The total facility capacity of EWP stands at 9,139.4MW with coal-fired power generation accounting for Jamaica and Guam. 53.6% (4,900MW), LNG power generation constituting 32.5% (2,971.9MW), heavy oil power generation amounting to 13.1% (1,200MW), and power generation fueled by new and renewable energy such as Operation of power plants run by biomass/ wind power, photovoltaic power and small hydro power occupying a ratio of 0.8% (67.5MW). Guam natural gas fueled internal combustion Cabras #3,4 PMC Project engines Client: GPA (Guam Power Authroity) Client: EWP Renewable Corp. Ilsan Combined Heat Facility Capacity: 80MW Facility Capacity: 152MW & Power Plant Location: Near Apra Harbour in western Guam Location: California, New Hampshire, upstate NY, etc. Location: Goyang, Gyeonggi Project Type: PMC (Performance Management Contract) Project Type: Share acquisition LNG: 900MW Fuel cells: 8MW DangJin Coal Fired Power Complex Location: Dangjin, Chungnam Bituminous Coal: 4,000MW Solar energy: 4MW Small hydro power: 8.2MW Honam Coal Fired Power Complex Location: Yeosu, Jeonnam Haiti Bituminous Coal: 500MW Solar energy: 0.1MW India Sudan Philippines Ulsan Oil Fired & C.C Power Madagascar Vietnam Complex Vung Ang-3 Coal-fired Power Plant Project Australia Location: Nam-gu, Ulsan Client: EVN (Electricity Vietnam) Heavy oil: 1,200MW Facility Capacity: 1,200MW LNG: 2,071.9MW The Total Facility Capacity by Fuels Project Type: BOT Solar energy: 0.5MW Location: Ha Tinh Province Fuel Ratio Plant Name Capacity(MW) Fuel cells: 2.8MW DangJin Coal Fired Power Complex 4,000.0 Jamaica Bituminous Management of Jamaica Public 53.6% Honam Coal Fired Power Complex 500.0 Share(%) Coal Service Company (JPS) Name Total Facility Capacity(㎿) Donghae Biomass & Coal Fired Power Complex 400.0 Project Type: Owning 40% of JPS shares, EWP ● EWP 9,139.4 Ulsan Oil Fired & C.C Power Complex 2,071.9 Indonesia about 71% of the country's total output 9 LNG 32.5% 10 ● KOEN 9,980.9 Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant 900.0 Kalsel-1 Coal-fired Power Plant Project 25 (906.68MW), and 100% of its power ● KOMIPO 8,306.4 Heavy Oil 13.1% Ulsan Oil Fired & C.C Power Complex 1,200.0 Client: PLN (Perusahaan Listrik Negara) transmission and distribution networks 8 ● KOWEPO 9,321.4 Small Hydro Power 8.2 Facility Capacity: 200MW New and Completion 10 in 6 countries 9 ● KOSPO 9,161.9 Renewable 0.8% Photovoltaic 10.5 Project Type: BOOT 28 Operation 4 in 2 countries Energy Location: Tanjung, South Kalimantan 9 ● KHNP 27,038.9 Others 48.8 Processing 1 in 1 countries Project Period: 25 years after completion ● Other 25,240.9 Total 9139.4 Development 6 in 5 countries 10 11 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix About EWP New Business G4-13 New and Renewable Energy Development of New Energy in Korea Fuel Cell Power Generation Facilities EWP is involved in the development of new energy in Korea as a way of securing sustainable corporate Ilsan Ulsan growth while contributing to an increase of stable energy supply. Through strategic alliances with domestic independent power producers (IPPs), EWP is carrying out Bukpyeong Thermal Power Project and Dangjin EWP has completed building fuel cells in Eco Power Project, while taking part in the Seokmun and Chuncheon Group Energy Projects. its Ilsan and Ulsan Thermal Power Plant Complexes. The company recovers heat generated from the cells and supplies it to Strategic alliances with domestic IPPs nearby residents at low prices while using part of the heat for its combined cycle plants, contributing to the efficient use of energy. Ilsan Fuel Cell Construction of Wind Farms Gyeongju Yeonggwang EWP is focused on the development of onshore wind farms in an effort to attain grid parity. In 2012, it completed 1st phase of Gyeongju Wind Farm, Yeonggwang Jisan Wind Farm and Honam and Baeksu Wind Farm, currently in operation. Since then, it Bukpyeong Thermal SPC Composition Dangjin Eco SPC Composition has completed construction of more 80MW Power Project EWP Power Project EWP wind farms at Yeonggwang. Samtan GS E&R Korea SK Gas Gyeongju Wind Farm Co., Ltd. Development Facility Capacity: 595MW x 2 Facility Capacity: 580MW x 2 Bank Construction Period: Nov. 2012 Dec. 2016 Construction Period: Mar. 2018 Mar. 2022 Location: Bukpyeong Industrial Complex, Donghae, Gangwon Province Location: Gyoro-ri, Seokmun-myeon, Dangjin-si, Chungnam Photovoltaic Power Stations Dangjin Busan Participation in Integrated Energy Supply Project EWP has built various types of photovoltaic power stations such as roof-top facilities installed in parking lots and waste landfill facilities of its power plants, offshore facilities, and large-scale facilities constructed on idle space, effectively contributing to the company's fulfillment of RPS supply Solar Water Power Plant (Dangjin Thermal Plant) obligations. Biomass and Small Hydro Power Generation Donghae Biomass Dangjin Small Hydro EWP completed Donghae Woody Biomass Power Plant, the largest in Korea, in July Seokmun Group SPC Composition Chuncheon Group SPC Composition 2013. It completed construction of a small Energy Project Kookin Ind. Financial EWP Energy Project Financial Hanjin Heavy EWP hydro power plant at the Dangjin Thermal Co., Ltd. Investors Investors Industries & Capacity: 38MW Capacity: 470MW Construction Plant Complex that uses thermal effluents Construction Period: Jan. 2015 Jan. 2017 Construction Period: Mar. 2015 Apr. 2017 and operates it as a renewable marine Location: Seokmun National Industrial Complex, Dangjin-si, Chungnam Location: Dongsan-myeon, Chuncheon-si, Gangwon Province Dangjin Small Hydro Power Plant energy power plant. 12 13 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix EWP’s Value Creation Process G4-12 LNG Cost of Good Solds Sales volume 960,000 tons KRW 3.35 trillion GHG emissions (Scope 1 & 2) 37.95 million tons tCO2-eq 45,840 GWh Water 10.267 million tons Sales amount Selling Effluent 2.085 million tons 4.05 trillion Oil t & administrative t en en E E Operating Income 660,000 KL m co expenses m co KRW 61.6 billion 76.6 Waste E n vir E n vir no no 1.824 KRW billion on my on my million tons Coal ➊ Input ➎ Impact 15 million tons So c i e t y So c i e t y Purchasing results of joint Local community SME R&D financial support Employees SME R&D support KRW 14.3 billion 2,300 people KRW 19.5 billion KRW 3.4 billion Employee Donation satisfaction KRW 600 million 4.57 points Direct-purchasing consumers, electricity users, etc. ➍ Distribution ➋ Generation Total 9,139.4MW Coal LNG Heavy oil ➌ Transmission 4,900MW 2971.9MW 1,200MW CBP electricity market / KEPCO (transmission, Others Solar Small hydro Korea Power Exchange distribution and sales) 48.8MW 10.5MW 8.2MW We make energy for happiness EWP challenges and exercise a function to become the best company, based on Stakeholder’s trust. The Company creates the best energy value for a happy life of people. Sustainable Approach EWP Strategy System 16 Governance 18 Ethical Management 20 Risk Management 23 Stakeholder Engagement 24 & Materiality Test 16 17 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Sustainable Approach EWP Strategy System Achievement Rate of Goals per Strategic Direction EWP has established companywide management goals for each of its visions. To meet its management EWP has created its mission and vision based on the company’s purposes of establishment. It has goals, the company has set shortto long-term goals in each of its three values such as 'growth values,' also established the 2030 vision, a midto long-term management target. EWP's strategic directions 'financial values' and 'customer values.' It has also established key performance indicators and goals for and detailed performance goals based on its core values are implemented through the CEO's strong each value following an environmental analysis through scenario management. commitment and employees' concerted efforts. Companywide 2030 Goals 2014 Performance 2015 Management Goals Goals Performance Achievement Ratio Mission We Make Energy for Happiness Facility capacity 22,800MW 10,928MW 11,979MW 11,087MW High 93% 2030 Most Valuable Power Company Growth Vision Values Power generation technology Facility capacity 22,800MW (New Operating profit: KRW 1 trillion Corporate integrity level 1 Sales KRW 10 trillion KRW 4.6 trillion KRW 4.1 trillion KRW 4.1 trillion Achieved 100% solutions provider renewable energy share 20%) Debt ratio: 123% KoBEX SM AAA Goals Maintenance of forced outage rate Sales: KRW 10 trillion Operating profits KRW 1 trillion KRW 285.8 billion KRW 1,247 billion KRW 619.9 billion Achieved 497% below 0.1% Financial Creation Passion and challenge Cooperation and integrity Respect for human beings Values Debt ratio 123% 136.1% 143.6% 121.8% Achieved 118% Creation pursuing Utmost passion Cooperation and integrity Respect for human beings Core Values sustainable growth and challenge based on co-prosperity based on consideration and trust and safety Integrity level Level 1 5th (Level 2) Level 1 1st (Level 2) Achieved 100% Customer Strategic Enhancement of competitiveness Creation of future growth business Enhancement of core Realization of sustainability Values Directions of the power generation business competencies management KoBEX SM AAA AAA AAA AAA AAA Achieved 100% Facility New & renewable New technologies Security & safety Enhancement of the efficiency of Expansion of new & renewable Enhancement of competitiveness of Upgrade of security & safety power generation facilities Operation energy business New business future technologies Talents management Win-win cooperation New CEO's Management Policies Strategic Tasks Sophistication of power generation Leadership in the development of Cultivation of global core talents Creation of win-win cooperative EWP has reflected the new CEO’s management philosophies and the employees' feedback on the operational technologies new energy business System corporate ecosystem company's current management status in its new CEO's four major management policies including Fuel New growth Sophistication of management Corporate culture main business innovation management, corporate future creation management, performance-oriented Enhancement of competitiveness of Expansion of new business at home system Realization of actively responsible fuel supply and abroad management management, and trust & happiness management. *KoBEX SM: A survey on sustainability management (Korea Business Ethics Index Sustainability Management) Establishment Process of New CEO Management Policies CEO Transition from a good company Let us maintain, heighten and Establishment of performanceEWP Sustainability Context Management to a great company broaden. centered corporate culture and systems Policies We need to continue to make innovations Let us remain competitive in our main We can grow into a great company only when The energy industry is faced with a number of challenges such as changes in the local government's in order to move beyond being 'a good business, heighten the competitiveness of we are equipped with corporate culture and policies including the restructuring of the power generation industry and the full-fledged domestic company' and into becoming 'a great our power plants, and broaden our business systems that encourage and reward employees implementation of emissions trading scheme coupled with the increasing volatility of the international company'. areas and markets. working hard to create positive results. energy market and rising international demand for eco-friendly energy, indicating a rapid paradigm shift Inaugural speech (Jan. 26, 2016) CEO briefing on the management status of the Congratulatory remarks at the 15th anniversary company (June 3, 2016) (Apr. 1, 2016) in the industry. To cope with this paradigm shift, EWP has restructured its organization and modified its vision, goals and strategic directions. The company now deals with changes in the industry and seeks to Top-down achieve sustainable growth and development most effectively. CEO Main business innovation Corporate future creation Performance-oriented Trust & happiness Management management management management management Policies Sustainability Management Vision & Value System Sophistication of power plant operation technologies and Leading future growth through the development of new technologies Invigoration of a performancecentered culture based on Building a trusted public company that makes employees EWP has defined 'We Make Energy for Happiness' as its mission and '2030 Most Valuable Power competencies and new business voluntary innovations and citizens happy Company' as its vision. In keeping up with changes in its management environments such as the Bottom-up launch of a new climate regime on the world stage, the country's 7th Basic Electricity Supply Plan and Collection of Free discussions between CEO and employees of different ranks Feb. 2016 A town meeting about future development 2030 New Energy Industry Expansion Strategy in Korea, EWP has set its new goals: become a power employees' solutions Mar. 2016 Free discussions to solve pending management issues and seek future development generation technology solutions provider, attain a facility capacity of 22,800MW, realize operating profits feedback on A discussion among all employees about topics directions corporate of KRW 1 trillion, and achieve organizational integrity level 1. It has established four strategic directions and Four discussion meetings for division heads, team leaders and deputy general dealt with in free discussions management 12 strategic tasks aligned with the new goals. EWP has implemented them faithfully to fulfill its establishment status managers of the head office, and general managers of operating sites purposes such as stable power supply, economical power supply, and eco-friendly power supply. 18 19 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Sustainable Approach Governance BOD Operations and Performance Records G4-45 G4-47 EWP held a total of 11 BOD meetings in 2015. To invigorate BOD operations, the company ran EWP operates a specialist-centered BOD to invigorate BOD activities while enhancing its executive discussion-centered BOD meetings offering directors brainstorming opportunities and encouraging noncompetency. It has reinforced the BOD's management oversight and counseling roles. EWP has executive directors to actively participate in the process. The BOD deals with and resolves not only expanded non-executive directors' management counseling and assistance functions in consideration management issues including the sales of its shares in the Philippines Wind Farm Project and the Dangjin of the company's social responsibilities and corporate sustainability. Eco Power Project but also CSR issues such as equity investment in photovoltaic power station projects in Miryang and Gwangju Eco-friendly Energy Town. Present condition of non-executive director's participation Composition of the Board of Directors G4-34 G4-39 BOD Compoisition 2015 28 Number of BOD meeting Resolved agenda Agenda resolved after Non-executive directors' Secretariat The board of Directors consists of 4 executive directors and 5 non-executive directors. To guarantee 11 31 BOD revision management counseling times of BOD 2 the independence of the BOD, the senior non-executive director presides over the board meetings as times cases 3 16 cases 1 Non-executive directors' 34 a chairperson. For efficient operations, the BOD operates a secretariat, specialized subcommittees times times case management proposition cases Executive designed to secure expertise and expediency in decision-making, audit committee that makes reports on Specialized SubAudit Committee Recommendation 2014 8 times 15 times 3 cases Reflected management propositions 19 corporate audit results, and executive recommendation committee designed to guarantee transparency in committees Committee cases the selection of CEO, non-executive directors and executive auditor. Proposals Attendance in the BOD Attendance of nonProportion of the speaking 15 Reported agenda meeting executive directors of non-executive directors Financial Risk Management 92.9 90.9 90.4 Committee Director Specialty cases Management of foreign exchange % 6.4% % 12.3% % 1.0% risks Executives Director Kim Yong-jin President & CEO 15 cases 86.5% 78.6% 89.4% Audit Committee Kim Oh-young Executive auditor Internal control, accounting audits Park Hee-sung Head of Strategy & Management Group Executive Recommendation Enhancement of Non-executive Director's Participation Committee Selection of executive candidates in Management Kook Jung-yang Head of Engineering & Safety Group To reinforce its non-executive directors' contributions, EWP has systemized their active participation in Former legal expert and executive in energy related Management Efficiency corporate management through the public hiring of non-executive directors and on/offline provision of Non-executive Directors Kim Ik-man Committee organizations management information around the clock. EWP reflects their expertise-based management proposals in Normalization of public companies Former energy company CEO and expert in power Jeong Dong-rak corporation management. It strives to further systemize their management counseling roles on a regular basis. generation business Debt Management Committee Debt impact assessment Kim Kyoung-min Professor and energy policy expert Non-executive Directors' Management Counseling Counseling Results Baek Seung-jeong Energy expert Enhance competitiveness through active monitoring and participation in new & Participation in the Gyeongju wind farm and photovoltaic power renewable energy business at home and abroad station project Lee Jong-hyun Former local entrepreneur and expert in local issues Reconsider problems involved in the purchase of the fuel oil stock of Yeongnam Deliberation of the modification of the agenda item (the 2nd and Thermal Power Plant and the economic feasibility of the action 3rd BOD meetings) Setting the BOD's Operational Goal Enhancement of information security Establishment of Cyber Disaster & Safety Center (Nov.) EWP has established boosting profitability in corporate management through the BOD's timely management counseling as its operational goal through an analysis of management environments. The Establishment of the management crisis monitoring system and boosting efforts Continuous promotion of debt reduction and public company to overcome financial difficulties faced by energy companies management normalization efforts company then set its three promotional goals as follows along with its implementation tasks. Work-level reviews of the matters relating to the promotion Continuous engagement in business feasibility study of new Management In need of the establishment of a BOD system In need of improved management efficiency through In need of enhanced management oversight and of the Asan Bay Tidal Wave Project and renewable energy projects environments that works most efficiently in a market economy the normalization of the public company’s operations counseling roles and the reduction of its debts Operational Enhancement of On-site Management goals Boosting profitability in corporate management through the BOD's timely management counseling The BOD members of EWP visited Ilsan Combined Heat & Power Plant, New Dangjin Thermal Power Promotional Boosting management efficiency through timely Invigorating BOD's management propositions Invigorating non-executive directors' management Construction Complex, and Honam Coal Fired Power Plant and emphasized their commitment to sitegoals decision-making participation centered management and integrity in business management. At the Ilsan plant, they discussed pending Implementation Enhancement of prior deliberation of BOD Enhancement of management proposition follow-up Invigoration of specialized subcommittees issues relating to the declining demand and solutions to the situation. They carefully looked into the tasks agenda construction progress of New Dangjin Power Construction Complex 9 & 10. At the Honam plant, they Performance Over 95% in the prior deliberation rate Achievement of the company's goal in the national Over 90% attendance in subcommittee meetings reviewed the progress of the New Honam Project and complimented the hard work of those involved in Visit to New Dangjin construction indices normalization of public company operation campaign the project. Their insight into the company's operating sites and construction projects greatly contributes to complex 9 & 10 efficient decision-making. 20 21 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Sustainable Approach Ethical Management G4-56 Implementation and Results of Ethical Management Prevention of Corruption EWP contributes the national development by conducting business efficiently based on ethical and EWP continues to enhance its prevention of corruption through the implementation of ethical standards legal corporate management activity. With the pride, the company will become a reliable global power throughout the entire range of its operations. The company operates a 24-hour ethical monitoring generation company by carring out our ethical responsibility. system and relevant communication programs with the purpose of achieving a zero-irregularity business operations and promoting an integrity culture to prevent any type of corruption. Ethical Vision and Promotion System A 24-Hour Ethical beginning of year 24h A. Before work To help realize its ethical vision, EWP set 'the establishment of an ethical corporate culture through the *Prestige Maintenance Level: The highest Monitoring pledge of implementation Self-test stabilization of a pleasant ethical culture' among employees as its target for 2015. As the three promotional level among the five ethical management System Ethics Court levels set by the FKI (Federation of Korean D B. On-duty goals, the company chose 'prevention of corruption, promotion of participatory ethical activities, and Industries) manual, a level deserving monthly Lessons from others' establishment of ethical culture’. responsible, ethical business management mistakes Integrity Day 18h C 6h A C. Before leaving work Ethical Management Promotion System end of year Ten commandments B of integrity Company vision 2030 Most Valuable Power Company Integrity Awards D. After work 12h Text messages Ethical vision Realization of an ethical company that grows and earns respect on the basis of integrity and ethics Round-the-clock communication Overseas business trips Game-based ethics education Midto long-term A leading company in ethical management Establishment of a pleasant ethical culture Enhancement of ethical competence strategies Opening 'Integrity Communication 'Integrity Implementation Pledge' to Post Office': be signed by all going on overseas Norms Charter of ethics (basic norms) Codes of conduct (criteria for actions) Guidelines of conduct (implementation rules) 59 integrity proposals and business trips 444 integrity letters 2015 goal The establishment of an ethical corporate culture through the stabilization of a pleasant ethical culture Promotion tasks Prevention of corruption Promotion of participatory ethical activities Establishment of ethical culture Removal of causes of corruption Expansion of participatory programs Internalization of ethical awareness Promotion of Participatory Ethical Activities EWP expands opportunities for employees to get involved with integrity activities through the operation of Preemptive reflection of the Improper Solicitation Internalization of ethical awareness Enhancement of the system effectiveness and Graft Act employee-initiated cultural programs. On Ethics Day of June 2015, EWP held a free discussion forum. The Enhancement of the system company produced a drama on the subject of ethics and screened it companywide, raising employees' effectiveness Invigoration awareness of the issue in the most effective way. In October 2015, EWP held 'a mock trial contest' with of employee-initiated activities employees' active participation. EWP filmed it and posted it online. *EMDEX (Ethic Management InDEX): The Performance Level 1 in anti-corruption policy evaluation Level 1 in integrity Ethical level: *prestige maintenance level ethical diagnosis indices developed by EWP indices on the basis of global standards such as Establishment of a Pleasant Ethical Culture ISO 26000 and GRI sustainability reporting EWP has raised employees' awareness of corporate ethics and significantly consolidated the company's guidelines.) Enhancement of Ethical Norms ethical culture through systematic ethics educational programs. In 2015, the company increased the EWP modified its ethical norms in 2015 to establish criteria for employees' job performance and behavior employees' mandatory ethical education hours. It has succeeded in having all its employees internalize in association with the enactment of the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act and occurrence of violation ethical awareness through continuous ethical education. Furthermore, EWP has introduced a game-based of ethical codes by public companies in the country. EWP enhanced its codes of conduct, guidelines on ethics educational program reflecting the employees' feedback about its ethical management monitoring Ranked disciplinary actions, and rules on crime reporting. It established bidding rules to prevent irregularities in the bidding process. Moreover, EWP expanded the application of its ethical norms to include its suppliers and dispatched and transferred employees in an effort to further prevent ethical risks. process. For the first time among local public companies, EWP has also introduced a game-based psychological test designed to measure the actual ethical level of the entire organization, identifying matters to be improved in terms of ethical corporate culture while verifying the reliability and practicality 1st in integrity evaluation of EMDEX*. Enhancement of Ethical Management Implementation Organizations Achievement of 1 EWP strengthened its ethical management implementation organizations to establish and promote efficient Ethical Management Monitoring & Feedback ethical management strategies. In 2015, the company instituted the attendance of its executive auditors EWP carries out an ethical management monitoring process for the evaluation of its implementation level level in the meetings of the Integrity & Ethics Committee. It upgraded the exclusive organization Ethics & and feedback through continuous monitoring. In recognition of its employees-initiated ethical activities the evaluation of anticorruption policies by Compliance Team to Ethics & Compliance Team with five deputy general managers instead of three. Also, and anti-corruption efforts including institutional improvements, EWP received a higher score in the the Anti-Corruption the company increased the number of integrity audit collaboration agencies from two to five that offered evaluation from the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission in terms of anti-corruption corporate and Civil Rights policies. Regarding internal integrity whose score went down slightly, EWP has carried out analysis and Commission for four company assistance in the development of jobs for those eligible for a wage-peak system, knowhow on consecutive years integrity, and exemplary cases of ethical management, among others. implemented education on ethical activities accordingly. 22 23 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Sustainable Approach Improvement of Internal Audit Competencies Risk Management G4-14 In keeping with the need of systemizing the audit system with the assistance of external experts, EWP has reinforced the role of its audit advisory group. It has reinforced auditors' independence in organization, EWP makes all-out efforts to prevent its stakeholders from becoming involved in any financial and personnel management and budget allocation by ensuring the independence of the group in organization non-financial risks as part of a commitment to fulfill its social responsibilities. To manage stakeholders' and prohibiting unfair treatment of individuals in personnel management, among others. To further major risks effectively, it has established a risk management system and run an Integrated Crisis improve its internal audit competencies, EWP has hired outstanding auditors, mandated the completion Response Center. of specialized education, improved individual on-the-job performance, and enhanced professional competence with the assistance of outside experts. Establishment of Integrated Risk Management System In a bid to deal preemptively with changes in its business management environments, EWP has established Operation Efforts of Internal Checks and Balances System an integrated risk management system that addresses both its financial and operational risks. It has In a bid to manage its internal checks and balances system effectively, EWP undertakes preemptive audits, determined its KRIs (Key Risk Indicators) through an analysis of risk factors. It manages the core risk factors management of bribery risks, and management of new business risks. According to the scrutiny results and of its risk management system, per indicator, to effectively prepare for its operational and financial risks. improvement recommendations of its internal system of checks and balances, EWP carries out preemptive audits and operates inspection systems to prevent irregular behavior from taking place. Integrated Risk Management System Financial risks Operational risks Risks Major Accomplishments Prevention Unannounced Increased reporting largely due Market risks Liquidity risks Power generation operational risks Fuel supply risks in Prevention of Irregular of irregular behavior public office audits to improved access to reporting Behavior FX VaR *GCI Government Cash on hand Forced outage rate Fuel inventory (days) Actions on 23 violators channels Key risk NEWC bondinterest of public service rules indicators (KRIs) Disciplinary actions Warnings rates NO CASES to 3 individuals of irregular behavior for two consecutive years 9 TIMES 17 TIMES 39CASES 59CASES Monitoring External: Bloomberg, Infomax Internal: F/X daily report, fuel account settlement Financial management system Power generation performance management system Supply and stock management system (2014) (2015) (2014) (2015) system system, management information system Management information Management information system system Major Result of Audit Activities Monitoring Financial Risk Management Committee Management Strategy Meeting Financial Risk Management organizations & Management Strategy Meeting Committee In 2015, EWP undertook a variety of audit. The company reduced its annual budget by 23% and made meetings Purchase Record Review Meeting a 14% improvement in corrective measures over the previous year. The Board of Audit and Inspection of Korea evaluated EWP to rank one level higher than in 2014 in its 2015 EWP audit. *GCI NEWC: Operation of Integrated Risk Response Center Global Coal Index Newcastle Continuous Performance Designated Comprehensive Major audit Daily audits Special reviews Financial audits Labor audits For the first time among local power generators, EWP operates a Cyber & Disaster Safety Center security monitoring audits audits audits records in its cyber and facility operations. The center is divided into the Integrated Disaster Prevention Section 874 cases 11,340 cases 2,938 cases 3 cases 1 cases 17 cases 4 cases 3 cases and Cyber Security Section to efficiently cope with disaster prevention, facility security, hacking attempts KRW 47.2 billion 143 cases 150 cases One-level upgrade and cyber intrusions. EWP has established a round-the-clock response system to deal with multiple types Major in reduced budget of improvement of personnel in the evaluation of the Board measures of Audit and Inspection of disasters. accomplishments spending recommendations of Korea Center Layout System Diagram Interview Briefing Room Need to enhance the effectiveness Choi Yun-seok, Deputy General Manager, 3D Control of Cyber-attacks of its ethical management system Meeting Room Cyber Disaster Prevention & Ethics and Compliance Team Disaster Safety Center I think that the ethical awareness of EWP employees is extremely high. This fact is verified by their response to the Response & Control company's initiatives for various integrity and ethics promotion activities. For instance, EWP received a total of 54 entries for its 'Ethics Trial' scenario contest in 2015. Meanwhile, the company introduced a game-based ethics Cybersecurity Controls Integrated Disaster Prevention Room Cyber-security Room education program in partnership with Department of Counseling Psychology of Handong Global University in 2015. It is a form of psychological test designed to measure individuals' integrity and ethics. It determines whether Integrated Information on power plant operations, Cyber-security SIEM (Security Information and Event an individual tends to respond falsely to surveys when it comes to questions about his/her degree of integrity. Disaster power plant CCTV, multi-party wireless Room (hacking, Management), SOC work management Interestingly, the test results have demonstrated no discrepancy between survey results and test results. EWP plans Prevention Room telecommunication system about cyber intrusion) ESM (Enterprise Security Management), to further enhance the effectiveness of its integrity and ethics related systems through various participatory ethics (disaster safety, meteorological information, and disaster TMS (Threat Management System) management system education of its employees. facility security) 3D control system of cyber-attacks 24 25 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Sustainable Approach Stakeholder Engagement & Materiality Test Materiality Test G4-18 G4-19 To identify sustainability management issues that internal and external stakeholders find most important, Materiality Test Process It is critical for EWP to communicate with its stakeholders and identify their expectations with the EWP carried out a materiality assessment with THE CSR, a professional sustainability management 1. Identification purpose of making people's lives happier through its sustainable growth. The company operates a agency. The company selected 31 issues including its major issues widely covered by the mass media number of communication channels to identify major stakeholders' interests and expectations. in 2015 according to the international standards of corporate social responsibilities. To determine 2. Prioritization their priority, EWP conducted a questionnaire survey among 272 internal and external stakeholders of the company. The company's Sustainability Management Task Force Team selected 18 issues in Stakeholder Classification G4-24 G4-25 G4-26 G4-27 3. Validation accordance with GRI G4 Guidelines. It sought external experts' opinions at the validation stage of the In association with its value creation process, EWP divides its stakeholders into three groups such as value reporting contents. impact, value production and value consumption and carries out communication activities customized to Performance results 4. Review the groups, respectively. The value impact group affects value creation. The value production group refers Communication efforts Communication channels to employees who create values. The value consumption group constitute external customers who directly Areas of interest Results of Materiality Test G4-19 G4-20 G4-21 share the created values. Report Boundary ● Internal ● External Material Aspects Prioritized cies Powe Influence on Stakeholder Assessments and Decisions agen r gen erat ● Response to climate change la ted ors re , ts, t ma ● Employee safety and health men deb Pos ss rn 27% the itive me ●● Creation and distribution of ve o f 2 1,2 dia ent to 16 p Go vem par ed cas ress co es economic outcome ie m l ver Ach tion co n goa ▶ 1,4 age ● ●● Compliance with environmental regulations uc c tio 24 red red u cas es ● Enhancement of anti-corruption transparent management ing 1,4 clud ion 24 ● ● Compliance with product (electricity) in gs in malizat sha cases t ring of related regulations mee he nor ions inclu throug informa 17 t Red Citi zen 1,2 about institut ding h th tion ● Prohibition of workplace discrimination u e lic new ep teg ction in s th o s u b s ar ress ya nd pen of p ticle ●● D  evelopment and distribution of ecoFina altie ffair s Pow s ● Effluent and waste management ts friendly energy technologies nt a ring er G den info nc s rma e for impos m e a ene ● Employee job security resi ed ern sh rato Gov mation rk tion failu ●● Elimination of unfair transactions 11. re by etc. r Coun ● Indirect economic contributions cal 1 p to dis the M r info netwo cil, o ints clo inis ● , lo Ben n e ▶ se ma try of rso r pe .6h ●● Shared growth with suppliers ●● Compliance with social norms thro ficial in 0p nag Os oin em I pe 6 ugh fo t ent Se CC h ▶ 2 ● Respect for employee diversity and guarantee of fair opportunities the rmatio er com curing NG 24 Kor ean nd isclo pow pet ing ●● Assessment of (social and environmental) impact of its CCI ble of th itivene clud l por gov s Sta ly CI in iona ta ern ure sup p ep ss Loc activities on local communities me indu ower es of C Tradit teer nt The Sta stry al c cas haring Volun ● ●● Human rights grievance mechanisms at home and abroad Kor b 27 S e of h le sup al oun alth icin ean go igh ply Loc ent, 'He n Med vice' ● por vernm eco -quali m cils ea Ser ● Protection of personal information tal nom ty, vel op nta l Kor ● ● ent elec ic de ronme n ● ● Stra tric al i env otecti o ● ● ● ● ity pr Self Significance of Economic, Environmental, and Social Impacts and for com -este em Dem mation m aniz unicat , atio n& info r re Reporting for Result of Materiality Test losu atio io disc nal n, por tra cat ate ining o io Esta visio Visio n on ing bli n rad visio ❷ Creation and distribution of ❸ Employee safety and health ⓫ Elimination of unfair et t of c shmen th, org n 'E ark orp orat t n n' f or a WP 20 ity m m cult row economic outcome transactions ctric ste ure dg ❿ Prohibition of workplace incr Ele s y e r e com based a Sh onom ic Edu cor ll em 30 ea eo f c sur mun o ec ion ⓰ Indirect economic contributions discrimination ⓲ Shared growth with suppliers visio se in isclo t and icat n orat M plo ers yee VP ptiv ed me n mut ual ion invig Em th ⓭ Employee job security e old ns em Pre mana g Lab trus Economic Employees Win-win har e leve or-M t ecia l s plo reh tion sp rma Stra an and Edu ing yee Performance DMA Growth Sha info es tegy ageme l of ⓱ Respect for employee uel ss f 75 ca s Mee nt ting s s ma f bio ▶ 4, 8 ting n mee ctures DMA diversity and guarantee of fair DMA no s Five Tow le A1 visio ase la for opportunities Pro 153 c 4, mee bor-ma n osis 0% ting n s to ageme diag on the n e rgy intro reach a t coun ized e n ers duc gre c ppli t eme il tom 10 su APPENDIX ❺ Compliance with product pea io k sy n of a nt Cus ❶ Response to climate change ⓯ Assessment of (social and stem wag (electricity) related regulations e ❹ Compliance with environmental environmental) impact of its CCI ❻ Enhancement of anti-corruption Cre and activities on communities thro a tion at ion regulations transparent management u of unic of th gh the 59 job om m ❽ Compliance with social norms ew intro s in c Environmental ❼ Development and distribution of Social age d ent tion pea uction v e m ab o r a Performance eco-friendly energy technologies Contribution ❾ Protection of personal k sy pro coll stem 34% im DMA & Economic information L ab ⓬ Effluent and waste management or u rs ⓮ Human rights grievance nion plie Activation s Sup mechanisms at home and DMA abroad 26 27 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Sustainable Approach Interviews with Stakeholders Increase the proportion of its renewable energy Execute Truthful Social Contribution Ahn, Byung-ok Director, Institute for Climate Change Action Bae, Jeong-hee Director, Senior Welfare Center, Jung-gu, Ulsan Metropolitan City Through stable power supply, EWP has improved people's quality of life and contributed to the I think that EWP gives a great deal of thought to the interrelationship between social welfare nation’s economic development in a significant way. However, it is also true that the company is projects and its line of business and makes wholehearted efforts for the implementation of the faced with a number of challenges that are hard to overcome with past paradigms. In January welfare programs it has chosen. For instance, the Forest Experience Program designed for 2016, the World Economic Forum in Davos pointed to climate change as the most serious seniors in local communities was proposed by EWP. It capably matches with EWP's vision, threat to the world economy. It has been some time that new investments in new and renewable We will make stable, economical and eco-friendly energy that brings happiness to humanity. energy surpassed those in coal and nuclear energy combined. Moreover, the Paris Agreement EWP employees regularly visit our facility and reach out to us. Most impressively, its CEO and on Climate Change was concluded in December 2015, with the launch of new climate change staff come to our facility to prepare and serve rice cake soup for the residents of this facility measures beginning to emerge around the world. Pressure will continue to mount in the every Lunar New Year. As a welfare facility, we would like to make a humble request that international community for virtual elimination of fossil fuel consumption. Given the situation, information be provided to relevant welfare facilities including ours as soon as your quarterly it is time for EWP to cut down on its consumption of coal and increase the proportion of its or annual welfare programs are set so that our diverse welfare programs can be implemented renewable energy power generation from a long-term perspective. much more effectively. Thanks for the supports on SMEs It is crucial to supply energy in a stable, economical way. Hwang, Keai-yoon CEO, Kwangsung CO., LTD Jung, Se-woo CEO, THE CSR My company was facing a hard time due to a protracted recession in the shipbuilding industry Korea is heavily dependent on imported energy, where the fluctuations in oil price have a when I happened to find out about the test bed system through EWP's Shared Growth Center. significant impact on the national economy, which in turn makes stable energy supply extremely As my company had never supplied goods to a power company before, partnership with important in the country. EWP is an important public company that is responsible for the stable EWP was hard to expect. However, we were able to complete an SCR NOx analyzer test bed supply of electricity to not only the general public but also key industries. Therefore, it could opportunity successfully over six months at Honam Thermal Power Plant Complex through the impact the wellbeing of the entire country whenever it suffers disruption in its stable electric test bed system, and thus we were allowed to supply analyzers to Honam and Ulsan Thermal power supply due to forced outage. As such, I believe that the company's most important social Power Plant Complexes. We have acquired New Technology Certification and Performance responsibility is to secure stable, economically-friendly, and economical power supply to help Certificate from the Small and Medium Business Administration, so that we are now able to the nation improve the quality of life for all its citizens. I also believe that EWP must continue to execute sole source contracts with the five power companies in Korea. As a participant in the expand its capacity to produce eco-friendly energy to respond effectively to the Paris Agreement SME export support project, we receive financial support from EWP in terms of tariffs and export on Climate Change and the paradigm shift of energy about fine dust pollution, among others. documentation fees, which we greatly appreciate. Win-Win Partnership Employees' Opinions in a Nutshell External Stakeholder’s Opinions in a Nutshell Cho, Jeong-kyu General Manager, KEPCO KPS Economy I think that excessive Local Communities I suppose that Governments & Related Power Companies Heighten its budget cuts may lead to occupational it would be quite useful for EWP to Organizations Invest in the level of morality and ethics as a KEPCO KPS is in charge of EWP's regular maintenance and periodic preventive maintenance accidents or forced outages and enhance its cooperation with local development of new energy sources public company so that EWP can work. Coal-fired power generation is becoming a subject of challenges worldwide while fine dust adequate budgets should therefore communities and related agencies and the foundation for eco-friendly maintain fairness in its dealings with has become an emerging issue domestically. Thus I think that the most compelling sustainability be requested and used in proper ways. and discover business and tasks lifestyles in the midst of global the suppliers. Also, make its new issues facing EWP are its carbon emissions and dust generation. In Europe, including Germany, that will allow all the parties involved warming. labor-management culture take root. Environment I find it crucial to build it has been some time since GHG emission and fine dust generation emerged as key issues. to achieve win-win situations. power plants taking into account Local Communities Strengthen General Public I don't think that the Outdated or less efficient power stations are being phased out. I think EWP could benchmark their economic and environmental Employees I believe that EWP cooperative relations with local general public knows much about the experiences of European power companies. In partnership with EWP, our company focuses impact within the framework of rapidly can fulfill its social responsibilities communities and related agencies. EWP. Therefore, I hope that EWP on the prevention of industrial disasters and the provision of high-quality maintenance service for changing environmental regulations. I by encouraging its employees to I suppose it would be useful to will boost its corporate marketing stable power supply. KEPCO KPS hopes that the partnership between our two companies will am sure that if it finds a solution to this reinforce their loyalty to the company discover business and tasks that activities. challenging situation, EWP will have a through systematic support and will allow all the parties involved to continue to result in EWP's sustainable growth and our shared growth down the road. bright future. educational programs. achieve win-win situations. We walk with you As a leader in the energy industry, EWP will strive to create a sharing, sustainable future with a devotion to the basics while exhibiting exceptional passion and a thirst for new challenges. Economic Performance Economic Performance DMA 30 Stable Power Supply 31 Enhancement of Future Growth Engines 34 Overseas Business 38 Financial Soundness 40 30 31 DMA plo ye ● Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix es Disclosures on Management Approach G ● ov ins ern t m ● NG Pa rtner co itu e tio nt ns ● O m pa nie pla O nt th s ● ● Em co er m opa wp nie er Cu st s ● ● om er s ● ● ● Stable Power Supply Power plant operation process systems Stable electricity supply is the company's establishment purpose and the citizens' mandate. Automated Establishment of EcologyKorea experienced the seriousness of unstable electricity supply through rolling blackouts it had based Inspection Plans to implement in the past. EWP has established power generation operation processes for stable Demand Maintenance electricity supply. Furthermore, the company establishes annual power generation plans based prediction plans on predictions of supply and demand for electricity. When external changes occur, it establishes additional weekly, monthly and quarterly plans. Establishment of annual power generation plans Request Inspection and Maintenance of Power Generation Facilities The importance of inspection and maintenance service for its power generation facilities is on the rise as Quarterly/weekly power the facility factor accounted for 66% of breakdowns in 2014. It has thus enacted four promotion directions generation plans to minimize the occurrence of the breakdown of power generators through the establishment of a sustainable breakdown-free operation system. As a result, EWP has achieved its second period of amassing 200 days free Approval Power plant operations of forced outage and 563 days of zero forced outage in all the generators at Dangjin Coal Fired Power Complex simultaneously. Performance analysis The Establishment of Sustainable Breakdown-free Operation System Minimization of the occurrence of power generator breakdowns through the establishment Goal of a sustainable breakdown-free operation system Promotion Virtuous cycle maintenance of Reinforcement of vulnerable Disclosure of operational information Promotion of technological prowess Dangjin Coal Fired Power Complex (Dangjin, Korea) directions prevention, diagnosis, and solution facilities reflecting the operational to the public and introduction of new improvement programs customized to characteristics of each facility technologies job characteristics Key 3 step (prevention, facility diagnosis, Reinforcement of vulnerable facilities Establishment of double inspection Promotion of technological Economic Performance measures and solution for problem) actions for preventive inspections and structural per life cycle (initial post-completion period, stabilization period, and wearsystem of power generation facilities Improvement of technological competency improvement programs customized to job characteristics improvement of maintenance service out period) (shift work, regular work, professional prowess and implementation of cost manpower) reductions Issue 2 Issue 16 Creation and Indirect economic Promotion Achievement of the second period Over 300MW of electricity supply (EWP) Double check for abnormality Reducing overtime work by six hours Sustainability Context distribution of contributions results of amassing 200 days free of forced from Ulsan Oil Fired & C.C Power symptoms in facilities per person a month economic outcome outage Complex Following the conclusion of the Paris Agreement on Climate Change in 2015, demands have (Manufacturer) Expanded disclosure Improvement of technological Surplus achievement in breakdown Operation of a minimum of three out taking into account operational prowess by 5% compared to the been rising worldwide for the elimination of coal-fired power generation and the expansion of prevention competitiveness index of four power generators at Yeosu conditions previous year eco-friendly renewable energy. EWP has to enhance its business competitiveness through the (goal/performance: 1.320/1.492) National Industrial Complex Shortening maintenance periods Technical diagnosis for business and diversification of its business areas and the development of new technologies. Achievement of amassing 637 days for households Reducing KRW 4.1 billion in costs free of forced outage at Honam Our Strategy & Commitment Thermal Power Plant EWP is expanding its business areas through the creation of new and renewable energy Key Performance Indicator complexes and the diversification of biomass fuel while supplying electricity in a stable way EWP has continued making efforts to carry out inspections and maintenance services for its power plants through its domestic and overseas projects. To that end, EWP reinforces its future growth engines. Moreover, EWP maintains a sound financial structure and boosts fundamental 200 days 13.2 billion with the purpose of supplying electricity in a stable way. As a result, it has achieved 0.556% and 92.44% in forced outage rate and operating rate, respectively, figures higher than those disclosed by the *NERC Achievement JPS operation competitiveness according to its midto long-term roadmap in order to become a globally of 2nd trouble Business : (North American Electric Reliability Corporation). free achievement competitive public company through sustainable corporate growth. Forced Outage Rate Operating Rate of net profit Our Progress & Next Step EWP NERC Unit: % EWP NERC Unit: % 6.2 27 4.93 91.25 92.44 EWP has secured a high level of stability in electricity supply by reinforcing the inspection and 4.67 4.67 90.69 billion cases maintenance service of its power generation facilities and making efforts to reduce fuel costs, EWP RC: No. of *NERC: North American Electric Reliability 0.88 0.098 0.056 among others. To boost its profits, EWP carries out new business including the creation of achievement localization Corporation of net profit 85.39 83.92 83.92 domestic wind farms and the construction of biomass power plants. It has strengthened its debt reduction and risk management systems to secure financial soundness. 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 32 33 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Economic Performance Integrated Management of Power Generation Operation & Maintenance Economical Power Supply through Fuel Cost Reductions SDG 7 EWP systematically manages the proactive maintenance and breakdown prevention of its power *POMMS : Plant Operation and Maintenance Fuel Purchase Process generation facilities through *POMMS. It carries out preemptive maintenance through a prediction & Management System It is necessary to cut back on fuel costs that account for 70-80% of the total power generation costs warning system in order to prevent forced outage and realize stable electricity supply. to enable a more economical power supply. To reduce fuel costs, it is crucial to secure economical procurement of power generation fuels. EWP establishes its fuel procurement plans based on a demand POMMS (Plant Operation and Maintenance Management System) Block Diagram forecast for electricity and its power generation plans. EWP has developed a comprehensive valuation Cost-Time Analysis Automated Establishment of tool through in-house research. It operates a purchase process based on the tool. Ecology-based Inspection Plans Presentation of maintenance equipment, scope and timing STEP 1 Prediction of STEP 2 Power STEP 3 Supply Plan STEP 4 Purchase STEP 5 Purchase STEP 6 Maritime Reliability-centered Power Demand Generation Plan Plan Contract Transport Risk-based Inspection(RBI) EPI Center Head ERP Maintenance(RCM) Office connection Korea Power Exchange Power Generation Division Fuel Resource Team Analysis of a less than yearly Analysis of a more than three Early analysis of problems and maintenance cycle year maintenance cycle predictive maintenance Operating Prediction of power demand Building a power source Establishment of a supply Establishment of a purchase International competitive Shipping after finalizing a Sites based on GNP, industrial portfolio based on demand plan of a power supply plan including purchase bids shipping schedule with a MTBF, EPRI and INIDB Real-time evaluation of facility Scientific, systematic root life-cycle cause analysis growth, and recent trends for electricity source portfolio methods, quantities and -In-kind bids relevant shipping company shipping time considering -Long-term bids according to the purchase Establishment of power market situations for each -Negotiations with longcontract generation plans per power type of fuel(3-6 months in term contractors plant and year advance) Power Plant Operation & Plant Information System Performance Management Planned Maintenance System (PMS) Maintenance (PIS) Inspections and maintenance (regular, Management of the status of Real-time monitoring of Real-time efficiency/ Preemptive Purchasing Strategies Customized to Procurement Markets power plant operations operation information performance management O/H) Management of power plant Statistics and analysis of Performance management for To maintain its economic superiority in the bituminous coal purchase process, EWP identifies costFacility maintenance and materials and operation indicators operation history each facility drawings management reduction factors in each procurement process and takes actions on the findings. As a result, EWP saved KRW 120 million in the purchase process and KRW 1.4 billion in demurrage in the unloading and storage Input Oil quantity Temperature Air volume Maintenance Businesses processes in 2015 when compared to 2014. Purchasing Unloading Storage Power Generation Facility Management System Operation Price risks when index rises from artificial stimulus Decreased unloading efficiency due to aging Low efficiency in coal storage due to the maintenance Status and wharf facilities at Dangjin Wharfs 1 & 2 of distance between different types of coal Plant Information Monitoring of the operational status of power generation facilities including the analysis of major equipment operation trends, continuous Problems Increased difficulty facing pilot boats at Wharf 3 System (PIS) monitoring of issues in question, and increased convenience of access to inspection items of power generation facilities Improvements Micro-analysis of index over 5 years Increased usage of the new wharf (Wharf 3) and Integrated storage of different types of coal through Establishment of a database for all types of preventive inspections for each facility, maintenance items and frequency; establishment Prevention of price risks in the first quarter through improved stevedoring efficiency prior grouping of coal that can be stored together and Reliability Centered of plans for preventive inspections and maintenance services based on reliability analysis results; and computerized monitoring of postponing the introduction of the index link system 3 Achievement of a 94% usage rate for Wharf 3 subsequent improvement in the overall space usage Maintenance (RCM) implementation results and facility status online reducing demurrage at unloading wharves Contribution to reducing demurrage through securing storage space and improving storage efficiency Predictive Warning Early detection of abnormality in power generation facilities, implementation of prediction-based maintenance through cause analysis System measures, and scientific and systematic analysis of breakdown causes Sophistication of Market Situation Analysis System for Bituminous Coal Ranked 1st in fuel costs for Risk Based Inspection Analysis of facility breakdown rates and loss amounts due to breakdown; inspection of the capacity of facilities in operation and prediction (RBI) of their remaining life span; and computerized management of maintenance plans based on the prediction results Raw material prices keep falling largely due to the global economic recession. Major economies have changed standard coal-fired power generation for six straight years their policies. EWP set up an analysis system enabling it to deal with global changes in a timely manner. As a result, the company has been able to make reasonable decisions on the purchase of bituminous coal through Stable Electricity Supply during Peak Hour Minimization of Transmission Restriction at Dangjin Coal Fired Power Complex G4-EC7 *Output cutback: Operating power generation facilities at a lower output level systematic management of internal and external factors, constant monitoring of price fluctuations of each type of coal, and micro-monitoring of future prices. The purchase frequency jumped from 32 to 40 times between 2014 and 2015. The advance purchase timing has also been shortened from 94 to 77 days between the 1st Following the determination of the construction of 345kV transmission lines in the Dangjin area, the output automatically or manually as needed same period. As a result, EWP ranked first in fuel costs for standard thermal power generation for six straight cutback operation of Dangjin power generators No. 3 8 has become inevitable. EWP has established years, underscoring its most economical fuel procurement practices. plans to minimize its output cutback amounts and developed a simulation program designed to achieve optimal output distribution in the Dangjin Coal Fired Power Complex. As a result, EWP has achieved a The Fuel Price of Bituminous Coal 321GWh increase in power generation corresponding to KRW 1.6 billion in increased revenue. 48.15 48.15 Unit: KRW /kWh 48.15 Upgrade of the Management Guidelines for Usage of Complex Equipment 39.57 39.3 39.3 Following the completion of new large-capacity and high-efficiency power generation facilities, the usage of complex equipment has dropped, worsening the productivity. EWP upgraded the management 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 guidelines for its usage of complex equipment. In 2015, EWP reduced the period of forced outage and increased the operation rate, which resulted in KRW 4 billion and KRW 12.2 billion in revenue and cost reduction, respectively. 34 35 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Economic Performance Enhancement of Future Growth Engines Securing Future Technological Competitiveness EWP secures high value-added creation type core technologies and seeks to find profit creation type future Environmental demands for the power generation industry to respond to climate change are on growth engines through systematic and constant technological development. It has set its R&D vision, and the rise. Competition with private power generation companies is being accelerated. For EWP established four major promotion strategies. to successfully carry out its midto long-term strategies and grow into a sustainable company, R&D Strategy System the company must enhance its R&D competency and new business designed to secure stable profitability and equip itself with competitiveness in various future-oriented technologies. Vision 2030 Most Valuable Power Company R&D Securing Global Top 10 Power Generation Technologies Development of New Business Vision Implementation Future-oriented investment Execution of large-scale steady Differentiated selection and Convergence with cutting-edge Domestic Business Development Process Strategy decisions tasks concentration technologies 1 Discovery of new business Commencement of development Selection of candidate venues Surveys on the willingness of local Business Area Thermal Power Dispersed electric source/power ICT New & renewable and GHG emission reduction Retrofit technologies Dispersion type power generation technologies New & renewable energy technologies governments & residents Establishment of development criteria and methods Fuel & combustion technologies Energy storage technologies GHG emission reduction technologies Selection of a venue with techno-economic Document review, on-site investigation competitiveness Cutting-edge power generation operation Electric power ICT technologies Resource recycling technologies technologies 2 Establishment of construction Design implementation Plan verification Goal Power generation efficiency: coal 45%, combined Development of USC CO2 original technologies, New & Renewable Energy 3GW 61% remote control, IoT, 3D printing CO2 reduction, 30-year BAU 20% plans Review of the optimal facility composition and format Technological reviews by professional service providers Introduction of eco-friendly high-efficiency facilities Establishment of business plans R&D Infrastructure and Cooperation Network 3 Reflection of basic electric power Construction intention Promotion of collaboration EWP boosts the efficiency of its R&D activities through outstanding infrastructure and a cooperation *Test-Bed: a platform, including Securing agreement on construction from network. It exchanges information and research assistance with KEPCO Research Institute and other local environments, systems and facilities, Promotion of private/public/civil society supply plans local governments and residents collaboration programs designed to test the performance and power companies. It offers development funds and test-bed platforms to both big and small businesses in effectiveness of new technologies, External advertising of strong project execution capabilities Securing high points in the business license evaluation the country. The company provides ideas to colleges and local governments and promotes commercialization products and services of R&D results. It has built midto long-term R&D cooperative relations with external R&D institutions. Development of New Power Sources Infrastructure and Cooperation Network In order to develop power sources in the domestic electric power market, the introduction of the new Exchange of KEPCO Rsearch Institute Big and small to mid Support for power sources should be reflected in the government's biennial Basic Electric Power Supply Plan. To Imformation and other sized business Development Funds submit a letter of intent to build a power plant that meets the requirements of the government about the Research Support power Providing Test-Bed companies operation of the local power industry and electricity market, EWP has secured land for new power plants Mid-to Mid-to long Universities Providing ideas including the replacement of New Honam Project and developed new and renewable energy as part of its longterm R&D R&D term R&D and local all-out efforts to develop diverse types of new power sources. Cooperation cooperation communities Commercialization Business Development based on Differentiation Strategies G4-EC7 R&D Tasks and Promotion Results EWP promotes the development of new business based on its differentiation strategies including the 2013 2014 2015 2016 maximum consideration of local characteristics by regional development hubs. EWP acquired the power generation business license for its Yeonggwang Wind Farm in November 2015 whereby the company Major tasks Engineering technology Development of a 5MW class Localization of the technology for Development of high valuedevelopment for a 30MW class LC biogas turbine combined heat & 501F gas turbine blades and vanes added chemicals manufacturing is building a '140MW class Wind Farm,' the largest in Korea. the company has signed an MoU with biomass power plant power generation system technologies through the integration Hoengseong-gun for the construction of a new biomass power complex. Local development of WH type gas of CO2 capture and bicarbonate of Securing design technologies Completion of the development of the turbine blades, stages 1 & 2 and 2nd soda production required for a Donghae 30MW class commercial product of a combined stage vane pumps Development of a New Energy Industry G4-EC7 LC biomass fluidized bed boiler heat & power plant Currently developing commercial EWP is striving to develop a new energy industry through the combination of new & renewable energy technoloy (5MW) that can Performance 3MW West Coast Adaptation-type Localization of the technology for Development of low temperature sources and the creation of counties independent in energy, among others. The company's combined manufacture high value-added record Wind Power System Generation 501D5 gas turbine #1-3 blades type SCR denitrification facilities for chemicals at the same time CO2 is agriculture project using hot wastewater from its Dangjin Coal Fired Power Complex, which recycles waste vertical type HRSG at combined Securing technologies for wind Securing manufacturing technologies eliminated heat to produce energy, has been selected by the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry. EWP also carries power & heat power plants turbine manufacturing, installation for gas turbine compressors and out Dangjin Future Energy Town Creation Project taking advantage of the infrastructure of its Dangjin and maintenance steam turbine HP, IP, LP rotary wings Operation of low temperature type Coal Fired Power Complex. It has also executed an MoU with Goheung-gun about the construction of a SCR denitrification facilities and Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Waste Heat biomass Power Complex in an effort to help the country become totally independent of fossil fuels for the Recycling Project registration of 6 relevant patents first time in Korea. 36 37 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Economic Performance Operation of Open Innovation System Joint R&D Promotion with SMEs To achieve its vision Securing Global Top 10 Power Generation Technologies, EWP runs an Open To build a sound supply network of power generation equipment and materials, EWP promotes joint R&D Innovation System designed to propose R&D tasks and promote joint R&D efforts. The system involves with its smallto mid-sized suppliers. The company has set two directions the increase of the localization R&D collaboration with research institutes, universities and SMEs. ratio for key components and commercialization-centered joint R&D. As a result, the company has won 'the SMBA Technology Cooperation Partner Discovery Award' for eight consecutive years for the first time Open Innovation System among public companies. STEP 1 Propsals for research topics STEP 5 Utilization of R&D results Efforts to Enhance Localization -Gvernment policy tasks of Power Generation Equipment & Materials -Cooperation tasks between power companies EWP actively promotes the localization R&D of power generation equipment & materials to reduce risks and research institutions -Establish a utilization plan and job takeover involved in securing foreign maintenance parts and components and establish an empirical virtuous circle -Joint R&D tasks with partner companies -R&D results utilization record and management -Improvement tasks related to power genration -R&D products selection and purchase system of domestic R&D products. The company localizes core components and parts that have been operation and fuels -Free transfer of relevant patents to SMEs entirely imported from overseas through joint R&D with its smallto medium-sized suppliers. It supports Task Discovery Award by SMBA -Proposed tasks internally & externally -Task extension or discovery of additional tasks reliability validation through the implementation of test-bed for SMEs' self-developed goods. Joint R&D with SME Localization ratio Implementation of test-bed STEP 2 R&D task selection R&D STEP 4 R&D task evaluation Unit: Cases Unit: % Unit: Cases 18 34 34 81 82 Collaboration 78 16 -Holding a briefing by proponent with Research institutes, 14 -Proposal review by internal experts (primary) -Result analysis against budget 29 Universities, and SMEs -Review by R&D Commitee(secondary) -Interim evaluation: budget, schedule, -Reporting on review results and final selection appropirateness -Re-deliberation when objection is raised about -Final evaluation: economic feasibility, applicability selection results STEP 3 R&D task implementation -Notifying and reporting on evalaution results 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 -Use of a collaboration system with related Classification STEP 1 (2009) STEP 2 (2012) STEP 3 (2014) institutions -Joint R&D with research institutions Establishment of localization Localization research Localization research Establishment and Rolling of R&D research Road strategies Map for localization strategy rolling strategy rolling -Executon of agreements about joint R&D tasks -Implementation of joint R&D with SMEs Period 2006.1~2008.12 2009.1~2011.12 2012. 1~2013.12 -Provision of power generation facility to SMEs Analysis objects 5 operating sites including Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Complex No. of foreign purchase items (KRW 1,492 cases (999.5) 923 cases (513) 628 cases (366) 100 million) Implementation of Strategic R&D No. of localization To preempt superiority in technological competitiveness, EWP has devised a collective intellect based Strategy R&D Investment 249 cases 116 cases 73 cases items technology roadmap and implements strategic R&D. It has devised a strategic roadmap that includes Unit: KRW 100million manpower and investment plans together with the specification of technologies to be secured. It is a long56 term plan spanning from 2015 to 2030. Most notably, the company launched its Technology Planning Promotion of Joint R&D Team in 2015 to supplement its strategic R&D momentum, increasing the number of specialized staff EWP promotes commercialization-centered joint R&D. It provides domestic and international marketing Sales of Direct Purchases 28 from three to six and investing KRW 5.6 billion in strategic R&D efforts. It also increased the frequency of 13 opportunities through direct purchase of newly developed products. It discovers and cultivates globally Unit: KRW 100 million meetings of the R&D Committee along with the ratio of deliberation and resolution cases in 2015, dealing competitive smallto medium-sized businesses and R&D intensive startup companies. Moreover, EWP 194 195 with four government R&D projects and seven R&D collaboration project. expands the implementation of its profit-sharing scheme based on joint R&D. 2013 2014 2015 162 Joint R&D Promotion Results Two-Track Operation of Exclusive R&D Departments Sales increase for 48 companies Discovery of 2 robust SMEs Distribution of KRW 105 million EWP carries out R&D activities efficiently through strategic R&D centered on government projects and that participated in the marketing in profit-sharing through the expansion of exclusive management and operation of shared growth R&D with SMEs. Strategic R&D department is in support project Discovery of the profit-sharing scheme 10 companies that 2013 2014 2015 charge of the strategic promotion of midto long-term government tasks. Shared Growth R&D Department KRW 563.9 billion in 2015 participate in is responsible for the maximization of Big and Small Business Matching Research of technologies. The (▲KRW 59.4 billion) new R&D efforts company maximizes its R&D synergistic effects through the realization of two-track R&D operations. 38 39 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Economic Performance Overseas Business Overseas Project Development Process EWP makes decisions on its overseas project development according to a thorough process including a Overseas Project Development Process Outlook of the World Demand for Electric Power feasibility review by the Overseas Business Selection Committee to secure objectivity in the review, the Project discovery According to the IEA's forecast of the global demand for electric power, the demand of non-OECD project risk review by Risk Management Committee, and the review of the companywide investment priority Collection of project information Feasibility studies countries for electric power is estimated to account for more than 80% of the total increase due to by the Investment Review Committee. For the successful promotion of overseas projects, it has set five the economic growth and demographic increases in developing countries. As the Paris Agreement on major feasibility review principles (PRIME) in the areas of profit (P), risk (R), strategic compatibility (I), mutual Project selection Climate Change has gone into effect, it is predicted that investments in new and renewable energy power growth (M) and employee satisfaction (E). It has established a 'Risk Management System' that presents a Overseas Business Selection Committee generation business will expand significantly. In keeping with the worldwide trends in response to climate standard rate of return through quantitative risk evaluation. Project development change, EWP has made the best use of its technological prowess and local networks around the world to Risk Management System Risk Management Committee secure leadership in various developing countries' electricity markets. Investment Deliberation Committee Profit Risk Strategic Shared Employee Final decision Outlook of Increases in World Demand for Electric Power 2012-2014 Compatibility Growth Satisfaction BOD 8 Cases 100 Cases 5 Cases 2 Cases 4 Cases 2.8% 0.9% Project commencement J/V establishment 0.9% China Standard rate of Government Capital structure Terror/crime/security, 2.7% 4,370TWh ▶ 9,560TWh North America return, securing system, nation's limits, strategic EPC diseases, housing/ electric power sales credit rating, past investors' roles, implementation, medicine/education/ Middle East 4,645TWh ▶ 5,983TWh Europe contracts, contract default experiences, degree of supply ratio of transport facilities, 3,188TWh ▶ 3,881TWh 753TWh ▶ 1,590TWh parties' credit rating, degree of currency collaboration efforts, domestic equipment and implementation etc. convertibility, etc. etc. and materials of one's jobs 4.4% 4.0% 3.9% Current Status of Overseas Projects The Kalsel Indonesia Project India 2.5% EWP is carrying out the Kalsel Indonesia Project that it won in 2012 through an open bid. In 2015, the 869TWh ▶ 2,915TWh Saved in financial costs company met the requirements of the credit group, EPC and local partners through the minimization of through additional reductions Africa South-East Asia 682TWh ▶ 2,018TWh additional financial burdens and deposits promoted with the purpose of concluding the negotiation about in interest rates 620TWh ▶ 1,868TWh Central and South the procurement of financial resources, and cost reductions based on the renegotiation of the industrial 19 America Name of Countries water fees. Moreover, the company saved KRW 19 billion in financial costs through additional reductions in OECD Non-OECD 948TWh ▶ 1,895TWh The amount of current demand ▶ The amount of projected demand in 2040 interest rates following the company's systematic introduction of competition among financial institutions. billion(KRW) Jamaica JPS Operation Project and the US EWP RC EWP has promoted improvements in midto long-term profitability of its core overseas projects such Current Status of Overseas Projects as Jamaica JPS and the US EWP RC. At JPS, the company accomplished fundamental improvements in EWP has set up a midto long-term roadmap to preempt the electricity market of the developing world profitability through more fundamental approaches like improvements in the electricity bill regulations. At EWP including Vietnam, Indonesia and the Philippines and expand its presence in areas where it is currently RC, EWP enhanced the competitiveness of the company through increases in the operation of the CPH operating. It is striving to achieve its goal of 2GW in its overseas power generation facility capacity. power plant and the profitability of the biomass power complex. Through such efforts, the company has achieved a surplus for three consecutive years at both Jamaica's JPS operation project and the American EWP RC project. Implementation Strategy Stage 1 Foundation Period (2020) 2030 Completion of Kalsel Project, Indonesia and Goal Net Profit Net Income to Sales development of new and renewable energy projects 1st promotion strategies Establishment of stable profitability basis for existing JPS EWP RC Unit: KRW 100 million JPS EWP RC Unit: % operation projects (JPS, EWP RC) 120 9.18 Concentration on target areas Stage 2 Takeoff Period (2025) 97 (Vietnam, Indonesia, the Philippines) based on technological prowess 5.72 Promotion of follow-up coal-fired power plant projects in Indonesia 2GW Development of new business in the current operating regions 40 54 2nd promotion strategies 3.49 Stage 3 Maturation Period (2030) 2.25 Promotion of the development of new 29 in the capacity of 0.84 business using the existing network of 1 0.18 its overseas power the company's operating sites (Latin Development of large-scale projects generation facilities America and other regions) 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 40 41 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Economic Performance Financial Soundness Enhancement of Profitability To make improvements in its cash flow through enhancement of its profitability, EWP has reduced costs The largest since the company EWP has devised a midto long-term financial plan after analyzing internal and external circumstances and improved its power generator operation rate. Also, EWP achieved the highest rank in cost reductions inception to achieve a sustainable and sound financial structure while making reasonable budget operations. In for standard coal-fired power generation through the standardization of internal and external variable 2015, EWP endeavored to secure financial soundness in accordance with its midto long-term roadmap. management including market prices and macroeconomic variables. It increased profits through value 454.9 increases of assets denominated in foreign currency. As a result, the company achieved KRW 454.9 billion in net income in 2015, the largest since the company inception. billion(KRW) Establishment of Midto Long-term Financial Plan EWP set a midto long-term financial plan designed to systematically implement its 2030 Midto LongDebt Reductions term Management Strategies. It has set its performance goal and secured its financial soundness by Through highly intensive self-help efforts, EWP reduced its overall debt in 2015 by KRW 588 billion Debt Management Committee selecting implementation tasks aligned with its midto long-term roadmap. compared to its goal KRW 329.5 billion. The company also reduced debt by an additional KRW 79.6 All projects with a Eligibility budget of more than billion by discovering and implementing extra tasks in addition to its original debt reduction plan. With 2015 ~2018 ~2030 KRW 3 billion per project Midto the additional resources, EWP expanded investments in its future. It has set an allowable limit on its debt Growth-oriented financial plans setting No. of long-term -Boosting financial soundness -Systemizing response to future challenges Upgrading companywide risk ratio and carried out debt impact assessments according to a debt impact assessment process. It strives deliberation 221 cases handled in roadmap management system to prepare reasonable budgets through enhanced feasibility evaluation of project budgets and effective cases 25 meetings -Systemization of financial risk management -Boosting financial structural soundness -Efficient asset management -Upgrade of asset management Improvements in productivity operation of Deliberation Committee. Curbing debt increases Effects by KRW 128.5 billion Performance goal A competitive public company that maintains a sound financial structure and achieves sustainable growth Procedures for debt impact assessment 2015 Boosting financial soundness Systemization of financial risk management Efficient asset management Application for Receipt by Special Whether project implementation Establishment of sustainable, sound financial plans Strategic funds procurement through market Preemptive response to carbon emission debt impact Debt Management budget exceeds tasks Improvements in cash flow through increased situation analysis reduction technologies assessment Committee KRW 3billion profitability Preemptive financial risk management through the Market expansion through collaboration with the Restructuring the business portfolio through the implementation of debt reduction private sector establishment of an optimal power source mix Strategic fuel purchases and securing cost Profit management through the stabilization of the YES NO Results competitiveness independent accounting of business units reporting Devising ways to improve profitability Boosting usage rate Regular Working Committee Committee Monitoring Strategic asset management system Integrated risk management process ERP (Enterprise Resources Planning) meeting meeting Debt Management Committee Financial Risk Management Committee Analysis of budgets, final accounts, and general Investment Review Committee 'Monthly financial plan review meetings management status D+3 NO YES Budget Deliberation Committee YES NO D+3 Project Efforts to Secure Financial Soundness and their Outcomes adjustments Project approval EWP carried out an analysis of the patterns of its past performances in stability and profitability in a bid to Project YES Project secure financial soundness. It turned out that the company needed to make improvements in its profitability implementation adjustments while showing fairly good performance in stability. As a result, the company set improvements in its financial soundness as one of its implementation tasks in 2015. It chose the enhancement of profitability, debt Enhancement of Debt Reduction Monitoring Activities reductions, and enhancement of the risk management system as its three major improvement tasks for the year. At the end of the year, EWP surpassed annual targets in all key areas such as stability, profitability Management Efficiency Improvement Debt Management Committee Financial Risk Management Committee Sub-committees in various fields Committee and growth potential. It was presented with the 16th Financial Innovation Award hosted by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance, for the first time among public companies in the country. Financial Innovation Award Finalization of debt reduction plans Establishment and review of debt Analysis of environmental changes Establishment and review of reduction plans implementation tasks Discovery and management of additional Market and operational risk management Stability_Debt ratio Profitability_ROE Growth Potential_Asset increase rate tasks Debt impact assessment Prior debt impact assessment performance Unit: % performance Unit: % performance Unit: count goals 143.6 goals 11 goals 136.1 22 Enhancement of Risk Management System 121.8 To maintain the stability and soundness of its financial structure, EWP has established and managed *VaR (Value at Risk): the maximum amount 118 5 12 of losses possible an integrated risk management system including financial risks and operation risks. In 2015, EWP 4 1 5.6 measured and managed foreign currency VaR to address its financial risks. It implements prediction of 5.4 foreign currency fluctuations and adjustment of hedge ratios. Also, to cope with its operational risks, the company monitors its forced outage rate and detects and counters power generation operational risks. By 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 monitoring fuel consumption fluctuations, it secures a stable supply of fuels. We take on new challenges We actively embrace new challenges We will overcome new environments together. EWP copes with energy issues including response to global climate change and create a co-existing future through the development of green energies. Environmental Performance EWP's Economic Performance DMA 44 Green Management 45 Coping with climate change 46 Environment Management 48 Establishing a basis for a new growth engine 52 Establishment of Green Infrastructure 54 44 45 DMA Disclosures on Management Approach Em Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Da ng plo ye Ulsa jin G ov es n ● i n er ● Ul Stea st nm itu e san m Pa rtn tio nt ns Co ● er ● ● m bi c om ne d pa ● p nie s● Green Management Ho lan O t c the ● Reporting na m om p r Do ● p an e o w Boundary ng ies r ● Do ha e Cu ● ngha ● st om e er Bi o ● NG s ● EWP has promoted eco-friendly management activities under the conviction that taking a series of its Ils O an ● ● ● ● activities designed to reduce GHG emissions and environmental pollutants is its critical social responsibility. Goal for Green Management EWP has defined green management as incorporation of its traditional environmental management into Green Management Goal and Strategies sustainability management. It has built its own green management system. Most notably, it has set its Green Management Goal green management goals aimed at taking preemptive measures to fight climate change. 20% of the estimated GHG emission in 2030 Green Management System and Strategy Green Management Strategies EWP continues to take all the necessary supervisory and preventive measures keeping in contact Expansion of high-efficiency lowwith its stakeholders. Through an environmental monitoring system, it discloses its power plants' data carbon power sources on air pollution, water pollution and emission concentrations. For the first time among local power Development of new and renewable energy plant operators, EWP runs its own green management system and discloses comparative data on the Improvement of efficiency of power implementation of green life at the level of both operating sites and individuals. plants R&D on GHG emission reductions Green Management Performance Evaluation G4-EN29 Green Management Promotion To build a consensus on green management among all its employees and enhance the organizational Systems capacity to promote green management, EWP runs internal performance index designed for improvements Environmental monitoring system in its green management. The evaluation results are reflected in its incentive program. It continues to Green management promotion Gyeongju Wind Farm(Gyeongju, Korea) upgrade the performance indices by taking into account internal and external environmental changes. system Management of communication with In addition, to boost its employees' awareness of green management, it has developed its own green stakeholders management system and green management performance evaluation indices, which has motivated its Environmental Performance employees to take part in the companywide effort. Implementation Green Management Evaluation and Performance Sustainability Context Green Management Performance Indices Detailed indices Evaluation Items 2015 Performance Evaluation In line with the Paris Agreement on Climate Change adopted in 2015, major environmental Issue 1 Isuue 7 Green management evaluation index issues have emerged as the most critical management issues. The government is tightening Response to climate change Development and distribution of Compliance Compliance with Compliance with emissions allowances, compliance Environmental with environmental with permit and license conditions, proper accident Zero Climate competitiveness index their own environmental regulations, and is adopting policies involved with restrictions on eco-friendly energy technologies Issue 4 environmental regulations management of emission and prevention facilities, coal-fired power generation and expansion of environmentally-friendly power sources like Compliance with environmental Issue 12 regulations and appropriate management of chemicals regulations Effluent and waste management Dept. in charge of green management green energy as well as GHG emission reduction. EWP has established green environment Green Designation as a green enterprise, ISO 14000/9001 Qualification management strategies and worked to curb climate change. management certification maintenance CGO(Chief Green Key Performance Indicator Officer) Our Strategy & Commitment With the goal of a 20% reduction in its GHG emissions by 2030, EWP has set up its green 1.82 million tons 2 years in a row Designation as Purchase of Green Products Over 90% in the purchase rate of green product 97.9% Green Management Committee Reduction of and outstanding management strategy system with four specific strategic directions. To carry out the plan additonal GHG business Improvements Improvements Decreases in pollutants and waste, and improvements Exclusive organization for systematically, it has set up green management departments at its head office and all its operating amid the allocation of participation in in green in green in environmental facilities and relevant work climate change response emissions allowances the CDP management management Climate & Environment Team (head office) sites, which continue to enhance their strategic implementation of their. Proper Efforts to recycle waste (goal: over 85%) 90% 100 90 Our Progress & Next Step management Env. Management Team / Env. & % % Chemistry Team (a place of businesses) EWP upgrades its green management performance indices through reflection of its internal and Achievement of Achievement of PRS implementaion waste recycling rate external environmental changes on an annual basis. It strongly motivates employees' voluntary rate participation in companywide efforts through the development and application of its own green Compliance with Environmental Regulations G4-EN29 management performance index. It will make all-out efforts to successfully realize its midto EWP manages and complies with domestic and international environmental regulations and other long-term goals: reduction of GHG emissions, green growth, and establishment of a green *RPS (Renewable Portfolio Standard): a regulation that requirements that directly correspond or relate to the environmental aspects of all its activities, production requires the increased production of energy from corporate culture. and services. Most notably, EWP takes active approaches to environmental management through the renewable energy sources, such as wind, solar and geothermal application of emission allowances that have been voluntarily set above the standards for green enterprises. 46 47 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Environmental Performance Coping with Climate Change SDG 13 R&D on GHG High Value-Added Conversion Technologies EWP is striving to develop GHG high value-added technologies to secure profitable CO2 treatment G4-EN19 *CCS(Carbon Capture & Storage: a technology that collects, compresses, Most notably, EWP strives to achieve its own GHG emission reduction goal by expanding of high technologies by directly reducing GHG emitted by thermal power plants. When EWP began to promote transports more than 90% of CO2 emitted efficiency low-carbon power sources, developing new & renewable energy, and R&D on GHG R&D on CCS*, it was challenging to secure storage space following CO 2 capture. Thus, EWP invested from large-scale CO2 sources such as reduction technologies. As a result, EWP reduced 1.82 million tons of GHG emissions more than KRW 1.9 billion in the development of technologies designed to manufacture sodium bicarbonate without power generation and industrial processes, and then stores it in oil fields, gas fields or allocated by the government, and achieved the highest score in the power generation industry in the need to store CO2, NCCU(Non Capture CO2 Utilization Process) through the reaction between CO2 saline aquifers. the Competitiveness Index in Climate Change for five consecutive years. and NaOH in emissions. NCCU(Non Capture CO2 Utilization Process) Expected economic value through NCCU technology Exhaust gas Thermal Current Status of GHG Emissions and Energy Used G4-EN3 G4-EN15 G4-EN16 power plant CO2 capture Carbonation Electrolysis EWP's GHG emissions and energy consumption have continued to decline since 2013 through its efforts to cut down on its GHG emissions, including various GHG emission reduction businesses and GHG Caustic 5.2 billion(KRW) reduction technologies. Meanwhile, its facility capacity rose by 21.8% following the completion of Dangjin soda #9 and #10 in 2016. An increase is anticipated in its GHG emissions. It will strive to minimize its GHG Chlorine Nitrogen emissions through active efforts to respond to climate change. GHG Emissions(Scope 1+Scope 2) Energy Consumption Sodium bicarbonate Hypochlorous acid High-purity hydrochloric acid 42,665,921 Unit: tCO2-eq 550,933 Unit: (TJ) 38,229,795 489,557 37,950,777 457,227 Expansion of High-efficiency Low-carbon Power Sources EWP actively promotes GHG emission reduction through improvements in its power generation efficiency. Expected GHG reduction of Specifically, it strives to not only upgrade the efficiency of its existing facilities but also expand low-carbon Dangjin Thermal Power Plant high-efficiency power generation facilities that will replace existing facilities, as a way to escalate the efficiency Units #9,10 of its total power generation facilities, and make improvements in its emission reduction unit. It is building 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 9.7% its Dangjin #9 and #10 into a 100MW class ultra-super critical power plant* respectively for the first time in Korea, which are expected to reduce GHG emissions by 9.7% compared to standard coal-fired power plants. *Ultra-Super Critical Power Plant: a power plant maintaining over 593 degrees Celsius of steam temperature while keeping its steam pressure above 246kg/cm2, higher than an existing super critical power plant Current Status of Other Relevant Indirect G4-EN17 GHG Emissions Voluntary participation in CDP SDG 13 Besides direct and indirect GHG emissions, EWP has voluntarily managed other relevant indirect GHG EWP began to participate voluntarily in the CDP in 2012 with the aim of converting the global climate emissions (SCOPE 3) such as water for electricity, supplies purchase, GHG emissions from business trips Reduced other indirect GHG change crisis into an opportunity for itself in terms of its CSR efforts. Its climate competitiveness has been emissions evaluated ever since. Most notably, it won a CDP Special Carbon Management Award in 2015 for two CDP score rose in 2015 and commuting since 2014. In 2015, it reduced other indirect GHG emissions by 5.6% over the previous year through the reduction of water for power generation and fuel consumption. consecutive years for its efforts to manage its indirect emissions and enhance its reporting level. 2014 2015 5.6% Other Relevant Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) 76 90 Other Indirect GHG Gas Type 2014 2015 points points Emissions Scope 3 tCO2-eq 9,262,519 8,742,014 2015 performance of emission trading Efforts of GHG Emissions Reduction G4-EN19 SDG 13 Unit: ten thousand ton Successful Implementation of Emissions Trading Scheme 3,977 3,795 EWP has successfully implemented its emissions trading scheme. In 2015, it reduced 1.82 million 182 surplus tons more than allocated by the government. During the year, it emitted the least amount among power amount companies although it ranked 2nd in the country in terms of the proportion of coal-fired power generation. Through the development of technologies converting GHG into high value-added chemicals, EWP will No. 1 in the Competitiveness Index in Climate Change (the CDP Special Carbon Management Award for the second expand high-efficiency low-carbon power sources and biomass and other new and renewable energyquota emissions Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy Award) straight year (Nov. 2015) based power plants and minimize GHG emissions. 48 49 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Environmental Performance Environment Management 2015 Air Pollutants Regulation and Emissions SOx NOx Dust 2015 Status of EWP Plant Emissions Power plants inevitably emit pollutants while generating electricity. EWP strives to minimize its Generation Power Plant Regulation Emissions Regulation Emissions Regulation Emissions emission of pollutants. It takes actions to help protect the environment and fulfill its environmental (Renewable GWh 49,239 (ppm) (ppm) (ppm) (ppm) (mg/Sm3) (mg/Sm3) Power energy not responsibilities. generation included) Dangjin 100 24 140 73 25 5 Transmission GWh 45,840 Thermal 10,000 Ulsan Steam 150 58 150 (#4~6) 132 20 5 Current Status of Environment Management Fuel for Coal tons 1,500 power Ulsan EWP minimizes its production of pollutants from power generation process. EWP is operating Oil 1,000 ㎘ 660 80 35 generation Combined environmental facilities for managing air and water pollutant materials above the standards with real time LNG 1,000 tons 960 Honam 100 70 140 116 25 3 disclosure. Power Thermal generation Boiler water 1,000 tons 10,267 water Donghae Environmental Materials Treatment Diagram Thermal 150 (#1~2) 83 140 (#1~2) 46 25 (#1~2) 4 For Limestone 1,000 tons 343 desulfurization Smoke Elimination Elimination of Elimination of Noise Donghae Bio 50 70 18 20 3 monitoring of dust Sulfur oxides nitrogen oxides prevention Magnesium For 1,000 tons 55 hydroxide desulfurization Ilsan Thermal 100 33 Hazardous For water 1,000 tons 11 Installing turbines indoor chemicals treatment Flue gas Turbine/generator SOx ton 11,965 Usage of Service Water and Water Quality Management G4-EN22 SDG 11 Electric desulfurizer Exhaust precipitator gas Home/factory NOx ton 21,552 EWP makes all-out efforts to reduce water pollution. In order to treat wastewater from power plants Air denitrizers pollutants Dust ton 651 properly, it has built a comprehensive wastewater treatment facility and treated wastewater according to CO2 1,000 tons 37,951 its management criteria that is stricter than legal requirements. It has also boosted the recycling of water COD ton 27 and wastewater through the recycling of starting water from combined-cycle power plants and the reuse Resources Ash Gypsum Ash SS ton 12 of thoroughly treated water as process water, among others. As a result of such efforts, EWP was able to Recycling Water Total nitrogen ton 47 recycle 1,227 tons of wastewater, or 36% of its total wastewater produced in 2015. pollutants Integrated wastewater Water Total Wastewater temperature phosphorous ton 0.4 Quantity of usage of raw water and quantity of recycled wastewater Ash treatment facility treatment facility monitoring Storage areas Power Fly ashes 1,000 tons 1,802 Raw Water Unit: 1,000 ton Treated Q’ty Recycled Q’ty Unit: 1,000 ton Recycling rate of wastwater Coal unloading generation byDesulfurized in 2015 Conveyor belts 1,000 tons 495 13,761 3,598 Treated products gypsum 3,416 12,055 Recycled effluents 3,161 Water quality 10,267 Rate 36% 36 Recycled Rate Recycled Rate Dust scattering preventing Wastewater testing 36% 41% treatment % 1,227 1,288 1,285 Air Environmental Management G4-EN21 SDG 11 Air Pollutants For the management of its air pollutants, EWP has installed reduction facilities, set its goals higher than 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 SOx Unit : ton required for legal standards in Korea and met the goals. It fulfills its responsibility for environmental management in an active manner. Emission Allowances and Concentrations for Water Pollutants Unit: mg/ℓ 16,629 13,755 11,965 Air Pollutant Treatment Facilities as of 2015 Area COD SS Total Nitrogen Total Phosphorous Power Plant 2013 2014 2015 (type) Regulation Emissions Regulation Emissions Regulation Emissions Regulation Emissions Desulfurization facilities Denitrification Facilities Dust Collector Power Plant (to reduce sulfur oxides) (to remove nitrogen oxides) (to remove dust) NOx (Thermal) Power generation 5 2 9 Units Type Units Type Units Type Dangjin Area B (Grade 1) 90 80 60 8 Less than 1 Desulfurization 21 21 45 31,994 24,799 21,552 Wet limestone-gypsum Dangjin 8 8 SCR 8 Electric Precipitator Ulsan B(Grade 1) 90 7 80 2 60 10 8 Gypsum process 2013 2014 2015 Power generation Wet limestone-gypsum 5 SCR 6 2 3 wastewater Ulsan 3 3 Electric Precipitator Dust Honam Special Area (Grade 1) 40 30 60 8 Less than 1 Gypsum process 3 SNCR Desulfurization 19 7 34 SCR 723 687 651 wastewater Honam 2 Magnesium hydroxide 2 2 Electric Precipitator SNCR Donghae Special Area (Grade 3) 130 2 120 1 60 1 8 Less than 1 2013 2014 2015 Donghae 2 Desulfurization in a dry furnace 2 Electric Precipitator Ilsan Area B (Grade 1) 40 6 10 3 60 11 8 50 51 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Environmental Performance Recycling of Waste and By-products G4-EN23 SDG 11 Management of Chemicals To boost its management efficiency, EWP has increased the recycling rate of the waste and by-products To prevent chemical disasters and provide the public with a safe living environment, EWP has established Current Status of Management of generated during its operations. Out of more than 30 kinds of waste produced at its power plants, EWP a chemical management system for the first time among public companies. It manages hazardous Chemicals recycles coal ash, gypsum and waste oil, among others, and uses them as new sources of revenue materials and non-hazardous materials for each operating site according to its standards. It enhances Electricity Intensity creation. Those that are hard to recycle are handled by external licensed businesses. In a bid to continue preventive measures through the safety inspection of chemical-handling facilities and the effective Production(GWh) Usage(ton) (ton/GWh) to expand its recycling efforts and cut down on treatment costs, EWP will diversify the demand for its management of chemicals. It has also set up a response system for integrated management that includes 56,611 15,424 0.272 recycled resources, boost R&D in this regard, and discover ways to expand their usage. post-response actions. In 2015, EWP experienced no chemical accidents. 2013 Current status of Waste Production and Recycling Implementation of Green Life 50,699 10,762 0.212 Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 Environmental Impact Post-Assessment SDG 14 Power generation (except for GWh 56,611 50,699 49,239 EWP monitors the impact of its power plant operations on the surrounding environments and analyzes 2014 new & renewable) the results. To secure accuracy in its monitoring, EWP has an external specialized institute carry out 49,239 11,018 0.224 Waste production 1,000 tons 1,839 1,906 1,824 environmental impact assessment (water quality, air, noise, soil) in the areas surrounding its power plants. Basic unit quantity ton/GWh 32 37 37 * Renewable energy is not Most notably, when a negative impact is detected, countermeasures are set up based on the relevant 2015 included in Electricity Production. Recycled Q’ty 1,000 tons 1,857 1,851 1,635 data with the results notified to relevant government ministries (the Ministry of Trade, Industry & Energy, Recycled Rate % 101 97 90 the Ministry of Environment, and the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries) for thorough preventive measures against environmental contamination. Recycling coal ash and desulfurized Gypsum Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 Environmental Eco-friendly circulation Assessment period Impact PostLand plant Soil Noise Recycled Q’ty 1,000 tons 557 459 480 of resources Dangjin #1~8 1994~2017 Assessment Recycled Dangjin #9~10 2009~2021 Gypsum % 97.6 98.3 97.0 Rate Dangjin Coal Fired 2010~2015 Use Gypsum board, raw material for cement, etc. Power Complex Offshore Environments Recycled Q’ty 1,000 tons 1,829 1,844 1,615 Donghae Biomass Power 2011~2018 Recycled Coal ash % 101.2 98.6 89.6 Plant Rate Ulsan Oil Fired & C.C Power 2012~2019 Use Concrete admixtures, embankment materials, etc. Complex Unit #4 Noise Management Spread of hot agricultural marine water and marine In an effort to minimize noise from its power plants and substations, it has installed noise monitoring air quality cooling water products sediment quality ecosystem systems in all the relevant areas and keeps track of the noise level there around the clock. The systems issue alarms and immediately send out text messages to the personnel in charge when an extraordinary level of noise occurs. Upon the request of the personnel, Control Center of each power plant takes immediate actions on noise sources, including steam discharge noise and opening safety valves. Management of Environments Surrounding Power Plants SDG 14 In an efforts to minimize changes to the ecology surrounding its power plants and maintain the integrity of Noise Management Process the surrounding natural environment, EWP carries out diverse environmental protection programs entitled '1-Company 1-Shore,' '1Company 1-River,' '1-Company 1-Road' and '1-Company 1-Wetland'. In 2015, more than 40 EWP employees planted 300 Hinoki cypress seedlings at Hamwol Park in Ulsan and cleaned the surrounding areas. Environmental Management Activity Costs EWP Environmental Protection Activities Unit: KRW 1,000 Occurance of Notify a warning Transmit text Including steam Noise reduction noise discharge noise and 1-company 1-shore 1-company 1-river 1-company 1-road 1-company 1-wetland 23,886 message Opening safety valves 21,577 Soil Management 4,478 As part of its efforts to prevent soil contamination, EWP carries out soil contamination inspections and leakage tests. Soil contamination inspections are focused on the inspection of soil contamination caused by oil due to failure in the storage and handling of fuel for power generation and heavy equipment. EWP's 2013 2014 2015 soil inspections intended to maintain sustainable soil environments are held at least once a year. 52 53 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Environmental Performance Establishing a basis for a new growth engine Plan for Facility Operations at 'Dangjin Energy Town' Type of Energy New & In line with the UN Framework Convention on Climate Change and the changes in the power ClassifiRenewable Unit Total cation New & Renewable Clean Energy Energy Nitrogen Energy Bioenergy industry at home and abroad, EWP is concentrated on building the foundation for its future Energy Convergence Independent Island growth engines that can lead the government policies in its area. It strives to expand its new and Facility Wind Power + MW 20 8 28 renewable energy business and establish infrastructure required for green growth. capacity ESS Photovoltaic MW 37 0.5 37.5 Expand New & Renewable Energy Business SDG 11 Power 174.5MW Hydrogen fuel MW 50 50 Establishing a New and Renewable Energy Promotion System Seokmun Bio MW 39 39 EWP has established a new and renewable energy promotion system with the goal of 'Top 1 Korean Current Status of and Plans for Facilities Green Energy Company by 2030.' To carry out its Renewable Portfolio Standards (RPS) most efficiently, Power to Gas MW 20 20 Present Bio EWP has set a new-renewable energy roadmap that calls for the reduction of the costs of renewable 227 Spread of hot Gcal 15,000 15,000 Gcal On/offshore cooling water energy to around 20% of the costs of fossil fuel power generation by 2030. In addition, to secure future 79.8 growth potential for new and renewable energy, it is focused on the expansion of its global business and Solar Hydrogen 30.5 No. 1 1 others charging stations secure business competency needed to create revenue sources. 20.3 Current Status and Outlook of New & Renewable energy Facilities Total: 358MW Strategic Biomass Fuel Purchase and Facility Expansion Bio Fuels Purchased for Three Years 2010~ Growth Stage 2017~ Jumping Stage 2024~ Expanding Stage Outlook To maximize the recycling of waste resources and implement the country's RPS (Renewable Portfolio Expanding biomass Unit: MW 2016 2023 2030 facilities Standards), EWP has expanded its existing biomass facilities in a bid to increase its fuel co-firing. It has Competency enhancement Laying the foundation Securing future growth engines secure additional co-firing capacity by expanding the generators in use at Dangjin Coal Fired Power for new and renewable energy for strategic business 202 187 Solar Complex, Ulsan Oil Fired & C.C Power Complex expanded the trial business period for bio-fuel oil by 50 Demonstrative study for tidal power Commercial tidal currents and tidal Large-scale commercial tidal 246 generation power currents & tidal power Bio a year through negotiations with the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. It also sought to secure price 2013 2014 2015 368 MW class fuel cells Onshore & offshore Large-scale offshore others competitiveness in order to expand its co-firing of bio fuels. Most notably, Donghae Biomass Power Complex wind power wind power 486 Expanding the coUnit: 1,000 REC Small Hydro Power, On/offshore has secured an additional 20,000 tons of biomass fuels for co-firing at low open competitive bid prices. firing (No. of RECs* Bio, Land wind power Bio and Launching *Byungsan business of 1.9GW issued) waste-to-energy coal gasification and Group energy Total: 3GW Donghae Biomass Power Plant The 1st stage Yeonggwang Wind Power *Byungsan business: The way to produce fuel and raw materials at once. 876 Bio Solar 549 143 New & Renewable Energy Convergence Complex SDG 7 On/offshore others 2013 2014 2015 EWP is building the country's largest new & renewable energy town that will serve as its strategic hub *REC (Renewable Energy Certificate): for new and renewable energy at a location where it can make the most of Dangjin Power Plant and its a certificate proving the production of surrounding infrastructure. With the purpose of 'creating a new energy business model on top of the electricity through new and renewable energy facilities country's largest capacity coal-fired power plant (6,000MW),' EWP has devised a master plan and is promoting the creation of an energy town centered around four energy themes. The town with a facility capacity of 174.5MW is scheduled to be completed in October 2019. Along with the huge new and renewable energy complex, which will seek win-win situations with local communities, a tourism belt will be Regulation Improvements for the Onshore Wind Power SDG 7 created in the region to help with the invigoration of local economy. Promotion of the Creation of a Wind Farm through Improvements of Regulations Dangjin Future Energy Town (bird's-eye View) Regulatory guides on the environmental impact assessment of onshore wind power business have been upgraded, enabling previously restricted areas to embrace wind power complexes. Now, complexes can be constructed high in mountains and areas classified as Grade 1 in ecological naturalness. EWP is carrying out two wind farm projects in Dongdaesan Mountain, Ulsan and Yeomsubong Peak in Yangsan. It is awaiting a government license for its Taebaek Gadeoksan Project. Creation of Korea's Biggest Wind Farm for Win-win with Local Communities EWP has changed its business strategy from the supplier's profitability to profit-sharing with customers. It has developed additional wind farms in the neighborhood of its existing wind farms to implement its new strategy. In 2014-2015, it completed Honam Wind Farm (20MW) and Yeonggwang Baeksu Wind Farm (40MW). In November 2015, it obtained a power generation business license for Yeonggwang Wind Farm (80MW). EWP uses a part of its revenues from Yeonggwang Wind Farm for the support of those eligible for the National Basic Livelihood Security System and those in the next neediest classes. 54 55 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Environmental Performance Establishment of Green Infrastructure Development of Eco-friendly Energy Sources Promotion of the Construction of a Livestock Manure Biomass Power Complex The entire world pays keen attention to the issue of sustainable green growth through the EWP is promoting the construction of biomass power complex that recycle livestock manure as part of realization of eco-friendly energy. EWP has worked hard to continue to develop eco-friendly its efforts to secure new energy sources. In 2015, it developed combustion technologies required for the technologies and eco-friendly energy sources to fulfill its responsibility as a public energy enterprise stable operation of a livestock power complex. It secured economic feasibility by drawing support from to supply clean energy to the public. the Ministry of Environment, the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs, and the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. In addition, it signed a MoU about laying the foundation for the construction of a Development of Eco-friendly Technologies livestock manure power complex with Hoengseong-gun which is fully committed to building the plant in MoU with Hoengseong-gun(Mar, 2015) EWP continues to develop eco-friendly technologies to achieve environmentally sound, sustainable growth. its area. Most notably, it has developed the recycling technologies for coal ash and heavy oil fly ash and solved the oversupply issue as a way to minimize environmental pollution and realize a resource circulation society. Promotion of Asan Bay Tidal Power Plant Project As part of its efforts to secure new and renewable energy, EWP has promoted the Asan Bay Tidal Power Recycling of Coal Ash and Heavy Oil Fly Ash Plant since 2015 which will make the most of the tidal range of the West Sea. To prevent conflicts with Recycling to architectural Recycling into fuel that can local communities, EWP had Korea Ocean Research Development Institute conduct technological, Coal ash Heavy oil interior materials fly ash be deodorized environmental and economic feasibility studies of the project and devised solutions to potential problems. Display of coal ash recycling technologies In May 2015, EWP completed the review of the feasibility study results and submitted a letter of intent for (Feb, 2015) the construction of the power plant to Asan City Hall. It has held town hall meetings to publicize the project Development of Coal Ash Recycling Technologies G4-EN19 G4-EN27 SDG 7 and secure the consent of local residents with regards to it. The supply of coal ash is anticipated to increase by 67% by 2022, while the demand for coal ash is expected to suffer a glut in supply owing to a slowdown in construction business, making it crucial to New Energy Business Using Waste Heat and Water SDG 2 develop coal ash recycling technologies. EWP therefore carries out a project tasked with the production To recycle waste heat and water from its thermal power complexes, EWP is striving to expand its use not of architectural interior materials that can replace cement with coal ash. The project is expected to save only in fish farms but also in agriculture. In 2013-2014, EWP succeeded in abalone fish farming using KRW 2.6 billion in landfill costs due to the increased recycling of 300,000 tons of coal ash and KRW 1.1 waste heat and water from its power plants, contributing to increased income and job creation in nearby billion in landfill charges and GHG emission reduction. fishing villages. However, most of the communities around its power plants are engaged in agriculture. Plan for Coal Ash Recycling Business Therefore, in 2015, EWP established a plan for agricultural pilots projects using its waste heat and water in diverse agricultural sectors based on financial support from the Ministry of Agriculture, Food and Rural Affairs. 2013~ Technological 2015 Certification and 2016 Commercial 2014 Development Preparations Production Master Plan for Recycling of Waste Heat and Water A fishing farm operated with waste heat Development of architectural Acquisition of certification for Commercial production using existing & water interior materials, 70% of which commercial production facilities and supply of goods to Fishing Industry Agricultural Industry System/technology are made of coal ash Certification about fire resistance (Fire markets weight 15%▼ cost 30%▼ Insurers Laboratories of Korea) Horizontal member, soundproof walls, R&D on sea Establishment of Technical development partitions 2014 for fish farming Market surveys and laying the ranches collaboration system Demonstration production (40 foundation for production Promotion of exportation of drywalls tons) and attribute evaluation Display at architectural trade fairs and Execution of exclusive distribution Including wastewater (strength, sound insulation, firepresentations contracts with Australian and and new & renewable resistance property) Licenses for commercial production Taiwanese businesses Planning and energy designing Expected Outcomes 2015 Expansion of fish farming Increased coal ash recycling Reduced landfill costs Reduced GHG emissions (100,000 abalones) and Development of demonstration optimal heat supply 300,000 tons KRW 2.6 billion about 110,000 tons Creation and /year worth operation of an technologies Reduced landfill charges KRW 1.1 billion agricultural complex (a pilot project) 2016 Development Development of Recycling Technologies for Heavy Oil Fly Ash G4-EN27 SDG 7 of cultivation Complex expansion and new techniques EWP has developed recycling technologies for heavy oil fly ash by making the most of its heating complex development value and deodorizing feature. EWP has developed heavy oil fly ash into high-energy fuel with biofuel Commercialization and its expansion deodorization in collaboration with Taehwa Environmental Research Institute, Ulsan Metropolitan Establishment of 2017 Government, and Korea Industrial Complex Corp. It is using the product as deodorized fuel for organic Building a Ecoplans to invigorate friendly fish government support solid fuel for Dangjin #3 and #4. Through the effort, EWP expects to save KRW 800 million a year in the farming complex treatment costs of heavy oil fly ash, KRW 150 million a year in fuel costs, and a certificate of the supply of new and renewable energy worth 10,000 REC a year. We build up your endless trust We grow together through trust. EWP will help create a sustainable future where it will grow together with its employees, suppliers and local communities based on trust. Social Performance Employees Employees DMA 58 Safety-First Business Management 59 Human-centered Happy Workplace 62 Social Contribution & Economic Activation Social Contribution & Economic Activation DMA 66 Happy Sharing and Growth 67 Job Creation 69 Win-win Growth Win-win Growth DMA 71 Win-win Growth 72 Transparent Fair Transactions 74 58 59 DMA Disclosures on Management Approach plo yees ● Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix G ● ● o ins vern titu m tio ent ● NG Pa rtn er co ns ● ● O m pa nie pla O nt th co er s● m po pa w nie er Em Cu stom s ● er s ● Safety-First Business Management Internalizing its corporate safety culture is the top priority in the company's sustainability management efforts. EWP strives to guarantee its employees with safer work environments through the spread of its safety culture movement and the enhancement of its safety management competencies. Spreading a Safety Culture Movement To implement safety-first business management as a power company, it has recognized the necessity to share a safety-first value system and launched a safety culture movement. In 2015, it set the four promotion directions and promoted reforms in its safety culture. Promotion goals Promotion directions Spreading a Safety Safety System Enhancement Win-win Culture Movement implementation improvements of safety cooperation leadership competencies Safety Implementation Leadership Management of EWP makes all-out efforts to fulfill the company's social responsibilities for the prevention Employees of industrial accidents. In 2015, management carried out On-Site Safety Management that involves safety inspections and impromptu disaster drills on Safety Inspection Day that is held each month in collaboration with representatives of the labor union and resident suppliers. Management also conducted Sustainability Context 'Safety Contact' sessions prior to the start of Management Strategy Meeting held each month to meet Issue 3 Issue 13 EWP's stakeholders place a high value on the creation of a pleasant work environment for increasing requests that businesses' upper management become involved in fulfilling their social Employee safety and Employee job security employees. Therefore, it has launched a safety culture movement, established a disaster health responsibility for the prevention of industrial disasters. response system, and implemented employee health programs. It is also crucial for EWP to Issue 17 Management's on-site safety Issue 10 management strive to create a safe, pleasant and happy workplace for its employees who are motivated to Respect for employee Enhancement of Safety Guidelines and Systems G4-LA6 Prohibition of diversity and continue to improve their competency. workplace EWP has issued the 'ABC (Always Be Careful) Rule' composed of five core safety rules and urged all its guarantee of fair discrimination opportunities workers to abide by them. As part of its efforts to enhance its safety process, EWP had its scaffolding Our Strategy & Commitment installation plans approved by management in advance in a bid to prevent falls which account for 40% of its EWP has built a disaster response system and launched a safety culture movement. It has occupational accidents. In 2015, EWP achieved the zero-mortality rate in its operation and construction sites. boosted employees' safety and health through the establishment of a safety-first value system. Key Performance Indicator As such, the company accomplished '0%' in the mortality rate per 10,000 employees. Mortality rate per 10,000 people It has helped them implement healthy lifestyles. It has narrowed the gap in perspectives ZERO 3 Unit: % between employees and management. It has strengthened its equitable business management consecutive 2.87 years practices through the operation of competencyand performance-centered evaluation and Zero-mortality in The highest rank compensation systems as well as respect for diversity in the workplace. construction sites in Safe Korea 1.74 Anti Disaster Our Progress & Next Step Exercises EWP will do its best to maintain the zero-mortality rate industrial accident record in its construction sites. In terms of employee education, EWP will continue to carry out competency assessment tests and surveys in order to promote employees' competency development. 2 consecutive years The highest rank in Won Outstanding Business 0% It will strive to settle any and all of its employees' grievances. EWP will continue to offer its Anti Disaster Safety Award 2013 2014 2015 Management at Korea Safety employees with equal opportunities without gender discrimination. EWP will create a happy Evaluation Grand Prize Mortality Rate per 10,000 People : the workplace for all its employees. 'Safety ABC Rule' Compliance Campaign Presentation on Successful Big Business Safety & Health Efforts mortality rate per 10,000 paid workers 60 61 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Employees Enhancement of Safety Management Competencies Enhancement of Disaster Management Competencies EWP carries out professional safety education with the purpose of raising its employees' awareness of 2015 Basic Safety Education for All Employees To beef up its expertise in disaster safety & health management, EWP has increased its pool of experts safety, altering their perception on safety issues, and creating a safety-friendly atmosphere. In June 2015, Education from 10 to 16 and introduced a disaster post-response system. It operates a TRS (Trunked Radio System) EWP joined forces with the Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency to provide all its employees with targets All employees wireless telecommunication system to establish an integrated companywide disaster telecommunication 'Basic Safety Education' and ‘Customized Safety Education' in order to equip them with fundamental safety No. of system and build a rapid emergency situation alert and management system. To enhance the operability knowledge and safety management competency in their respective areas. In addition, EWP provided 633 Courses 12 of the EDMS (Electronic Document Management System) disaster management system, EWP has employees above Grade 3 companywide with safety leader education including safety policies, managers' No. of continued to improve the system and maximize its effectiveness. roles, and emotion coaching techniques. trainees 2,120 제 14 회 대한민국안전대상 Completion 2015 disaster The highest The highest Top ISO 22301 Win-win Cooperation to Build Safety Community rate 99.4% safety response ranking for 3 ranking for 2 Company Acquired consecutive years consecutive years Award EWP has developed win-win cooperation programs to secure the safety of all its employees and help performance The highest rank The highest rank in Won Excellence Head office and all its its clients and suppliers realize a zero-accident rate. It has boosted its own safety measures including in Safe Korea the MOTIE's disaster Award in Korea Safety operating sites improvements in the payment of its safety management fees and the operation of special conditions of its Exercise among the safety management Grand Awards (the (2015.10) safety contracts. Furthermore, it has joined hands with the Korea Industrial Safety Association to build a organizations under evaluation of its Prime Minister award, the auspices of the industrial organizations Dangjin Thermal companywide supplier system including support for safety diagnosis and provision of safety goods. MOTIE Power Plant Complex) Classification Contents Improvements in the Promotion of institutional improvements to completely prevent suppliers' accidents for the first time among power companies Safety and Health Management Programs payment of safety -Change of the payment of design safety management fees to 100% payment instead of its link to bidding success rates management -Expanded application of safety management fees to all projects from those over KRW 40 million Work Environment Evaluation and Safety & Health Activities fees To guarantee its employees' safety, EWP evaluates the work environment for those working in hazardous environments twice a year, analyzes the results, and makes improvements about the identified issues. It Operation of special Operation of 17 special conditions of the EWP safety contract, which specify suppliers' safety management responsibilities and roles conditions for safety -Application of the rules to 20 EWP contracts since August 2015 also provides education on emergency response and recovery competencies including CPR and defibrillation contract -Promotion of the enhancement of subcontract review standards and the acquisition of KOSHA 18001 by its regular maintenance in a bid to respond to patients facing an emergency within its operating sites as early as possible. contractors Support for safety Use of disaster & safety professionals of various institutions like the Korea Industrial Safety Association as its safety supporters diagnosis -14 incidences of safety inspections and diagnoses of its suppliers' operating sites in 2015 Employee Health Management Program To meet employees' increasing interest in health and the organizational need to create an atmosphere for the prevention of various diseases, EWP has introduced an employee health management program. To Support for safety Provision of safety goods (worth about KRW 20 million) for the development of its local communities and safety community when raise employees' health awareness, it emails health related data to all its employees once a month and goods its resident suppliers have achieved zero accidents through collaboration with EWP motivates them to get involved in systematic health management. In addition, EWP provides healthcare -Support beneficiaries: local governments, neighboring related institutions, senior citizens' centers, local childcare centers, small counseling to those who have returned from sick leave. For those who cannot leave their workplace, onsuppliers, etc. -Support of disaster prevention equipment and support of firefighting equipment for the safety vulnerable in areas surrounding EWP site counseling service is also provided. power plants 2015 Safety Culture Achievement of 0% in the mortality rate per 10,000 employees Movement results Creation of a 3ZERO Workplace Ulsan Complex won the Excellence Award in 'Big Business Safety & Health Outstanding Cases' and 'Outstanding Cases in the No-accident Promotion Campaign (hosted by the Ministry of Employment and Labor) EWP has participated in the pilot project for the creation of a 3ZERO workplace launched in February 2015 for all the public agencies located in Ulsan Innovation City. 3ZERO refers to the non-existence of smoking, obesity and stress. To that end, EWP offers its employees with medical checkups, a stopsmoking clinic, support for fitness programs, and education on healthy lifestyles. Disaster Response Building Disruption-free Electricity Supply System EWP has built BCM, a recovery plan designed to maintain the continuity of its work, for the head office and all its operating sites. It continues to analyze its potential disaster and crisis risks. In 2015, it made improvements in facilities vulnerable to fire risks in all its power plants on three occasions. The plants acquired Safety Zone certification from SAFETY ZONE CERTI. In October 2015, EWP obtained ISO 22301, international business continuity standards, demonstrating its reliability in terms of disaster & safety management for the general public. ISO 22301 Certificate (Oct, 2015) CPR education Selection as an outstanding company in the 3ZERO movement 62 63 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Employees Human-centered Happy Workplace Implementation of HRD Strategic Tasks To achieve its companywide vision '2030 Most Valuable Power Company,' EWP implements its three EWP makes diverse efforts to provide its employees with a happy workplace. It helps them improve major HRD strategies and enhances its employees' competencies. their quality of life through the elimination of extended hours of work. For their work-life balance, it implements flextime and childcare leave, among others. Mission of HRD Cultivation of EWP (Energy World Pioneer) that will lead corporate growth Goal of HRD Globalized Skill + Global Talent + Consilience Enhancement of Work-Life Balance G4-LA2 SDG 8 Institutional Improvements to End Extended Hours of Work Three Major HRD Strategies People Competency development Infrastructure System establishment Culture Communication & unity With the purpose of bringing an end to its employees' extended hours of work, EWP has made Improvements in Extended Hours of Work improvements in its Multi-Engineer Shift system while invigorating its employee leave system. EWP Unit: monthly hours/person has reduced employees' work hours by improving the operations of its existing alternative work team 25 Employees' competency development by their needs through the combination of the 4-team 3-shift system and the ME team shift system. EWP encourages 18 EWP carries out employee education and training according to its talent cultivation policies and its its employees to use their vacation by allowing them to carry over their annual leave to the following year, 14 employees' needs. Courses reflect the results of the employee competency assessment and the hosting Family Love Day, reflecting managers' use of their vacation in their personnel evaluation, and employee surveys conducted on an annual basis. The employee competency assessment is focused publicizing each department's record in its employees' actual use of vacation. Through such efforts, EWP on the analysis of employees' individual needs to enhance their competency and the identification of has reduced its employees' actual working hours and improved its employees' satisfaction with their time-off. necessary training contents to strengthen their job competencies. 2013 2014 2015 Pursuit of Work-Life Balance Annual Leave Used per Person Building a Sophisticated HRD Infrastructure System EWP continues to improve its childcare leave system. It offers its employees a customized lifecycle For each course, EWP runs 'a two-track' evaluation system composed of Track 1 (educational satisfaction Unit: days support program. It effectively resolves the issue of employees' long-term absence from work due to and learning accomplishment) and Track 2 (training effectiveness, contribution to management childcare leave through the implementation of employees' prior notice and the use of the Substitute 13.9 14.1 performance) so it can carry out quantitative evaluation of its education programs. EWP gets all in the 10.2 Manpower Bank. EWP has continued to expand the scope of childcare leave. Both the number of organization to complete an online HRD Expert course. It had some of them attend the ATD International employees on leave and the period of their leave have increased. In 2015, it won the Family-friendly Conference & Exposition 2015 and HR Summit Brisbane 2015 to learn about the latest global HRD trends. Workplace Certificate from the Ministry of Gender Equality & Family again particularly for its operation It has also reinforced its internal job training evaluation index. of a customized lifecycle support program in three stages such as the marriage/pregnancy period, the 2013 2014 2015 childbearing/childcare period, and the married couple/retirement preparation period. EWP Renaissance through Books EWP is building a reading culture under the goal of 'EWP Renaissance that Begins with Books.' It has GWP Index (Great Work Place on a scale of 1-5) Invigoration of Flextime G4-LA3 opened up book cafes (at seven locations with a total of 7,280 books) operated by an electronic book EWP has made improvements in its flextime system to activate the to activate the system for the Unit: points management system. The cafes are also available to local residents, in line with the government's reading culture employees. Application for flextime is now possible online. Its approval procedures have been simplified 4.57 promotion policy. The company's efforts in this area are instrumental in its drive to cultivate creative talents. 4.41 EWP book cafe as well. The minimum period has been shortened from a month to a week while the maximum period has 3.77 been extended from 3 to 12 months. Most notably, eligibility has expanded from pregnancy to childcare, Building Consensus between Labor and Management G4-HR12 which has been well received by employees. As a result, the number of employees on flextime increased Open Communication System EWP has built a happy labor culture with the participation of all its employees. It has established effective from 547 in 2014 to 595 in 2015, with employees' satisfaction rising from 77.5 to 88.8 points. Management communication channels between labor and management. It has promoted open communication with the purpose partners' policy 2013 2014 2015 of sharing labor issues, deepening mutual understanding and immediately settling employees' grievances. Site-centered proposals management Control Tower Flextime Part-time Flextime Telecommuting Operation Systemization of Labor-Management Communication Results EWP has set 'respect for human beings' as its top value in order to have allow for its happy management Labor Union CEO Chairman labor-management culture take root. The company continues to enhance open communication. It has Happy Management Center established an open communication system participated by all its employees through the three major Invigoration of childcare leave players in communication. Flexible Flexible CompreEmployees on Transfer Hire commute ssed work At-home Smart work 14 33 work childcare leave Labor-management cooperation index time hours schedule work Outcomes of Labor-Management Communication (on a scale of 1 to 5) Average childcare 321 436 2013 8 4 85 74 4 37 26 In 2015, EWP resolved diverse labor issues including the wage peak system, retirement age extension, 3.08 4.24 leave period days days Total 13 7 134 332 5 44 12 and the 'ordinary wage' issue through the operations of its diverse communication channels. It measures 2014 Employees 3.66 labor-management cooperation index and uses the results in the analysis of the current status of its laborpoints on long-term 0 7 Labor Institution 2015 23 8 357 163 2 27 15 childcare leave management and the establishment of strategies to boost labor-management cooperation. union 64 65 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Employees Remuneration System & Welfare Benefits Welfare G4-LA2 SDG 8 EWP pursues reasonableness and fairness through the operation of a remuneration system centered Remuneration System based on Evaluation EWP has striven to normalize its welfare benefits in line with the government's policy of 'the normalization of Welfare Benefits Unit: KRW 10 thousand on competency and performance. It implements a performance-based pay system through evaluation Results lax management of public institutions.' In 2014, it completed the implementation of 31 normalization tasks 370 earlier than scheduled. In 2015, it promoted the branding of its happy management model for continuous 229 of performance, competency and organization. In addition, it applies the same remuneration and welfare 200 Use of Evaluation Results promotion of the normalization of lax business management and prevention of a return to previous practices. benefits of high school graduates and irregular workers in a bid to prevent wage discrimination. It restructured the Labor Welfare Team into the Happy Management Center that has sought to trigger a Monetary remuneration (June) 2013 2014 2015 HR Evaluation Performance Competency Organizational Individual KPI paradigm shift to non-financial welfare benefits. As a result, EWP has succeeded in boosting its employees' System Evaluation Evaluation Evaluation morale through increased non-financial welfare benefits. Welfare Satisfaction Unit: points Organizational Common Quantitative Organizational chiefs ranking points competencies evaluation productivity achievement Differentiation in Differentiation in amounts bonuses basic pay Respect for Diversity SDG 10 84 77 82 70% 50% 70~85% Difference in 20% Departmental heads bonuses Difference in pay Expanded Special Employment of Social Consideration G4-LA12 Subordinate coaching raise (±1.5%) (up to 200%) 30% 30% 15~30% record EWP has expanded employment in terms of special social considerations as part of CSR activities. It 2013 2014 2015 Job Team members gives additional points in employment to those with disabilities and those eligible for the government's 2.4% reduction (over 2013) Individual competencies NonCompensation in Self-development record Welfare benefits special protection in employment, who account for 3.4% and 9.1%, respectively, in the total number of performance Leadership quantitative employee status (year-round) KPI competencies evaluation (Dec.) current employees, surpassing the legal requirement in both areas. It substitutes those on childcare leave and others to be replaced for other reasons with females with a career disruption and senior citizens. In Reflection in Differentiated 2015, EWP eliminated the academic barrier in job applications and introduced NCS (National Competency Performance Based Remuneration and Compensation System SDG 8 promotion/transfer distribution Difference in standards)-based On-Spec employment in a bid to promote job competency-centered employment. EWP has established a performance-oriented culture through the establishment performance-based Additional benefit promotion/transfer support Current status of Special employment remuneration system, job performance based pay system, and performance-based compensation system. decisions It differentiates its pay to employees according to competency evaluation, MBO performance appraisal, Local talents Local talents High School Vocational school Engineering Female The handicapped Total recruits and organizational evaluation. It enhances performance-based compensation reflecting individual (non-capital area) (non-capital area) Graduates graduates college graduates employees' competencies and work values through a sharp pay difference that amounts to a KRW 30.46 2013 48 10 92 5 48 44 145 206 million difference between the highest and the lowest within the same rank. It runs an award system that 2014 32 9 62 16 37 36 78 131 recognizes employees with outstanding performance in terms of productivity. It also offers them favors in 2015 0 0 9 1 5 0 7 16 incentives and promotion. Organizational Unity Female Talent Employment and Gender Equality G4-10 SDG 5 EWP applies the same remuneration system and welfare benefits to its high school graduates, indefinite There are 236 women workers in EWP, accounting for 10.7% of its employees. The ratio of female period contract workers and irregular workers as its college graduates and regular workers, respectively. managers is 4.3% in 2015. EWP has set a plan to increase the ratio to 5% by 2017. EWP plans to No. of irregular workers Unit: people Furthermore, it helps its high school graduate employees attain college degrees at its regional in-house continue to expand the ratio of female workers to over 15% at a minimum. To expand the ratio of female colleges. To help its irregular employees obtain regular worker stature, EWP has set three directions of managers, it will reduce the minimum years of service for female candidates. action. EWP has reduced the number of its irregular workers year after year. As result, EWP has been able 29 12 4 Gender Proportion in Employment Status of Female Managers to hire eight senior citizens and females who had to experience a career disruption. It provides all of its 2013 2014 2015 irregular workers with reasonable compensation comparable to market situations in order to take the lead Male Female Unit: %, People Unit: % in resolving the issue of irregular workers in practical terms. To invigorate their transfer to regular workers, Except for 8 persons substituting employees 89.7 4.3 EWP has continued to improve its work environment so that anyone can continue to work for an extended on childcare leave in 2015 88.4 2,064 89.2 2,029 3.7 period of time. 1,991 3.2 11.6 11.6 Establishment of three major directions for the transfer of irregular workers to regular workers and positive results 10.8 267 236 240 Three Major 1 Employment 2 Remuneration 3 Job Directions improvements 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Hiring through Substitute Regular continuous work → Contents Payment of competitive wages Manpower Bank employment as regular workers Improvement of Personnel management system for Gender Equality G4-HR3 SDG 5 Results Hiring eight senior citizens and Wage redesign 6 coal sample prescribers As part of its gender equality policies, EWP reduced the minimum service years for female promotion females who experienced a Office workers: Wages 1 forklift operator candidates by 3.6 years compared to their male counterparts, promoting three female employees through career disruption comparable to Grade 6 Technicians: Wages comparable such special arrangements. In addition, it made improvements in the employees' working conditions to to entry level skilled technicians in expand the maximum period of childcare leave to three years and exempt female workers from night shifts, relevant areas reinforcing the effectiveness of its female-friendly policies. 66 67 DMA Disclosures on Management Approach plo ye ● Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix G ov es ● Pa ins ern titu m tio ent NG rtner co ns ● ● O m pa nie Em pla Ont th s● ● co er m po ● pa w nie er Cu s ● ● stom Happy Sharing and Growth er s ● ● EWP is committed to growing together with its local communities through sharing. To that end, it has designed diverse sharing programs and engaged in continuous social continuous activities. EWP will realize genuine sharing on the basis of its own knowhow and collaboration with local communities and other relevant organizations and strive to realize economic invigoration. Social Contribution EWP intends to implement genuine sharing and become a companion for its local communities through social contribution activities reflecting its business competencies. To offset its social contribution activities becoming a one-time donation, EWP seeks the development of its local communities in a very real sense through strategic social contribution programs such as the enhancement of energy welfare, win-win development with local communities, and sharing DNA events. Goal and Implementation System for Social Contribution Voluntary Service Groups G4-SO1 EWP seeks to achieve happy growth with its local communities through 'Happy Energy Dream.' In 2015, it Internal set three directions of actions such as the enhancement of energy welfare, win-win development with local EWP Social Work Group communities, and spread of a sharing DNA. It devised promotion systems, too. 2,050 employees in 140 teams Family Volunteer Group 2015 Goal Happy Growth with Local Communities through 'Happy Energy Dream' 220 people in 6 teams Promotion Enhancement Win-win development Spread Directions of energy welfare with local communities of a sharing DNA External Private Council (local governments, Social Contribution & Promotion Systems Invigoration Power office of education, NGOs, Council of Social Welfare) Economic Activation Love Day Matching grants Recognition of excellent contributors Partnerships ① Happy Energy Volunteer Service Issue 15 Evaluation system Internal evaluation index (service hours, participation frequency), mileage management Corps (public energy institutions) Indirect economic contributions Sustainability Context ② Good Neighbors(partners) Social Social contribution Social contribution Social contribution ③ Stepping Stone Voluntary Service Power plants may unintentionally inflict negative environmental and social impacts on local Contribution outcomes in energy welfare outcomes in communication outcomes in the spread of Corps (Ulsan Innovation City) communities in the construction and operation processes designed to provide citizens with Outcomes with local communities a sharing DNA critical resources. To minimize negative impacts and develop alongside local communities, Won 'Green Energy Citizen Improvements in local Won the Minister of Health EWP engages in diverse social contributions activities. Award' from Green Energy communities; satisfaction with & Welfare Award at Korea Citizen Forum in November EWP social contributions: National Sharing Awards 2015 87.8 points in 2015 Our Strategy & Commitment 2014 ▶ 88.4 points in 2015 Organizational Chart of EWP EWP aims at achieving its social contribution goal happy growth with local communities Key Performance Indicator Volunteer Groups through 'Happy Energy Dream' in three directions. It has established the EWP Volunteer Corps to promote its social contribution activities more effectively. It further promotes active corporate 88.4 points 26.6 hours Social Work Groups Head: CEO community involvement in partnership with some reliable external organizations. Inprovemnet in Increase in Social Contribution Promotion Organization local communities' employee social satisfaction contribution For continuous promotion of its companywide social contribution activities, EWP launched its EWP Secretariat Our Progress & Next Step hours Volunteer Corps in February 2004. As of 2015, a total of 2,060 employees are working as volunteers Head office branch EWP undertakes its social contribution activities in three directions. It has devised diverse in 140 teams. They regularly engage in activities designed to help with the underprivileged in local Dangjin branch social contribution programs directly linked to its core capabilities with the purpose of communities, such as environmental protection activities, support for households headed by teenagers, contributing to eliminate the energy poverty of the underprivileged and save energy costs of Won the Won Ulsan branch Minister of and assistance of senior citizens without guardians. Moreover, it engages in active volunteer service SMEs. In addition, it strives to develop together with its local communities by spreading 'a 'Green Energy Health & activities through partnership with the External Private Council composed of local governments, Honam branch Citizen Award' sharing DNA' through the establishment of a welfare service system and the partnership with Welfare Award government agencies, NGOs, public energy institutions and its suppliers. in 2015 Donghae branch relevant organizations. EWP plans to stabilize its eco-friendly energy business according to its National Sharing Awards 2015 Ilsan branch social contribution vision and offer active support the business designed to solve social issues. 68 69 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Social Contribution and the Activation of the Local Economy Major Social Contribution Activities G4-SO1 2015 Social Contribution Programs Job Creation Energy Welfare Social Contributions linked to Core Capabilities EWP contributes to job creation in local communities through the launch of large investment projects EWP's social contribution efforts have helped the disadvantaged to reduce their energy poverty and SMEs to cut down on their energy costs. It has promoted its social contribution programs in three categories Experience Support Type Service Type and the implementation of win-win cooperation with the private sector. It helps its partner SMEs to Type Support 235 experience, support and service. To solve the issue of energy poverty, EWP has launched diverse ecoachieve corporate growth and hire people by discovering additional tasks that it could outsource. Participated by KRW 210 households friendly experience programs linked to electrical energy and provided energy support to the disadvantaged. 2,348 people million Through the implementation of open employment, EWP strives to enhance social equitability. Through collaboration with three public energy institutions, EWP offered the underprivileged with services in three areas such as inspection, repairs and insulation work in 2015. It provided 10 SMEs with energy Increased Voluntary Service Hours per Launch of Investment Projects and Win-win Cooperation efficiency and electrical safety diagnoses so that they could conserve energy worth KRW 200 million a year. person EWP has created jobs through large investment projects and joint investments with the private sector. Job creation in 2015 In 2015, it created 6,183 jobs through joint investments. To make improvements in the quality of jobs Social Contribution through Communication with Local Communities 24h 27h it creates, EWP offers jobseekers with chances to acquire professional licensing through its 'EWP EWP has promoted win-win development through the implementation of social issue solution type 2014 2015 Training Center.' It endeavors to create job through collaboration with external research institutions, 6,183 programs reflecting the needs of its local communities. EWP has also reflected conflicts related to the SMEs and local communities. operation and construction of a large-scale power plant in the Dangjin area, for instance, in its social Jobs contribution activities to carry out practical activities. In addition, EWP implemented 'onnuri' vouchers worth Increased Participation in Voluntary Services KRW 740 million in 2015 and contributed to the increase of farm households' income worth KRW 120 Status of Job Creation through Investment Projects in 2015 million through the operation of an in-house market for regional agricultural goods and an online agricultural 98.3% Category Projects Investment cost Jobs created 90.0% goods market. It has also bolstered its local communities' trust in itself through the invigoration of the local Large-scale Construction of Dangjin Thermal #9 & #10 4,193 KRW 395.6 billion economy and the increase of consumption of local agricultural products. 2014 2015 investment Introduction of new technologies and refurbishment of aging facilities KRW 109.2 billion 1,158 projects Status of Social Contributions that Contributed to Solving Conflicts in the Dangjin Area in 2015 New & renewable energy projects to reduce carbon emissions KRW 13 billion 138 Contents of Warm water damage to local fishing Environmental degradation in local Flying dust in coal storage areas Risk to human health WinJoint Construction of Dangjin PPI Power Plant (joint investment with SK Gas) KRW 20 billion 212 conflicts industry communities investments Investment in Chuncheon Energy Corp. (in connection with an industrial complex) KRW 32.9 billion 349 Transfer of water heat energy: Enhancement of monitoring: Facility innovations: installation of Safety & health programs: safety with the private operation of abalone farms and Installation of environmental complete hermetic type coal transfer experience sessions, transparent sector Photovoltaic Power Station Project to support residents along Miryang transmission lines KRW 390 million 4 Actions taken creation of large-scale farms with information digital signage and facilities and completion of an indoor umbrellas for transportation safety, Gyeongju Wind Farm Project, Phase 2, for RPS implementation KRW 12.2 billion 129 warm water development of non-recovery type coal storage area at Dangjin Thermal and installation of air purifiers at CO2 treatment technology Power Plant senior homes Outcomes Saving KRW 2.2 billion in fishing Additional reduction GHG emissions Reduction of residents' grievances Improved trust relationship Expansion of Outsourcing and Fostering Partner SMEs costs by 22% EWP has created jobs through additional discovery of the tasks that it can outsource and efforts to foster partner SMEs. In 2015, EWP discovered additional management jobs in relation to Dangjin #9 Spread of a Sharing DNA and Yeonggwang Baeksu Wind Farm construction projects, and trained new power plant mechanics EWP undertakes various social contribution businesses designed to establish a welfare service system for a private maintenance company that will serve to improve the productivity of the projects. In addition, and expand its employees' voluntary participation. It is striving to build a comprehensive welfare service it increased purchase from SMEs through support for the expansion of their markets, joint R&D, and system in collaboration with a host of relevant organizations such as local governments, suppliers, improvements in relevant regulations, creating an additional 3,121 jobs in 2015. government institutions, energy companies and universities. To further increase its employees' voluntary Status of Job Creation for Partner SMEs in 2015 participation in its social contribution activities, EWP has invigorated its employees' talent donation Category Contents Sales (Purchase) Jobs created programs. EWP ensures that all its previous social contribution programs contribute to program Support Development of overseas markets: 48 companies improvements and participation increase through the feedback of the satisfaction survey results of the for market programs. expansion Operation of overseas office and export performance: an increase of US$69.41 million KRW 563.9 billion 2,336 Joint R&D Accomplishment of localization of power generation equipment: 82% Purchase of successful joint R&D products: KRW 16.1 billion SMEs Improvements in regulations through enhanced communication including CEO's on-site visits, etc. KRW 182.16 billion 710 Holding meetings with buyers for products from outstanding SMEs Businesses Implementation of obligatory purchase of goods produced by companies owned by women owned by KRW 19.45 billion 75 women Holding workshops for the support of growth Total KRW 765.51 billion 3,121 Weekend farm (collaboration with a daycare center) Improvement of lighting for single senior households A tree planting event 70 71 DMA Introduction Sustainable Disclosures on Management Approach Economic Performance Approach Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Social Contribution and the Activation of the Local Economy plo ye ● G es ● Pa ov ins ern titu m ● NG rtner co tio nt nse ● O m pa ● nie s● Em pla O nt th co er ● ● m po pa wnie er Cu s ● stom Job Creation through Co-prosperity with Private Company er s ● It created 694 jobs through joint investments with the private sector for Dangjin PPI Power Plant and Gyeongju Wind Farm, Phase 2. In addition, EWP created 1,012 jobs through collaboration with external R&D institutions, SMEs and local communities for coal ash recycling business and and startup support. Summary of New Job Creation Unit: People The number of Partnership with Others(Win-win Year Type Investment projects Outsourcing Total employees the private sector Growth) Regular Position 11,882 644 138 3,739 16,403 2013 2,201 Temporary Position 5,933 313 69 1,845 8,160 Total 17,815 957 207 5,584 24,563 Regular Position 10,096 1,001 162 3,407 14,666 2014 2,295 Temporary Position 4,973 489 54 1,535 7,051 Total 15,069 1,490 216 4,942 21,717 Regular Position 3,119 648 211 5,875 9,933 2015 2,300 Temporary Position 1,576 307 91 1,367 3,341 Total 4,775 955 302 7,242 13,274 Enhancement of Social Equity through the Promotion SDG 10 of Open Employment EWP has set the plan of promoting open employment based on the analysis of its past manpower hiring practices. EWP hired 99 interns in 2015 through career experience programs and expanded internship programs in a bid to help solve the aggravation of youth underemployment. It hired additional 59 persons Win-win Growth through the wage peak system. EWP implements a mandatory local talent employment system for Ulsan. As a result, compared to the area's college graduates against the national total (1%), EWP has hired 6.3% of its new recruits from the Ulsan area. Sustainability Context Issue 11 Issue 18 Elimination of unfair Shared growth with Youth & Adolescents Career Experience and Job Competency Enhancement Program Unit: People EWP is fully committing to making the world a happy place for all as declared in its mission, transactions suppliers We Make Energy for Happiness. As such, not only its growth but also shared growth with its Objects Objective Trainees Contents suppliers is a material aspect as indicated in its materiality test. Job seekers Job competency verification 59 Enhancement of employment opportunities through job competency verification and job experiences and job experiences Our Strategy & Commitment College Job competency Operation of on-the-job internships for college students 99 For shared growth with its suppliers, EWP implements a profit-sharing system and supports students development Cultivation of local talents through the selection of 30% of the students from local communities the enhancement of their management and technology competencies. To help them improve Career experiences 249 Operation of career experience programs for college students from across the country their productivity, EWP also promotes joint R&D, manufacturing business innovation movement Key Performance Indicator 3.0, and partnership support business. In addition, it enhances transparent fair transactions Youth Operation of career experience programs for elementary and secondary school students in Outcome of profit Career experiences 755 with them in a bid to protect the interests of SMEs and help invigorate the national economy. Anti-corruption sharing system collaboration with Ulsan Office of Education policy evaluation 1 Sales Our Progress & Next Step st 105billion(KRW) Offering Customized Part-time Jobs Through the implementation of a profit-sharing system, EWP recorded KRW 105 billion in sales Employment EWP substitutes employees on childcare leave to be replaced with females with a career disruption and and 318 persons in employment in 2015. It helped the participants in its manufacturing bylines 318 Employment senior citizens, preventing job vacancy and contributing to job creation for second-class citizen. EWP innovation movement 3.0 to cut down on their manufacturing costs by KRW 790 million. It carried out a job analysis with the purpose of identifying jobs suitable for a customized part-time job won a grand prize at the 2015 Big and Small Business Productivity Innovation Partnership Good Won 'Big & Small Business Productivity system allowing employees to maintain work-life balance. It uncovered 10 jobs eligible for the system in Competition for the company's implementation of support for productivity innovation grade Innovation the areas of storage management, reading management, employee welfare and general affairs as a result partnership with its suppliers. It also reinforced its fair transaction promotion system and Partnership in the shared Promotion of its job analysis by placing emphasis on continuous tasks, contribution to organizational productivity principles and maximized the transparency in its contract execution and bidding processes. growth evaluation Competition' in 2015 in 2015 improvements, and jobs that will be applied for by a majority of potential applicants. 72 73 Introduction Sustainable Approach Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Win-win Growth with Business Partners Win-win Growth Efforts for Support Capability Reinforcement EWP has provided diverse support to help SMEs to enhance their management competencies. With EWP contributes to bolstering SMEs' enhancement of competitiveness through the implementation Results of the MOTIE's shared growth improvements in regulations and systems related to SMEs, EWP officially visited 12 companies in 2015 to evaluation of various programs designed to achieve shared growth with its suppliers. It promotes a profit-sharing listen to their difficulties and worked to eliminate barriers to SMEs' access to conduct business with itself. system with its smallto mid-sized suppliers. It also helps them increase sales and employment Excellence Excellence Good To help with their shortage in funds, EWP provided KRW 12.5 billion in loans in 2015. Due to such efforts, through support for the enhancement of management and technological competencies. To help the sales of its partner SMEs rose by 6% in 2015 from KRW 57.3 billion in 2014 to KRW 61 billion in 2015. them improve their productivity, EWP has implemented three innovation projects which has resulted Employment increased by 10% during the same period from 320 persons in 2014 to 353 persons in 2015. 2013 2014 2015 in positive results in cost-cutting and sales increase. Promotion of Three Innovation Projects Implementation of a Profit-Sharing System Technological Innovation through the R&D Invigoration Support Profit-sharing Task development EWP pursues SMEs' productivity improvement through its R&D invigoration support project. It has Establishment of profit-sharing models, Proposal of profit-sharing tasks implementation bolstered the implementation of the localization of power generation facilities and provided relevant system Task implementation Planning and implementation, Implementation of mid-term evaluation information to its partner SMEs. It has succeeded in free transfer commercialization through the transfer of technologies in possession and the implementation of technological protection. In 2015, it carried out 18 Task evaluation Evaluation of outcomes against goals, Task changes when necessary test-bed cases leading to the increase of SME sales by KRW 5.687 billion. Localization of power generation facilities Profit-sharing Profit-sharing cash distribution, Re-investments in SME suppliers' Management Innovations through 'Industrial Innovation Movement 3.0' 23 27 EWP has implemented a profit-sharing system to distribute the outcomes of the mutual cooperative efforts cases cases To support SMEs' productivity improvement, EWP has promoted its 'Industrial Innovation Movement 3.0.' to reduce costs and improve productivity between itself and SMEs. It has set a four-stage promotion Compared to 2014, it increased participants to 8 companies in 2015. With an increased budget by KRW 2014 2015 system and shared outcomes in five areas such as R&D, trial installation, competency enhancement, 68 million, EWP undertook diverse programs in 2015. The plant innovation activities enabled participating technology transfer and win-win finance. EWP provided its share KRW 100 million as a re-investment SMEs to cut down on their manufacturing costs by KRW 790 million. Protection of technologies (technical data in the secondary and tertiary suppliers' improvements in productivity and technology competencies. As escrow) Management lead time Defect rate Preparation and exchange Inventory accuracy a result of its expanded implementation of the profit-sharing system to include secondary and tertiary suppliers in the scheme, the relevant supplier increased its sales by KRW 105 billion and its employment Unit: hr Unit: % Unit: minutes/case Unit: % 21 30 Increased cases cases by 318 people in 2015. EWP reduced relevant costs by KRW 19 billion. 85.2 4.1 50 5.2% 98.9 Reduced Reduced Reduced 94 2014 2015 Outcomes of the EWP Profit-sharing System 82.5% 89.9% 64.5% 17.8 Profit-sharing types Contents Profit-sharing methods Discovery efforts 14.9 0.4 R&D type R&D funds support Preferential purchase of successful R&D products Expansion of R&D investments Joint technological development Collection of technology fees KRW 14.2 billion in 2015 (▲ KRW 1 billion) 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Trial installation type Support for site demonstration Preferential purchase Promotion of expansion of trail installation Self-development Sharing 1% of sales 18 cases in 2015 (▲2 cases) Competency Technical mentoring Support for purchase and marketing Support for productivity improvement programs Productivity Innovation through Partnership enhancement type Task discovery Sharing 1% of sales KRW 330 million for 28 firms EWP has joined hands with the government to provide comprehensive support to its suppliers for T/T type Support for commercialization Preferential purchase T/T about patents in possession their productivity improvements through 'the Productivity Innovation Partnership Support Project.' The Product development Collection of technology fees (a minimum of 2.5%) 71 cases in 2015 (▲ 2 cases) program package is composed of a three-dimensional site diagnosis, creation of innovative environments, Win-win finance Support for funds in need Payment of 5% of interest earned for a 5% Expanded loans from a KRW 10 billion fund education on methods of manufacturing innovations, and education on productivity innovation, In type Improvement of productivity improvement in sales Secondary & tertiary suppliers (previously primary only) 2015, EWP won a grand prize at the '2015 Big and Small Business Productivity Innovation Partnership Competition' for its efforts that are self-funded with KRW 114 million and participated by 5 suppliers. Efforts and Outcomes of Support for SME Suppliers Purchase of SMEs’ Products Process deficiency rate (%) Delivery period delay rate (%) Workforce productivity (%) Product productivity (ea/hr) Unit: % Unit: % Unit: % Unit: hr Enhancement of Competitiveness through expanded Sales Routes Unit: KRW 1 billion Increased Increased 4 34% 6.3 EWP has contributed to boosting SMEs' sales increases through preferential purchase and expanded Reduced 87 110% 182.2 Reduced 5.4 20% 65 sales routes. In 2015, EWP expanded its preferential purchase of SMEs' products through online 135.4 60% 4.3 3 purchase meetings a first among local public institutions purchase meetings held at its operating 1.6 sites, and expansion of single source procurement from SMEs. To help the companies expand their sales Grand prize at 2015 Big and Small network, EWP helped with their participation in trade fairs and export road shows, enabling them to open 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Business Productivity Innovation Partnership themselves up to the Chinese and Indonesian markets. Competition 74 75 Special IssueSustainable Approach Introduction Economic Performance Environmental Performance Social Performance Appendix Win-win Growth with Business Partners Developing Overseas Markets Transparent Fair Transactions G4-SO7 Directions for Market Development at Home and Abroad EWP has actively made an institutional overhaul to promote fair transactions, prevent irregularities EWP has set the directions for the development of sales routes. It has broadened its overseas markets and such as bid rigging, and protect the economically vulnerable. It also strives to upgrade its regulations increased the number of its partner companies as a way of implementing shared growth with its suppliers. In with the purposes of protecting vulnerable companies and revitalizing the national economy. 2015, which was part of Stage 3 seeking the fortification of the company's footholds. 2013 2014 2015 Fair Transactions Promotion Systems and Principles Promotion Stages Laying the foundation for an Fortification of its footholds Expansion of its presence in EWP's procurement ombudsman system serves as a window of cooperation with the company's Bid Rigging : One Strike overseas market advance global markets suppliers. In 2015, it led the company to re-deliberate 10 proposals for regulation changes that were initially not accepted by the company out of the company's 2015 regulation improvement proposals made internally and externally. The system helps EWP secure fairness and momentum in its regulation changes. EWP implements the 'one strike, you're out' system about bid rigging. When a suspected case has been OUT system Overseas markets Overseas regions to advance into No. of companies China, Southeast Asia, the Middle East 40 Americas, Eastern Europe, Russia 60 The EU, Africa 100 proven to be involved, EWP bans the relevant business from participating in its work through bids or Core business to Expansion of EWP-MAP, the company's overseas marketing model for SME products (Four otherwise for five years as an example of its principle of zero tolerance on bid rigging. promote Southeast countries ▶ four Southeast countries + China) Joint participation in 7 trade fairs including WETEX with five other power companies Transparency of Contract & Bid Information Export roadshows Increase of overseas branch offices EWP made reforms in its contract and bidding system to heighten the transparency of the system, among Korea-China Thermal Power Generation Partnering Plaza others. The obligation of pre-bidding information disclosure has expanded in addition to previously required Discovery and cultivation of hidden champion SMEs goods purchase specification. The papers must be submitted prior to contract execution. The establishment Operation of overseas shared growth offices of particular specifications is fundamentally blocked. The subcontractor selection methods and results have Establishment of a mobile export exhibition hall to be announced now in an effort to prevent a client's influence. In the event of negotiation-based contracts, Promotion of overseas demonstrative installation business (three Southeast countries) Upgrade of demand-centered tailored EWP-MAP (Southeast Asia ▶ global markets) the evaluation of subcontractor candidates has changed to an anonymous evaluation system to prevent any special favors from being given to a particular subcontractor or two. Differentiated Market Opening Efforts to Fortify Overseas Market Footholds Protection of Financially Vulnerable Companies EWP takes strategic approaches in order to expand the markets for SMEs' products. It conducted surveys Unit: KRW 1 billion Amounts of contracts Unit: KRW 1 billion Amounts of contracts among the members of 83 councils and reflected the results in its MoU with an Indonesian power company for awarded by small obtained by local technological cooperation. EWP also owes the establishment of a solution provider strategy for the Indonesian companies for designated businesses 26.4 25.32 29.97 items project to the survey results. EWP intends to push forward with the project in directions. Most notably, for the 0.99 overseas demonstrative installation of SME products, EWP has offered SMEs with opportunities to publicize their self-developed goods through meetings between EWP and the Indonesian counterpart and to use its test-beds 2014 2015 1.65 2014 2015 4.65 installed in its power plants in operation. Aside from this, EWP has established various performance indices. It billion (KRW) increased billion (KRW) increased has continued to implement systematic monitoring to boost the effect of its strategies. EWP has taken active measures to protect financial vulnerable companies like small businesses and Strategic System to Expand the Sales Routes for SME Products merchants and promote practical elimination of access barriers. It has added mandatory preferential Goal Expansion of sales routes for SME products through strategic approaches to Indonesian power plant markets purchasing from small businesses and merchants to its internal regulations. It has designated five items requiring the expansion of sales opportunities on the part of small businesses, leading small businesses Promotion Support for overseas demonstrative installation Holding conferences on Korea-Indonesia Product promotion and feature improvements directions of SMEs' self-developed products technology exchange to increase their contract awards for those items. Previously, regional limitation in bidding process was optional according to the department in charge. Now, regionally limited open bids have become Actions taken Indonesia (PT.PJB) EWP SMEs EWP◀▶PJB Technical Meeting Selection of SME goods optimized for Product briefings to experts mandatory at first. Local businesses' contract awards have also increased. Its Payment Monitoring Indonesian markets System, which applied only to secondary and tertiary suppliers taking part in construction contracts, has Offering test-beds at power plants in operation Reflection of experts' advice on products been upgraded to include those involved in software related contracts, bolstering timely payment to its EWP◀▶PJB Technical Meeting Providing chances to publicize SME products Presentation subcontractors. Technical advice about SME goods Visit and presentation at Indonesian power plants Results of efforts to promote fair transactions in 2015 Performance Increase of companies operating in Southeast Increase of exports to Southeast Asia Increased employment by export businesses Improvements in the evaluation of 2015 Evaluation of anticorruption policies indices Asia public institution external integrity 2014 8.95 Points 4consecutive years Monitoring Integrated performance management system Management strategy meetings (weekly/monthly) Internal evaluation system 2015 8.98 Points 1 st grade tools 46.5억원 증가 77 Data Center G4-17 G4-EC1 Financial Performance Summary Statement of Financial Position Unit: KRW 100 million Classification 2013 2014 2015 Current asset 8,677 8,279 9,380 Non-current asset 65,820 75,428 78,906 Total asset 74,497 83,707 88,286 Current liabilities 11,544 6,322 10,211 Non-current liabilities 28,601 41,731 38,158 Total liabilities 40,145 48,053 48,369 Paid-in capital 21,381 21,381 21,381 Retained earnings 13,794 15,324 19,539 Total equity 34,352 35,654 39,917 Summary of Income Statement Unit: KRW 100 million Classification 2013 2014 2015 Sales 53,683 45,070 40,477 Cost of sales 52,067 41,710 33,548 Gross profits 1,616 3,360 6,928 Selling and administrative expenses 578 536 766 Operating profit 1,038 2,824 6,162 Other gains 125 93 297 Other costs 10 34 32 Financial gains 218 565 1,370 Financial costs 706 987 1,530 Profit (loss) before income taxes 314 2,104 6,096 Corporate tax expense 44 419 1,546 Net Profit 270 1,685 4,549 APPENDIX Trend in Asset Values Trend in Net Income Unit: KRW 100 million Unit: KRW 100 million Data Center 77 4,549 88,286 Awards in 2015 81 83,707 74,497 GRI G4 Application 82 1,685 UN Global Compact Advanced Level 89 270 Third Party Assurance 90 Memberships and Related Companies 92 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 78 79 APPENDIX Economic Performance Indicators G4-EC1 Environmental Performance Indicators G4-EN15 G4-EN16 G4-EN17 G4-EN19 G4-EN21 G4-EN22 G4-EN23 Category Unit Type 2013 2014 2015 Category Unit Classification 2013 2014 2015 GHG emissions Facility capacity MW 9,343 9,138 9,139.4 42,666 38,230 37,951 1,000 ton (Scope1+Scope2) GHG tCO2-eq GHG emissions Coal 39,661 38,781 39,252 9,263 8,742 (Scope3) TJ Energy consumption 550,933 489,557 457,227 LNG 10,114 9,225 6,873 Energy consumption Fossil fuels GJ/MWh Energy basic unit 9.85 9.76 9.232 Oil 6,836 2,693 3,114 Power generation GWh 10,000 tons Coal 1,603 1,542 1,500 Total 56,611 50,699 49,239 Fuel consumption 1,000 KL Oil 1,616 628 660 New-renewable Total 153 305 286 1,000 tons LNG 161 131 960 Company Total 56,764 51,004 49,525 ton SOx 16,629 13,755 11,965 Air pollutant emissions ton NOx 31,994 24,799 21,552 Sales GWh 54,069 48,549 45,840 ton Dust 723 687 651 Sales price won/kWh 98.04 91.19 85.09 SOx 0.294 0.271 0.243 Forced outage % 0.88 0.098 0.556 Air pollutant emissions relative to ton/GWh NOx 0.565 0.489 0.437 basic unit Unplanned losses % 1.31 0.387 0.743 Dust 0.013 0.014 0.013 Operating rate % 91.36 99.88 91.44 ton COD 11 22 27 ton SS 62 52 12 Consumption rate % 71.4 65.06 60.38 Wastewater discharged ton T-N 1 1 47 Thermal efficiency % 38.96 39.65 39.5 ton T-P 0.58 0.62 0.4 Service power rate % 5.13 5.19 5.46 COD 0.26 0.38 0.55 Biz. Partners KRW 100 million Purchased products & services 4,609 3,533 2,719 SS 1.49 1.03 0.24 Wastewater discharged relative to Kg/GWh Employees KRW 100 million Salary, Benefits 1,962 1,479 2,054 basic unit T-N 0.02 0.02 0.95 T-P 0.01 0.01 0.01 Shareholders KRW 100 million Dividends 81 253 679 Wastewater generated 1,000 tons 3,598 3,161 3,416 Creditors KRW 100 million Interests 316 371 296 Wastewater reuse quantity 1,000 tons 1,288 1,285 1,227 Government KRW 100 million Corporate tax, Local tax 53 543 1,643 Wastewater reuse rate % 36 41 36 Local Society KRW 100 million Social contribution, donation 41 41 40 Waste quantity 1,000 tons 1,839 1,906 1,824 Reinvestments KRW 100 million Surplus excluded from dividend 259 1,502 3,957 Waste recycling quantity 1,000 tons 1,857 1,851 1,635 Desulfurized gypsum generation 1,000 tons 571 467 495 Desulfurized gypsum recycling rate 1,000 tons 557 459 480 Coal ash generation quantity 1,000 tons 1,807 1,871 1,802 Forced outage Unplanned losses Coal ash recycling quantity 1,000 tons 1,829 1,844 1,615 * Forced outage rate = outage hours/calendar Unit: % Unit: % hours 1.31 GHG emissions (Scope 1+ Scope2) Energy consumption 0.88% * Unplanned loss rate = quantity of unplanned lost power/standard power quantity Unit: 1000 tCO2 -eq Unit: TJ 0.74 42,666 550,933 0.556% * Localization rate of power generation equipment 38,230 489,557 0.39 37,951 457,227 = {domestic capital cases/ (domestic capital 0.098% cases + foreign capital cases)} ×0.2 + {domestic capital amounts/ (domestic capital amounts + foreign capital amounts)} ×0.8 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 80 81 APPENDIX Awards in 2015 Social Performance Indicators Category Unit Classification 2013 2014 2015 Total 2,231 2,296 2,300 Employees People Regular positions Male 1,991 2,029 2,064 Female 240 267 236 % The handicapped 3.4 3.4 3.4 % Females 10.5 11.5 10.7 Minorities People Female managers 18 22 28 % Female managers(rate) 3.2 3.7 4.3 Won the Exellence Award as an excellent institution in Won the Minister of Health and Won the grand prize at '2015 Big Won 'SMBA Task Discovery Year Average service years 15.1 16.0 15.7 Award in the areas of the Creation of 3ZERO Workplace Welfare Award at 2015 Korea & SME Productivity Innovation Award' for 8 consecutive Job security Outstanding Cases in Big Project National Sharing Awards Partnership Competition' years % Turnover 0.54 0.93 0.78 Business Safety&Health No. of recruits 206 131 16 Personnel from non-capital area 97 78 10 Individuals of national merit 10 11 0 Socially equitable employment People High school graduates 48 37 5 The handicapped 10 9 0 Females 48 32 0 People Employees on childcare leave 14 14 33 Family-friendly management % Post-childcare leave return rate 100 100 100 Employee satisfaction Points GWP index (full score: 5) 3.77 4.41 4.57 Hours Training hours per person 110 124 188 Manpower Training KRW 1 thousand Education costs per person 3,512 2,680 2,540 KRW 100 million Education budget 77.3 58.2 58.4 KRW 100 million Donation 8 6 6 Social Contribution Hours Volunteer service hours 47,644 55,588 58,482 Hours Volunteer service hours per person 22 24 26.6 Integrity Assessment Points Evaluation of Anti-corruption & Civil Right Commission 8.53 8.56 8.80 Won 'Financial Innovation Grand Prize' Ranked 1st in climate competitiveness Anti-corruption policy Grade Evaluation of Anti-corruption & Civil Right Commission 1 1 1 at the 16th Korea Financial Management Awards (the Minister of Trade, Industry and Energy award) assessment Employee safety % No. of deaths x 10,000 / total No. of employees 1.74 2.87 0 KRW 100 million Support of SME R&D Funds 93 164 143 Win-win Growth KRW 100 million Purchase of successful joint R&D products with SMEs 194 158 195 According to the Act on Assistance to Electric Power PlantsLocal community support KRW 100 million 33 35 34 Neighboring Areas Volunteer service hours per person Anti-corruption policy assessment Unit: hours 1st grade for 4 consecutive years 26.6 Grade 1 Grade 1 Grade 1 24 22 Won Carbon Management Special Award in Carbon Disclosure Project (Dangjin Thermal Power Plant Complex) won an Excellent Award 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 for two consecutive years at the 14th Korea Safety Awards (the Prime Minister Award) * 2012 Anti-corruption policy assessment 1st grade 82 83 GRI G4 Application General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures GRI index Index Description Details Page ISO 26000 Verified GRI index Index Description Details Page ISO 26000 Verified Strategy and Analysis G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain •EWP produces electricity along with private power companies and regional electric operators and 6, 12 6.6.6 V sells it to KEPCO through the Korea Power Exchange. KEPCO sells electricity to consumers through G4-1 Statement from most senior decision•EWP intends to establish its vision in terms of sustainability management and continue to make 2, 3 7.4.2 V its national transmission and distribution networks. maker of the organization innovations in its business operations with the purpose of achieving continuous corporate growth by G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting •Domestic power plants: Dangjin Units 9 & 10 under construction 10 V actively coping with the ongoing social and environmental paradigm shift throughout the world. period regarding the organization’s size, •Overseas power plants: the Kalsel Indonesia project in progress Organizational Profile structure, ownership, or its supply chain, •New energy project: participating in an group energy project through strategic alliance with G4-3 Name of the organization •Korea East-West Power Co., Ltd. 6 V including domestic IPPs •New & renewable energy: promoting the construction of a new wind farm and preparing for Miryang G4-4 Primary brands, products and services •Power generation and development of electric power sources 6 V Photovoltaic Power Station Project G4-5 Location of the organization’s •395, Jongga-ro, Jung-gu, Ulsan, Korea 6 V headquarters G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary •EWP has established an integrated risk management system by integrating its financial and 23 V approach or principle is addressed by the operational risks as a precautionary approach to changes in management environments. It has also G4-6 Number of countries where the •Domestic power plant: Dangjin Thermal Power Plant complex, Ulsan Thermal Power Plant complex, 9 V organization set up an Integrated Crisis Response Center that can immediately cope with any type of disaster organization operates, and names of Honam Thermal Power Plant complex, Donghae Bio Thermal Power Plant complex, Ilsan Thermal around the clock. countries where either the organization Power Plant complex has significant operations or that are •Overseas power plant: Vietnam, Indonesia, Guam, Jamaica, USA G4-15 List externally developed economic, •EWP endorses global CSR initiatives such as UN Global Compact, ISO 26000 and CDP 1, 7 7.8 V specifically relevant to the sustainability environmental and social charters, topics covered in the report principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form •100% owned by KEPCO 6, 7 6.2.1 V endorses G4-8 Markets served •Power plant operations at home and abroad and investments and development 6 V G4-16 Associations the organization has joined as •EWP is a member of a total of 25 associations. 92 V G4-9 Total number of employees, total •No. of employees : 2,300 people 6, 7, 9 V a member number of operations, and net sales, •No. of operations: 10 (5 at home, 5 overseas) Main issue and report boundary Total capitalization broken down in terms •Net Profit: KRW 454.9 billion, Debt: KRW 4.8369 trillion of debt and equity, Quantity of products •Generated electricity: 49,525GWh G4-17 All entities included in the organization’s •Please refer to the company's financial statements. 77 6.2 V or services provided •Sales: KRW 4.0477 trillion consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents G4-10 a. Total number of employees by 65 6.3.7 V Classification (Unit : People) 2013 2014 2015 G4-18 The process for defining the report content •EWP has followed the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content specified in GRI G4 1, 25 V employment contract and gender Total 2,231 2,296 2,300 and the Aspect Boundaries Guidelines and decided on its report content through a materiality assessment. b. Total number of permanent employees Employees Male 1,991 2,029 2,064 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the •Please refer to the results of the materiality assessment and the third party assurance issued by 25 V by employment type and gender Female 240 267 236 process for defining report content BISD (Business institute for Sustainable Development of the KCCI (Korean Chamber of Commerce Retired employees in 2015 40 37 56 and Industry. c. Total workforce by employees and Voluntary retirees in 2015 5 3 3 G4-20 The Aspect Boundary for each material •EWP has reported the Aspect Boundary for each material Aspect at the top of the DMA page of 25 V supervised workers and by gender Aspect within the organization each chapter of this report. Non-fixed-term employees 0 0 0 Irregular workers (direct employment) 29 12 12 G4-21 The Aspect boundary for each material •Please refer to each Aspect Boundary index. 25 V d. Total workforce by region and gender Aspect outside the organization Indirectly employed workers 250 284 326 Female 48 32 0 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of •There are some restatements of information provided in previous reports due to changes in 83 V e. Whether a substantial portion of the information provided in previous reports, calculation methods and units (value distribution among employees, wastewater discharge quantity, organization’s work is performed by The handicapped 10 11 0 and the reasons for such restatements support for local communities) workers who are legally recognized as Local talents (non-capital area) 92 62 9 2015 regular G4-23 Significant changes from previous •No significant changes in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 83 V self-employed, or by individuals Local talents (Ulsan) 5 16 1 employee reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect recruits High school graduates 45 37 5 Boundaries f. Any significant variations in (except for Vocational high school employment members 44 36 0 Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholders Participation executives) graduates Graduates of science & G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by •Governments and relevant institutions, Power companies, Media, NGOs, Local community, 24 V 145 78 7 the organization Employees, Biz. Partners, Labor Unions, Shareholders, People engineering colleges Total recruits 206 131 16 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of •EWP identifies and selects its stakeholders in terms of value impact, value production and value 24 V Interns 132 131 99 stakeholders with whom to engage consumption in connection with its value creation process. 2015 irregular Part-time workers G4-26 The organization’s approach to Stakeholders Stakeholder engagement 24 6.8.3 V worker recruits Fixed-term workers 51 2 13 stakeholder engagement, including Governments & relevant frequency of engagement, including Government Communication Portal Ratio of Females (rate) 240(10.5%) 267(11.5%) 236(10.7%) authorities frequency of engagement by type and by employees Female managers (rate) 18(3.2%) 22(3.7%) 28(4.3%) Value impacts Power companies, mass Power Company Council, etc. stakeholder group with special media Newspaper articles, broadcast. Handicapped employee rate 3.4% 3.4% 3.4% NGOs, Local communities Local Council status Education to share the vision, management G4-11 Percentage of total Ratio of employees' union membership* *Union membership is available to all the 82 6.4, 6.4.3, V Employees meetings, weekly meetings employees covered by employees of grade-4 or below. 6.4.4, Value 2013 2014 2015 Town hall meetings, special lectures, SME Shared collective bargaining 6.4.5, production Biz. Partners 97.5 97.7 98.5 Growth Center, etc. agreements 6.3.10 Unit : % Labor union Labor-Management Strategy Meeting Electricity trading system, Management Shareholders Value Information Allio consumption Korea information portals, the Open Management People website, etc. 84 85 General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures_Economic Category GRI index Index Description Details Page ISO 26000 Verified GRI index Index Description Details Page ISO 26000 Verified G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been 24 V Economic Disclosures on Management •Through domestic and overseas projects, EWP provides electricity in a stable manner while 30 Stakeholders Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement, PerforApproach(DMA) expanding its business scope to the creation of new and renewable energy complexes and the and how the organization has responded Governments & relevant mance diversification of biomass fuels. Stable power supply to those key topics and concerns, authorities •Aside from this, it bolsters it future growth engines through intensive R&D efforts. It continues to including through its reporting. Report the Power companies & mass Securing competitiveness in the power industry, interest improve its financial soundness through upgrades in its financial structure Value impacts stakeholder groups that raised each of the media in compelling issues, competitive cooperation key topics and concerns Local power generation, environmental protection, G4-EC1 The direct economic value generated Direct Economic Value Unit: KRW 100 million 77,78 6.8.1, V NGOs, Local communities and distributed (EVG&D) on an accruals 6.8.2, economic invigoration in regions around power plants Classification 2013 2014 2015 basis, direct economic value generated, 6.8.3, Enhancement of corporate competitiveness, work-life Employees economic value distributed, and economic Sales 53,683 45,070 40,477 6.8.7, balance, etc. value retained Cost of goods sold 52,067 41,710 33,548 6.8.9 Invigoration of shared growth and economic growth, Gross profit 1,616 3,360 6,928 Value Biz. Partners establishment of fair and transparent transaction production Selling and administrative expenses 578 536 766 systems Operating profit 1,038 2,824 6,162 Establishment of corporate culture based on Labor union Other gains 125 93 297 communication and trust Other costs 10 34 32 Value Shareholders Requests for information disclosure Financial gains 218 565 (273) consumption People Stable supply of high-quality economical electricity Financial costs 706 987 1,530 Profit (loss) before income taxes 314 2,104 6,096 Report Profile Corporate tax expense 44 419 1,546 G4-28 Reporting for information provided •Jan. 1, 2015 ~ Dec. 31, 2015 1 V Net Profit 270 1,685 4,549 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report •Sept. 2015 1 V G4-30 Reporting cycle •Reporting cycle: 1 year 1 V Distributed Economic Value Unit: KRW 100 million G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the •Department in charge: Climate & Environment Team, Power Generation Division 1 V Classification 2013 2014 2015 report or its contents •Contact: Tel)070-5000-1544 Biz. Partners 4,609 3,533 2,719 G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization •EWP has chosen 'in accordance with GRI G4 Core' 1 V Employees 1,962 1,479 2,054 has chosen •EWP reports all indices in General Standard Disclosures and at least one index for each material Shareholders 81 253 679 Aspect in Specific Standard Disclosures. Creditors 316 371 296 G4-33 Organization’ s policy and current practice •Organization’ s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 1 7.5.3 V Government 53 543 1,643 with regard to seeking external assurance Local society 38 42 39 for the report Reinvestments 259 1,502 3,957 Governance G4-34 Organization’s policy and current practice •EWP has a BOD composed of secretariat, professional subcommittees, Audit Committee and 18 6.2 V Indirect Disclosures on Management •EWP is building infrastructure in various local communities including Dangjin, bringing benefits in 30,31 with regard to seeking external assurance Executives Recommendation Committee. Economic Approach(DMA) terms of not only its economic gains but also increased electricity generation for local residents. for the report Impact G4-39 Report whether the Chair of the highest •The chair of the BOD, the highest governance body, is the senior non-executive director and 18 V G4-EC7 The extent development of significant •EWP has installed 345kV transmission lines in the Dangjin area. It has developed a simulation 32,34 6.3.9, V governance body is also an executive maintains independence of the board from the company management. infrastructure investment and services program intended for optimal output distribution of Dangjin Thermal Power Plant. As such, it has 6.8.1, officer supported increased its power generation by 321GWh and profits by KRW 1.6 billion. 6.8.2, G4-45 The highest governance body’s role in •The BOD runs discussion-centered meetings. Brainstorming opportunities are given to executives. 19 7.4.3 V •It is now engaged in diverse infrastructure investments such as wind farms, biomass power plants 6.8.7, the identification and management of Participation of non-executive directors is actively sought. BOD members have in-depth discussions and the creation of Future Energy Town. 6.8.9 economic, environmental and social about the company's economic, environmental and social impacts, risks and opportunities. impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include They comprehensively deal with not only the company's business aspects but also its social the highest governance body’s role in the responsibilities. implementation of due diligence processes G4-47 Report the frequency of the highest 19 V No. of BOD meetings BOD resolutions governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, 2015 11 31 Specific Standard Disclosures_Environmental Category and opportunities GRI index Index Description Details Page ISO 26000 Verified Ethics and Integrity Energy Disclosures on Management •EWP realizes energy conservation through diverse efforts including technical development and the 44,46 G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards •EWP has established its own ethical vision and midto long-term strategies to promote ethics and 20 4.4 V Approach(DMA) development of low-carbon power plants. and norms of behavior such as codes of integrity. conduct and codes of ethics •It has norms of behavior such as codes of conduct, guidelines on disciplinary actions, reporting on G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Total energy consumption 46 6.5.4 V rimes and contract execution. Category 2013 2014 2015 •It runs the Integrity & Ethics Committee. Energy Usage G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for •EWP has enhanced its rules on new contract execution as a way of strongly enforcing its codes of 20 7.7.5, 4.4, V 550,933 489,557 457,227 (Unit: TJ) reporting concerns about unethical or conduct, guidelines on disciplinary actions, reporting on crime, and codes of ethics. 6.6.3 unlawful behavior, and matters related to •To minimize ethical risks, it has expanded the application of the norms to its employees who are •There is a slight discrepancy between the total emissions and the total of the emissions of all its organizational integrity, such as escalation dispatched or transferred to outside organizations. operating sites because the sites use rounded totals. through line management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines 86 87 Specific Standard Disclosures_Environmental Category Specific Standard Disclosures_Environmental Category GRI index Index Description Details Page ISO 26000 Verified GRI index Index Description Details Page ISO 26000 Verified Emission Disclosures on Management •To reduce its GHG emissions, EWP is engaged in diverse activities such as voluntary participation in 44,46 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal •EWP reuses coal ash, gypsum and waste oil from its power plants and creates additional profits. 50, 79 6.5.3 V Approach(DMA) CDP and the development of technologies for turning GHG into high value-added goods. method •Those that are difficult to reuse or recycle are disposed of by licensed businesses. G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas(GHG) Scope1+Scope2(GHG emissions) Unit: tCO2-eq 46,79 6.5.5 V emissions(SCOPE1) 2013 2014 2015 Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) 42,665,921 38,229,795 37,950,777 46,79 6.5.5 V Power generation Q’ty emissions(SCOPE2) (except for new & GWh 56,611 50,699 49,239 G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas(GHG) Scope3(Other relevant indirect GHG emissions) Unit: tCO2-eq 46,79 6.5.5 V renewable energy) emissions(SCOPE3) 2013 2014 2015 Total weight 1,000 tons 1,839 1,906 1,824 9,262,519 8,742,014 Waste generation per ton/GWh 32 37 37 basic unit G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas(GHG) •EWP expects to acquire KRW 5.2 billion worth of economic value through the CO2 treatment 46,47,54 6.5.5 V emissions technology that it developed through its R&D efforts to transform GHG into high value-added goods. Recycled Q’ty 1,000 tons 1,857 1,851 1,635 •EWP is promoting the production of architectural interior goods that replace cement with coal ash. Recycling Rate % 101 97 90 •Through the increased recycling of coal ash by 300,000 tons a year, EWP expects to reduce its Classification Unit 2013 2014 2015 landfill costs (KRW 2.6 billion) and save landfill charges and GHG emissions (KRW 1.1 billion). Recycled Q’ty 1,000 tons 557 459 480 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx and other significant air Air Emissions Unit : ton 48,79 6.5.3 V Gypsum Recycling Rate % 97.6 98.3 97.0 emissions Emissions Usage Gypsum board, raw material for cement, etc. Classification 2013 2014 2015 Recycled Q’ty 1,000 tons 1,829 1,844 1,615 SOx 16,629 13,755 11,965 Coal Recycling Rate % 101.2 98.6 89.6 NOx 31,994 24,799 21,552 ash Usage Concrete admixtures, cement raw materials, filling materials, etc. Dust 723 687 651 WasteDisclosures on Management •EWP continues to improve its efficiency in terms of effluents and waste management to minimize its 44, 48, 49, Product and Disclosures on Management •As a by-product supply glut was anticipated following the expansion of its power plant facilities, 44, 54 water and Approach(DMA) negative impact on the environment. 50 service Approach(DMA) EWP has enhanced its recycling of coal ash and heavy oil fly ash. waste G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental •EWP is undertaking a project designed to produce architectural interior materials with coal ash. With 54 6.5.3, V G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and •EWP has installed a comprehensive wastewater treatment facility at each of its power plants and thus 49, 79 6.5.3, V impacts of products and services an increase of 300,000 tons in the annual coal ash recycling volume, it is expected to reduce its 6.5.4, destination improve the service water and wastewater recycling rates. 6.5.4 landfill costs (KRW2.6 billion) and landfill charges and GHG emissions (KRW 1.1 billion). 6.5.5, •It has developed bio fuel deodorization and high calorific fuel by taking advantage of the heating 6.7.5 service water waste water value and deodorization power of heavy oil fly ash, reducing treatment costs of heavy oil fly ash (about Power plant Usage Intensity Recycled Q’ty Recycled Rate Output KRW 800 million/year) and fuel costs (KRW 300 million/2 years) and new and renewable energy (1,000 tons) (ton/GWh) (1,000 ton) (%) supply certificates (10,000 REC/year). 2013 13,761 242 3,598 1,288 36 2014 12,055 237 3,161 1,285 41 ComDisclosures on Management •EWP keeps track of, manages and complies with domestic and international environmental laws 44,45 pliance Approach(DMA) and regulations and other requirements that are directly related or relevant in any other way in terms 2015 10,267 209 3,416 1,227 36 of the environmental aspects of its activities, business and services. Emission Allowances and Concentrations for Water Pollutants(COD / SS) Unit: mg/ℓ Area COD SS Power Plant G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total •EWP imposes its own environmental rules and regulations, far stricter than those required by the 45,87 4.6 V (type) Regulation Emissions Regulation Emissions number of non-monetary sanctions for nongovernment for green enterprises, to meet all its environmental responsibilities. Power generation 5 2 compliance with environmental laws and •In 2015, it had two non-compliance cases. Area B Dangjin 90 80 regulations •Dangjin: KRW 3 million, Donghae: KRW 2 million (Grade 1) Desulfurization 21 21 B Ulsan 90 7 80 2 (Grade 1) Power generation Specific Standard Disclosures_Social Category Special 6 2 wastewater Honam Area 40 30 GRI index Index Description Details Page ISO 26000 Verified Desulfurization (Grade 1) 19 7 wastewater Sub-Category: Labor Practice and Decent Work Special Area Donghae 130 2 120 1 EmployDisclosures on Management •EWP expands the employment of socially vulnerable people. It offers preferential points to job 65 (Grade 3) Area B ment Approach(DMA) applications with disabilities and people designated by the government as being eligible for special Ilsan 40 6 10 3 (Grade 1) protection in employment. Emission Allowances and Concentrations for Water Pollutants(T-N / T-P) Unit: mg/ℓ G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee Employment of regular workers 87 6.4.3 V Unit: people hires and employee turnover Area Total Nitrogen Total Phosphorous Classification 2013 2014 2015 Power Plant (type) Regulation Emissions Regulation Emissions Female 48 32 0 Power generation 9 The handicapped 10 9 0 Area B Dangjin 60 8 Less than 1 Local talents (non-capital area) 92 62 9 (Grade 1) Desulfurization 45 Local talents (non-capital area) 5 16 1 B Ulsan 60 10 8 High school graduates 48 37 5 (Grade 1) Power generation Vocational high school graduates 44 36 0 Special 3 wastewater Honam Area 60 8 Less than 1 Graduates of science and engineering colleges 145 78 7 Desulfurization (Grade 1) 34 wastewater Total no. of recruits 206 131 16 Special Area Donghae 60 1 8 Less than 1 Amount of turnover 12 17 18 (Grade 3) Area B Turnover rate 0.54 0.93 0.78 Ilsan 60 11 8 (Grade 1) 88 89 Specific Standard Disclosures_Social Category Specific Standard Disclosures_Social Category GRI index Index Description Details Page ISO 26000 Verified GRI index Index Description Details Page ISO 26000 Verified Sub-Category: Labor Practice and Decent Work ComDisclosures on Management •EWP enhances its ethical management and promotes transparent, fair transactions in order to 74 pliance Approach(DMA) prevent non-compliance with laws and regulations. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees •Non-financial welfare benefits including operation of an in-house college, establishment of flexible work 62,65 6.4.4, V that are not provided to temporary or partinfrastructure through the operation of smart office, and re-certification of a family-friendly company by the 6.8.7 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total •Seven lawsuits with EWP and the country's four other power companies as defendants are 89 4.6 V time employees, by significant locations of government number of non-monetary sanctions of nonunderway. operation compliance with laws and regulations 2013 2014 2015 (Unit: KRW 1 million) Sub-Category: Product Responsibility Welfare benefits per person 3.7 2 2.3 Customer Disclosures on Management •EWP complies with regulations on the protection of personal information in relevant laws including 89 privacy Approach(DMA) the Personal Information Protection Act. It has set 'Policies on Personal Information Handling' about G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after (Unit: people, days) 62 6.4.4 V the following items according to Article 30-1 of the same law and Article 31-1 of the enforcement No. of employees on parental 2014 14 parental leave, by gender decree. leave 2015 33 2014 321 days G4-PR8 Total number of substantiated complaints None 89 6.7.1, V Average length of parental leave regarding breaches of customer privacy 6.7.2, 2015 436 days and losses of customer data 6.7.7 No. of employees on long-term 2014 0 parental leave 2015 7 ComDisclosures on Management •EWP imposes strict ethical standards on its stakeholders to prevent them from becoming involved 89 Industrial Disclosures on Management •EWP has set 5 detailed safety regulations and systems including the ABC Rule composed of five 58,59 pliance Approach(DMA) in any unethical incidents. Safety & Approach(DMA) major safety rules, achieving 0% per 10,000 workers in fatality rate in 2015. Health G4-PR9 Monetary value of significant fines for nonNone 89 4.6, 6.7.1, V compliance with laws and regulations 6.7.2, G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, 59 6.4.6, V concerning the provision and use of 6.7.6 Classification 2013 2014 2015 occupational diseases, lost days, and 6.8.8 products and services Fatality rate per 10,000 absenteeism, and total number of work1.74% 2.87% 0% persons related fatalities, by region and by gender Diversity Disclosures on Management •For fair compensation, EWP bases its employee evaluation on their performance and competencies. 58,64,65 and Equal Approach(DMA) Furthermore, it respects diversity in employment. It never discriminates in employment. Oppor-tunity UN Global Compact Advanced Level G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and 65,88 6.2.3, V breakdown of employees per employee No. of female employees 240(10.5%) 267(11.5%) 236(10.7%) 6.3.7, category Ratio of 6.3.10, employees with No. of female managers 18(3.2%) 22(3.7%) 28(4.3%) 6.4.3 NO. Category Principle Page GRI G4 Index special status Ratio of people with This integrated report(the Report) describes the discussions at the level of the CEO and the BOD regarding the strategic 3.4% 3.4% 3.4% 1 2, 3 G4-1 disabilities aspects of the implementation of the UNGC. Governance 2 The Report explains the company’s decision-making processes and corporate governance to achieve its sustainability. 18 G4-34 Sub-Category: Human Rights 3 The Report describes the engagement of all of the company’s major stakeholders. 24 G4-24~27 Non-discriDisclosures on Management •EWP promotes policies advocating gender equality in all aspects. 58,64,65 mination Approach(DMA) 4 UN Goals and Issues The Report describes activities designed to support comprehensive goals and issue of the United Nations. 1, 7, 92 G4-15,16 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination •EWP had no incidents of discrimination on grounds of race, gender, religion, political opinion, 65 6.3.6, V 5 The Report describes the company’s strong commitment, strategies and policies in the area of human rights. 1, 7, 92 G4-15,16 and corrective actions taken nationality or social status, or other relevant forms of discrimination in 2015. 6.3.7, 6 The Report describes and effective management system designed to integrate its human rights principles. 6.3.10, Human Rights 6.4.3 7 The Report describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms about human rights principles. 63, 91 G4-HR12 Human Disclosures on Management •EWP has established an open communication system with its stakeholders and takes immediate 58,63 8 The Report applies standardized performance indices(including GRI) about human right. 91 G4-11 rights Approach(DMA) actions on human rights violations. 9 The Report describes the company’s strong commitment, strategies and policies in the area of labor. 62 grievance mecha10 The Report describes an effective management system designed to integrate its labor principles. 63 nisms Labor 11 The Report describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms about labor principles. 63 G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights •EWP had 39 grievances about human rights and settled 20 of them in 2015 (including grievances 63,88 6.3.6 V G4-10, G4-LA1, 3, impacts filed, addressed, and resolved over transfer between operating sites). 12 The Report applies standardized performance indices(including GRI)about labor. 59, 62, 65, 92 6, 12 through formal grievance mechanisms The Report describes the company’s strong commitment, strategies and policies in the area of environmental Sub-Category: Society 13 44, 45 management. Local Disclosures on Management •EWP realizes the value of sharing through active implementation of its social contribution activities. 66,67 14 The Report describe an effective management system designed to integrate its environmental principles. 45 Society Approach(DMA) Environment 15 The Report describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms about environmental management. 45, 47 G4-SO1 Ratio of workplaces that are involved •EWP carries out diverse social contribution activities including energy welfare social contributions 68 6.3.9, V G4-EN3, 15 16, with the local community and implement linked to its core capabilities, social contributions through communication with local communities, 6.5.1, 16 The Report applies standardized performance indices about environmental management. 45-50, 54, 79 17, 19, 21, 22, 23 on impact evaluation and development and social contributions through collaboration with relevant authorities. 6.5.2, programs 6.5.3, 6.8 17 The Report describes the company’s strong commitment, strategies and policies in the area of anti-corruption efforts. 20 AntiDisclosures on Management •EWP has been active in improving its institutional arrangements such as the establishment of a fair 71,74 18 The Report describes an effective management system designed to integrate its anti-corruption principles. 21 Anti-Corruption compe-titive Approach(DMA) trade order, the prevention of corporate malfeasance such as bid rigging, and the protection of the 19 The Report describes effective monitoring and evaluation mechanisms in the area of anti-corruption efforts. 21 behavior economically vulnerable in order to protect vulnerable companies and help reenergize the national economy. 20 The Report applies standardized performance indices about anti-corruption efforts. 22 Strategies, Governance G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for antiNone 74,88 6.6.1, V 21 The Reports explains about the implementation of Global Compact Principles within the company’s value chain. 6, 12 G4-12 and Engagement competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 6.6.2, 1, 6, 7, 9, 10, monopoly practices and their outcomes 6.6.5, 22 External Assurance and The Report offers information on the corporate profile and operational environments. G4-3~16 12, 23, 65, 92 6.6.7 Transparency 23 The Report includes a high level of transparency and disclosure. 1 G4-28~33 90 91 Independent Assurance Statement The Business Institute for Sustainable Development (BISD), led by the Korea Chamber of Commerce & Inclusivity: Does EWP adhere to the principle of stakeholder engagement in order to ensure a Industry, was requested by Korea East-West Power Co., LTD (EWP) to serve as an independent ‘third-party responsible and strategic response in advancing sustainability management? assurance institute’ for the ‘2016 EWP Sustainable Management Report’ (hereinafter ‘Report’), and submits • EWP gathered major concerns and opinions from core stakeholders, including its government and the assurance statement as follows. relevant institutions, power companies, the media, NGOs, local communities, employees, partners, shareholders, and the public through stakeholder communication channels. Purpose • BISD is not aware of any significant stakeholder groups that were omitted from the process of gathering The purpose of this assurance report is to identify any major errors or biases in the Report, to conduct sustainability management issues through EWP’s stakeholder communication channels. independent assurance procedures to determine whether the sustainable management issues of EWP were appropriately reported, and to present an assurance opinion. Materiality: Does EWP include material issues that affect stakeholders in the entire spectrum of sustainability management in the Report? Responsibilities and Independence • EWP identified major issues through the materiality test and compiled opinions through a survey from each stakeholder group in the process of the materiality test process. The Report contains matters on EWP’s sustainable management efforts, achievements and future plans. All responsibility regarding the drafting of the Report lies with EWP. • BISD is not aware of any significant issues that were omitted from the process. In conducting assurance procedures on the Report and providing assurance opinions to the board of directors, Responsiveness: Does EWP respond appropriately to stakeholder issues? BISD has no management-related interests in profits with EWP, aside from carrying out third-party assurance, in order to maintain independence and autonomy. • EWP has acknowledged the impact of its business decisions on stakeholders and responded properly with coherent actions. The Report presents related performances during the reporting period. Assurance Standards and Restrictions • BISD is not aware of any violations of the principle of responsiveness in EWP’s response to major sustainability management issues or performances that are described in the Report from the BISD performed the assurance evaluation in consideration of the three accountability principles (inclusivity, perspective of materiality. materiality and responsiveness) of AA1000AS (2008) and the principles for defining report content and report quality of the Global Reporting Initiative G4 guidelines. Recommendations The scope of the assurance evaluation was limited to only those performances stated in the Report and excludes data from previous years and data reported online. Furthermore, greenhouse gas data that has BISD makes the following recommendations within a scope that does not affect the assurance results already been verified from another third-party organization was not subjected to the assurance evaluation. • B ased on EWP's 10th Sustainability Report, the efforts that EWP has put into sustainability of the environmental and society is recognized. Some of the remarkable environmental achievements are the Major Assurance Procedures development of new low-carbon technology and the use of renewable energy. In addition, localization of technologies and consideration of local community's environmental effects are equally remarkable. Going For the assurance process, EWP‘s employees were engaged in interviews. Results from the interviews and forth, BISD recommends and expects EWP achieve sustainable management activities within EWP's other relevant documents provided by EWP were examined. Major assurance procedures undertaken are as sphere of influence and capabilities. follows: • EWP reports several different sustainable management activities. However, some of the listed activities Review of application of company’s internal sustainability report standards and their project outcomes were reported repeatedly. For future reports BISD recommends EWP select Review of the Report contents and the information collection process different activities and create a table of contents according to EWP's activity characteristics. This will Review of the materiality test process, core issues and company policies allow clear reporting of activities and their distinctive outcomes. • The efforts of EWP for sustainable management activities and report such as dividing each aspect’s Opinions boundary into interior and exterior in the process of materiality test and matching EWP’s main sustainable management activities to UN SDGs published last year is remarkable. BISD recommends EWP BISD performed the assurance evaluation in accordance with the procedures identified above, and the Report continuously bring positive impact to the society as consider thoroughly about the global trends and was modified by EWP if and when deemed necessary. Based on the assurance evaluation, BISD is not stakeholders’ interested issues and intensify sustainable management activities. aware of any significant errors in the Report and confirmed that the Report was written in accordance with GRI G4 guidelines (core option). The opinions of BISD produced as a result of its assurance evaluation and in consideration of the AA1000APS accountability standards are explained below. July 2016, President Chun, Subong 92 Association Memberships, Corporate Governance Association Memberships G4-16 Membership Organization Purpose Time of Subscription To ensure rapid policy response and exchange of academic information with active participation in the government's The Korean Association of Small Business Studies 2011.07 establishment of shared growth policies To establish and modify technical standards for the electrical industry designed to boost the credibility of power generation The Korea Electric Association 2002.09 facilities and develop new codes The Korea Energy Foundation To promote energy welfare programs like the support for low-income households together with scholarship programs 2002.05 World Energy Congress To establish human and technical exchange networks with the member countries of an energy-related international body 2007.01 Korea Institute of Enterprise Architecture To collect information on ways of upgrading the EA level 2013.03 Korea International Trade Association To cooperate on the data and information related to international trade. 2001.05 KEPIC To participate in KEPIC development directions and secure funds 2002.05 Korean Standards Association To introduce advanced quality control techniques and spread quality management mind throughout the company 2003.01 Korea Suggestion System Association To acquire information for the promotion of suggestions and small group activities in the company. 2007.05 The Electric Utility Cost Group (EUCG) To collect information on overseas electric power supply and benchmarking 2006.01 The Business Institute for Sustainable Development To exchange information on sustainability management 2008.11 The Korea Carbon Capture and Storage To exchange information on carbon capture and storage 2010.09 Association Korea Smart Grid Association To exchange information on smart grid and collect information on industrial trends 2012.07 United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) To exchange information on sustainability management and engage in exchange at home and abroad 2006.06 Korean Green Business Association To support the Big and SME GHG Mentoring Project 2012.03 The Korean Society of Mechanical Engineers To identify domestic trends in mechanical engineering and exchange information 2002.08 The Korean Institute of Electrical Engineers To identify domestic trends in electrical engineering and exchange information 2002.06 Korean Association of Power Generation Studies To enhance the power industry and discover joint research topics 2010.07 Korea Project Management Association To enhance the capabilities for project execution. 2008.03 To promote advance into new business at home and abroad in the areas of design and technical support through certification KOREA Engineering & Consulting Association 2012.07 of corporate engineering performance Korea New & Renewable Energy Association To exchange information in the area of new & renewable energy. 2003.01 EEI(Edison Electric Institute) To obtain information to expand into overseas markets or increase its overseas presence 2004.03 EWP Sustainability Report 2016 Association of the Electricity Supply Industry of East To obtain information to expand into overseas markets or increase its overseas presence 2011.02 Asia and Western Pacific (AESIEAP) Happy World with Hearty Energy Korea Electric Engineers Association To promote R&D in electric engineering and boost training of electric engineers 2008.03 We Make Energy for Happiness To enhance cooperation between public and private sectors in order to prevent and respond to maritime disasters and Maritime Resource & Salvage Association 2013.05 accidents EWP genertates high efficient energy through its technique and management Controlling Structure of the Related Companies innovation. We enrich lives of our people by supplying top quality of low priced energy with a stability. Classification Gyeongju Wind Power Share Classification Gyeongju Wind Power Share EWP reflects attentively to the stakeholder opinion and makes a bright future Gyeongju Wind Power 70% EWP Philippines Corporation 100% by creating sustainable values for all business and society. Green Biomass Energy 34% EWP America. INC. 100% Korea Offshore Wind Power 12.5% EWP Renewable Corporation 100% GS Donghae Power 34% DG Fairhaven Power. LLC 100% Publisher Yong-jin Kim Busan Sinho Solar Power 25% DG Kings Plaza. LLC 100% Publishing office EWP Honam Wind Power 29% DG Whitefield. LLC 100% Date of publication August, 2016 Dangjin Eco Power 33.1% Springfield Power. LLC 100% Domestic Overseas Seokmun Energy 34% California Power Holdings. LLC 100% Chuncheon Energy 29.9% EWP RC Biomass Holdings. LLC 100% Yeonggwang Baeksu Wind Farm 15% EWP(Barbados)1 SRL 99.9% Hope-Light Power Generation 8.33% PT. EWP Indonesia 99.9% www.ewp.co.kr Korea Power Exchange 7.14% Jamaica Public Service Co.Ltd 40% 44543 395 Jongga-ro, Joong-gu, Ulsan KEPCO-Uhde Inc. 3% PT. Tanjung Power Indonesia 35% TEL 070-5000-1544 FAX 070-5000-1599 Cockcatoo Coal Limited 0.66% Copyrightⓒ 2016 KOREA EAST-WEST POWER CO.,LTD(EWP). All rights reserved.
