Communication on Progress (COP) 2015‐‐2016 2015 www.asianwingsair.com 1 STATEMENT OF COMMITMENT I am pleased to confirm that Asian Wings Airways supports that the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment, and anti-corruption. thi communication, With this i ti we express our intent t advance i t t to d th those principles i i l within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company and to engaging in collaborative projects, which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations particularly the Millennium Development Goals. We will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within on year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. policy Sincerely Yours, Lwin Moe Executive Director Asian Wings Airways Co:Ltd www.asianwingsair.com 2 Overview Asian Wings Airways was successfully operated on 27 January 2011.We are proud to be a private commercial airline based in Yangon International Airport, Yangon, Myanmar. With over five years of business operations, we have learnt professionalism and the know how of operations in our airline business in a customer-first sense. We are proud to be catering to travelers around the world with our unique flight services integrated with the euphoria of Myanmar. Currently being a domestic airline, Asian Wings offers regular flights to all major tourist destinations in Myanmar, Myanmar such as: Yangon,Yangon Mandalay, Mandalay Nyaung U(Bagan), U(Bagan) Heho, Tachileik, Lashio, Kyaing Tong, Monywa, Homalin, Naypyitaw, Bhamo Kyauk Phyu, Thandwe, Myitkyina and Putao. www.asianwingsair.com 3 Vision To become an airline distinctively recognized and well-known for its warm and generous hospitality with competency. Mission To furnish an air transport service that categorizes among the best in terms of Safety Reliability and Comfort. Safety, Comfort Core Value To uphold the highest safety standards. To satisfy our customers by unique hospitality. To improve the quality of our operational performances and services. To Achieve regional areas standards in services and operational performance. To be the Airline of choice in Myanmar. To carry out a business model that will attain constant level of profitability. www.asianwingsair.com 4 HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of internationally p proclaimed human rights. g Principle 2 Make sure Business are not complicit in human rights abuses. Asian Wings Airways Ltd. is one of the domestic airlines in Myanmar and about 400 staffs (permanent staffs & daily wages staffs) have employed in the company. Most of employees are Myanmar nationality and we are not discriminate to employ th staff the t ff based b d upon gender, ti lit status d nationality, t t andd religion li i accordingdi tot our Human H Resources Department’s policies. We also provide the necessary training to all employees is that to create the company as a place which is enjoyable and could be able to show the ultimate efforts of the employees p y for their abilities and efficiencies. We, Asian Wings Airways Ltd against Human Rights abuse and human trafficking, we are volunteering and taking part in activity of annihilating human abuse. www.asianwingsair.com 5 Supervisory Supe v so y Management ge e Trainingg www.asianwingsair.com 6 LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3 Business should uphold freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle i i l 5 The b li i off child ff i abolition h effective hild labour l b Principle 6 Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation www.asianwingsair.com 7 Asian A i Wings Wi Airways Ai Ltd always Ltd; l upholds h ld labour l b laws l and d regulations and realize that second most common form of human trafficking is forced labour, according to UNODC’s report, we never press or force or squeeze workers and we give all kinds of different employees full labour rights, freedom and opportunity of job promotion depend on their performance. Moreover, employee get the equal chances upon gender discrimination is dilemma for progress. All employee has right of freedom of speech and expression about work and can point out the inequality in operation anytime. Working hour for employee is 8 hours from 9:00 am to 5:00pm. Asian Wings Airways practices and allows all kinds of leave policies such as : Annual leave, casual leave, medical leave, maternity leave, compassionate leave and marriage leave with pay by SSB law of Myanmar. Company provided the staff for FOC ticket or ID tickets for their staff and their immediate families. families www.asianwingsair.com 8 All staff members are provided meal allowance, uniform and also arranged the ferry or transportation allowance. We never accept the employee p y who is the age g of under 18 y years , when a p person is employed p y as new staff usually checked their National registration card. Asian Wings Airways has implemented several labour rights standards in our company’s code of conducts. www.asianwingsair.com 9 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges h ll Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environment responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. In recognition of the environmental impacts that concern the global community, We have taken responsibilities to initiatives to promote greater environment responsibility into our internal and external activities. activities We practice the paper less process by using email, internet for sharing information and reuse the recycle paper in the company work as slogan “Go Green, keep it on screen‐think before you print” . All staffs have reduced the plastic usage in our working environment. environment All the car of Asian Wings Airways has checked and maintained regularly to reduce the pollution of Environment. www.asianwingsair.com 10 ANTI CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10 Business should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. The first priority of Asian Wings Airways is to make our organization absolutely corruption p free zone and our employees p y moral and integral. g We are totallyy support pp in erasing corruption, bribery, extortion and fraud by using two ways; we pay employees salary how much their quality deserves and we keep on endurance over all kinds of corruption within our working society. We usually concentrate in flows of internal information, transparency as well as sharing, caring between employees, customers, shareholders, and officials. We also make training and seminar to aware the staffs of Asian Wings Airways about Anti Anticorruption. We founded an internal committee to check, conclude and ascertain with Human Resource Department and Administration Department’s management to take action whether one or more a complaint occurs. We also add a role to discuss di about b corruption i ini monthly hl meetingsi andd implement i l sufficient ffi i measures to keep safe circumstance. www.asianwingsair.com 11 www.asianwingsair.com 12 Thank You ! www.asianwingsair.com 13
