United Nations Global Compact Communication of Progress Welcome Welcome to PMP Recruitments' second annual Communication of Progress which describes our approach to the United Nations Global Compact and its 10 Principles, including our performance in 2015 and our future commitments. The United Nations Global Compact was launched in 2000 to harness the power of collective action in the promotion of responsible corporate citizenship. The Global Compact is a framework for businesses that are committed to aligning their operations and strategies with the ten universally accepted principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. United Nations Global Compact Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Contents Statement of Support for the UNGC Who We Work With Protect, Respect, Remedy Framework Where We Are Training and Development Human Rights Ethical and Compliance Labour Time off for Training Policy Environment Who We Are Anti-Corruption Our Mission Achievements & Targets The Cordant Spirit: Vision & Values 2016 COP Feedback What We Do Statement of Support for the UNGC PMP are proud to deliver their second In this updated communication we describe the actions we have taken over the last 12 months, our targets for 2016/17, and our ongoing commitment to the United Communication of Progress (COP) which Nations Global Compact. details the advances our business has made since joining the Nations Global PMP are currently one of only three recruitment companies to have signed up to the UN Global Compact which demonstrates our continuous dedication to CSR and Compact on 22nd September 2014. the progression of our ethical story. This document reaffirms our support of the 10 Principles I look forward to presenting our progress in 2017, with the hope that we have of the United Nations Global Compact; Human Rights, achieved all targets included in this document. Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. We have integrated these Principles into our business ensuring that they are influential and at the core of our strategy, culture and daily operations. Jamie Reynolds, Managing Director PMP Recruitment Protect, Respect, Remedy Framework In 2011 the UN Human Rights Council This framework was developed resting on three pillars: implemented the 'Protect, Respect & 1. Government’s duty to protect against all human rights abuse Remedy Framework'. within their territory and control by third parties, including business enterprises. 2. Businesses responsibility to respect human rights regardless of This framework was proposed by the size, sector and location of business, and address adverse Professor John Ruggie, Special human rights impacts which they may be involved in through undertaking a risk assessment. Representative of the UN Secretary 3. The Government must take appropriate action to provide a General on Business and Human Rights. remedy to protect those abused by human rights. Protect, Respect, Remedy Framework PMP Recruitment are proud to have partnered At PMP we feel our successful relationship with Weetabix is based on aligned values, ethics, culture and business strategies. Weetabix are with Weetabix since May 2014, supplying engaging; ensuring all colleagues and suppliers are kept well informed, factory operatives and fork truck drivers as well they are professional, open to new ideas and instill a ‘one team’ as placing co-pack and warehouse staff on site mentality listening to suppliers and ensuring relationships are one based on partnership not customer/supplier. to XPO Logistics. We consider Weetabix to be one of our most prestigious and valued We have successfully passed all compliance audits and are accounts, we have an excellent working relationship which is built on honoured to have received the Weetabix Supplier Award for mutual trust and a shared vision to succeed, and we hope that this Service in 2015, this on the back of 100% labour delivery and the continues for many years to come. excellent communication from our team based permanently on site. Training & Development PMP Recruitment are committed to In addition all employees undergo an extensive on-boarding process when joining the business, completing a 12 week workbook programme investing in their people and supporting and attending a compulsory 1 day company induction delivered by the them through Training and Development Learning and Development Team. Programmes. PMP have invested in online training for our employees allowing them to learn and improve in their own time in any location. This has been We look to develop our employees’ professional skills to achieved through the use of our Google Apps software enabling us to advantage both the business and the individual. To create and update Google sites with new and interesting information. support this objective PMP Recruitments' Training and Development team offer programmes to suit the needs of PMP have also organised and completed a number of HR Roadshows all employees. and Leadership Programmes throughout the past year to reinforce our commitment to the development of our employees. Training & Development Stronger Together PMP Recruitment is still very committed to the All PMP offices and branches display the Stronger Together posters and information leaflets ensuring that all visitors know our commitment against Stronger Together initiative, in January 2015 we human trafficking and labour exploitation. became Stronger Together Business Partners and are proud to be supporting the initiative. We continuously educate our workforce and pass on our knowledge to every assignment based employee to ensure they are educated and know that forced labour is illegal and PMP Recruitment stands up for the In the last year around 60% of our senior management team have victims. attended the external Stronger Together Workshop. They continue to work in collaboration with their clients to ensure that the initiative is being implemented at all of the sites to which they supply workers. Training & Development Stronger Together PMP Recruitment have invested significant resources into developing a new front office system which will allow each worker to have more visibility and easier access to their records which we hold on our files. It also gives us a greater control over our files and will allow us to monitor the documents we hold and easily identify any anomalies which we can then investigate. The new system requires further development and ongoing investment to allow our workers to register online using their smartphone prior to visiting the branch; we are hoping that this will reduce the risk of third party exploitation as workers will be not rely on others to help them register and they will have greater control over their personal details. Training & Development Memory Lane Cakes In the first quarter of 2016 an anonymous letter was 1. A confidential workers questionnaire was sent to all our workers. This was based on the Stronger Together template and was received alleging discriminatory action carried out by anonymously controlled to prevent misuse. PMP Recruitment at our client’s site, Memory Lane 2. One to one worker interviews were introduced to investigate Cakes. concerns 3. The opportunity for workers to attend off site talks with a HR staff member and a Manager not involved with the site was We strongly refuted these claims citing our membership of the UNGC, our introduced. This allowed workers to talk freely and anonymously commitment to Stronger Together and our SA8000 accreditation. As a 4. As a business we already have a confidential helpline set up company we have always treated allegations of harassment and managed by a bilingual worker advocate. We reinforced the discrimination very seriously and so conducted a thorough investigation to resolve these matters. Carrying out the investigation we introduced a availability of this additional service. number of actions: All allegations were unfounded as a result of the investigation. Recommendations were made to continue to improve the site and ensure all standards are surpassed at all times. Ethical & Compliance PMP's experienced Learning and Development team As a recruitment agency it's important that we, and our clients, meet current legislation from all governing bodies involved in the supply chain. work closely with all functional areas of the business The Learning and Development team received outstanding feedback from to develop training courses to meet the needs of all employees who expressed the workshop gave them the confidence and employees. In 2014 they collaborated with the reassurance they needed to carrying out the correct procedures. Internal Compliance team to develop an Ethical and Since our last report we have updated the content of this Ethical & Compliance workshop. Compliance Workshop to more closely align our support to the UN Global Compact and the Stronger Together initiative as part of our actions in These workshops have continued throughout 2015/16, and to date 375 helping to tackle modern slavery in the workplace. Six courses with this employees have attended workshops across the UK. The one day training revised programme have been run in the first half of 2016 to 50 PMP course focuses on ensuring all employees fully understand the importance employees who are at the forefront of the business. of carrying out the processes and procedures involved in placing an assignment based, on site employee. Ethical & Compliance We believe it is vital to actively demonstrate and Areas covered by our audit ● Branch implement compliant and ethical practices, working ● Worker relentlessly to ensure all individuals are treated with ● Agency Worker Regulations the respect and dignity they deserve. ● Client ● External ● Driving In order to maintain high levels of competency the PMP Compliance Team initiate regular audits. In line with our value of Candor, we offer this Our results are summarised and reported to the client along with audit provision and consultancy service to clients free of charge ensuring suggestions on where improvements can be made. 100% transparency of all results and feedback. Our audits cover every aspect of a client’s operation from in branch compliance and regulation to ensuring workers rights are adhered to at all times. Time Off For Training Policy PMP Recruitment are committed to ensuring all PMP Recruitment make every effort to support employees when undertaking training/studying including elearning courses and where employees are adequately trained and understand feasible will seek to offer financial support. that some training courses or study may take place outside of the business. In order to facilitate this PMP Recruitment have enabled me to develop my skills by providing PMP Recruitment have developed a Time off for me with time off to study the Diploma in Human Resource Training Policy which ensures that all employees are Management (CIPD). This has enabled me to work more effectively supported through the process and are aware of on site. I feel more confident in achieving my goals and to deliver a more advanced standard of work their entitlements. Iwona Nepelska Senior Site Consultant Who We Are As part of the Cordant Group, PMP operate alongside our other recruitment and managed services brands. The Cordant Group family business was founded in 1957. In the early years it was the security service which generated significant success together with integrated cleaning solutions and, as a consequence, allowed the company to acquire a number of businesses over a period of fifty years expanding its offering into integrated facilities management and recruitment services. Now the Cordant Group operate in excess of 2,300 locations throughout the UK. Our Mission We will transform the way recruitment and facilities services are delivered around the globe, offering customers a unique and superior service, by utilising leading technology and creating an environment where talented leaders and game-changers who share our passion for disruptive innovation are given the opportunity to succeed and change their lives. The Cordant Spirit: Values & Vision Candour Opportunity Relentlessness Disruptive Innovation We value and respect candour, We will inspire, support and invest We are driven to be the best. We We will continually challenge the encouraging open and honest in our people who will share in our have a relentless desire to succeed, status quo, push boundaries and feedback recognising that our success. We will provide the be the best, and deliver superior utilise leading edge technology, to reputation and the trust people place in us depends on being opportunity, inspiration, investment services which create long-term optimise how we work, to deliver honest with ourselves and others. and support to enable our people to value for the business and our superior value-added services. realise their full potential because customers. Collaboration they belong to our family and are We put the needs of the team above core to our success. our own, respect the role others play and work collaboratively to ensure we achieve our vision. What We Do PMP Recruitment are a leading name in the As a privately-owned staffing company with more than 20 years experience in the industry, PMP Recruitment know what it means and recruitment industry specialising in the light what it takes to be a dedicated partner, and are extremely committed to industrial and logistic markets, powered by our the long-term success of their clients. national expertise and experienced resources. Our Early in 2016 the business restructured to become a fully integrated customised, flexible workforce solutions include management services solution partner to our clients that encompasses temporary and contract staffing, peak season/high not only temporary labour provision but also facilities management such volume staffing, contingent workforce management as security, cleaning and technical services. as well as permanent hires. What We Do As stated in our last report we developed and As we’ve grown, it’s remained crucial for our CSR policy to be inclusive of our entire workforce as we engage all employees to help to introduce new published a set of HR policies that are directed at initiatives into our daily operations, priding ourselves on being at the creating an environment that will attract, develop, forefront of all ethical practices. motivate and reward employees. Number of Number of internal assignment based employees employees* Further HR Roadshows were delivered by the HR team to PMP staff PMP Managed during the period January to April 2016 for new starters or those who were 450 15,000-30,000 Services unable to attend the roadshows in 2015. The working environment at PMP is enhanced by lifestyle-friendly policies that support human rights, *The number of assignment based employees varies in accordance with our client requirements. citizenship, health and safety, disability, personal and career development E.g. The number of assignment based employees rises for some clients in quarter four due to pre-Christmas production. and high standards of ethical and professional conduct. Who We Work With Our commitment to exceed our client and candidate expectations starts at every front desk and reaches across to our Business Development and Account Management, Administrative Professional, On-site Leader, Team Leader and Business Centre Management team. With over 25 years experience in the temporary and permanent recruitment markets PMP Recruitment work with an impressive client portfolio, including some well know retailer and popular brands: 95% client retention contributes to longer contracts for our employees Where We Are PMP Recruitment have an extensive presence across the UK with over 250 managed locations. We’re a proud employer to tens of thousands of temporary agents, with 15 Business Centres/Branches and over 300 on site locations UK wide: Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and PMP Recruitment continue to be supporters of the Stronger Together initiative after becoming qualified Business Partners in January 2015. Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Stronger Together is a multi-stakeholder collaboration aiming to reduce the occurrence of forced labour, labour trafficking and other forms of hidden third party labour exploitation. Labour exploitation is becoming an As a recruitment agency joining the United Nations Global Compact for increasing problem in the UK private economy within sectors such as Human Rights and Labour has positively influenced our business agriculture, manufacturing, construction and domestic work, making it practices. One of the key driving forces behind PMP joining this initiative increasingly challenging for recruitment agencies to supply to these is that we already have a positive impact on human rights through our sectors. contributions towards social and economic development employing people across the UK. Human Rights To further support PMP's commitment to the Stronger Together initiative, PMP's HR Department have collaborated with the Learning and Development team to develop an updated ethical workshop for 2016, which almost entirely concentrates on the UN Global Compact and Stronger Together initiatives. To date this has been delivered to 50 internal employees and remains part of our standard Learning and Development course portfolio for employees to request and access. PMP remain committed to a long term vision of delivering the ethical workshop to all employees by 2018. At PMP we understand that the Stronger Together objective of reducing hidden third party labour exploitation will only be achieved if we as a labour provider continue to implement good practices, engage our workforce and be aware of the potential signs of human trafficking. Human Rights PMP continue to hold the Global Social Accountability Accreditation (SA8000) in its South Wales operations. The accreditation is renewed every 3 years, and requires PMP to be subject to an audit every 6 months to review each of the SA8000 Child Labour Forced Labour Health & Freedom of Safety Association standards on Human Rights. The audit includes confidential face to face interviews by the Auditor with approximately 5% of our assignment based employees. This is particularly important in ensuring our front line staff are implementing our policies and practices on Human Rights. We are reviewing the updated standard SA8000: 20014 (currently Discrimination Disciplinary Working Hours Remuneration SA8000:2008), with a view to embedding this latest standard in our Practices management practices from next year Human Rights All 29 internationally agreed Human Rights In carrying out a GAP analysis the project team have identified all the policies, procedures and risk assessment forms PMP have in place that contained within the International Bill of Human ensure they are compliant, these include: Rights and ILO Core Conventions are important to PMP and its recruitment services. ● Health and Safety Policy ● Stronger Together Policy ● Young Workers Risk Assessment Form In order to ensure we are compliant since joining the United Nations ● Ethical Sourcing & Supply Policy initiative in September 2014 our internal United Nations project team have ● Whistle blowing Policy developed a GAP analysis assessing the difference in performance ● Privacy to Personal Data Policy between PMP Recruitment and the 29 internationally agreed Human Rights to determine whether the business is meeting the United Nations Actions derived from the GAP Analysis are set out in our requirements, if not, steps are taken to do so. Achievements/Targets 2016/2017 section. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the Collaborate with clients, offer research reports to ensure clients are up to date with latest regional labour standards, NLW etc. freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Own operations v that of client and seeking to influence the client on Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced labour standards of ethical supply especially in respect of the NLW Upholding labour standards and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; Partnering with workers to improve industrial relations, building more and resilient economies and communities Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Labour PMP Recruitment have been stakeholders in the non This is predominantly done through their secure, online database which allows us and other members to store, share and report information on profit making organisation Sedex since 2008. four key areas: ‘Sedex is a not for profit membership organisation dedicated to driving improvements in ethical and responsible business practices in global supply chains.’ As the largest collaborative platform for sharing ethical supply chain data, Labour Health & The Business Sedex is an effective supply chain management solution, helping to Standards Safety Environment Ethics protect and reduce risk within PMP Recruitment as well as improving our supply chain practices. Labour Since Sedex was officially launched in 2004 they have seen significant Since being a stakeholder in Sedex, PMP Recruitment have benefited growth in membership numbers, their annual review in May 2012 revealed from a range of tools they offer including a common standard that 25,000 organisations worldwide have joined Sedex in its 8 years of self-assessment questionnaire and market leading risk analysis tools existence. developed in partnership with the well known risk analysis firm 'Maplecroft'. These tools have been used to help identify areas of risk This significant growth demonstrates the increasing importance and value within our supply chain, enabling us to take the necessary steps to of responsible procurement to businesses and a growing recognition that address and resolve any issues before they become costly to the a collaborative approach is an effective way of driving ethical and business. sustainable improvements in global supply chains. Labour One of the main benefits for PMP in joining Sedex is that it provides us By allowing suppliers to share the same data with many customers, with an efficient and cost effective way of sharing ethical information with Sedex helps reduce the need for multiple audits, allowing both parties to our clients and potential clients, helping to cut down on unnecessary concentrate on making real improvements, having confidence in who they paperwork and saving time and money. are working with. As a supplier, when we became a stakeholder in Sedex we initially PMP have really benefited from the database Sedex offers giving us the completed a self assessment questionnaire and now have the freedom to opportunity to view potential clients supply chain information before choose who we share this information with on the database, along with supplying them, this helps us to ensure that our supply chain is as ethical any other relevant ethical information we wish to provide, such as audit as can be. reports and certifications. The Sedex system is very secure and confidential giving us the satisfaction that any information we provide is kept secure and confidential, we as a business have complete control over who can view our data. Labour Ethical Worker Sourcing and Supply Policy PMP Recruitment have developed and internally ● No workers are bonded or forced to work against their will ● Workers are free to leave their employment, after giving circulated an ‘Ethical Worker Sourcing and Supply reasonable notice, without losing any pay or benefits to which Policy’ to show ongoing commitment to ensuring they are entitled. that all workers are sourced and supplied ethically ● Workers are given a choice whether or not they wish to work overtime and are free to leave the work site after their shifts end. as well as being treated fairly and with respect ● Workers are not required to pay deposits (e.g. for uniforms, throughout employment. personal protective equipment, tools etc.) ● Original ID papers are kept for no longer than the time to copy Within this policy it illustrates that all forms of forced and compulsory them. labour are forbidden, setting out the correct procedures, practises and checks employees should carry out in order to be compliant. It is very important within PMP Recruitment that: Labour Ethical Worker Sourcing and Supply Policy The Ethical Worker Sourcing and Supply Policy also states PMP's approach to recruiting people under the age of 18. PMP Recruitment do offer work to those aged between 16-18 years, however, a young worker's risk assessment form must be completed prior to them being placed at a client site. The client must also be made aware to ensure that the hours and type of work being carried out is suitable. The policy also states that under no circumstances will PMP Recruitment recruit anyone under the age of 16. Labour PMP Recruitment support the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) The Ethical Trading Initiative is a leading alliance of companies, trade unions and NGOs that promotes respect for workers' rights around the globe. Their vision is to create a world where all workers are free from exploitation and discrimination, where workers can enjoy conditions of freedom, security and equity. Upon committing to support the ETI, PMP Recruitment have affirmed to support and implement the ETI Base code within the business, taking on the responsibility to improve the working conditions of the people they employee. Labour PMP Recruitment support the Ethical Trading Initiative (ETI) The ETI Base Code is a universal framework which covers many important issues including 'Freedom of association and the right to collective bargaining'. Tens of Thousands of workers all over the world lose their jobs every year for attempting to form or join a trade union or improve their working conditions. Some even lose their lives! Here at PMP we understand the importance of this and as a result anyone employed by PMP Recruitment has the right to join a trade union. If an employee decides to join a trade union they will not be treated differently or discriminated against on any grounds. Labour PMP Recruitment have developed and published a Discrimination Policy As a business PMP are committed to promoting PMP do not tolerate unlawful discrimination, victimisation or harassment and bullying and those responsible may be subject to disciplinary diversity and providing equal opportunity to all areas proceedings under the Company’s disciplinary policy. of the business from recruitment, employment and career progression to learning and development. PMP try to ensure that all applicants, employees, workers and visitors (including clients and suppliers) receive equal treatment irrespective of PMP have an ethnically diverse 60% of our workforce are female, ‘The Protected Characteristics’ which include their sex, marital or civil workforce, employing over 30 40% male different nationalities partnership status, sexual orientation, gender reassignment, race, colour, ethnic or national origins, religion or belief, disability or age. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment As a non-manufacturer, instead a labour A target for PMP Recruitment is to reduce their impact on the environment, which includes factors that contribute to climate change, via provider, the main risk areas in implementing a commitment to continual improvement and to give maximum the UNGC and it's 10 principles is in respect to co-operation in complying with environmental legislation and regulations. Human Rights and Labour. However, PMP As a result, all branch locations have been supplied with recycling Recruitment are continuously looking for ways facilities and are repeatedly encouraged to use energy saving light bulbs. to make progress and since joining the UNGC PMP Recruitment also insist that all IT equipment is switched off when not have examined ways in which they can reduce in use to prevent the unnecessary and needless waste of energy. their impact on the environment. In addition to this, as a way of reducing paper consumption all computer devices within the company have been set to print double sided. Environment In October 2014 PMP Recruitment invested heavily in new technology and a central wifi system. The investment has aided and improved collaboration between internal employees through the facilities Google has to offer such as conference calling and hangouts. By December 2014 all employees were trained in Google and at least one employee per branch was given the 'Google Champion' title acting as a first point of contact for any queries or further training employees required. Minimised branch/high Working Microsite Cycle to work scheme Since Google has been fully integrated into the business employees have street locations to work on Green development initiative review, car pooling branch or home working transparency been encouraged to use the Google hangout facility as opposed to travelling for meetings. This has helped to reduce the company's impact on the environment through reducing their carbon footprint as well as acting as cost saving for the business. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against Any employee who receives a gift of any kind from an existing or potential business contact or candidate must disclose the fact of the gift, its nature corruption in all its forms, including extortion and and the identity of the sender to his/her Manager / Human Resources. If bribery. the gift is anything other than a small token of appreciation having no substantial financial value, the employee will be required to return the gift, PMP Recruitment are compliant with the Bribery Act and in 2015 this is particularly important at Christmas when clients send in gifts to developed and published an Anti-Corruption policy to ensure all specific members of staff. employees do not participate in any corruption, bribery or extortion. PMP Recruitment only operate in the UK significantly reducing the risk of The policy states that employees will face disciplinary action where it is potential fraud and corruption from overseas. deemed that the employee has offered, promised or given a ‘financial or other advantage’ to another person where they intend to bring about improper performance or acquire new business or to personally gain as a consequence. Achievements 2014/2015 Targets 2015/2016 Since joining the United Nations Global Compact we have established a GAP Analysis to review ways in which we can improve our processes and procedures ensuring we are doing our utmost to support the United Nations and all other ethical initiatives we support. The GAP analysis is a work in progress document. 2016 COP Feedback As a stakeholder of the UNGC PMP Recruitment would appreciate any feedback and comments on its 2016 Communication Of Progress. PMP Recruitment became members of the UNGC in September 2014 therefore this is PMP Recruitment's second annual Communication Of Progress. As part of our commitment to the UNGC we will submit an annual Communication Of Progress to the UN office in New York. HR Department PMP Recruitment | Oriel House | 55-57 Sheep Street Northampton | NN1 2NE | UK | Tel: 01604 602700
