Global Responsibility 2016 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Table of contents 1 Chairman’s letter 2 INTRODUCTION 12 HEALTH & WELLNESS 32 SUSTAINABILITY 74 WORKPLACE 13 Overview 33 Overview 75 Overview 14 Our approach: lead and innovate 36 Our strategies and actions 76 Our approach: inspire and win 15 Our strategies and actions 37 Our approach: assess and transform 77 Our strategies and actions 15 Provide quality nutrition and wellness 37 Increase sustainability of ingredients 77 Maintain a safe workplace 25 Champion global food safety 55 Collaborate to improve global 80 Build a strong workplace culture 29 Educate consumers water stewardship 85 Respect, develop and invest in employees 58 Advance socially responsible supply chains 61 Improve environmental performance of our operations 90 COMMUNITY 104 APPENDIX 91 Overview 104 Environmental data summary 92 Our approach: connect and lead 105 Summary of commitments 93 Our strategies and actions 111 Global Reporting Initiative index 93 Increase community food and nutrition security 124 United Nations Global Compact index 100 Advance agricultural and environmental sustainability 102 Invest in our hometown communities ©2016 General Mills. To our stakeholders: For 150 years, General Mills has been strengthening responsible practices, help raise living standards and address serving the world by making food people and improving the transparency and chronic food supply issues in Africa. love. Our goal is to continue doing so traceability of food supply chains. In this, our 46th year of reporting back to by treating the world, its resources and We further expanded our portfolio and our communities and stakeholders, we people with care. In 2015, we made continued to improve the healthfulness provide updates across four key focus substantial commitments in support of of our products. We delivered on a 2010 areas: Health and Wellness, Sustainability, that goal as we strive to be one of the commitment to lower sodium in our top Workplace and Community. We have world’s most responsible food companies. 10 categories that contribute sodium into focused on providing transparency into We put people first. Respect for human the diet and reduced sugar in many parts the topics that are important to our rights is core to our commitment to of our portfolio. We also reformulated a stakeholders and to our business. We are conduct business in an ethical manner. number of our products to respond to the encouraged by the progress we’re making In 2015, we launched our Policy on preferences of consumers seeking wellness and remain committed to doing even more. Human Rights, updated our Supplier benefits in the food they purchase. For Thank you for your interest. As always, we Code of Conduct and signed the UN example, we eliminated artificial colors welcome your questions and comments. Ken Powell Women’s Empowerment Principles. and flavors in our cereals, increased our Chairman, Chief Executive Officer Treating all people with respect is a gluten-free products, and are now the Sincerely, General Mills principle that guides our work. second-largest U.S. producer of glutenfree products and the third-largest U.S. A healthy planet is also critical to our natural and organic food producer. business. We took concrete steps to protect it in 2015 by addressing climate Through collaboration with businesses, G4-1, 15 change and water use. From setting governments and nongovernmental science-based targets for reducing organizations, we work to advance greenhouse gas emissions across our systemic improvements in the areas of value chain to introducing a corporate health, sustainability and our communities. water policy and signing the CEO We collaborate with external partners and Water Mandate, we are committed are signatories to a number of key global to protecting our natural resources. efforts, including the United Nations Global Compact, which we continue to endorse. We continue to make progress toward Our philanthropic work to alleviate hunger our commitment to sustainably source and improve nutrition includes food product 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients donations that enabled 20 million meals by 2020 – representing more than 50 globally in 2015. We also continued our percent of our annual raw material support of Partners in Food Solutions, a purchases. Through our sourcing work, nonprofit organization we founded to we are advancing sustainable agriculture, GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 01 INTRODUCTION OUR PURPOSE At General Mills, we serve the world by making food people love. We do this by embracing our five pursuits, which are at the heart of our company. LEARN MORE Put Everything we do at General Mills starts and ends with people – our consumers, customers, Health & Wellness Sustainability people employees, workers in our supply chain, and those who live in the communities where Workplace first we operate. Community Build a Health & Wellness We collaborate inside and outside our company to create shared value for our consumers Sustainability culture of and the world. Workplace creating Community Make For 150 years, we’ve been driven by our passion for making delicious, healthy, high-quality Health & Wellness food with food and sharing it with people worldwide. Sustainability passion Earn We will never stop working to earn and maintain the trust of our stakeholders across the people’s value chain, from our suppliers to our consumers. Full report trust Treat Our business depends on a healthy planet, so we are committed to treating the world, Sustainability the world its resources and people with care. Community with care GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 02 Company overview U.S. Retail International Convenience Stores and Foodservice Joint Ventures Net sales by operating unit Net sales by region Net sales by brand type Net sales by joint venture** $10.5 billion $5.1 billion $2.0 billion $1.1 billion Yogurt and Other 13% Meals 26% Latin America 17% Unbranded 13% Häagen-Dazs Cereal Partners Baking Products 19% Europe 41% Branded to Japan (HDJ) Worldwide Foodservice 16% (CPW) 84% Asia/Pacific 20% Branded to Operators 54% Cereal 22% Snacks 20% Consumers 33% General Canada 22% Mills key brands around the world **Not consolidated, proportionate share General Mills produces and markets more than 100 consumer brands in more than 100 countries on six continents. Listed below are many of our key brands in major markets around the world. The majority of our sales occur in developed economies; according to the United Nations, developed regions and countries include North America, Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. General Mills key brands around the world General Mills produces and markets more than 100 consumer brands in more than 100 countries on six continents. Listed here are many of our key brands in Western Europe major markets around the world. n Betty Crocker n Nature Valley n Green Giant n Old El Paso n Häagen-Dazs n Pillsbury n Jus-Rol n Yoplait North America n Knack & Back China n Annie’s n Häagen-Dazs n Betty Crocker n V. Pearl n Bisquick n Wanchai Ferry n Bugles n Cascadian Farm n Cheerios n Chex n Cinnamon Toast Crunch n Fiber One n Food Should Taste Good Fruit by the Foot n India n Gold Medal n Betty Crocker n Green Giant n Green Giant n Helper n Häagen-Dazs n LÄRABAR n Nature Valley Lucky Charms n Latin America n Parampara n Muir Glen n Betty Crocker n Pillsbury Atta n Nature Valley n Bugles n Old El Paso n Diablitos Underwood n Pillsbury Australia n Frescarini n Progresso n Betty Crocker n Green Giant n Total n Latina n Häagen-Dazs n Totino's/Jeno’s n Nature Valley n La Salteña n Wheaties n Old El Paso n Yoki n Yoplait G4-4 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 03 Highlights in fiscal 2015 Sustainability 10x20 #3 $4 million+ 70% 86% progress on our General Mills is now invested since 2011 to of packaging of all solid waste commitment to the third-largest U.S. support pollinator and volume improved from our North sustainably source natural and organic biodiversity efforts. since 2009. American operations 100 percent of our food producer. is reused or recycled. 10 priority ingredients by 2020. Health & Wellness Community Workplace 1,000+ 100% $154 20 million 9% products nutritionally improved since we of General Mills facilities audited using million+ meals provided through global food donations reduction in global total injury rate implemented our U.S. globally recognized given to charitable in fiscal 2015. at General Mills Health Metric in 2005. food safety criteria. causes in fiscal 2015 – production facilities. General Mills and its Foundation have given more than $1.9 billion since 1954 (US$). GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 04 Oversight The General Mills leadership team has The Chief Executive Officer also SUSTAINABILITY ultimate accountability for the company’s convenes the Sustainability Governance GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE BOARD OF DIRECTORS, PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY CEO, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD global responsibility programs and Committee three times per year. The CEO COMMITTEE EVP, SUPPLY CHAIN performance. The team includes Ken Powell, role of the Committee is to approve SVP, EXTERNAL RELATIONS Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; John and monitor strategy, policy and key EVP, U.S. RETAIL EVP, INTERNATIONAL Church, Executive Vice President of Supply investments related to sustainability. CFO Chain; Kim Nelson, Senior Vice President EVP, INNOVATION, See GeneralMills.com/Investors to learn TECHNOLOGY & QUALITY EVP, SUPPLY SVP, EXTERNAL EVP, INNOVATION, SVP, HUMAN of External Relations and President of the SVP, SALES CHAIN RELATIONS TECHNOLOGY & QUALITY RESOURCES more about the company’s broader General Mills Foundation; and Jerry Lynch, corporate governance structures Chief Sustainability Officer. The team meets and processes. regularly and receives input from internal G4-36, 42, 46, 47, 48 GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY SUSTAINABILITY GENERAL MILLS HEALTH & NUTRITION and external experts. During 2015, the FOCUS AREAS CENTER OF EXCELLENCE FOUNDATION CENTER OF EXCELLENCE WORKPLACE main issues addressed included climate change, water stewardship, human rights This graphic outlines governance and management of global responsibility and responsible sourcing. The Board of focus areas at General Mills. Directors Public Responsibility Committee provides oversight and receives regular updates from the operating teams. Materiality* In 2015, General Mills collaborated with associations and academics – as well as material topics as they relate to General Hudson Consulting to update the company’s numerous leaders and content experts Mills’ global responsibility strategy materiality assessment, originally conducted from across our company. The assessment and reporting. in 2013 with Forum for the Future. The evaluated the impact each issue has on G4-18, 20, 21 update comprised a total of about 50 General Mills as well as the importance to survey responses from external partners external stakeholders for our company to and experts – including nongovernmental address each issue. This analysis has helped organizations, customers, industry us confirm, update and frame the most *In this report, the terms “material” and “materiality” refer to topics that reflect General Mills’ significant environmental and social impacts or that substantially influence our global responsibility strategy. We are not using these terms as they have been defined by securities laws in the United States or in the context of financial statements and financial reporting. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 05 The following table summarizes the issues determined to be most material to our global responsibility strategy. We include information about our approach to and our progress on these issues in the report, as noted. See the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index to learn about the relevant GRI Aspects and boundaries. ISSUE DESCRIPTION MORE INFORMATION Animal welfare Ensure the ethical treatment of animals raised by suppliers Sustainability Biodiversity Conserve biodiversity through sustainable sourcing practices Sustainability Biotechnology Work to educate the public on use of genetically modified organisms and meet consumer demands for Introduction, Sustainability increased information Climate change Advance strategies to reduce GHG emissions and help mitigate the effects of climate change in agricultural and food Sustainability production systems Commodity pricing and availability Maintain reliable access to key commodities and inputs Sustainability Corporate governance and ethics Operate with integrity and with the highest standards in oversight, ethics and compliance All sections Diverse consumer needs Meet changing consumer needs and diversify our product offerings based on geography, culture, Health & Wellness values and economic means Employee well-being Help employees lead healthier lives through education and support Workplace Energy use Manage energy usage and costs throughout the value chain, including agriculture, production, Sustainability transportation and distribution Food safety Set and maintain high standards for food safety and quality Health & Wellness, Community Food security Improve access to healthy, affordable food for the world’s growing population Health & Wellness, Community Food waste Address food waste and loss from field to table Sustainability, Community Health and nutrition wellness Improve the health profile of products and engage in public discussions on healthy and nutritious lifestyles Health & Wellness, Community Human rights Respect the human rights of all workers Sustainability, Workplace Packaging footprint Reduce the environmental impact of packaging Sustainability Responsible marketing Adhere to internal and industry guidelines regarding consumer communications Health & Wellness Smallholder farmers Support smallholder farmers’ capability and capacity to maintain viable operations Sustainability, Community Supply chain relationships Build and strengthen supplier partnerships across the value chain Sustainability, Community Transparency Communicate openly with key stakeholders on material issues, including through brands All sections Water stewardship Manage water resources strategically throughout the value chain Sustainability Workforce management Provide competitive benefits, foster a diverse and inclusive culture, and invest in training and development opportunities Workplace Workplace safety Maintain a safe workplace for our employees, contractors and visitors, with a focus on zero accidents and injuries Workplace We plan to periodically update this assessment to ensure it continues to reflect our company and food culture as well as our stakeholders’ expectations. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 06 Material issues across our value chain We also assess our material issues in the context of our value chain. This helps us to better understand and communicate how those issues connect to our business and where risks and opportunities reside. G4-12 PACKAGING AGRICULTURE TRANSFORMING SUPPLY CHAIN* CONVERTING** SHIPPING SELLING CONSUMING Growing and transporting Turning crops into food Producing packaging Making products Moving food from suppliers Making food available Enjoying food (shopping, crops (planting, tending ingredients (cleaning, materials (making from food ingredients to facilities and on to stores for purchase (promoting preparing and eating) and harvesting) milling and preparing) and transporting) (mixing and cooking) (transporting and delivering) and storing) and disposing GHG emissions*** e 36% 6% 14% 16% 11% 17% (% of total) Water consumption*** 82% 3% 14% 1% 0%**** 0%**** 0%**** (% of total) TRANSPARENCY CLIMATE CHANGE FOOD SAFETY DIVERSE CONSUMER NEEDS HUMAN RIGHTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS Material issues SUPPLY CHAIN RELATIONSHIPS HEALTH AND NUTRITION HEALTH AND NUTRITION ANIMAL WELFARE WELLNESS WELLNESS HEALTH AND NUTRITION WELLNESS ENERGY USE WATER STEWARDSHIP RESPONSIBLE MARKETING COMMODITY PRICING AND AVAILABILITY EMPLOYEE WELL-BEING WORKFORCE MANAGEMENT BIODIVERSITY FOOD WASTE FOOD WASTE PACKAGING FOOTPRINT PACKAGING FOOTPRINT PACKAGING FOOTPRINT FOOD SECURITY WORKPLACE SAFETY FOOD SECURITY SMALLHOLDER FARMERS Health & Wellness, Learn more Sustainability Sustainability Health & Wellness, Sustainability Sustainability, Workplace Sustainability Health & Wellness Sustainability, Community *Includes packaging-related impacts from across the value chain due to the lack of disaggregated packaging data for each value chain phase. **This is the only phase of the value chain that General Mills controls directly. ***Greenhouse gas emissions data is 2014. Water consumption data is 2012. Data will be updated as appropriate in the future. ****Water consumption in the Shipping, Selling and Consuming phases was considered to be immaterial; the bulk of water use is in Agriculture. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 07 Commitments and actions in 2015 During the year, General Mills made substantial commitments and achieved significant progress in numerous areas of global responsibility, underlying our commitment to treat the world with care. Through these efforts and others, we continue to serve the world by making food people love. Several highlights are included below, with links to additional information throughout this report. ANIMAL WELFARE Human rights Climate change Water stewardship Animal welfare Respect for human rights is fundamental to Climate change is one of the most pressing As a global food company, water is critical to Our customers worldwide care about the animals our company and its purpose. It also underpins environmental issues throughout our value our business. We collaborate with others to used in the production of General Mills products. our commitment to ethical business conduct. chain. We are collaborating across our protect water quality and supply that benefit our We share this concern and are committed to company, value chain and entire industries growers, communities and the environment. continually advancing the humane treatment of During 2015, we: to help tackle this global challenge. animals in agriculture across our supply chain. nL  aunched our Policy on Human Rights, During 2015, we: During 2015: During 2015, we made significant updates to our which describes our broad approach nR  eleased the General Mills Water Policy, and commitments in this area. Our nW e set a goal to reduce absolute GHG Animal Welfare Policy. Key enhancements include: which guides the company as it engages supply chain is a primary focus. emissions across our full value chain by 28 with stakeholders to improve the health of nE  xpanding our commitment to provide percent over the next 10 years (compared watersheds critical to General Mills’ business. the “five freedoms”* beyond dairy cows nU  pdated our Supplier Code of Conduct to 2010). Our long-term aspiration is to to all animals across our supply chain. to address emerging issues and our nP  rogressed five of our eight priority achieve sustainable emission levels in responsible sourcing requirements. watersheds from Phase 2 to Phase 3 n B  uilding on our current sourcing of free-range line with scientific consensus by 2050. n J oined the Supplier Ethical Data (analysis and action planning to collaboration) eggs for all Häagen-Dazs ice cream in Europe, nW e joined the We Mean Business in our four-phase transformation we are working toward procuring 100 percent Exchange (SEDEX) to further improve our understanding of supplier segmentation coalition to urge governments worldwide process to sustainable water use. cage-free eggs for our U.S. operations by 2025. and the issues we face in this area. to take meaningful action at COP21. n J oined Connect the Drops, a cross-sector nW  orking to better understand and address nO ur Chairman and CEO Ken Powell joined campaign established by Ceres that other animal welfare issues such as pain relief nS  igned the UN Women’s Empowerment CEOs of nine other global food companies promotes forward-looking water policies, during castration and tail docking in pork Principles (WEP), to reaffirm our commitment to release a joint letter on the role of practices and investments in California. production, as well as fast growth-related to promoting equal opportunity for climate change in the food industry. complications for broiler chickens and turkeys. women. This aligns with our programs and nS  igned The CEO Water Mandate, a publicinitiatives worldwide to advance diversity Learn more about our commitments, private UN initiative to encourage companies During the coming years, we will collaborate and inclusion within our workplace, our carbon footprint, and how we are to develop, implement and disclose water closely with suppliers to deliver on these supply chain and our communities. driving progress in this area. sustainability policies and practices. commitments. Learn more. Learn more about our commitments Learn more about our approach to and activities to respect human sustainable water use throughout our rights in our supply chains. supply chain and how we work to reduce water consumption in our operations. *The “five freedoms” include freedom from hunger; freedom from thirst and malnutrition; freedom from discomfort; freedom from pain, injury and disease; freedom from fear and distress; and freedom to engage in normal patterns of animal behavior. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 08 Stakeholder engagement At General Mills, we engage with and ultimately, identify innovative solutions other companies and organizations to have the greatest positive impact. When stakeholders to accelerate our progress that create shared, sustainable value. shape standards across the consumer engaging with stakeholders, we consider on social and environmental initiatives. The issues we are working to address are packaged goods industry on a range their expertise and insights as well as their Our approach includes open dialogue, complex – such as sustainable sourcing, of issues. This helps to elevate the capacity, level of influence and willingness to collaboration and transparent disclosure. responsible marketing, climate change, performance of the industry overall. collaborate. This table illustrates the range of This strengthens our ability to balance water stewardship and food waste – so We determine areas for engagement based our engagement activities. business interests with those of society; build collaboration is essential to achieving on issues that are material to our global G4-24, 25, 26, 27 robust, global relationships across sectors; meaningful progress. We work with responsibility strategy and where we can STAKEHOLDER GROUP CHANNELS OF ENGAGEMENT EXAMPLES Customers n Customer surveys We are participating in the Midwest Row Crop Collaborative, a multi-stakeholder engagement facilitated by Field to n Innovation collaboration Market and Walmart, focused on water quality stewardship in critical watersheds across Iowa, Illinois and Nebraska. n Industry partnerships Learn more. Consumers n Call center We focus on personal interactions with consumers to improve our understanding of their needs today and uncover n Social media (website, Facebook) insights about their future needs. In 2015, our cereal innovation team held face-to-face discussions with more than 3,000 n Focus groups consumers as we researched new ideas related to healthier and more filling cereals. Employees n Employee Climate Survey To inform and engage employees on issues relevant to our business, company leaders regularly host Town Hall meetings. n Discussion forums Topics have included trends in health and wellness, our purpose and pursuits, and our company’s response to a recent n Internal social media community product recall. n Employee action groups Investors n Ratings/rankings and indices We discuss our programs, progress and relevant issues with interested shareholders throughout the year. We also n Input on the Global Responsibility Report respond to key ratings and rankings such as the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), FTSE4Good and CDP. Beyond assessing companies, these initiatives also facilitate peer benchmarking and drive ongoing improvement. Regulators and public n Public policy activities General Mills’ Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition (BIHN) submitted public comments on the 2015 U.S. Dietary policy makers n Advocacy Guidelines developed jointly by the Department of Health and Human Services and the Department of Agriculture. n Consultation on regulatory matters The BIHN has been instrumental in educating policymakers on the benefits of whole grain and creating a standard n Participation in coalitions international definition of a “whole grain food.” Communities n Food donations We engage with local communities worldwide through skills-based volunteerism, charitable cash giving and food donations. n Employee volunteers During fiscal 2015, 76 percent of our employees worldwide volunteered, and General Mills and its Foundation donated over n Corporate contributions/philanthropy US$154 million to key initiatives that support communities around the globe. Learn more. NGOs n Collaboration on the ground We engage with nongovernmental organizations that contribute expertise and capabilities related to our global n Survey responses responsibility strategy and programs: CARE (smallholder farmers), Ceres (corporate responsibility reporting), The Humane n Policy initiatives Society of the United States (animal welfare), The Nature Conservancy (water stewardship), Oxfam America (sustainable n Co-presentations at conferences supply chain), the U.N. CEO Water Mandate (water stewardship), and the World Wildlife Fund (sourcing). Industry associations, n Meeting participation We are active members in key industry coalitions including AIM-PROGRESS, Bonsucro, Field to Market, alliances and roundtables n Development and sharing of FoodDrinkEurope, the Grocery Manufacturers Association, the Roundtable for Sustainable Palm Oil and World best practices on key issues Cocoa Foundation. Suppliers n Supplier audits Through AIM-PROGRESS, a group of major manufacturers and suppliers collaborating to advance responsible sourcing n Code of Conduct and sustainability, we have developed mutual recognition of supplier audits with other manufacturers, easing the burden n Supplier surveys of compliance for our suppliers. Learn more. n Field to Market program GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 09 Public policy At General Mills, we engage in public n F ood labeling and GMOs: We details and historical information, see our memberships annually. We do not belong, policy issues that are important to our believe that food labeling standards 2005-2015 Civic involvement reports. or make payments, to any tax-exempt company and stakeholders. We conduct should be set at the national level, organizations in the United States that The General Mills Political Action these activities in an accountable and to avoid a patchwork of U.S. state write and endorse model legislation. Committee (GPAC) is run by employees transparent manner. Some of our public labeling rules. General Mills actively and uses employee funds to make Accountability: In 2015, the Center for policy focus areas include the following: engages in public policy discussions political contributions to federal and, Political Accountability rated General on this issue. Learn more. n C  limate change and renewable energy: in limited cases, state candidates. No Mills in the top five of the CPAZicklin During 2015, General Mills deepened We comply with all lobbying regulations corporate treasury funds are used for Index of Corporate Political Disclosure and its engagement with the Business for where applicable. General Mills is federal candidate contributions, but as Accountability. This ranking, which includes Innovative Climate & Energy Policy registered as a lobbying entity at allowed by law the company pays GPAC all companies in the Standard & Poor’s coalition by supporting state climate the U.S. federal level for the House administration costs. Information regarding 500 index, improved on our performance and energy policies in California, of Representatives and Senate and GPAC transactions is available on the in 2014, and once again we ranked first Michigan, New York and Ohio. in the states of Minnesota and Federal Election Commission website. in the consumer staples sector. Recent California. We file regular reports on enhancements in disclosure included n P  ackaging: General Mills promotes General Mills also advances its mission our lobbying activity (see links). moving to semi-annual reporting and policies to effectively and efficiently by partnering with trade associations increase packaging recycling rates and and other independent organizations affirming compliance with company policies. reduce waste. In the United States, we Political contributions that share our goals, including: G4-15, 16 are a leader in the American Institute and memberships n International organizations such as for Packaging and the Environment Our civic policy describes our approval FoodDrinkEurope and International (AMERIPEN), which conducts process for corporate political contributions. Food & Beverage Alliance research and advocates for policy The Public Responsibility Committee n U.S. public policy-focused organizations, changes to achieve this goal. In 2015, of our board of directors oversees the AMERIPEN engaged in packaging such as the Grocery Manufacturers company’s political activities, including Association and the Business Roundtable policy discussions in states including our policy, disclosure of corporate political California, Maine and Minnesota. contributions, membership in major n State or provincial agencies, local n Health and wellness: As a member trade associations, and independent chambers of commerce and of the International Food and political expenditures (although the manufacturing organizations, such as Beverage Alliance (IFBA) and other company has not made any). the Minnesota Chamber of Commerce organizations, we support efforts to and the Minnesota Business Partnership. During 2015, we made US$9,100 in advance self-regulatory frameworks direct political contributions. For more We report additional details about related to health and wellness. our largest U.S. trade association Top 5 In 2015, the Center for Political Accountability rated General Mills in the top five of the CPAZicklin Index of Corporate Political Disclosure and Accountability. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 10 Transparency and disclosure in reporting Communicating openly about our social purpose of this report, and we increased (performance band C). See our past requests, blogs and social media, and environmental commitments, disclosure on several of those items. submissions. We also participate in speaking engagements, media interviews, programs, performance, challenges See the table on page 6 for details. other disclosures, such as the Dow and conferences and other events. and targets is essential to building and n Sustainable ingredients: In this report, Jones Sustainability Indices, FTSE4Good, To promote comparability, we align our maintaining stakeholder trust inside we describe progress toward our Newsweek’s Green Rankings (#48 disclosure with external frameworks such and outside of General Mills. Analyzing commitment for our top 10 ingredients of 500 largest publicly-traded U.S. as the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and disclosing progress also motivates to be 100 percent sustainably sourced companies by market capitalization) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ongoing improvement of the systems and by 2020 and palm oil by 2015. See and the Global 100 Index of most and the United Nations (UN) Global capabilities that underpin our performance. the Sustainability section for details. sustainable corporations (#69 of all Compact. See the external reporting Examples include the following: publicly traded companies with a market standards content below for more details. n Ratings and rankings: We have capitalization of at least US$2 billion). n Material issues: This year, we participated in CDP (Carbon Disclosure again published the full list of social Project) every year since its inception We communicate our programs and and environmental issues that we in 2000 and increased our disclosure performance through other channels determined to be material for the score from 80 in 2014 to 91 in 2015 as well, such as responses to customer About this report Report scope Stakeholder input External reporting annual Communication on Progress in the areas of human rights, labor, This report describes our commitments, on report standards environment and anti-corruption. See the programs, performance, challenges UN Global Compact index for details. and targets across a broad range of For the last several years, General Mills has Global Reporting Initiative engaged Ceres – a coalition of investors, global responsibility issues. The scope Similar to last year, General Mills considered Feedback environmental organizations and other covers the company’s global operations the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting public interest groups working with We welcome your comments about and fiscal year, except where noted Guidelines in the development of this companies to advance their environmental this report. Please send any feedback to otherwise. This includes our Green report, including the Food Processing and social performance and disclosure – Corporate.Response@genmills.com. Giant and Le Sueur brands, which Sector Supplement. This document to provide input on our annual Global G4-28, 31, 32, 33 during early fiscal 2016 General Mills contains standard disclosures from that Responsibility Report. This year, nine announced it will sell to B&G Foods. framework. See the GRI index for details. stakeholders, including investors, NGO representatives, corporate executives United Nations Global Compact Report ownership and industry experts, provided feedback The General Mills leadership team General Mills endorsed the principles on a detailed report outline. We value (see page 5) has responsibility for of the UN Global Compact in 2008 and this input and have incorporated much the development of this report. reaffirms that commitment annually. of this feedback into the report. This report serves as the company’s GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 11 Health & Wellness At General Mills, our purpose is to serve the world by making food people love. OUR STRATEGIES OUR GOAL is to provide people with convenient, nutritious food that – when combined with exercise and activity – can help them 1 PROVIDE quality nutrition and wellness live healthier lives. We are committed to making food with a passion and putting people first by improving the variety, health 2 CHAMPION global food safety profile and safety of our products. 3 EDUCATE consumers GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 12 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Overview Improving nutrition, health and wellness: Consumers around the world seek nutritious, convenient and affordable food for themselves and their families every day. There are many challenges to achieving this daily imperative – ranging from hunger and malnutrition to obesity. We believe proper nutrition is essential for overall health and wellness. Performance dashboard (fiscal 2015) 247 billion grams – more than 15 billion 16-gram servings – shipped by U.S. retail operations and 980+ gluten-free products offered in the U.S.; Whole grain 163.7 billion grams produced by Cereal Partners Gluten-free second-largest U.S. producer of gluten-free products.* Worldwide, our joint venture with Nestlé. 1.8 billion 1/2-cup servings shipped Vegetables by U.S. retail operations. Organic 262 retail products offered in the U.S. and Canada; third-largest U.S. natural and organic food producer.** 3+ billion 6-ounce low-fat and nonfat dairy servings 225 U.S. retail products offered with at least Dairy shipped by U.S. retail operations; 21,300+ servings Protein 10 percent daily value of protein per serving. of Yoplait® eaten every minute around the world. 100 percent of Nature Valley Granola Fiber 51+ billion grams shipped by U.S. retail operations. Non-artificial Bars have no artificial flavors, sweeteners ingredients or colors from artificial sources. 100 percent of Mott’s and Equity Fruit Snacks have 100 percent of Yoplait® Original yogurt no artificial flavors or colors from artificial sources. 1,000+ U.S. retail products with 150 calories is made with no artificial sweeteners or 100 percent of Betty Crocker Cookie Mixes Cal Calories or less per serving; 550+ U.S. retail products colors from artificial sources. have no artificial flavors or preservatives, with 100 calories or less per serving. 77 percent*** of the Big G cereal portfolio or colors from artificial sources. contains no artificial flavors or colors from artificial sources. *Nielsen, total of U.S. – all channels, 52 weeks ending Dec. 26, 2015. **Based on SPINS NPI (Natural Products Industry) food products in combined channels, 52 weeks ending June 4, 2015 (food only, excludes beverages). ***See commitment to reach 100 percent detailed on page 23. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 13 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Our approach: lead & innovate Our focus on health and nutrition drives business growth Investment in research: We invest Benefits across our global product portfolio Leadership and governance: in research and development (R&D) to Operationally, responsibility for product Other products continuously improve the health profiles of Cereal development and marketing lies within our products. Since 2004, we have increased nW hole grain the R&D and marketing organizations. Vegetables nV itamins & minerals R&D spending on health and wellness by nV itamins & minerals nF iber The Executive Vice President of Supply 84 percent. Our nutrition science research nF iber nG luten-free Chain, and the Executive Vice President nG luten-free nP rotein helps us better understand the relationship of Innovation, Technology and Quality among food, health and wellness as Baking products are responsible for consumer health nF  iber we enhance our product portfolio. and safety, and product and service nG  luten-free labeling. Responsibility for marketing Dough communications is held by the Chief Investment in new businesses: nG  luten-free Marketing Officer. The Bell Institute Consumers are at the center of everything Snacks Ice cream nW  hole grain reports directly to the Executive Vice we do. General Mills is focused on nF  iber President of Innovation, Technology and expanding our portfolio to meet diverse nG  luten-free Yogurt Quality. The Bell Institute also reports consumer needs and make healthy food nP  rotein nC alcium Meals nV itamins & minerals regularly to the Public Responsibility more accessible. We’ve been reshaping nG  luten-free nP rotein Committee of the Board of Directors, our business through acquisitions, nP  rotein nG luten-free which oversees the company’s health and divestitures and expansion of our wellness strategy. Health improvements existing brands into new geographies. r Our global product portfolio includes a variety of foods that contribute to consumers’ health and wellness. Within each product segment, we offer options with varying levels of the to our product portfolio are included in In the U.S., over the past 15 years we’ve the performance objectives for our Chief benefits indicated. been focused on meeting changing Executive Officer and key direct reports. consumer food values with our natural and acquisitions, such as Yoki – and more R&D and extending across our supply We benefit from the guidance of our organic portfolio. In 2000, we acquired recently – Carolina, a yogurt company – chain. From global food safety systems global Health and Wellness Advisory Small Planet Foods, which included in Brazil. In the summer of 2015, we to partnerships with suppliers around Council, a group of leading external Cascadian Farm and Muir Glen brands. Since launched Yoplait®* yogurt to China. the world, leading with safety is a key health and nutrition experts. The council then, we’ve added to our portfolio with operating principle that guides our work. meets twice a year to provide input. LÄRABAR nutrition bars, Immaculate baking v Our yogurt offerings in China include a thick and We use only quality ingredients, which Members provide their perspectives products, Food Should Taste Good snacks, creamy French-style yogurt, contribute to good tasting, nutritious from academia and research institutes Mountain High and Liberté yogurt, and most a fruit-on-the-bottom food. Taste and quality are key drivers and challenge us to continually advance recently, Annie’s and EPIC Provisions meat variety and a drinkable of consumer food consumption. We health and wellness strategies and snacks. (For more information, see the yogurt containing fresh fruit. continue to enhance the nutritional practices. We have had an external related story in the Sustainability section.) Safety and quality: We are committed profile of our ingredients and are scientific advisory council since 1989. We’ve also grown our International to the highest standards in food safety committed to sustainably sourcing our businesses by expanding our presence in and quality. We integrate food safety 10 priority raw materials by 2020. (Learn emerging markets and through strategic into all our processes, beginning with more in the Sustainability section.) *Yoplait is a registered trademark of YOPLAIT MARQUES (France) used under license. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 14 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community OUR STRATEGIES AND ACTIONS 1 Provide quality nutrition and wellness 2 Champion global food safety 3 Educate consumers A D  eliver nutrition to millions of people A Expand food safety leadership A Provide accurate product nutrition information around the world B  artner to increase food safety P B Support responsible marketing B P  rovide products that match diverse consumer food values 1 Provide quality nutrition and wellness 1A Deliver nutrition to millions of people around the world Provide healthier products and advance nutrition leadership Global Bell Institute of nutrition science since its inception. It is composed of doctorate and Health and Nutrition master-level scientists and registered Approach: The global Bell Institute of dietitians from varied backgrounds, Health and Nutrition is General Mills’ including nutrition science, public source for health, wellness and nutrition health, food science and microbiology. Global scientific Global scientific Global health & wellness research & regulatory affairs communications expertise. Our goal is to create value for Impact: The Bell Institute influences General Mills by championing health General Mills’ product development by n C ontributes to the n L eads efforts to n  ranslates nutrition T innovation and advancing nutrition advancing nutrition science research and advancement of scientific encourage multiscience and regulatory leadership. We believe food should understanding on a stakeholder dialogue topics into compelling providing insights about regional and variety of health topics on important nutrition communications for health make us better, so we work hard to global regulatory issues affecting the food and labeling topics leaders and influencers make food people love, while improving industry. Along with expertise in scientific n Inspires nutrition the nutrition of our products. research and regulatory affairs, the Bell science-based product n A dvances interaction n  uilds relationships B renovation and innovation on key health topics with health influencers Expertise: The Bell Institute was built Institute provides health communications as part of General Mills on a foundation of scientific integrity for the benefit of our customers, nutrition leadership and has maintained a commitment to consumers and nutrition communities. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 15 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Expanding communication with health influencers In October 2015, the global Bell videos and nutrition research. All content Institute of Health and Nutrition launched is grounded in science and covers health www.bellinstitute.com, a resource for and wellness topics ranging from the health and wellness influencers around benefits of eating breakfast to top trends in the world, including government officials, nutrition. Currently, the material is tailored fitness professionals, medical doctors, for four regions – Canada, France, the U.S. health bloggers, dietitians, chefs, nurses and U.K. – with plans to customize content and others. The website provides shareable for other geographies in the future. and customizable handouts, educational “More and more communication occurs through digital and social media. As a leader in health and wellness, we need to ensure health leaders and influencers around the world have access to scientifically sound nutrition information they can easily share.” – Maha Tahiri, Ph.D., Vice President, General Mills Chief Health and Wellness Officer and leader of the Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition Commitment to nutrition for more than 50 years The nutrition department within General Mills was first Capabilities for In 2005, Dietary dietary intake studies Guidelines highlight Public reporting established in 1963 to help the company strengthen its were developed whole grains due to work of the BIHN on Health Metric Cheerios® becomes health and nutrition expertise. In 1998, the department the first brand to use the oat/heart In 2015, due to BIHN work, Dietary Guidelines highlight whole grain disease health claim breakfast cereals and fat-free yogurt BIHN expands became the Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition – named In 1963, nutrition Developed nutrition Petitioned for 1st global networks as part of a healthy eating pattern department was created education materials whole grain/heart In 2001, General Mills Conversion of after James Ford Bell, a lifelong scientist and former General Contemporary Nutrition disease & certain cancers health claim and Pillsbury joined forces all Big G cereals Newsletter to whole grain Mills president and chairman – to continue to advance 1960s 1980s 2000s 2015 nutrition excellence and capabilities for General Mills. 1970s 1990s 2010s Bell’s innovative spirit led to the formation of General Mills Supported health Comments to FDA’s At the end of 2015, sodium in 1928. He initiated expansion of the company’s products professionals through educational resources sweeping regulation changes (NLEA) Yoplait® Light became a leading weight Launch of Progresso® Light soups reductions in 350+ products management brand (more than one-third of current beyond flour and Wheaties cereal by developing new offerings, In 1998, BIHN U.S. retail sales volume) Launched Benefit® cereal was created including Cheerios and Kix cereals. Bell’s laboratories studied Provided voluntary nutrition labeling on all products with significant guidance from nutrition department vitamins and introduced a process for producing vitamin Green Giant® vegetables leveraged “frozen as D to help increase the nutrient density of General Mills’ nutritious as fresh” claim products. Bell dedicated his life to science, conservation and philanthropy. We strive to carry on his spirit through our work. “We must follow where the research leads.” – James Ford Bell, General Mills CEO 1929-1948 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 16 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Health improvements Increased dietary fiber intake by Reduced nutrients to Reduced sugar by at least 10 percent limit (2005-2015) over the past decade introducing more than 200 products that provide at least 10 percent daily in more than 250 products and also introduced lower-sugar products, such Reduced sodium by more General Mills began the journey toward value of dietary fiber per serving and as Cascadian Farm Graham Crunch than 10 percent in more than 400 improving the health and nutrition of by increasing dietary fiber in at least cereal with 8 grams of sugar per serving. products and introduced a number our products in 2005 with the imple50 more products. Fiber One brownies, Nearly 69 percent of Big G cereals have of lower-sodium products, such as mentation of our U.S. Health Metric. The cookies, bars and cereals all provide at 9 grams of sugar or less per serving. Heart Healthy Progresso soups. Health Metric measures improvements least 5 grams of dietary fiber per serving. to our existing U.S. products and encourages development of new U.S. products v In fiscal 2015, we with strong nutrition profiles. Within the introduced Nature Valley past several years, we have expanded our 90-calorie popcorn bars in the UK that are efforts globally. Since 2005 we have: high in fiber in addition to providing a calorieIncreased beneficial controlled snack option. r In fiscal 2015, we reduced sodium in select r In the U.S., General Mills offers 38 cereals with Old El Paso products in South Africa, Europe, single-digit sugar levels (9 grams of sugar or less nutrients (2005-2015) Australia, Canada and the United States. per labeled serving), including Cheerios with 1 gram Provided key vitamins and minerals of sugar and Kix, Corn Chex and Fiber One 80 Calorie Increased whole grain consumption through the introduction of more than 400 Honey Squares Chocolate with 3 grams of sugar. by introducing more than 200 products products that are sources of key vitamins that provide at least 8 grams of whole and/or minerals. Our yogurt products are Reduced trans fat to 0 grams labeled grain per serving while also reformulating important sources of calcium and often of per serving in more than 300 products. more than 50 products to increase vitamins A and D. Many of our cereals are whole grain by at least 10 percent. fortified with critical vitamins and minerals, v In fiscal 2015, trans fat such as B-vitamins, calcium and iron. was reduced to 0 grams per v In fiscal 2015, we labeled serving in Betty Crocker introduced whole Bisquick sold in Canada and grain-containing Nature v In fiscal 2015, we the U.S. Valley Granola Bars and introduced Edge cereal r We reduced sodium in 30 varieties of our Soft Baked Oatmeal in Canada, a source of Helper products, in part, by enhancing flavors Squares in Mexico. We eight essential vitamins For a full list of commitments and and spices, such as garlic, onion, tomato also introduced Old El Paso Mini Wholegrain and minerals. progress, refer to the Appendix. and herbs. Tortillas in Australia with 11 grams of whole grain per serving. Sugar profile of Big G children’s cereals 9g 9g 9g 9g 9g 9g 8g 6g 6g 3g v 100 percent of Big G kids’ cereals have 10 grams of sugar or less, including these varieties. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 17 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Improvements in health profiles of existing products and introduction of nutritious new products Featured here is a sampling of the products we introduced or reformulated in fiscal 2015. Europe Green Giant Express microwaveable sweet corn with two portions of vegetables in each pouch China Canada Five new, lower-fat Edge cereal, a “Veggie Plus” Wanchai source of eight Ferry dumplings essential vitamins and minerals United Arab Emirates U.S. Two new, calorie-controlled Betty Crocker Cookie Cakes 25 percent sugar with 90 calories per serving, reduction across the 0 grams of trans fat, fortifiedd entire line of Yoplait® with vitamins A & D Original yogurt Latin America Fiber One 90 Calorie Snacks with 5 grams of fiber per serving Australia Sodium reductions in all Old El Paso Tortillas and many Dinner Kits Cereal Partners Worldwide nutritional globally outside North America. CPW is the billion portions of breakfast cereals popular has made significant progress against improvements: Our Cereal Partners second-largest cereal provider in the world. with kids and teens in more than 130 this commitment, with 85 percent of net Worldwide (CPW) joint venture with As part of its Global Nutrition Commitment, markets by boosting the amount of whole sales of kids and teens brands worldwide Nestlé makes and markets cereals such CPW announced specific targets in October grain, increasing calcium, and reducing achieving the commitment criteria in 2015. as Fitness, Cheerios, Chocapic and Nesquik 2012 for nutritionally improving about 5.3 sugar and sodium in its recipes. CPW GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 18 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community U.S. Health Metric Since 2005, more than 1,000 of our U.S. retail products have met Health Metric criteria. Our efforts have included: Reducing Increasing Formulating Formulating/reformulating Reducing calories, fat, saturated Increasing beneficial nutrients – Formulating products to include at Formulating/reformulating products to meet specific internal fat, trans fat, sugar or sodium including vitamins, minerals and least a half-serving of whole grain, fruit, requirements, including limiting calories, and meeting health or nutrition by 10 percent or more fiber – by 10 percent or more vegetables, or low or nonfat dairy claim criteria as defined by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) U.S. retail Health Metric cumulative achievement Drivers of nutritional improvements FY05-FY15 U.S. retail products FY05-FY15 1,000 products included in FY05-FY15 3% Fiber 76% 77% 71% 4% Health/nutrition claim* 68% 64% 4% Protein 60% 21% Trans fat 4% Vitamins/minerals 45% 40% 9% Whole grain 1% Total fat/ 33% saturated fat 21% 9% Calories/ 16% 20% Sugar portion control 25% Sodium FY05 FY06 FY07 FY08 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 Decreasing nutrients of concern: 77% Increasing positive nutrients: 23% *On a cumulative basis: products that have been included more than once are counted only one time. *Health/nutrition claim includes gluten-free and heart health claims. G4-PR1, FP6, FP7 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 19 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Reducing sodium across our U.S. retail portfolio In 2010, we accelerated reductions in more than sodium in many recipes by our sodium reduction 350 products – more than adding additional spices to efforts by pledging to one-third of our current ensure the flavor remains reduce sodium 20 percent U.S. retail sales volume. vibrant. In some cases we in 10 key U.S. retail product adjusted the placement Our approach to sodium categories by 2015. As of the end of 2015, we met or exceeded our goal in seven reduction involved incremental steps over several years to introduce of the sodium, such as moving it to the food’s surface so it’s more readily Sodium of these 10 categories tasted. These changes REDUCTION BY THE NUMBERS changes gradually, giving and made significant allowed us to maintain people time to adapt progress in the other three. the great taste consumers their palates to the lower This industry-leading expect while reducing OUR COMMITMENT: OUR RESULTS: sodium levels. Product effort includes sodium sodium intake. Learn more. 20% SODIUM REDUCTION SODIUM REDUCED IN OVER 1⁄₃ OF OUR US RETAIL SALES VOLUME. developers reduced IN 10 KEY PRODUCT 7 OF 10 CATEGORIES HAVE MET OR EXCEEDED THE 20% CATEGORIES BY 2015. REDUCTION GOAL. FINAL WEIGHTED SODIUM REDUCTION PERCENTAGES* “If you’re trying to reduce the sodium your family eats this year, packaged food giant General Mills SAVORY FROZEN CANNED VARIETY DRY DINNERS has got your back! The company has announced SNACKS PIZZA VEGETABLES BAKING MIXES meeting a 20 percent sodium reduction goal in seven out of ten food categories. Because about 35% 29% 28% 24% 21% 77 percent of the sodium Americans eat comes from packaged, prepared and restaurant foods, reaching more moderate levels of sodium in REFRIGERATED SIDE DISHES MEXICAN SOUPS CEREALS DOUGH PRODUCTS DINNERS these foods will be a big help. And this example shows us that sodium reduction is possible in 21% 20% 19% 19% 18% many types of foods. We are excited about these achievements, but more is needed to make an impact on public health. It’s time for other *Results are based on sales weighted sodium values per category, calculated using companies to commit to more moderate levels of labeled sodium values and weighted product ship volumes, comparing 2008 to 2015. sodium in the foods they offer.” – American Heart Association GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 20 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community The power of oats Oats are at the beta-glucan and other vital nutrients. core of General Then we use traditional milling and Mills’ business. Our cooking techniques to preserve the company has brought inherent goodness of oats: We cook, the power of oats to form and toast oats for cereal, and we consumers since 1941, bake rolled oats for granola bars. when we introduced Health benefits: Oats deliver a variety Cheerioats – the first of health benefits, including: ready-to-eat cereal made from oats. n H  eart health – Whole grain oats We believe in the goodness of oats. They contain beta-glucan, a soluble fiber are nutrient-dense, affordable, naturally that can help lower cholesterol as part gluten-free and come in of a heart healthy diet. Diets rich in convenient forms. Oats whole grain foods and other plant foods are unique in many ways: and low in total fat, saturated fat, and cholesterol may help reduce the risk r General Mills scientists helped write “Oats – From Farm to Fork” – an in-depth look at the science v Whole grain oats is the of heart disease and certain cancers. behind oats and their many benefits. first ingredient in Cheerios, which contain 23 grams of n E  nergy – Whole grain oats provide energy. controlling blood glucose; in Europe, a supports research efforts to improve the oats per serving. n F  iber – Oats contain more soluble health claim has been approved that nutritional quality of oats. (Read more in n O  ats have unique nutritional properties: fiber than most other grains. In states consumption of beta-glucans the Sustainability section of this report.) They have the highest concentrations addition to the role of the soluble fiber, from oats contributes to the reduction of protein among common varieties of beta glucan, in heart health, some of the glucose rise after a meal. whole grains, more soluble fiber than research shows beta-glucan may play Research: The Bell Institute of Health and most other whole grains, are a top source of the soluble fiber, beta-glucan, a role in slowing digestion rates. Nutrition contributes to advances in food nutrition research related to oats. General 25% and contain unique antioxidants. Mills R&D scientists helped write a chapter n O  ats naturally taste good and, when about oats in a textbook, Advances in Food roasted, develop a nutty oat flavor. & Nutrition Research/Academic Press, Volume In fiscal 2015, 25 percent 77, with an anticipated publication of of our U.S. retail sales n O  ats are a sustainable crop – oats August 2016. This resource documents the volume comprised products are a hardy grain that require little agricultural sustainability, nutritional value containing whole grain oats. water to grow. (Learn more about and health benefits of oats – including General Mills efforts to support r Our wide product portfolio makes the the established connection between oat the sustainability of oats in the inherent goodness of oats readily available. beta-glucan fiber in reducing the risk of Sustainability section of this report.) cardiovascular disease and the potential Approach: We use only the best oats n G  lucose reduction – Emerging research for controlling glycemia and improving in our products. We select oats high in shows oats also may be beneficial for the gut microbiome. General Mills also GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 21 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Our commitment to yogurt Yogurt provides key vitamins and nutrients v Yoplait® Original contains 20 percent of the daily Benefits: The vitamins and nutrients in “There is room for Americans – including protein and calcium – that yogurt – especially calcium and vitamin contribute to good health. In 2015, we value of calcium and D – contribute to health in many ways, to include limited amounts vitamin D in each cup. revised the recipe for our Yoplait® Original particularly when it comes to bone health. of added sugars in their yogurt to reduce sugar and calories and The vitamin D and calcium in yogurt help increase protein while preserving taste, build and maintain strong bones and teeth. eating patterns, including Approach: We invested three years and helping meet consumer demand: harnessed the knowledge of more than Calcium is critical to help kids’ bones to improve the palatability n L  ess sugar: We reduced sugar by 25 70 employees on our journey to revise grow strong and stay strong. Vitamin of some nutrient-dense the Yoplait® Original recipe. Finding the D helps aid in calcium absorption. percent in each serving of Yoplait® right balance wasn’t easy. Reducing foods, such as fruits and Original, decreasing the amount of Sugar reduction: Since 2007, General sugar from 26 grams to 18 grams. the sugar while keeping the great taste Mills has reduced sugar in three other vegetables that are naturally required more than a hundred recipe n F  ewer calories: As we reduced variations. With sugar already occurring yogurts – Yoplait® Go-Gurt, Yoplait® Trix tart (e.g., cranberries and and Yoplait® Kids – by nearly 25 percent. sugar, we also reduced calories naturally in milk and fruit, we tweaked rhubarb). Healthy eating from 170 to 150 per serving. the recipe by increasing the amount of patterns can accommodate n P  rotein: We now are using more dairy in each cup, reducing sugar and dairy in the recipe, which helps balancing the natural flavors. We hosted other nutrient-dense foods maintain a smooth and creamy a series of taste tests with thousands of with small amounts of added texture while increasing the protein consumers and further refined the recipe in a 6-ounce cup from 5 to 6 grams. to get the taste and texture just right. sugars, such as wholer We continue to reduce the amount of sugar in many of our yogurts. grain breakfast cereals or fat-free yogurt, as long as Yoplait® path to goodness calories from added sugars do not exceed 10 percent per day, total carbohydrate intake remains within the acceptable macronutrient distribution range, and total calorie intake remains within limits.” – U.S. Department of Health and Human 2009 2012 2014 2015 Services and U.S. Department of Agriculture. We began sourcing We removed We removed We reduced sugar 2015 – 2020 Dietary Guidelines for only milk from cows not high-fructose corn Aspartame from by 25 percent in each Americans. 8th Edition. December 2015. treated with artificial syrup from our yogurts. Yoplait® Light. serving of Yoplait® growth hormones. Original. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 22 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 1B Provide products that match diverse consumer food values Meet evolving consumer needs and preferences General Mills puts consumers first as we effort to avoid artificial flavors and colors Impact work to offer a broad range of products from artificial sources. We are responding to meet diverse consumer needs and to this preference. Many of our brands have Non-artificial ingredients: Gluten-free: 980+ U.S. retail preferences. We work to understand how made commitments to remove artificial n 1 00 percent of U.S. retail Nature products are gluten-free. people shop and cook, and respond quickly flavors and colors from foods, including the Valley Granola Bars, Betty Crocker to changing practices. Consumers globally Protein-rich: 225 U.S. retail products Cookie Mixes, Mott’s and Equity are increasingly focused on the role of have at least 10 percent daily Fruit Snacks have no artificial flavors food in their overall health and wellness. value of protein per serving. or colors from artificial sources. Definitions of wellness vary by consumer n 1 00 percent of U.S. retail Organic: 262 retail products are – some seek foods that are gluten-free or Nature Valley Granola Bars and offered in the U.S. and Canada. rich in protein, while others want products Yoplait® Original yogurt contain that contain fewer ingredients or foods no artificial sweeteners. Lower calories: 1,000+ U.S. retail that are certified organic, for example. n 7 7 percent of the U.S. retail products have 150 calories or less Big G cereal portfolio contains per serving; 550+ U.S. retail products Non-artificial ingredients no artificial flavors or colors have 100 calories or less per serving. According to a recent Nielsen survey*, 49 r We offer a variety of products that don’t rely from artificial sources. percent of U.S. households are making an on artificial ingredients to add color or flavor. *Based on an online survey conducted by Nielsen on behalf of General Mills from Aug. 18 Sept. 8, 2014, among a national sample of 31,375 Nielsen Homescan Panel households. Our commitment to remove artificial flavors and colors Today, 77 percent of General Mills U.S. changing preferences. According to a and flavors in our cereals. For example, retail cereals, including Cinnamon Toast survey conducted by Nielsen on behalf of Trix cereals will use ingredients such Crunch and original Cheerios, are made General Mills, 49 percent of households as fruit, vegetable juices and spice without artificial flavors and colors are making an effort to avoid artificial extracts – including turmeric and from artificial sources. In June 2015, flavors and colors from artificial sources. annatto – to achieve the distinctive red, we committed to removing artificial yellow, orange and purple colors. General Mills cereals will meet our flavors and colors from artificial sources commitment using more recognizable, from the rest of our cereals by the end r We are committed to keeping the magically familiar ingredients to create the colors delicious taste of our cereals while replacing of 2017 in response to consumers’ artificial flavors and colors from artificial sources with more familiar ingredients. “As consumer food values continue to change, General Mills is committed to changing with them and giving consumers what they want in their cereal today.” – Jim Murphy, President, Big G Cereal division GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 23 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community following products that already have met or celiac disease who must avoid gluten – Mills has set a goal of growing our natural Our natural and organic made significant progress toward this goal: finding affordable, gluten-free foods that and organic food business to US$1 billion in brands include: n B  ig G cereals: 77 percent of Big G taste good can be a challenge. General sales by 2019, nearly double its current size. U.S. retail cereals contain no artificial Mills has responded by expanding our We currently offer a mix of certified organic flavors or colors from artificial sources. leadership in gluten-free products. We cereals, yogurt, vegetables, fruit products, By the end of 2016, 90 percent of the now offer more than 980 gluten-free snacks, meals and baking products. (Learn portfolio will be free of artificial flavors products across our portfolio, including more about how we are building our and colors from artificial sources, baking, brownie, cake and cookie mixes, natural and organic capacity, including and we are committed to achieving frostings, refrigerated baked goods, expanding the supply of organic ingredients, 100 percent by the end of 2017. cereal, flour, granola, oatmeal, pasta, in the Sustainability section of this report.) soups, snacks, vegetables and yogurt. n  oplait® Original yogurt is made Y with no sweeteners or colors Protein-rich from artificial sources. More than 50 percent of U.S. consumers n Nature Valley Granola Bars have no want more protein in their diets.* General r Consumers increasingly seek products with artificial colors, flavors or sweeteners. Mills offers 225 protein-rich foods simpler ingredient lists. Many of our LÄRABAR across a variety of product segments, products contain 10 ingredients or less. n B  etty Crocker Cookie Mixes have including cereals, snacks and yogurt. no artificial flavors or preservatives, or colors from artificial sources. v Two of our 225 proteinReduced calories n Mott’s and Equity Fruit Snacks rich products. We continually look for ways to reduce have no artificial flavors or colors calories in our products, and we offer a from artificial sources. variety of low-calorie foods that help consumers manage their caloric intake. Gluten-free Natural and organic Maintaining a healthy weight can help Many consumers are trying to cut back manage certain risk factors associated U.S. industry sales for natural and organic on the amount of gluten in their diets. For with chronic conditions, such as heart foods have been growing at a double-digit consumers with a sensitivity to gluten – disease, type 2 diabetes and cancer. In pace over the past three years. General including the 3 million Americans with fiscal 2015, 36 percent of our U.S. retail product portfolio contained 100 calories or less per serving and 64 percent contained 150 calories or less per serving. v We offer many low-calorie foods, including more than 1,000 products containing 150 calories or less per serving. r A few of the more than 980 gluten-free r General Mills offers an increasing variety of G4-PR1, FP6, FP7 products from General Mills. natural and organic products. *International Food Information Council (IFIC) Foundation’s “2014 Food & Health Survey” GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 24 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 2 Champion global food safety 2A Expand food safety leadership Set high standards for prevention, quality and investment Commitment Legacy of food safety leadership US$13 million food safety spending Setting the gold standard for global food safety 1950s in 2015 (more than 10 percent More than 50 years ago, The Pillsbury Company (prior to acquisition by Established raw of essential capital investment General Mills) developed the Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points material vendor on average each year for food (HACCP) process with NASA for ensuring food safety. The HACCP approach management program 1960s safety-related projects). identifies key stages in production where food safety risks can be minimized or Established food eliminated. Today, HACCP has become the food industry’s gold standard and 600+ trained quality professionals safety, quality and and 55+ certified quality engineers the backbone of many countries’ food safety regulations around the world. 1970s regulatory policies and standards monitoring food safety worldwide. Developed food safety program for Hazard Analysis 100 percent of our facilities audited Priority: Safety is a priority focus area for locations. We tailor training accordingly, quality engineers at and Critical Control using globally recognized food our company leadership and part of our building the capacity to ensure globally production facilities (HACCP) process developed safety criteria (excluding Yoki). culture. Leading with safety – both the harmonized food safety standards. safety of our employees in the workplace 1980 90 percent of our facilities Collaboration: Our investment in food and the food they make – is one of the key safety education around the world includes Established food worldwide audited and/or operating principles that guides our work. our suppliers, partners, industry peers safety regulatory certified by third parties. affairs role 1996 and regulators. Food safety leadership Building global capacity is a differentiator for General Mills, but Pioneered food Challenge: Keeping food safe in a global Expectations: As General Mills’ operations not an area of competition. We freely allergen labeling economy poses challenges. Public expand around the world, we carry with share our best practices, emerging areas 2006 on all products awareness around food safety increased us our commitment to food safety and of concern and regulatory activities to Established internal in the aftermath of high-profile incidents strict adherence to the processes and help raise standards industrywide. We food safety training of tainted food, such as peanut butter in expectations we have been developing work with industry consortiums, partners academy 2008 the U.S. and baby food in China. While for more than half a century. Our and government agencies to advance Initiated global food those incidents were unrelated to General standards are the same in developed food safety. In 2014, we partnered with safety supplier schools Mills, we know that consumers want and developing countries, though the the Grocery Manufacturer’s Association 2013 assurance that the food we provide is safe. food safety challenges vary widely across (GMA) to launch and chair a Food Safety Surveyed employees about global food safety culture GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 25 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Training share group focused on best efforts extend from the proper design and of Directors. General Mills’ rigorous practices among all food manufacturers. construction of facilities and equipment internal review of food safety procedures We believe that food safety is nonfor promoting thorough cleaning to exceeds standard industry practices. competitive and that we will raise the the rigorous sanitation processes and External verification and certification: quality and consistency of food safety validation procedures necessary for All General Mills facilities (excluding training across the industry by discussing ensuring safe food. In fiscal 2015, we some Yoki sites, which we are working current best approaches, leveraging focused on developing technical mastery to integrate) are audited under globally common materials and sharing successful of clean-in-place (CIP) systems. We recognized food safety schemes. More methodologies. The share group now has worked with external partners to host a CIP than 90 percent of our facilities worldwide – 90 people from 60 companies participating summit to identify gaps, build technical r Our teams follow food safety processes focusing on prevention, intervention including our company-owned plants in monthly meetings. In June 2015, depth and optimize processes. The output and response. and co-production sites – are audited members of General Mills’ microbiology from the summit included an ongoing, subject matter experts in areas ranging and/or certified by an independent third team helped organize a global workshop internal CIP community of practice and the from microbiology to consumer product party, according to publicly available hosted by GMA and the Joint Institute development of key guidance documents. usage. This board provides guidance and standards. Global Food Safety Initiative for Food Safety and Applied Nutrition We emphasize and invest in training risk management review to ensure that (GFSI) certification is a voluntary endeavor, (JIFSAN) that focused on risk assessment focused on sanitation and sanitary design we design food safety into our products. managed by the Consumer Goods Forum, and prevention of foodborne listeriosis. principles. In fiscal 2015, the Sanitation undertaken by food industry leaders Sanitation: Proper sanitation is a Center of Excellence piloted a video Surveillance: We are committed to to promote a harmonized approach to foundation of food safety and an area training format to reach more people mitigating and eliminating potential food managing food safety across the industry. where General Mills has developed around the world. The video content was safety risks. Our surveillance programs monitor risk and provide early detection The certification of General Mills’ facilities significant expertise. Our Global Sanitation translated into four languages to provide to minimize any impact when food is an additional assurance that our existing, Center of Excellence trains General Mills more effective, consistent training to safety issues are identified. All General robust food safety systems continue to teams as well as our suppliers and coall General Mills production facilities. Mills facilities are ranked for overall evolve and improve. Across General Mills, producers. Sanitation is a key focus area we have achieved GFSI certification of 72 for all stakeholders, so we also share our Global systems food safety risk. The ranking tool is percent of our company-owned production expertise with customers, regulators and used to identify and prioritize specific Expertise: Our food safety systems facilities, indicating they meet global others in the food industry. Our sanitation areas of risk. Risk reduction goals are focus on prevention, intervention and standards for food safety management set based on the 2015 baseline. response. We apply this approach recognized in more than 150 countries. We systematically on a global scale. Internal verification and validation: We will continue to pursue GFSI certification conduct internal risk-based surveillance with a goal of certifying 100 percent of Planning: We integrate food safety into and food safety testing at each General General Mills-owned facilities by 2020. all our processes, beginning with R&D Mills facility. Our processes also undergo Globally, 75 percent of our co-production and extending across our supply chain. many layers of review. Our Global sites and 49 percent of our ingredient Our R&D employees incorporate food Internal Audit team periodically audits the supplier sites also are GFSI certified. safety considerations when planning for effectiveness and efficiency of Quality and new products to evaluate and eliminate Traceability: Our inventory control and Regulatory Operations’ internal controls potential food safety risks. Our Food Safety supplier management systems include and operating procedures. This risk Board includes senior leaders from across the ability to trace the sources of our assessment is reported to the company’s our supply chain, R&D, legal, and quality ingredients, which is key to isolating risks Global Governance Council and Board r We invest in training to improve food safety. and regulatory organizations, as well as in the event of food safety concerns. We GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 26 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community evaluate our suppliers’ systems to ensure an additional set of 16 detailed policies they meet our traceability requirements. with accompanying standards and Our approach to selecting, auditing guidance documents providing more and training suppliers helps ensure the granular requirements. These food safety safety of the raw materials we use to policies are developed by a global team make our products. (See story 2B.) involving subject matter experts relevant Action: As a prevention step, we regularly to the policy. Policies are signed by the conduct mock recalls at our warehouses, senior leader(s) in the functions primarily production facilities and co-production responsible for assuring compliance. sites worldwide. Results are shared These global policies cover a broad range annually as part of a global report. We of food safety areas, including regulatory conducted two voluntary recalls in fiscal r Participants in an Auditor Academy training compliance, trace and recall, labeling, r Auditor Academy participants discuss session in Australia discuss observations claims, physical, chemical and biological vantage points for auditing difficult-to-access 2015: one in Canada and one in the found during a warehouse audit exercise, such areas, including under equipment. U.S., both of which were limited in scope hazards, transportation, and good as allergen storage, damage to raw materials, and amount of impacted product. hold-order verification and pest control. manufacturing practices and sanitation. direct accountability for food safety. The These policies form the framework Global Internal Audit team periodically Consumer response: All General Mills when needed. We also use this consumer for internal audits conducted by our validates that our food safety processes products around the world contain labeling response system to help us deliver the Global Internal Audit team. We set high and controls are in place and operating with basic nutrition facts, and almost all products consumers want; we first standards and have one set of policies effectively. The company’s Global branded products provide General Mills identified interest in gluten-free products, and standards across the globe. Our Governance Council conducts a quarterly contact information, including phone for example, based on consumer inquiries. target is ensuring our food is defect-free review of risk, which includes food safety. numbers, websites and addresses. When consumers contact us with questions Governance and achieving 100 percent compliance. Verification is a key component as we Strategy: People or concerns, that data is systematically collected and tracked, offering a powerful and auditing audit against a single set of standards and processes early warning system for any food safety Detailed policies: Governance of General and strive to be fair and firm on ratings. Expertise: Our food safety formula begins risks. We monitor that data daily and Mills’ food safety and regulatory matters Our metrics drive common standards with people – our team of experienced respond rapidly when food safety questions begins with a corporate policy signed and speak to the desired outcome. food safety professionals – supported arise. We work with regulatory agencies and by our Chief Executive Officer. This Leadership: The Vice President of with adequate resources and guided by local governments to take appropriate action corporate policy is further supported by Quality and Regulatory Operations has clearly defined processes. From board Auditor Academy impact in 2015: 186 13 9 2,100+ participants FROM countries ATTENDED training sessions REACHING people 2 full sessions; 7 through knowledge awareness sessions transfer GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 27 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community certified toxicologists to quality engineers, centers of excellence focused on key food French, Mandarin Chinese, Portuguese identify and fix issues, as well as prevent our people have the expertise to make safety requirements, such as sanitation, and Spanish. In fiscal 2015, we fully food safety problems from occurring. informed food safety decisions, from quality engineering and auditing. We implemented our Auditor Academy and G4-FP5, PR1, PR2 product design through consumer use. provide comprehensive, consistent conducted training sessions attended Training: We continually refine our instruction through our global online by 186 participants from 13 countries. training approach through our global training academy with materials in English, These sessions help improve our ability to 2B Partner to increase food safety Increase supplier and co-producer audits, training and awareness Audits: To help ensure the safety of the so General Mills brings together our success of schools held in India, Spain, Impact raw materials (ingredients and packaging) suppliers around the world to share food China, Thailand, and the U.S. in prior we use in our products, we continue safety knowledge and communicate years. Those seminars addressed topics 800+ supplier audits conducted to expand the number of supplier and food safety expectations. We conduct such as biological and physical hazard in 2015. co-producer audits we conduct globally. supplier schools in classroom settings controls, allergen management and The General Mills Quality and Regulatory tailored to the needs of each market. production facility sanitization. Since 150+ co-producer audits Operations team performs direct audits In 2015, we held supplier schools in 2011, we have had more than 500 conducted in 2015. and also encourages third-party audits and/ Brazil and Australia, building on our participants in our Supplier Schools. 50+ suppliers trained through or certification, such as through GFSI, as supplier schools and webinars an additional preventive control measure. Reducing supplier risk globally in 2015. Supplier training: Our products are only as safe as the ingredients in them, Audits Education and training Safety by design Supply Supplier risk chain reduction visibility Approving and delisting suppliers 3rd party audits/ Leverage GFSI industry organizations G4-PR1, FP2, FP5 r More than 35 people attended our Supplier School in Australia to learn more about General Mills’ food safety expectations. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 28 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 3 Educate consumers 3A Provide accurate product nutrition information Inform consumers through consistent, easy-to-read food labels General Mills’ product packages provide and transparency possible working accurate nutrition labeling as prescribed within packaging constraints. Where by regulations in the country of sale. In space on packages permits, the five-icon addition, as a member of the International format – including energy (calories), Food and Beverage Alliance (IFBA), fat, saturated fat, sugar and salt – is General Mills has made a commitment to displayed. We include the energy icon adopt a new common global approach to as a minimum on smaller packages. nutrition information on packaging that r Package labeling in Canada provides clear nutrition and serving information. will now include, at minimum, the labeling Per 25g Canada: As a member of Food & Consumer U.S. product packages. Nutrition Keys are of calories on front-of-pack. This initiative 586 kJ Fat Saturates Sugars Salt EUROPE Products of Canada (FCPC), General Mills a set of icons adopted by the packaged will be implemented globally by the end of 140 kcal 11.3 g 3.0 g 6.1 g 1.40 g and 33 other food companies in partnership food industry that provide information 2016. The purpose is to inform consumers 7%* 16%* 15%* 7%* 23%* with Health Canada launched the Nutrition about calories, saturated fat, sodium and on specific product nutrition attributes and to support informed food choices. Per 100g: 2343 kJ / 560 kcal Facts Education Campaign (NFEC) in sugars – designed to make it easier to make October 2010. The purpose of NFEC is to informed food choices in the grocery aisle. Around the world, our product labeling Australia: To provide consumers with increase the usage and understanding of meets local regulatory requirements clear, fact-based nutrition information, the TM Percent Daily Value on the Nutrition while remaining consistent with our ENERGY FAT SAT FAT SUGARS SODIUM we are implementing the Australian AUSTRALIA global approach. For example, we 870kJ 0.7g 0.3g 9.5g 115mg Daily Intake Guide front-of-pack Facts table. In 2015, NFEC launched a simple, focused approach to help increase provide additional nutrient information 10%* 1%* 1%* 11%* 5%* labeling scheme consistent with IFBA Per 25g consumers’ understanding and use of on our packaging in markets such as requirements. In 2015, 60 percent of serving size information, along with the Europe, Australia, Canada and the U.S. PER 60g SERVE 586 kJ displayed our products Sugars intake Fat Saturatesnutrition Salt G4-EC1, FP4, FP8, PR3 EUROPE 140 kcal 11.3 g 3.0 g 6.1 g 1.40 g reference information on the front of Percent Daily Value on the Nutrition Facts table. As of September 2015, General Europe: Every General Mills package has 7%* 16%* 15%* 7%* 23%* been updated to fulfill the requirements the package. We continue working to Mills shared NFEC messaging on 75 of our Per 100g: 2343 kJ / 560 kcal of the European Food Information to meet the 2016 labeling commitment. Canadian products, providing consumers Consumers Regulation. In 2015, 98 percent exposure to the nutrition education TM program on 104 million packages. of General Mills products included ENERGY FAT SAT FAT SUGARS SODIUM AUSTRALIA dietary reference intake information on 870kJ 0.7g 0.3g 9.5g 115mg U.S.: The majority of our U.S. products the packaging. General Mills aims to 10%* 1%* 1%* 11%* 5%* now feature front-of-package labeling. In provide the highest level of consistency PER 60g SERVE 2012, the Nutrition Keys were added to all GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 29 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 3B Support responsible marketing Address advertising to children around the world advertising directed to children – including point of sale and through other channels criteria to ensure that better-for-you foods Commitment prior review by the Better Business by the end of 2016. The enhanced are based on robust common standards. Bureau’s Child Advertising Review commitments include an expansion Compliance with IFBA commitments is Global: Commitment to Unit in the United States. We update of IFBA’s global marketing policy, in monitored independently and publicly International Food and Beverage our marketing guidelines annually to place since 2009, which specified that reported by Accenture annually. General Alliance pledge. reflect current standards and practices. members would only advertise products Mills applies our nutrition standards to Review: General Mills’ marketing that meet better-for-you criteria or U.S.: Compliance with Children’s products that we advertise to children guidelines are reviewed and updated refrain from all product marketing to Food and Beverage Advertising under the age of 12 everywhere that we annually by the company’s Responsible children under 12 years old. The 2014 Initiative guidelines. operate around the world, including Europe, Marketing Council. These guidelines commitments strengthen that policy in Latin America, North America and Asia. Europe: Compliance with EU are reviewed annually with the three core areas: media, marketing and harmonized criteria. The new policy U.S.: General Mills supports the Children’s Pledge guidelines. company’s Chief Executive Officer covers virtually all media and certain Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative and the Chief Operating Officers of Canada: Compliance with Canadian marketing techniques directed at children (CFBAI) child advertising nutrition the company’s U.S. and International Children’s Food and Beverage under 12. Members commit to working standards. The company is a founding operating units. We adhere to strict Advertising Initiative guidelines. toward harmonizing global nutrition member of CFBAI and has been in full internal and industry guidelines – that Singapore: Compliance with in many cases are more demanding Singapore Food and Beverage than local regulations – in producing Industry Responsible Advertising and reviewing ads to ensure they are to Children Initiative. appropriate for the intended audience. Global commitment: As charter members of the International Food and Philosophy: We believe children Beverage Alliance (IFBA), we joined should be encouraged to consume other leading food and non-alcoholic lower-calorie, nutrient-dense foods beverage companies in a public letter to that support their growth and the Director General of the U.N. World activity. Our marketing guidelines and Health Organization in September commitments support this philosophy. 2014 communicating a set of enhanced Guidelines: General Mills’ marketing global commitments that include guidelines underscore our commitment responsible marketing and advertising to responsible marketing and advertising initiatives. These new standards by stating that all marketing to children encompass commitments around product should respect three key steps to healthier reformulation and innovation as well as living: balance, moderation and physical a common global approach to providing r We have made commitments around the world supporting responsible marketing and activity. We take particular care around nutrition information on packaging, at the advertising to children. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 30 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community advertising only better-for-you products in eight food and beverage categories. The new criteria include maximum calories, nutrients to limit and other nutrients to encourage. The new criteria went into full effect on Dec. 31, 2015, but we have applied these guidelines to all of our new products since their announcement. Singapore: As a signatory to the 2012 Singapore Food and Beverage Industry Responsible Advertising to Children r The Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative, General Mills supported and was Initiative (CFBAI) is a voluntary program of the Council involved in the development of industryof Better Business Bureaus. led Food and Advertising Guidelines through a public-private consortium (via the Committee on Guidelines for Food Advertising to Children). The new guidelines went into effect January 1, 2015, and build upon the industry pledge that r We believe children should be encouraged to consume low-calorie, nutrient-dense foods. requires all food and beverage products compliance with the CFBAI standards December 2016. These new EU Pledge promoted in marketing communications since their inception in 2006, including commitments, presented to the European targeted at children 12 and younger to the Uniform Nutrition Standards that took Commission and key EU stakeholders meet common nutrient criteria. The effect in December 2013. These categoryin November 2014 at the EU Platform guidelines apply to all media platforms. level guidelines apply rigorous nutrition for Action on Diet, Physical Activity and Australia: General Mills is a signatory standards for specific food groups, such Health, cover additional media and, in of the Responsible Child Marketing as yogurt and cereal, consistently across addition to placement criteria, address the Initiative of the Australian Food and the U.S. food and beverage industry. content of marketing communications. Grocery Council. While our Australian Europe: As a founding member of the EU Canada: In Canada, we participate in the brands do not specifically market to Pledge, a voluntary initiative by leading Canadian Children’s Food and Beverage children, we nevertheless adhere to the r The Singapore Food and Beverage Industry food and beverage companies, General Advertising Initiative (CAI), a voluntary terms of the code around non-advertising Responsible Advertising to Children Initiative is a pledge promoted by Food Industry Asia. Mills and other signatories, including initiative by 18 of Canada’s leading food in media primarily directed to children. our cereal joint venture CPW, agree to and beverage companies to promote G4-PR6, FP8 advertise only products that meet specific and support healthy dietary choices and nutrition criteria to kids under 12. In 2014, lifestyles to children under 12 years of participants in the EU Pledge impleage. General Mills played a leadership mented uniform category-level nutrition role in developing the new CAI nutrition standards and introduced enhanced criteria announced in October 2014 that r The Responsible Child Marketing Initiative is a commitments, which are applicable as of establish a single set of guidelines for program of the Australian Food and Grocery Council. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 31 Sustainability Our sustainability mission is to treat the world with care. OUR STRATEGIES OUR GOAL is to protect the resources upon which our 1 INCREASE sustainability of ingredients business depends by promoting environmentally and socially responsible practices across our entire value chain. 2 COLLABORATE to improve global water stewardship 3 ADVANCE socially responsible supply chains 4 IMPROVE environmental performance of our operations GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 32 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Overview We are committed to improving sustainability across our value chain. The areas of greatest environmental impact in our supply chain – including more than twothirds of GHG emissions and 99 percent of water use – occur outside General Mills’ operations, primarily in agriculture. We are working to reduce those impacts through our climate ambition goals, sustainable sourcing initiatives and water stewardship program. Across our global operations, we focus on reducing our GHG emissions and natural resource consumption. We also advance responsible sourcing practices that respect human rights and protect animal welfare. Sustainability goals We are committed to reducing absolute GHG emissions 28 percent by 2025, compared to 2010, across our full value chain. Climate change Our longer term goal is to achieve sustainable emission levels in line with scientific consensus by 2050. Learn more. We are committed to sustainably sourcing 100 percent of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020, representing more than 50 percent Sustainable sourcing of our annual raw material purchases. Learn more. We are improving the sustainability of water use throughout our supply chain, including addressing the eight most at-risk Water stewardship watersheds affecting our business. Learn more. Our updated human rights policy outlines our commitment to conduct business with high ethical standards and the expectation Human rights that our suppliers will do the same. Learn more. We support the humane treatment of animals in agriculture. Our updated animal welfare policy includes a commitment to use ANIMAL WELFARE Animal welfare 100 percent cage-free eggs in our U.S. operations. Learn more. Environmental performance We work to reduce the environmental footprint of our operations. We achieved our 2015 targets related to GHG emissions of our operations and packaging and have set targets for 2020 and beyond. Learn more. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 33 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community CLIMATE CHANGE is a global challenge that presents risks to humanity, our environment and our livelihoods. Changes in climate not only affect global food security but also impact General Mills’ raw material supply. This influences our ability to deliver quality, finished products to our consumers and ultimately value to our shareholders. Approach sustainable emission levels in line with scientific consensus by 2050. CEOs of nine other global food companies to release a joint letter on the role of 28% We take a broad approach to climate change in the food industry. addressing this issue. Our General Collaboration Mills Policy on Climate, which Effective collaboration across industries More information focuses on mitigation, adaptation, and organizations has a critical role in Learn more about our climate goal and 2025 goal*: Reduce absolute disclosure and advocacy, establishes combatting climate change. Through the implementation plan on our website. GHG emissions across our full a framework to track and reduce GHG BICEP (Business for Innovative Climate Read about how we reduce emissions emissions across our value chain. value chain by 28 percent & Energy Policy) coalition, we work with in our supply chain (page 44) and in our In 2015, using science-based methodology other businesses and policymakers to directly controlled operations (page 64). and with input from BSR, we set a goal to 41reduce absolute GHG emissions across advocate for innovative and impactful For details on the risks and opportunities 72% our full value chain by 28 percent over climate and clean energy policies. We are also signatories to the New York General Mills faces due to climate change, see our CDP submission online. the next 10 years (compared to 2010). Declaration on Forests and the UN Although some value chain segments Caring for Climate Declaration. To urge 2050 goal*: Reduce absolute represent larger reduction opportunities governments worldwide to take meaningful GHG emissions across our full than others, we work to tackle action at COP21, General Mills joined value chain to sustainable levels emissions across the entire spectrum. the We Mean Business coalition; and Chairman and CEO Ken Powell joined *Compared to 2010. in line with scientific consensus Our longer term goal is to achieve GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 34 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community The path to 2050 28% ** 4172% ** 2010* 2025 2050 Agriculture and Packaging Converting Shipping Selling Consuming transformation supply chain Growing and transporting Producing packaging materials Making products from Moving food from suppliers to Making food available Enjoying food (shopping, crops, and turning them (making and transporting) food ingredients (mixing our facilities and on to stores for purchase (promoting preparing and eating) into food ingredients Greatest impact from: and cooking) (transporting and delivering) and storing) and disposing Greatest impact from: Corrugate, flexible plastics, Greatest impact from: Greatest impact from: Greatest impact from: Greatest impact from: Milk and wheat, due to and steel production Electricity used to Truck transport of nonRefrigerated and frozen Car trips to the grocery store purchase volumes and Our path forward: manufacture our products refrigerated items to and storage of our products and energy used for baking milk’s GHG intensity from our facilities at grocery stores n R  educe packaging volume Our path forward: Our path forward: Our path forward: n Increase recycled, renewable, n Improve energy efficiency Our path forward: Our path forward: n  ptimize preparation O n F ocus on dairy and row crops and compostable content, n Increase use of n  ptimize transportation O n  artner with customers P instructions, time and n E liminate deforestation and as well as recyclability renewable energy modes to improve in-store temperature required climate change from our n Increase truck loading n  nhance logistics planning E energy efficiency to prepare products extended supply chain efficiency *Relative size of value chain segments is based on 2014 data. **Compared to 2010. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 35 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community OUR STRATEGIES AND ACTIONS 1. Increase 2. Collaborate 3. Advance socially 4. Improve environmental sustainability to improve global responsible performance of our of ingredients water stewardship supply chains operations A P  romote sustainable practices A Foster and engage in A Respect human rights A Reduce GHG emissions with smallholder farmers in watershed stewardship in our supply chains B R  educe energy usage developing economies I ncrease supplier diversity B C Reduce transportation fuel usage B E  xpand sustainability of C Protect animal welfare large-scale agriculture D Reduce water usage C B  uild natural and organic capacity E Reduce solid waste generation D C  ultivate sustainable F Reduce packaging footprint food production Leadership and governance: and key investments. Additionally, the SUSTAINABILITY BOARD OF DIRECTORS, At General Mills, our Chairman and Board of Directors’ Public Responsibility GOVERNANCE COMMITTEE CEO, CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD PUBLIC RESPONSIBILITY CEO COMMITTEE Chief Executive Officer has ultimate Committee regularly reviews the EVP, SUPPLY CHAIN accountability for sustainability, which company’s sustainability objectives, SVP, EXTERNAL RELATIONS is included in his annual performance strategies and performance. EVP, U.S. RETAIL EVP, INTERNATIONAL objectives and impacts his compensation. Executives in Supply Chain, External CFO EVP, EXTERNAL EVP, SUPPLY RELATIONS CHAIN Responsibility for sustainable sourcing Relations and Sustainability have a EVP, INNOVATION, TECHNOLOGY & QUALITY and global environmental sustainability responsibility to develop, coordinate and SVP, SALES initiatives lies with the Vice President execute programs to achieve companywide CHIEF SUSTAINABILITY and Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO). targets. To ensure ownership across OFFICER VP, GLOBAL SOURCING VPs, SUPPLY CHAIN The CSO reports into the Executive Vice General Mills, relevant executives President of Supply Chain and the Senior within business units, supply chain and Vice President of External Relations. production facilities are accountable Responsibility for sustainable sourcing for the target areas they control. also lies with the Director of Sourcing G4-15, 42 Sustainability, who reports to the CSO and the Vice President, Global Sourcing. The Chairman and CEO convenes the “Sustainability is essential to the long-term success of our company. Every day we make Sustainability Governance Committee three times per year. The committee progress in using better sustainability understanding in our business decisions.” reviews and approves strategies, programs – Jerry Lynch, Vice President and Chief Sustainability Officer GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 36 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 1 Increase sustainability of ingredients Our approach: assess & transform Improve the environmental, economic and social impacts of sustainable sourcing We are moving our raw material supply international humanitarian organization 2. Strategy formation: We identified the are ongoing. As appropriate, we chain toward more sustainable solutions CARE, to improve sustainability. 10 priority raw materials we buy where we involve third-party auditors to help using a range of approaches, including can have the greatest influence and are measure and analyze our results. General Mills follows a four-step certification, verification, continuous pursuing sustainable sourcing strategies sustainable sourcing model – assessment, improvement and origin-direct investment. for the following: palm oil, fiber packagGeneral Mills raw material sourcing strategy formation, transformation, and Our approach is tailored to each ing, wheat, oats, sugar beets, vanilla, monitoring and evaluation – to improve ingredient and geography, whether we cocoa, dairy, corn and sugarcane. These the sustainability of the raw materials are working with smallholder farmers in materials represent more than 50 percent we use to make our products. developing economies or larger-scale of our annual raw material purchases. agriculture in developed economies. 1. Assessment: Working with World Wildlife Fund (WWF) and the Rainforest 3. Transformation: We achieve the greatIn 2010, we conducted a supply risk est sustainability impact by working with Alliance, we completed a comprehensive, analysis of our raw material sourcing industry partners and NGOs across the 80% developed economies in-depth assessment of all raw materials we and a water risk assessment. We supply chain to devise and implement solu20% developing economies buy worldwide. Each was measured against also partner with a range of industry tions. We pilot projects and communicate dozens of potential risk categories, including r More than 80 percent of the raw materials groups, including Field to Market: The the results so we – and others in the indusGeneral Mills purchases are sourced from animal welfare, child and forced labor, worker Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture, try – can continue to refine our approach developed economies. According to the United health and safety, indigenous peoples’ rights, Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil and drive sustainability improvement. Nations, developed regions include North America, deforestation, economic sustainability, Europe, Japan, Australia and New Zealand. (RSPO) and Bonsucro, as well as nonfertilizer (nitrogen) use, GHG emissions, 4. Monitoring and evaluation: Our governmental organizations (NGOs) like soil loss, water quality and water use. efforts to monitor and evaluate progress The Nature Conservancy (TNC) and the Progress PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 Assessment Strategy Transformation Monitoring formation & evaluation CORN SUGAR PALM BEETS OIL DAIRY COCOA OATS FIBER WHEAT VANILLA SUGARCANE PACKAGING GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 37 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Performance dashboard: Sourcing FY2020 target (% FY2015 progress* (% of Raw material/ingredient of spend sourced spend sourced sustainably Primary challenges Sustainability definition sustainably) as of May 2015) Smallholder farmer incomes, food Sourced through programs that improve the livelihoods Vanilla 100% 45% security, quality of ingredients of smallholder farmers and the quality of ingredients Smallholder farmer incomes, Sourced through programs that improve the livelihoods Cocoa 100% 28% child labor, community economic/ social development, education, of smallholder farmers and the quality of ingredients deforestation/environment Deforestation (biodiversity, endangered Sourced by responsible and sustainable sources Palm oil** 100% 100% species, environmental impact), indigenous people’s rights as defined by RSPO mass balanced, segregated sustainable palm, or green palm certificates Labor rights (child/forced labor, working Sourced from responsible and sustainable regions that are Sugarcane 100% 59% conditions); lack of origin visibility due to supply chain complexity in compliance with Bonsucro or comparable standards; any high risk countries will be independently verified Sourced from growing regions that demonstrate continuous Oats 100% 40% Declining supply due to lower profitability vs. other crops improvement against industry-based environmental metrics Sourced from growing regions that demonstrate U.S. wheat 100% 24% GHG emissions, water usage, biodiversity continuous improvement against the Field to Market framework or comparable environmental metrics Sourced from growing regions that demonstrate U.S. sugar beets 100% 47% GHG emissions, soil loss, biodiversity continuous improvement against the Field to Market framework or comparable environmental metrics Sourced from growing regions that demonstrate U.S. corn (dry milled) 100% 26% GHG emissions, nutrient utilization, biodiversity continuous improvement against the Field to Market framework or comparable environmental metrics Our directly sourced fluid milk will originate from producing regions that demonstrate continuous improvement as U.S. dairy (fluid milk) 100% 20% GHG emissions, water usage, water quality, animal well-being measured by the Dairy Sustainability Framework (U.S.) or other comparable environmental metrics (globally) Fiber packaging will be from recycled material or from virgin wood fiber regions that are known Fiber packaging 100% 99% Deforestation and not contributing to deforestation; any high risk countries will be independently verified * Progress numbers may vary from year to year due to changes in suppliers, market conditions or improvements in data tracking methodology. ** Palm oil target 100% by FY2015; baseline year FY2010 for palm oil (baseline FY2014 for all other ingredients). For discussion and updates on palm oil, see pages 41-42. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 38 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community PACKAGING v The content in this section relates primarily to AGRICULTURE TRANSFORMING SUPPLY CHAIN CONVERTING SHIPPING SELLING CONSUMING Producing packaging Making products Moving food from suppliers Making food available Enjoying food (shopping, the Agriculture and Transforming phases of our Growing and transporting Turning crops into food materials (making from food ingredients to facilities and on to stores for purchase (promoting preparing and eating) value chain. For a more detailed view of our value crops (planting, tending ingredients (cleaning, and transporting) (mixing and cooking) (transporting and delivering) and storing) and disposing chain, see page 7. and harvesting) milling and preparing) G4-12 1A Promote sustainable practices with smallholder farmers in developing economies Increase sustainability and improve livelihoods through origin-direct investment 660 In developing economies, we work with Challenges: The primary risk to the world’s The majority of the vanilla we purchase is smallholder farmers, NGOs and industry long-term supply of vanilla is economic: grown and cured in Madagascar’s Sava region. partners to pursue sustainable development the ability of smallholder farmers to earn that addresses economic, environmental enough from the crop to feed their families. vanilla growers in Madagascar and social challenges through our creating Additionally, vanilla grows under the and their 2,640 family shared value strategy. Using this model, forest canopy, so maintaining vanilla as a members benefit from we help ensure sustainable sourcing of viable crop helps prevent deforestation. our investments raw materials, while boosting the incomes Strategy: In Madagascar, we are working quality vanilla beans and encourage future 1 of smallholder farmers and raising living with vanilla supplier Virginia Dare to generations to continue growing vanilla. standards in their communities. improve farmer incomes as well as the Progress: In 2013, we launched a program 1 Madagascar quantity, quality and traceability of vanilla. Vanilla Madagascar is the world’s leading vanilla in the village of Belambo, located in the producer, responsible for more than 90 northern part of Madagascar’s Sava region, their 2,640 family members. Vanilla Commitment: General Mills will percent of production and our primary to train 325 farming families about vanilla from these sites will help us meet our source 100 percent of our vanilla source of the premium vanilla used production practices. Training includes sustainable vanilla commitment by 2020. by 2020 through programs in Häagen-Dazs ice cream. By actively teaching farmers how to cure the vanilla that improve the livelihoods of they grow – expertise that significantly In 2015 we continued our support of investing in the communities in which our smallholder farmers and the increases their earnings. In 2014, we began programs in Belambo and the southern vanilla is grown, we provide quality of the ingredients. investing in communities in the southern section of the Sava region while frequently economic incentive for section of the Sava region, including the working with our supplier to review Status: 45 percent of the vanilla farmers to produce highvillage of Antananambo. In 2015, farmer the impact of our investment in the General Mills purchased was associations in Belambo and Antananambo communities. Due to instability in the sustainably sourced in fiscal 2015. w We use high-quality vanilla represented 660 co-op members and region, we did not expand the scope or in Häagen-Dazs ice cream. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 39 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community reach of our local investments during Initiative (SVI), an organization composed government to promote sustainable construction of a storage warehouse this year, but are actively pursuing of food and flavoring companies, the vanilla production in Madagascar. in Belambo that makes rice available opportunities to scale our efforts in 2016. Sustainable Food Lab, IDH (the sustainable to local families year-round at lower Food security: General Mills also supports Collaboration: In 2015, General Mills was a trade development organization of the prices, regardless of market availability. efforts to improve food security in founding member of the Sustainable Vanilla Dutch government) and the Malagasy Belambo and Antananambo. We funded Employees in France strengthen ongoing connection with Belambo village in Madagascar In November 2015, employees from our enables 120 additional students from to fund the school building and donated Häagen-Dazs production facility in Arras, the surrounding area to attend classes. books, stationery and clothing. Last year, France, traveled to Belambo, Madagascar, General Mills employees in Arras have Arras employees donated books and to inaugurate a new school building and developed an ongoing connection with funds to build the Belambo community help establish a committee to oversee the Belambo community, where vanilla library. Learn more about our support for the community library. The new school is grown. Arras employees raised money Belambo village in the Community section. v Many General Mills direct support to cocoa-growing Cocoa baking products contain communities in West Africa: More than 70 percent of the cocoa we purchase is grown in West Africa. cocoa. n In Ghana, we are working with cocoa Commitment: General Mills will disease and degraded supplier Cargill and humanitarian source 100 percent of our cocoa soil fertility must be NGO CARE in 20 communities to by 2020 through programs addressed to improve form village cooperatives, provide that improve the livelihoods 1 farmers’ livelihoods and food security smallholder farmers and the in their communities. Helping families 2 quality of the ingredients. keep children in school rather than Status: 28 percent of the cocoa working on cocoa farms also is essential. General Mills purchased was Cocoa grows under the forest canopy, 1 Côte d’Ivoire sustainably sourced in fiscal 2015. 2 Ghana so maintaining cocoa as a viable crop helps prevent deforestation. technical assistance and educational Challenges: Economic viability – ensuring Strategy: General Mills partners with support. The goal is to help improve smallholder farmers earn enough from our cocoa suppliers to help improve the the lives of 2,000 smallholder r Cocoa growers in Ghana unpack spraying growing cocoa to feed their families – is economic, environmental and social machines that help boost production through farmers and the quality and the major challenge to securing the sustainability of cocoa production. fertilizer and pesticide application. General sustainability of the cocoa they grow. world’s long-term cocoa supply. Low Mills provided funding for 40 spraying Progress: In 2015, we expanded our General Mills’ investment provides machines and 40 pruning tools used by 750 productivity, crop loss due to pests or work with key suppliers to provide farm automation and equipment, farmers in 20 communities. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 40 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community training by local agronomists to we transitioned to Barry Callebaut’s our suppliers, General Mills is a member increase yields sustainably, and new Cocoa Horizons program with of the World Cocoa Foundation (WCF), grants to improve education and broader sustainability initiatives for which encourages socially, economically health in these communities. cocoa growing communities and direct and environmentally responsible and n In Côte d’Ivoire, we partner with access to program impact information. sustainable cocoa farming, reaching cocoa suppliers Barry Callebaut and To ensure cocoa is being purchased from more than 540,000 cocoa farmers Cargill to help smallholder farmers farmers participating in the program, in Africa, Asia and the Americas. grow cocoa more sustainably, increase Barry Callebaut traces the beans from yields and improve their livelihoods. The programs strengthen farmer cooperatives and train farmers how to the farmer to the primary warehouse. Collaboration: Cocoa farming is an intensive process. General Mills recognizes 19,600 cocoa farmers trained in increase productivity, manage pests that there are systemic labor issues in the good agronomic practices and diseases, and improve the quality cocoa supply chain; while our Supplier in Côte d’Ivoire and Ghana of their cocoa. The programs also Code of Conduct prohibits forced and through programs supported r More cocoa-growing communities now have educate farmers about biodiversity child labor, we understand that it will take access to clean water in Côte d’Ivoire. The by General Mills Cocoa Horizons program provides boreholes and sound labor practices, including industrywide collaboration to change these in schools and water filters to schools and addressing child labor issues. In 2015, practices. In addition to direct work with households in remote areas. poverty, unsustainable palm oil production Palm oil Most of the palm oil we purchase comes from Malaysia and Brazil. practices can also threaten the rights of indigenous peoples. Development Commitment: General Mills approaches that focus on economic will source 100 percent of our opportunities for smallholder farmers palm oil from responsible and living near palm refineries have the sustainable sources by 2015. potential to improve livelihoods and 1 3 Status: 100 percent of the palm 2 2 encourage sustainable farming practices oil General Mills purchased while protecting biodiversity. was sustainably sourced in Strategy: General Mills is committed fiscal 2015; at the end of 2015, 1 Malaysia to sourcing palm oil in a socially and r In 2015, we reached our goal to sustainably nearly 97 percent of our palm 2 Brazil 3 Indonesia environmentally responsible manner. We source 100 percent of the palm oil in our products. oil volume was categorized as continue converting our palm oil supply to traceable to the extraction mill with the principle of free, prior and deforestation of the world’s rainforests. sustainable sources in support of certified and responsibly sourced. informed consent. As part of our concern This deforestation is having a negative sustainable palm oil production. Our initial about deforestation in palm growing impact on biodiversity, endangered commitment in 2010 included compliance regions and to ensure our purchases Challenges: The world’s increasing demand species and the broader environment. with our Supplier Code of Conduct, as do not contribute to deforestation, for palm oil has led to the expansion of Despite being a highly productive crop well as prevention and resolution of we updated our initial commitment palm plantations and contributed to the that can offer growers a path out of social and/or land conflicts consistent with our 2014 palm oil statement. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 41 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Progress: In fiscal 2015, we met our commitment to source all palm Purchasing of Roundtable on Sustainable Palm oil through sustainable purchases Oil (RSPO) certified volumes in 2015 (CY) that meet RSPO standards. We also 97% Total General Amount of mass Amount of shifted more of our volume toward Purchasing region Mills palm balanced palm segregated palm and certificate use mass balance and segregated palm purchased (MT) purchased (MT) purchased (MT) oil – accounting for 87 percent in 2015 – North America 45,321 43,111 0 rather than green palm certificates. Nearly 97 percent of our palm oil supply is traceable to the mill. Brazil 12,594 3,798 4,010 Traceability: General Mills is helping lead the industry toward greater sustainability if we identify suppliers who are not in Europe 6,974 3,020 3,954 by moving with our supplier base compliance, we generate a list of corrective China 1,524 350 0 toward a more traceable supply. In 2015, actions. We have conducted face-to-face Australia 600 0 432 we continued working with Proforest meetings with these suppliers to explain to trace our palm oil supply chain, our sustainable sourcing and traceability India 489 0 0 identify sustainability risks and ensure requirements and confirm each supplier’s South Africa <1 0 0 responsible sourcing. Proforest conducted ability to comply. Our suppliers have Argentina <1 0 0 traceability mapping of our supply chain, agreed to provide information relating both performed supplier risk assessments and to the traceability of their palm oil and Subtotals 50,279 8,396 communicated with all of our palm oil the measures they are taking to ensure Green palm certificates 9,049 suppliers to ensure they are aware of and compliance with our sourcing policy. All fully understand our palm oil sourcing palm oil purchased by General Mills must Totals 67,724 67,724 policy. As part of ongoing monitoring, be supplied in line with our commitments. At the end of 2015, nearly 97 percent of our palm oil volume was categorized ensure third-party verification of our industry forward on this issue. We support as traceable to the extraction mill palm oil supply. Our top three palm oil RSPO principles and efforts to encourage and responsibly sourced. Responsible suppliers are ADM, Bunge and Loders. and certify sustainable palm oil production sourcing means the volumes purchased As part of ongoing monitoring and practices. To reinforce those principles, are covered by a responsible sourcing evaluation we are responding in line with General Mills purchases palm oil only program that includes comprehensive our policy to RSPO’s suspension of IOI from RSPO members – with preference policy commitments, a suitable risk Loders Croklaan certification in April 2016. for purchasing RSPO-certified, sustainable assessment process and independent palm oil. In addition, we will source palm Principles: Although General Mills is a oil only from suppliers whose operations r We are working with Proforest to trace our verification assessments. We will palm oil supply chain. relatively minor user of palm oil, we believe meet the principles outlined in our continue working with Proforest to our purchasing practices can help move the responsible palm oil sourcing statement. “General Mills has worked extremely hard to meet its 2015 policy commitments. In particular, the level of commitment to purchasing traceable and physically certified volumes has been impressive. By combining this with active supplier engagement, General Mills is demonstrating a responsible approach to sourcing palm oil.” – Neil Judd, Director, Proforest GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 42 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Advancing palm oil sustainability through RSPO NEXT General Mills is a member of the member companies – palm product The intent is to demonstrate leadership in Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil producers, suppliers and users – whose addressing critical origin issues, including (RSPO) and in 2015 committed to support policies and actions exceed current RSPO deforestation, peatland development RSPO NEXT to continue advancing palm requirements and who are interested in and indigenous peoples’ rights. oil production sustainability. RSPO NEXT increasing transparency by implementing is a voluntary initiative involving RSPO a rigorous third-party review process. Strategy: While General Mills is a Sugarcane relatively small purchaser of sugarcane The majority of the sugarcane we purchase comes from refineries in North America. from any single market, we continue Commitment: General Mills to gain knowledge about the origins of will source 100 percent of the sugarcane we purchase through our 3 2 our sugarcane by 2020 from membership in Bonsucro, an international responsible and sustainable organization focused on improving the regions that are in compliance with environmental, social and economic 1 2 Bonsucro or comparable standards sustainability of sugarcane production and r We focus on improving the environmental, (any high-risk countries will be processing, including certification using social and economic impacts of sugarcane independently verified). the Bonsucro Production Standard. We production and processing. 1 Brazil Status: 59 percent of the sugarcane joined Bonsucro in 2013 and continue direct investment strategy similar to our 2 Mexico General Mills purchased was working with them to strengthen the vanilla and cocoa sourcing approach, we 3 United States sustainably sourced in fiscal 2015. global sugarcane supply chain. need to know more about local sugarcane End-User Summit in New York City to Progress: In 2015, we continued the process fields and refineries. In May 2015, we discuss and influence ways to drive a begun in 2014 to identify sugarcane origin visited two mills in Guatemala and one Challenges: Labor rights – including more sustainable sugar supply chain. locations in our supply chain and assign in Nicaragua. We have sourced a trial issues of child and forced labor as well G4-EC7, EC8, EC9, LA15, HR5, a risk rating. Together with Bonsucro, we shipment of sugar from Nicaragua and are HR6, HR8, HR11, SO1, FP4 as working conditions related to worker optimistic about the potential for future are encouraging suppliers to conduct gap health, safety and hours – are a major sustainable sourcing opportunities. analyses as the first step toward certification concern in the global sugarcane supply using the Bonsucro Standard. This standard Our major sugarcane suppliers include “Members like General Mills chain. Another challenge is the lack of origin visibility due to the complexity and focuses on legal compliance; biodiversity Cargill, Domino and Imperial. show that leadership, and ecosystem impacts; human rights; and regulations of the supply chain into the Collaboration: Through our leadership collaboration and cooperation the production and processing of sugarcane. United States, which accounts for the in Bonsucro, we interact with suppliers by all actors in the sugarcane majority of our purchases. More than half We continue to engage with sugarcane mills and reinforce our expectations for in Central America to identify origins and sustainable sugarcane. In May 2015, supply chain are vital to put in of the sugarcane we purchase globally is grown in low-risk origin countries, such partners capable of supplying sustainable we engaged with partners across the place sustainable practices.” as the U.S., Australia and South Africa. sugarcane. In order to implement an originsugarcane industry during the Bonsucro – Natasha Schwarzbach, Head of Engagement, Bonsucro GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 43 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 1B Expand sustainability of large-scale agriculture Collaborate with growers to increase sustainability of North American row crops Strategy: We work with industry groups, our suppliers and North American growers Increasing crop sustainability through engagements in key growing regions to increase the sustainability of row crops, including oats, wheat, sugar beets and corn. We reduce the environmental North American growing SASKATCHEWAN impact of agriculture through continuous MANITOBA regions and rotation crops: improvement, measured by year-onRed River Valley: sugar beets, RED corn, soy, wheat year improvements in input use. NORTHERN RIVER VALLEY PLAINS Snake River: wheat, potatoes, Framework: In the U.S., we partner barley, sugar beets SNAKE with Field to Market: The Alliance for RIVER EASTERN Northern Plains: wheat, corn, canola WISCONSIN Sustainable Agriculture and our suppliers EASTERN Manitoba and Saskatchewan: oats, to help growers leverage the Field to CORN BELT EASTERN wheat, canola, pulses (peas and lentils) EASTERN NEBRASKA Market framework to gather data on the SOUTHERN EASTERN KANSAS ILLINOIS PLAINS Southern Plains: wheat, sorghum, corn impact of their farming practices. Using Eastern Corn Belt: wheat, corn, soybeans this framework, farmers collect information Eastern Wisconsin: dry-milled corn, about land use, soil conservation, water soybeans, alfalfa use, energy use and GHG emissions. We General Mills priority ingredients sourced from these regions: Eastern Illinois, Kansas and Nebraska: have a similar partnership with Serecon Oats U.S. wheat U.S. sugar beets Dry-milled corn dry-milled corn, soybeans in Canada. As of 2015, more than 200 growers were participating in Field to Market and Canadian Fieldprint engagements led ingredients for General Mills products, to increase farmer participation across that will become part of the certification by General Mills across North America. including lentils, peas, canola and potatoes. key growing regions. These advisers process for CCAs across the U.S. Scalability and verification: To expand the help make the connection between Rotational crop analysis: We work with sustainability impact of this approach, we sustainability and profitability necessary farmers to increase sustainability of the work with progressive farmers and several to drive changes in farming practices. To entire crop rotation in each key growing supply chain partners across 11 key North further sustainability improvements, we area. This approach enables measurement American growing regions to build a scalable need the involvement and leadership of of the same fields each year as farmers national program and verification protocol. agricultural retailers and independent rotate crops, such as from wheat to barley agronomists collectively called Certified to sugar beets to potatoes. We connect Networks: We continue to leverage Crop Advisors (CCAs). Field to Market is with farmers and other industry leaders to existing networks of local farm advisers helping build a sustainability curriculum include rotation crops that are not priority “As more food and retail companies turn to collaborative approaches to address soil, water and climate concerns, Field to Market has doubled its membership and expanded its programs to advance the sustainability of crop production in the U.S. As an active member of Field to Market, General Mills is a leader not only in establishing ambitious environmental goals, but also in working with farmers and supply chain partners to spur innovation and r This spidergram shows a sample Fieldprint® Score with seven environmental indicators. improvements at the farm level.” – Rod Snyder, President, Field to Market: The Alliance for Sustainable Agriculture GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 44 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community other inputs to grow – making them more Oats sustainable compared to other row crops. Oats: sourced from Manitoba and Saskatchewan, Canada Strategy: We collaborate with partners, Commitment: General Mills will Rotation crops in the including Serecon, North American Manitoba and Saskatchewan source 100 percent of our oats SASKATCHEWAN Feed Ingredients and Patterson Grain, to MANITOBA growing regions: by 2020 from growing regions that demonstrate continuous promote the Canadian Fieldprint Initiative n Oats for improving the sustainability of oats n Wheat improvement against industryn Canola and other row crops in western Canada. based environmental metrics. n Pulses (peas and lentils) Pilot program: In Canada’s Manitoba Status: 40 percent of the oats and Saskatchewan growing regions, we General Mills purchased was implemented the Western Canada Most of the oats we purchase are grown in Manitoba and Saskatchewan, Canada. sustainably sourced in fiscal 2015. Sustainability Pilot in 2013 to measure sustainability of oats and other rotation also worked to gain industry alignment Challenges: The supply of oats has crops. Through collaboration with around program objectives and processes steadily declined over the past decades suppliers and agricultural consulting for reporting progress, brought in more because farmers earn greater profits companies, we have expanded the amount stakeholders and agreed to move ahead growing other, more resource-intensive of sustainability data being entered into during the 2015 growing season with crops. General Mills is one of the largest the project. The Canadian government specific, targeted engagements focused North American buyers of oats. We contributed significant funding for the pilot on oats, soybeans and pulses. General are working to improve oat production program through Ag Canada involvement. Mills is leading the oats-focused efforts sustainability and profitability. r Canadian Fieldprint Initiative participants through engagement with 40 oat growers Progress: As of November 2015, the met in December 2015 to discuss strategies for in Manitoba and Saskatchewan. Sustainability benefits: Oats are an Canadian Fieldprint Initiative had collected improving oat sustainability. environmentally friendly crop requiring data from 499 fields representing more Research: We work across the academic, Canada. Participating growers recorded less irrigation, fertilizer, chemicals and than 120,000 acres across western public and private sectors to improve information about yield, soil carbon, the nutritional qualities of oats, develop energy use and GHG emissions to better performing oat varieties with higher establish the minimum three years of yields and help farmers improve agronomy data needed to account for crop rotations practices to increase sustainability. and serve as the baseline for measuring 120,000 future sustainability improvements. In 2015, General Mills worked with partners to refine the field sustainability calculator using 2012The Canadian Fieldprint 2014 baseline data. We Initiative has collected data from more than 120,000 acres v Cheerios and other General across western Canada. Mills products made with oats contain beta glucan, a source of soluble fiber. r Oats require less irrigation and fertilizer than other row crops. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 45 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community percent of General Mills’ total wheat Wheat purchases. We began partnering U.S. wheat: sourced from across North America with Field to Market and Idaho wheat Commitment: General Mills will farmers in 2010 as part of a threeRotation crops in North source 100 percent of our U.S. NORTHERN American growing regions: year pilot project. Due to the success PLAINS wheat by 2020 from growing Northern Plains – hard red spring of the pilot, we have continued to SNAKE wheat, corn, canola regions that demonstrate engage in the area and are now in our RIVER Eastern Corn Belt – soft red winter continuous improvement using fifth year of grower engagement and EASTERN wheat, corn, soybeans CORN Southern Plains – hard red winter the Field to Market framework or data collection, evolving from the pilot BELT wheat, sorghum, corn SOUTHERN comparable environmental metrics. program to implementing practices with PLAINS Snake River – soft white wheat, potatoes, barley, sugar beets Status: 24 percent of the wheat our supplier, Thresher Artisan Wheat. General Mills purchased was Progress: We began engaging with The majority of the wheat we purchase comes from North America. We also source some sustainably sourced in fiscal 2015. wheat from Argentina, Brazil, France and Australia. growers in the Southern Plains region in Kansas, the largest growing area for hard Challenge: Sustainability challenges in red winter wheat. Those growers join winter wheat, potatoes, sugar beets, with our Southern Plains engagement as the wheat supply chain include the need the 41 producers providing data about barley and corn. In Idaho, we are working we re-evaluate our strategy for engaging to reduce GHG emissions and water 45,000 acres in the Snake River growing to expand the project footprint with with growers in the Eastern Corn Belt usage while increasing biodiversity. region in Idaho and the Northern Plains more partners. We continue to conduct growing region of Michigan and Indiana growing region of North Dakota, South workshops during which agronomists and support supplier efforts in that area. Strategy: General Mills is a large buyer Dakota and Minnesota. The program work directly with growers to analyze data, of U.S. wheat; the Snake River growing Verification: We are continuing to pursue includes all rotation crops: spring wheat, assess their environmental footprint and region in eastern Idaho represents 10 sustainability verification in the Snake formulate plans that will drive continuous River growing region using data collected improvement in their resource efficiency by Idaho farmers since 2010. Once the and decrease the environmental impact Field to Market verification protocol has of their farming practices. We added 11 been approved, we will compare results more farmers in the Northern Plains region, General Mills uses different wheat varieties from where growers are collecting baseline against a regional baseline using this industry standard verification process. This multiple growing regions to make our products data for all crops. We are moving ahead verification will be a measurement claim substantiated by four to five years of data demonstrating continuous improvement across six environmental metrics – land use, soil conservation, water use, energy use, nitrogen use and GHG emissions. r Hard spring wheat r Soft red winter r Hard red winter r Soft white wheat from the Northern wheat from the wheat from the from the Snake Plains region Eastern Corn Southern Plains River region Belt region region r We work with farmers across key growing regions to improve the sustainability of U.S. wheat. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 46 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Sugar beets U.S. sugar beets: sourced from the Red River Valley Commitment: General Mills Rotation crops in the Red will source 100 percent of River Valley growing region: our U.S. beet sugar by 2020 RED n Sugar beets RIVER n Corn from growing regions that VALLEY n Soy demonstrate continuous n Wheat improvement using the Field to Market framework or comparable r We collaborate with farmers and industry environmental metrics. partners to improve the sustainability of growing sugar beets. Status: 47 percent of the beet We source sugar beets in the U.S. primarily from Minnesota and North Dakota. Strategy: In the Red River Valley of sugar General Mills purchased was Minnesota and North Dakota – the sustainably sourced in fiscal 2015. Progress: In 2015 – the third year expand participation in the program largest sugar beet growing region in the of our sugar beet partnership in the through discussions with potential U.S. – we launched a sustainability pilot Red River Valley growing region – we partners in other regions where we buy Challenges: Sustainability challenges in the program in 2013 with Field to Market, continued working with farmers to sugar beets. We are actively pursuing sugar beet supply chain are similar to those Syngenta, American Crystal Sugar and collect additional data that will be used engagements in other supplemental for growing wheat, including the need to local growers. The program includes all to measure continuous improvement. sourcing regions, including Michigan, reduce GHG emissions and soil loss. rotation crops in the Red River Valley: We are moving ahead with efforts to Southern Minnesota and California. sugar beets, corn, soy and wheat. include the need to reduce GHG Corn emissions and nutrient utilization Dry-milled corn: sourced from the Midwest while increasing biodiversity. Commitment: General Mills will Rotation crops in the Eastern source 100 percent of our U.S. Strategy: We launched a Field to Market Wisconsin, Eastern Nebraska, pilot program with Eastern Wisconsin Eastern Kansas and Eastern dry-milled corn by 2020 from Illinois growing regions: growing regions that demonstrate corn growers in October 2014. The pilot EASTERN WISCONSIN n Corn continuous improvement using includes all rotation crops, including n Soybeans the Field to Market framework or dry-milled corn, soybeans, alfalfa and EASTERN NEBRASKA EASTERN n Alfalfa vegetables (for canneries). General ILLINOIS comparable environmental metrics. EASTERN KANSAS Mills’ use of dry-milled corn is relatively Status: 26 percent of the U.S. small compared to our use of other dry-milled corn General Mills raw materials, such as purchased was sustainably The majority of the dry-milled corn we purchase comes from the U.S. states of Illinois, wheat and oats, and Indiana and Wisconsin. sourced in fiscal 2015. compared to use by other food and beverage companies. other sustainability initiatives led by our Challenges: Sustainability challenges v We use dry-milled corn For that reason, we also support the suppliers and other industry partners in the dry-milled corn supply chain in Corn Chex and other Field to Market corn pilot programs and to advance sustainable sourcing. General Mills products. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 47 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Progress: In 2015, nine corn growers in 2016. General Mills also has been a multi-stakeholder engagement to joined the Field to Market program we engaging with Bunge, a key corn supplier, meaningfully improve water pollution support with Didion Milling, a specialty in support of its Field to Market grower challenges facing North America. dry mill in Wisconsin that supplies corn initiative, called Centerfield. More than Facilitated by Field to Market and used in some of our cereals. These 150 growers representing 250,000 Walmart, the effort includes businesses, farmers agreed to participate for three acres across the Bunge mill network are governments and NGOs focused on years and are using the Field to Market participating in the Centerfield initiative. water quality stewardship in critical framework to gather data on 2,000 watersheds across the Upper Midwest. Collaboration: We are participating in r Our work with farmers in Eastern Wisconsin acres. We are seeking to expand the the Midwest Row Crop Collaborative, includes corn as well as other rotation crops, program with additional participants such as alfalfa, soybeans and other vegetables. “Didion is proud to partner with our producers and General Mills on the Field to Market program, focusing on our shared values of sustainability and traceability.” – Tonya Umbarger, Program Manager, Didion Milling, Inc. GHG emissions, while controlling water Progress: The U.S. dairy sustainability Dairy usage and improving water quality. The pilot program, launched in 2013, is still The majority of our directly sourced fluid milk comes from the U.S. and France. industry also is addressing issues of underway. Milk producers are using Commitment: General Mills will animal well-being, such as dehorning. Farm Smart online software, and General purchase 100 percent of our Mills is using the companion Plant Smart 1 2 Strategy: General Mills is collaborating U.S. directly sourced fluid milk software to collect data and calculate with industry partners to measure by 2020 from producing regions the sustainability impact from farm to the environmental footprint of dairy that demonstrate continuous production facility. These tools measure production and identify sustainability 2 improvement as measured by the the carbon footprint, energy usage, water improvements. We are engaging directly Dairy Sustainability Framework consumption from milk production with farmers and farmer cooperative in the U.S. and other comparable and processing, and animal care. Farm 1 United States partners in the upper Midwest region of environmental metrics (globally). Smart 2.0, an updated version of the tool, 2 France the United States to pilot the Innovation Status: 20 percent of the U.S. Center for U.S. Dairy Sustainability Council was launched in 2014 with expanded directly sourced fluid milk General Framework starting at the producer functionality to help increase farmer continue to collect data; plans are in place Mills purchased was sustainably level and continuing through to our participation in the program. over the next six months to meet with sourced in fiscal 2015. yogurt facility in Reed City, Michigan. General Mills and farmers milk producers to identify opportunities We also participated in a life-cycle for improvement. We are sharing details v We use milk to make about this pilot project across the U.S. Challenges: Dairy sustainability analysis of yogurt production conducted yogurt at our facilities in the by the Dairy Research Institute. U.S. and France. and the European Union. This effort challenges include the need to reduce GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 48 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community supports the U.S. Dairy Innovation Research: In 2014, General Mills and other Center’s voluntary, industrywide goal companies participated in the U.S. Dairy to reduce the dairy carbon footprint Research Institute’s life-cycle analysis by lowering GHG emissions for fluid benchmarking the environmental footprint milk production 25 percent by 2020. of yogurt production from farm to Scale: We will be adding a second consumer (similar to the group’s previous engagement to the pilot program at life-cycle analyses for fluid milk and our Reed City facility in fiscal 2016 cheese). Specialists from the University to help us move closer to achieving of Arkansas collected and analyzed the our sustainability commitments. data. We will use the results, released in late 2015, as a benchmark for our work. r We collaborate with milk producers and industry groups to improve the sustainability of the fluid milk used in our products. “General Mills recognizes the significant impact that dairy has on our environment and on our business. We are focused on advancing the sustainability of our dairy supply chain to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, improve water quality and promote better animal welfare.” – Mary Muldowney, Sourcing Director, Dairy, General Mills Improving dairy sustainability in France We support dairy sustainability milk quality, breeding conditions and Häagen-Dazs: We continue working with n Ingredia’s program and tools are initiatives connected to our Yoplait and environmental impacts. Each farm is dairy supplier Ingredia, the French Breeding now considered a standard in the Häagen-Dazs businesses in France: audited every three years to analyze Institute and a group of farmers who are Nord Pas De Calais region of France, progress. In 2014, 97 percent of Sodiaal conducting farm assessments using an which will enable benchmarking Yoplait: Our Yoplait business in France milk was collected from audited farms; online tool named CAP2ER. The tool’s with peers and improve analysis. sources fresh milk exclusively from 1,900 as of December 2015, the company calculations measure GHG emissions farms in the Sodiaal dairy cooperative, GHG emissions: In northern France, we achieved 100 percent. Our Yoplait business and provide farmers with deeper insight which reduced energy consumption and support the in-depth analysis, conducted is working with Sodiaal to update the about their farming practices. In 2015: GHG emissions in 2014 by optimizing by the Grignon Experimental Farm, of program and enhance environmental milk collection flow, upgrading its milk n  ne hundred farm assessments O GHG emissions and energy consumption evaluation, including transportation fleet to more efficient were conducted in northern France on participating farms. In 2014, the pilot biodiversity and and larger trucks and training drivers to near our Häagen-Dazs facility. program analyzed six farms; now the animal welfare. lower fuel consumption. Dairy advisors initiative is expanding to include more n  rogress was made on several P also support farmers’ efforts to improve farms and using the data to help decrease w In France, we work with dairy initiatives, including implementation of the sustainability of their operations. The the carbon impact of milk production. farmers in the region around our carbon soil sequestration and energy cooperative’s “La Route Du Lait” program Arras facility, where we make reduction programs and introduction helps farms continuously improve Häagen-Dazs ice cream. of a feed autonomy program. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 49 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community “We have benefited from General Mills sharing their best Fiber packaging Ninety percent of the fiber we use in our practices as they work toward achieving fiber packaging packaging comes from the United States and Canada – areas at low risk for deforestation. Commitment: General Mills will goals, and their collaborative work with Sustainable Packaging source 100 percent of our fiber Coalition members to develop new, innovative practices for the 2 packaging by 2020 from recycled entire value chain.” – Tom Pollock, Senior Manager, Sustainable Packaging Coalition 1 material or from virgin wood fiber regions that are known to not Challenge: Deforestation is the primary packaging uses either recycled materials be contributing to deforestation supply chain risk posed by sourcing fiber or virgin fiber that is sourced from regions 2 (any high-risk regions will be for packaging. where deforestation is not occurring. independently verified). Strategy: Using sustainable sourcing Progress: The remaining 1 percent of our 1 United States Status: 99 percent of the guidelines for fiber, pulp and paper fiber packaging is sourced from countries 2 Canada fiber packaging General Mills production, we conducted an analysis of our considered at high risk for potentially purchased was sustainably fiber packaging supply chain. This analysis contributing to deforestation, including deforestation. Our sourcing team in China is sourced in fiscal 2015. revealed that 99 percent of our supply China. We are developing a process for working to identify areas of nonconformance is considered at low risk for contributing increasing transparency around the fiber and work with those suppliers to develop to global deforestation because the we source from China. This framework strategies for achieving compliance – or builds on the work we did in 2014 with the transition fiber purchases to sources that Zero deforestation commitment: fiber packaging Rainforest Alliance, which revealed that 20 meet our sustainable sourcing criteria. percent of the fiber we obtain from China is Rainforest Alliance analysis in 2013 verified % of General compliant with sustainable sourcing criteria, that the fiber we source from India poses Deforestation a low risk of contributing to deforestation. Location Mills fiber Verification 40 percent is considered medium risk and risk purchases 40 percent is at higher risk of contributing to G4-EC2, EN19, EN27, EN28, FP1, FP12 Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), Sustainable Forestry Initiative (SFI), North America 90% low Program for the Endorsement of Forest Certification (PEFC) Europe 4% low FSC* Pulp, paper and packaging sourcing guidelines We are using guidelines developed by the packaging contributing to deforestation Brazil 2% low FSC Consumer Goods Forum in conjunction in their individual supply chains. Australia 1% low with the Rainforest Alliance as the Virgin wood fiber sourcing foundation of our commitment. Argentina <1% low Approach n K  nown and compliant sources: Sources of virgin wood fiber will be known, India <1% low Rainforest Alliance n A  void controversial sources of free of corruption and compliant with pulp, paper and packaging that applicable legal requirements. South Africa <1% low contribute to deforestation. n V  erification: Supply from suppliers China <1% high Rainforest Alliance n V  erify supply from high-priority countries and sources in high-priority countries that have a low risk of controversial will be independently verified for r More than 99 percent of the fiber we purchase is from regions at low risk for deforestation. sources that contribute to deforestation. low risk of controversial sources n D  isclose goals and progress to avoid contributing to deforestation. *36.6 percent of our EU fiber spend, including 91 percent of our EU corrugated spend, is FSC certified. We are working to achieve FSC certification for our supply of folding cartons and paper cups and controversial sources of pulp, paper and expect to have those purchases 70 percent FSC certified by the end of fiscal 2016. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 50 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 1C Build natural and organic capacity Expand supply of organic ingredients Strategy: To support double-digit growth 2019. Our roadmap includes establishing the quantity and quality of organic field Commitment in our natural and organic products and differentiated grower relationships and crops in Canada. POGI is addressing the ensure the long-term supply of organic a commitment to organic research. shortage of organic grain growers by helping General Mills is committed to ingredients, we are developing capabilities conventional growers make the transition Collaboration: General Mills is working increasing the capacity of our natural and processes that connect us to our to organic farming. In the U.S., where with other organic companies in a preand organic business and the longingredients’ point of origin, building the acreage devoted to organic agriculture is competitive effort to increase the supply of term supply of organic ingredients. supply chain to increase capacity and less than 1 percent of total cropland, we are organic grain. We participate in the Organic promoting organic farming practices. partnering with advisors who work directly Trade Association’s Grain, Pulse and Oilseed Organic Center of Excellence: Our natural Council, an industry forum convened with farmers to help them transition from Since 2000, General Mills has steadily conventional farming methods to organic and organic business expansion will require in November 2015 to address issues grown our natural and organic business practices. In the U.S. Midwest, this effort a more robust pipeline of organic growers. surrounding the supply of organic grain, with the acquisitions of brands, including is helping farmers transition to organically To help generate double-digit growth for oilseeds and pulses. This effort evolved from Cascadian Farm, Muir Glen, LÄRABAR, Food grown oats. We also support the Organic organic and natural brands, our Organic work that Annie’s has been doing since 2013. Should Taste Good, Immaculate Baking, Liberté, Farming Research Foundation’s (OFRF) Center of Excellence is building sourcing Learn more about Annie’s sustainability work. Mountain High, Annie’s and EPIC Provisions. efforts to encourage widespread adoption of relationships directly with farmers for our Expanding organic farming: As part of our organic farming practices through research, Challenge: Increasing demand for natural products. Our supply chain focus includes focus on increasing organic farming acreage advocacy and education. Cascadian Farm and organic products is outpacing the working with growers to optimize production in North America, we announced in June is the lead funder of OFRF’s National growth in mainstream food sales. It’s also and quality, adopt standard practices 2015 our $50,000 investment to support Organic Research Agenda (NORA) update growing faster than the supply of organic and accelerate supply. These processes the Canada-based Prairie Organic Grain project, which will inform where research ingredients, especially in North America. This will help us meet our goal of more than Initiative (POGI), a multi-year program can accelerate use of organic practices rapid growth has made sourcing certified doubling the organic acreage from which aimed at building resiliency and stability in across the wide variety of crops we source. organic ingredients increasingly difficult. we buy ingredients for organic brands by the organic field crop sector while increasing Double by 2019 Scaling up General Mills natural and organic brands General Mills has committed to The scale of our natural and organic grow the supply chain and size of our businesses continues to grow. natural and organic business: nG  eneral Mills is now the third-largest nD ouble the acreage: We plan to more U.S. natural and organic food producer.* than double the organic acreage from nG  eneral Mills is now among the top five organic which we buy from 120,000 acres in ingredient purchasers – and the second-largest 2015 to 250,000 acres in 2019. buyer of organic fruits and vegetables – in nD ouble the sales: We plan to nearly the North American packaged foods sector. double our natural and organic n G  eneral Mills’ natural and organic sales to $1 billion by 2019. ingredients represented 4 percent of our U.S. retail business ingredients in 2015. *Based on SPINS NPI (Natural Products Industry) nW  e have increased the organic acreage food products in combined channels, 52 weeks ending June 4, 2015 (food only, excludes beverages). we support by 120 percent since 2009. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 51 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 1D Cultivate sustainable food production Support pollinators and biodiversity, and control pests Improving pollinator health and biodiversity Challenge: Agriculture depends on honeybees and native pollinators. Thirtyfive percent of crop production around the world relies on pollinators to help plants produce fruits and seeds. Each year, bees pollinate more than 100 types of U.S. r In June 2015, we hosted Muir Glen Grower r Flowering habitats planted at almond r At our Muir Glen facility, Xerces staff agricultural crops, valued at nearly US$15 Days for California tomato growers interested ranches are helping improve the health of bees conducted field testing of solarization, an in learning more about planting hedgerows and other pollinators. organic weed removal and site preparation billion. Unfortunately, honeybees, wild bees as pollinator habitats on their farms, using method for native wildflower planting. and other native pollinators are at risk. An hedgerows for insect pest management, among tomato growers. In 2014, nearly Solarization lessons learned by Xerces through average of 30 percent of honeybee colonies availability of public resources and other topics. three times as many bees visited the this project are being included in a United have been dying every winter since 2006. Nations Food and Agriculture Organization and work with our suppliers to improve Muir Glen site compared to a control publication that will help farmers in the The loss of honeybees is a very complex the health and effectiveness of bees as site. We continue to expand outreach developing world to restore pollinator habitat. challenge caused by multiple factors, pollinators of almonds and tomatoes. to additional organic and conventional including expanded agricultural acreage, almond orchards for crop pollination. tomato growers to increase sustainability. fatigue, mites, pesticides and other factors. We contribute to the growth of pollinator Beginning in December 2014, 4.8 miles habitats for the following crops: n A  lmonds – In 2015, we continued of wildflowers and hedges were Strategy: Many of our products contain working with an almond supplier n  omatoes – In California, we are working T planted at one almond ranch. We honey, fruits, vegetables and other and the Xerces Society to integrate with our Muir Glen tomatoes supplier – are now using that ranch, along with ingredients that require pollination, so flowering habitats into California almond along with researchers at the University other industry partners and Xerces, healthy and abundant bee populations orchards. The habitats attract native wild of California, Davis, and the Xerces as a model for habitat integration, are a priority for General Mills. We pollinators and help improve the Society for Invertebrate Conservation – to integrated pest management and other collaborate with leading researchers and health of bee colonies transported to improve pollinator habitats and increase sustainable agriculture practices. conservationists to improve the health and quantity of pollinators. We fund research to tomato yields. In 2012, Xerces planted a n  lueberries – In 2015, we assessed 250 B better understand the decline of honeybees, mile-long hedgerow of flowering plants acres of blueberries in Washington for invest to conserve and expand bee habitats, at our Muir Glen facility to improve possible pollinator habitat expansion. bumblebee habitat and raise awareness “By focusing specifically on pollinator conservation within the supply chain, General Mills is going above and beyond any other food company in terms of supporting pollinators. This approach is so significant because it is directly changing farm conditions for pollinators with high quality wildflower habitat and better protection from pesticides.” – Eric Lee-Mäder, Pollinator Program Co-Director, The Xerces Society for Invertebrate Conservation GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 52 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community n  ats – Our Cheerios business launched O Marketplace with an additional $50,000 an outreach program in 2015 to recruit to add 10-15 new bee-friendly habitat oat growers in North and South Dakota sites, primarily in rural, nonagricultural interested in creating wildflower land. We began supporting Conservation habitats on the non-cropland portions Marketplace in 2013 with funding for of their farms. Our support includes 20 acres of wildflowers and grasses providing native wildflower seeds and at 10 sites across Minnesota. In 2015, shelter plants; technical assistance to representatives from General Mills and the design, plant and manage pollinator Xerces Society evaluated those pollinator habitats; and consultation about plots and met with landowners to suggest conservation program opportunities improvements to benefit native pollinators. when establishing the habitats. r Researchers from the Xerces Society for Invertebrate Conservation, the University of Minnesota and Neonicotinoid impact: In May 2015, the General Mills discuss progress monitoring bee health in Le Sueur, Minnesota. U.S. Interagency Presidential Pollinator Research: General Mills supports three pollinator research projects from the site to monitor bee health, what Health Task Force issued a national strategy sources of protein are more effective in through our partnership with the they eat and how far they forage, and to provide a comprehensive approach helping bees fight off diseases. Results University of Minnesota’s Bee their honey production. Researchers are for tackling and reducing the impact of as of September 2015 indicate that and Pollinator Research Lab: now analyzing data and will share results multiple stressors on pollinator health. bees consuming higher-protein, natural with others in the scientific community. It outlined the current understanding n P  ollinator plot: 2015 was the final data pollen are more robust, and protein and complexity of pollinator decline: collection year at the pollinator plot we n  ourishing Bees: In September 2015, N substitutes are useful when adequate created at General Mills’ agricultural we renewed our support for the sources of natural pollen are unavailable. “Researchers studying CCD and other research farm in Le Sueur, Minnesota, University of Minnesota’s Nourishing losses attributed to poor colony health n  ite Not: Parasitic mites on bees are M in November 2011. We worked with Bees and Mite Not projects with an have been unable to identify a single considered a significant contributor to the University of Minnesota to place additional US$100,000. Nourishing colony loss. The Mite Not project is 10 honeybee colonies at the site to investigate honeybee health. We have invested US$160,000 toward this Bees focuses on the relationship between good floral nutrition and immunity in honeybees. Researchers are exploring innovative ways to remove mites from bees and their colonies without harming the bees, which $4+ million General Mills has invested four-year research effort. University comparing the nutritional value of pollen could have worldwide implications. more than US$4 million since of Minnesota and General Mills from flowers with pollen substitutes Habitat collaboration: In 2015, we 2011 to support pollinator researchers have been collecting data fed by beekeepers to determine what extended our support for Conservation and biodiversity efforts. How bees contribute to General Mills products Products pollinated by bees Products containing honey Cascadian Farm Muir Glen Almonds for LÄRABAR Fruit for Yoplait® Fruit for HäagenHoney Nut Cascadian Farm fruit tomatoes bars and Nature yogurt* Dazs ice cream Cheerios cereal cereal Valley granola bars *Yoplait is a registered trademark of YOPLAIT MARQUES (France) used under license. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 53 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community cause, and have concluded that losses General Mills is extending our partnership growers capture information about pesticide Safety is our highest priority, and we find of honey bee colonies are the result of a with the Xerces Society and working with use, including energy used in the application broad global consensus among food and complex set of interacting stressors. In May them to consolidate and disseminate of pesticides and GHGs (embedded safety regulatory bodies that approved 2013, the USDA and the EPA released a guidance to growers of key commodities, in the manufacturing of pesticides). GMOs are safe. The following organizations comprehensive scientific report on honey such as corn and soy, on how to protect have determined biotech crops to be as Research: We are working with the Xerces bee health (USDA 2013). The report and minimize the impact of neonicotinoids safe and acceptable as their conventional Society for Invertebrate Conservation, Iowa synthesized the current state of knowledge and other pesticides to pollinators. This counterparts: WHO, Food and Agriculture State University and the U.S. Department of regarding the primary factors that scientists work is in progress, and an action plan will Organization of the United Nations, Agriculture Natural Resources Conservation believe have the greatest impact on be developed in 2016. Learn more about European Food Safety Authority, U.S. Food Service (NRCS) on a new project launched honey bee health, including exposure to this effort in the following content about and Drug Administration, U.S. Department in June 2015 to improve integrated pest pesticides and other environmental toxins, integrated pest management research. of Agriculture, U.S. Environmental Protection management practices for corn and soy. poor nutrition due in part to decreased Agency and Health Canada. The National The project includes developing and sharing availability of high-quality/diverse forage, Integrated pest IPM technical assistance with NRCS Academy of Sciences, American Medical exposure to pests (e.g., Varroa mites) and management conservationists, Iowa farmers, pesticide Association and the British Royal Society disease (viral, bacterial, and fungal), as also found no health risks associated with At General Mills, our holistic approach to applicators, certified crop advisors well as bee biology, genetics, and breeding. genetically modified (GM) ingredients. sustainable agriculture includes reducing and other landowners to improve the The report’s findings are similar to those environmental impacts and improving sustainability of corn and soybean crops. At the same time, numerous studies of the report on the Status of Pollinators the overall value chain. Integrated pest have identified benefits related to global in North America (NRC 2007), which management (IPM) is one component of Biotechnology and food food security and the environment: examined wild (both native and introduced our broader focus on sustainable agriculture. One in eight people in the world today – n F armers planting GM crops tend species) pollinators as well as honey bees.”* Supply chain: As part of our long-term more than 900 million people worldwide to generate more stable, and General Mills fully supports the Pollinator – do not have enough to eat. And by 2040, sometimes higher, yields. sustainable agriculture strategy, we share Health Task Force’s strategy, which the world’s population is projected to our knowledge about IPM with peer n  M crops generally need less G calls for additional research as outlined increase to 9 billion people. Global experts companies and work with our suppliers and insecticide and may enable the in the Pollinator Research Action Plan, project that to meet the growing needs of conservation organizations to minimize the use of less harmful herbicides. pollinator public education and outreach, an increasingly hungry world, we will need use of pesticides on crops. Our suppliers public-private partnerships, improved at least 50 percent more food, 45 percent n  M crops often require less energy G use their own IPM programs. Through our and expanded pollinator habitat, and more energy and 30 percent more water. use by farmers and are associated with work with Field to Market, we are helping protection from pesticide exposure. reduced GHG emissions, improved Biotechnology shows promise to We recognize the concern about the water quality, improved nitrogen strengthen crops against drought unique role of neonicotinoid pesticides retention, improved water filtration and extreme temperature and deliver in pollinator health decline. General and erosion reduction in soil. more nutritious food, even in poor soil Mills supports further study of this conditions. We agree with the UN World We understand that consumers have important issue as outlined in the Health Organization (WHO) that the different views on these topics, and we action plan. Consistent with our development of genetically modified respect these consumer values and offer historic commitment to Integrated r At the original Cascadian Farm, the Xerces organisms (GMOs) offers the potential products that do not contain ingredients Pest Management, we advocate for Society planted two wildflower meadows and one produced using biotechnology. We offer wildflower field border, put in place cover crops for increased agricultural productivity the responsible use of neonicotinoids in fallow fields to improve the soil and increase and improved nutritional value that can organic and non-GMO alternatives in in our supply chain and expedited U.S. biodiversity, and implemented an integrated pest enhance human health and development. most of our major categories in the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency review. management plan for the entire farm. G4-EC1, EN12, EN13, EN27, PR6 *Page 5, National Strategy to Promote the Health of Honey Bees and Other Pollinators, Pollinator Health Task Force, May 19, 2015, The White House GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 54 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 2 Collaborate to improve global water stewardship 2A Foster and engage in water stewardship Identify watershed issues and conserve water resources stewardship throughout our supply Water policy: In November 2014, we Water chain. Approximately 99 percent of the introduced a formal water policy to provide water consumed to create and distribute a framework for engaging with stakeholders Commitment: General Mills is our products occurs outside our direct and improving the health of watersheds committed to improving the operations. The watersheds we access to that are critical to our business. The policy sustainability of water use meet the needs of our facilities also support outlines our commitments and actions to throughout our supply chain. demands from agriculture, municipalities, address water use in our direct operations other industries and ecosystems; and in collaboration with suppliers and Challenges: Agriculture uses 70 percent improving the health of these watersheds external partners. The policy also covers of global freshwater withdrawals. requires significant collaboration. We are responsible governance, disclosure and Conserving water resources and advancing our efforts to address these advocacy related to water stewardship. r Ellen Silva, General Mills Applied improving availability are crucial for the larger issues through our partnership Sustainability Senior Manager, participated in Leadership: We signed the CEO Water environment and for our business. with The Nature Conservancy (TNC). a panel discussion at World Water Week in Mandate in fiscal 2015, joining a group of Stockholm in August 2015 on measurement of Approach: In addition to reducing water Together, we are moving ahead with business leaders, governments and other corporate water stewardship practices. (photo use in our operations (see story 4D formulating and implementing our global credit: Pacific Institute) stakeholders working with the United in this report section), we continue to water stewardship strategy as we identify Nations (UN) to advance water stewardship. apply our four-phase approach to water additional partners to advance this work. Performance dashboard: Water PHASE 1 PHASE 2 PHASE 3 PHASE 4 Assessment Analysis and action planning Collaboration Transformation CENTRAL HIGH YANGTZE/ LOS ANGELES, SNAKE, PLAINS, U.S. SHANGHAI, U.S. U.S. CHINA YANGTZE/ EL BAJIO, ALBUQUERQUE, SAN JOAQUIN, BEIJING, CHINA MEXICO U.S. U.S. Analysis Strategy optimization GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 55 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community For example, at World Water Week in KEY WATERSHEDS of the Yangtze River watershed, where August 2015, General Mills participated Based on results from TNC’s global water risk assessment and a business materiality we make Wanchai Ferry dumplings. in a corporate water stewardship analysis, we are developing watershed health strategies in the areas listed below. n In the U.S. Central High Plains, where working session on the implications General Mills sources wheat and Geographic location Location type Water risk* of UN sustainable development goals dry-milled corn, we will begin analysis related to water. Our water stewardship Albuquerque, New Mexico, Facility 5.0 United States of the region’s watershed in 2016. priorities support UN targets for waterBeijing, China Facility/Growing region use efficiency across all sectors – and (includes Sanhe facility) 5.0 PHASE 3 Collaboration sustainable withdrawals and supply of Los Angeles, California, United States Facility 5.0 Objective: Establish multi-stakeholder freshwater in particular – through our focus (includes Carson and Vernon facilities) on sustainable watersheds and aquifers Shanghai, China Facility 4.3 water stewardship plan for nature, communities and industry. San Joaquin Valley, California, Growing region We continue to identify and work with 4.1 United States partners to implement changes based on Progress: Our four-phase approach El Bajio, Mexico Facility/Growing region our Phase 2 analyses of high-risk areas: to sustainable water use throughout 4.0 (includes Irapuato facility)** our supply chain includes assessment, n In California, where we have production Central High Plains, United States Growing region 3.1 analysis and action planning, facilities and source many ingredients Snake River Valley, United States Growing region 2.5 collaboration, and transformation. In from farmers across the state, we 2015, our water stewardship efforts in * Score based on TNC analysis of water risk considering quantity, quality, regulatory and other work with multiple partners to address stresses (with 5.0 considered at highest risk). significant water risks. We are many of our key watersheds moved ** With the sale of Green Giant in November 2015, the El Bajio watershed work will be deprioritized. from Phase 2 (analysis and action planning) to Phase 3 (collaboration). of the most at-risk watersheds within Working with TNC hydrologists, we our supply chain, we are proceeding have completed deep analyses of many PHASE 1 Assessment with Phases 2 and 3. At the same time, of our key at-risk facilities and growing Objective: A study of key operation we periodically review these results areas. We are now focusing on: and growing region watersheds against new information to ensure that n  hina is an important growth area for C In partnership with TNC, we completed we address watersheds with greatest General Mills. In Shanghai, where we our global water risk assessment of all stress and materiality to General Mills. opened a new Yoplait® yogurt production General Mills production facilities and facility in 2015, we have completed our growing regions. Begun upon 2012, these PHASE 2 Analysis and assessment of the Kunshan region of the assessments built upon our supply chain action planning Yangtze River watershed area and are r General Mills joined other members of the California Water Action Collaborative in risk analysis work with the World Wildlife developing an action plan. We are making Objective: Deep-dive analysis touring tomato fields and wildlife preserves Fund in 2010. Using this clear picture plans to begin analysis of the Beijing area of at-risk growing areas throughout central California to identify opportunities for collaboration. “More than ever, the voice of companies such as General Mills is critical in conversations surrounding water scarcity challenges and the urgency for innovative water management policies and solutions.” – Kirsten James, Senior Manager, California Policy and Partnerships, Ceres, Inc. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 56 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community collaborating with TNC to fund their n In Irapuato, Mexico, we worked with work in groundwater management best TNC to conduct an in-depth analysis of practices; that work is being shared the El Bajio watershed, where some of with groundwater planners statewide. our Green Giant vegetables are grown and Through our participation in the California packaged. We are sharing with others Water Action Collaborative (CWAC), the work we have done to develop action we are sharing vital information with plans for stabilizing and improving the others who depend on the Los Angeles health of this watershed. Our continued and San Joaquin watersheds, and work in this region will be affected by the learning from them as well. This diverse sale of our Green Giant business. We’re group of food and beverage companies, proud of the work we’ve done that will r An Idaho farmer examines soil health and r A TNC researcher in Idaho monitors suppliers and conservation organizations moisture content as he transitions his field to groundwater levels and water quality to help others in the region continue to is identifying overlapping areas of water no-till farming. General Mills supports TNC’s determine watershed health. (photo credit: The move ahead toward greater sustainability. stewardship interest and action so we efforts to help farmers adopt practices that Nature Conservancy) conserve water and improve soil quality. (photo can achieve goals faster with greater credit: John Roach) impact. General Mills also is funding operations. Producers are encouraged to research conducted by Sustainable n I n Idaho, we worked with TNC to conduct implement a combination of practices, Conservation, an NGO supporting an in-depth review of the Snake River such as use of cover crops, noor low-till r The Nature Conservancy is our strategic farmers in California’s Central Valley farming, and wetland creation, which partner in water stewardship. watershed, which supports a key wheat who rely on the San Joaquin watershed, growing region, and shared the detailed complement water conservation efforts to enable groundwater recharge analysis with regional stakeholders in and enhance soil health, wildlife habitat on active farm fields, an innovative fiscal 2015. Now we are moving ahead and water quality. The project brings PHASE 4 Transformation approach to capture flood waters for with collaborative action. We are helping together growers and corporations Objective: Implement water use in dry years. In 2015, we also signed to fund a south-central and eastern Idaho working in the area to address declining stewardship program onto Connect the Drops, a campaign project to quantify the effectiveness of water levels and watershed health. Transformation efforts include developing established by the sustainability water conservation practices, such as n I n New Mexico, we worked with TNC a global freshwater stewardship program advocacy organization Ceres, that brings variable-rate irrigation, under different to understand challenges affecting the with public education and advocacy, together businesses from many sectors field conditions. Led by TNC, the program watershed surrounding our Albuquerque funding, and monitoring and reporting the to encourage California policymakers began conducting workshops in August facility. Now we are contributing to positive impact of strategy implementation. to embrace innovation and invest in 2015 to help farmers implement practices the Rio Grande Water Fund’s work to We also will work with others to apply solutions for conserving, reusing and that reduce groundwater withdrawals help advance water conservation and Alliance for Water Stewardship principles. maximizing the state’s water supply. in the upper and middle Snake regions education efforts in the community. G4-EN9, EN27, SO1 and improve the sustainability of farming “General Mills understands that good water stewardship is good for business and can improve the communities where the company operates, mitigate business risk and protect its supply chain. The Nature Conservancy is pleased to work with General Mills to address water risks across the world and find local solutions that work for both people and nature.” – Ben Packard, Managing Director, Corporate Engagement, The Nature Conservancy GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 57 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 3 Advance socially responsible supply chains 3A Respect human rights in our supply chains Source responsibly and maintain accountability United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) informed of our new Code through a Human rights and are guided by the International Labour number of communication avenues. Organization’s (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Supporting women’s Assessment: In 2012, we completed Commitment: General Mills is Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. empowerment our first audit cycle of finished goods committed to conducting business General Mills signed onto the Expectations: General Mills defines producers, including our own facilities with high ethical standards and we UN Women’s Empowerment responsible sourcing in our updated Supplier and co-packers. The second audit cycle expect our suppliers to do the same. Principles in 2015. For more Code of Conduct. We hold ourselves began in fiscal 2013. In fiscal 2015, we details, see page 8. and our suppliers to the same level of completed 63 audits globally using Approach: We know that the protection of compliance expectations focused around third-party auditors, and our scope was human rights through responsible sourcing four pillars: human rights, health and safety, expanded to include joint ventures. Ethical Data Exchange (SEDEX) in fiscal is critical to our business. Our Policy on environmental compliance, and business 2015 and began supplier outreach. In 2013, we increased the scope of our Human Rights describes our beliefs and integrity. Our Workplace Standards and responsible sourcing program to include Principles: Guided by the 1998 ILO approach. As part of our commitment to Ethical Sourcing Policy, along with our raw material suppliers. We completed a Declaration, General Mills respects the respecting human rights throughout our Supplier Code of Conduct, set standards risk assessment of global raw material principles of collective bargaining and supply chain, we are members of the AIMfor our company, suppliers and other suppliers against criteria such as spend, freedom of association, and prohibition PROGRESS Responsible Sourcing Forum, business partners regarding the protection type of ingredient or material and of discrimination, child labor and forced whose mission is to promote responsible of human rights. These standards are based location to determine our highest risk labor – including that associated with sourcing by sharing best practices and in part on the ILO 1998 Declaration on categories and supplier locations. To human trafficking. We use third-party promoting efficiency in the packaged goods Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. build upon our understanding of supplier auditing firms to conduct independent supply chain. We also are signatories to the Progress: In fiscal 2015, we launched segmentation, we joined the Supplier audits. All instances of noncompliance our Policy on Human Rights, and we found during audits are remediated – either updated our Supplier Code of Conduct resolved or are actively being addressed after benchmarking with peers to in an agreed-upon corrective action plan. address emerging issues and General Clarifications by the U.S. Securities and Mills’ mandatory requirements related Exchange Commission state that food to responsible sourcing. Early in fiscal packaging is not included in the scope of 2016, internal training was conducted to the Dodd-Frank Act (Section 1502) as familiarize employees with the new Code, r AIM-PROGRESS members gathered at it relates to reporting on the geographic and further efforts are being made to General Mills in June 2015 to share best source of certain “conflict minerals.” practices and advance efforts to promote integrate the Code into existing sourcing r We support safe and healthy working G4-HR4, HR5, HR6, HR10, FP1 responsible supply chains. processes and tools. Suppliers were also conditions across our supply chains. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 58 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 3B Increase supplier diversity Build relationships with a diverse supplier base Long-standing commitment: Our consumer base, the communities in has grown 5 percent compounded Supplier diversity commitment to working with diverse which we operate and, ultimately, the annually. In 2015, spending increased 2 suppliers has been in place since the success of our company. Our strategies percent with both womenand minorityCommitment: General Mills 1960s. Our supplier diversity efforts deliver measurable improvements owned businesses. Learn more about is committed to establishing reflect our commitment to create jobs in diversifying our supplier base. diversity and inclusion at General Mills and growing relationships and foster economic development in in the Workplace section of this report. Progress: During the past 10 years, General with an increasing number of the communities where we operate. Mills has spent more than US$5 billion with G4-EC1, EC9 qualified, diverse suppliers.* Fulfilling this commitment is important diverse suppliers, and our annual spending Impact: US$567 million spending in to our shareholders, our diverse fiscal 2015 with diverse suppliers, *Organizations owned by minorities, women, veterans and lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender business owners. a 4 percent increase vs. 2014. Sweet Harvest Foods: Spreading opportunity in Brazil and Sierra Leone General Mills has been purchasing the project. The rest of the beekeepers fungicides; and the team is working toward honey from Sweet Harvest Foods since are preparing to contribute during the achieving organic certification in 2016. 1998. We also support the company’s next harvest season. General Mills also Income and education: Honey is an outreach efforts to help smallholder has helped fund beekeeping equipment, important supplemental source of farmers develop sustainable beekeeping including bee suits, supplies, tools and income that increases food security and businesses in Sierra Leone and Brazil. jugs. By the end of the 2016 harvest enables families to pay school tuition Growing industry: In Sierra Leone, the season, we expect to have purchased for their children. This growing honey Sweet Harvest Foods Africa Uplift 1,000 drums containing 55,000 gallons of industry also provides employment project is helping to build scale in the honey from these farmers. The honey is in the community. General Mills growing honey industry. As part of this produced organically without herbicides or helps fund Africa Uplift educational effort, General Mills and Sweet Harvest programs, including a high school Foods helped establish Mel-O Africa science teacher, apiculture curriculum as a registered business in Sierra Leone, and honey collection training centers. r Beekeepers in Sinkunia village produced contributing to the economy and local Banking: Building on the Africa Uplift more than 2,000 pounds of pure honey, stored tax base. To date, 5,000 smallholder in 16-gallon jugs. project, the International Fund for farmers have been trained as beekeepers. Agricultural Development (IFAD), a microReducing deforestation: The During 2015, 1,000 of those farmers loan organization, is helping establish beekeepers are petitioning local chiefs and their bees produced enough honey r In Northern Sierra Leone, Sweet Harvest and to prohibit logging in order to protect Mel-O Africa staff met with beekeepers, the local banks in the villages of Falaba and to fill 260 55-gallon drums, totaling Timbakor. Using these banks, smallholder the flowering trees that provide chief and elders of Falaba, the largest honey14,300 gallons. General Mills plans to producing village in the program, about needs for farmers can deposit and borrow funds essential nectar and bee habitat. purchase all honey produced through future honey storage, bee suits and other tools. to build their apiary enterprises. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 59 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 3C Protect animal welfare Raise and treat animals humanely tail docking in pork production, and a timeline for our U.S. commitment plans by 2017 to create traceability ANIMAL Animal welfare fast growth-related complications to 100 percent cage-free eggs. and to end their use of gestation crates WELFARE for broiler chickens and turkeys. within the U.S. pork supply chain. After consulting with our suppliers, Commitment: General Mills Egg production: Eggs are an important in November 2015 we updated our G4-FP11, FP12 supports the humane treatment ingredient in many of our products, and commitment to work toward 100 percent of animals in agriculture and we strive to ensure that the hens laying cage-free eggs for our U.S. operations by will enforce our animal welfare these eggs are treated humanely. In 2015, 2025. We’ve already made great strides policy covering milk, egg and pork production, as well as topics like we took a major step forward on our toward this goal. To date, about 40 100% commitment to animal welfare as it relates percent of our egg purchases globally are antibiotic use and animal testing. to egg production. In July, we announced either cage-free or free-range. (We are our commitment to work toward sourcing using the terms as they are commonly In 2015, we made significant updates 100 percent cage-free eggs for our U.S. understood in their markets – cage-free We will source 100 percent to our Animal Welfare Policy. Key operations. This step is in addition to in the U.S. and free-range in Europe.) cage-free eggs for our U.S. enhancements include: our existing commitment for HäagenDairy production: General Mills supports operations by 2025, matching n  e expanded our commitment to W Dazs – General Mills’ largest international the 100 percent free-range the use of polled genetics breeding provide the “five freedoms” of animal business – which sources only 100 percent programs to promote naturally hornless eggs used for all Häagen-Dazs welfare to all animals across our free-range eggs for all its ice cream cattle, thereby eliminating the need ice cream produced in Europe. supply chain. These include freedom produced in Europe, while continuing to for dehorning. We also are working to from hunger, thirst and malnutrition; support and source local ingredients from better understand the issues related to discomfort; pain, injury and disease; local farmers and suppliers. As a result of tail docking in the dairy industry. In 2015, fear and distress; and the freedom the U.S. Avian Influenza outbreak during we were pleased to see the National to engage in normal patterns of the summer of 2015, we committed to Milk Producers Federation decision animal behavior. We had previously working with our suppliers to develop to accelerate its deadline for ending acknowledged the five freedoms as the routine practice of tail docking to part of our dairy sustainability work in January 2017, after which it will no longer Europe; now that commitment is global be acceptable on farms participating across all animals in our supply chain. in its FARM Program – Farmers n  uilding on our current sourcing of B Assuring Responsible Management. free-range eggs for all Häagen-Dazs Pork production: General Mills supports ice cream in Europe, we are working the development of pregnant sow housing toward procuring 100 percent cage-free alternatives. Though we recognize that eggs for our U.S. operations by 2025. the development and implementation of n  e are working to better understand W alternative systems may be a long-term and address other animal welfare issues, process that could take up to 10 years, we r We support humane treatment of the hens such as pain relief during castration, will favor suppliers who provide actionable that lay eggs used in our products. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 60 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Improve environmental performance 4 of our operations Overview This was the final year of performance against our fiscal 2015 targets. We achieved our targets related to greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and packaging. We fell short in energy, product transport, water and solid waste. See summary information in the table below, including key performance drivers, as well as details about our programs and performance throughout this section. We remain focused on continuous improvement processes in all of these areas and have established several new targets for 2020 and beyond (see next page). Performance dashboard: Operations FY2015 excluding FY2015 including Yoplait/ FY2015 target (% Yoplait/Yoki Yoki acquisitions*** rate reduction acquisitions*** (% rate (% rate reduction Performance drivers from FY2005)*,** reduction from FY2005) from FY2005) Significant use of renewable energy sources in Yoki operations and GHG emissions rate* (metric tons CO2e/metric ton of product) 20% 13% 23% our ongoing commitment to energy efficiency enabled us to exceed our target. Growth in products with higher energy intensity (such as Greek Energy usage rate* (kilowatt hours/metric ton of product) 20% 7% 10% yogurt), as well as fixed energy usage across lower production volumes, has adversely impacted this rate. Despite not reaching our goal, we made significant progress in fuel Transportation fuel usage rate*,** (% fuel reduction/metric ton of product shipped) 35% 25% 25% efficiency with our carriers, optimized our transportation modes and improved logistics planning. High water use in yogurt manufacturing and associated cooling Water usage rate*,** (cubic meters/metric ton of product) 20% 10% -20% systems at Yoplait International have significantly increased our water usage rate. While we did not achieve our goal, our facilities accomplished Solid waste generation rate* (metric tons solid waste/metric ton of product) 50% 43% 38% significant improvements in solid waste reduction through ongoing focus on reuse and recycling. An ongoing, companywide focus on packaging innovation and design Packaging improvement rate*,** (% of packaging volume improved) 60% 69% 70% for increased material and process efficiency enabled us to achieve our goal one year early. *Rate-based and absolute data on GHG emissions, energy, water and solid waste generation in this section are from wholly owned or controlled production facilities on a global basis. Data includes production facilities from our Green Giant and Le Sueur brands, which during early fiscal 2016 General Mills announced it will sell to B&G Foods. Solid waste data in this section is from production and excludes waste associated with construction as well as non-production activities such as new product trials. Transportation fuel usage data covers outbound shipments in the United States by our logistics service providers. Packaging improvement data is global. **Water usage rate target and progress are based on fiscal 2006 baseline data. Transportation fuel usage rate and packaging improvement rate targets and progress are based on fiscal 2009 baseline. ***General Mills acquired Yoplait International in fiscal 2012 and Yoki in fiscal 2013. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 61 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Targets for 2020 and beyond Our approach: measure & reduce We track our environmental footprint, work to reduce our global impact and report progress Several new and ongoing targets will drive Environmental and safety management To enhance consistency across General Mills, our environmental improvements in our operations in system: We use a companywide environmental Global Safety and Environment team publishes the coming years: worldwide standards on topics such as personnel management system, based on a “plan, do, check, act” approach to continually improve safety and environmental issues. Our Management Reduce absolute GHG emissions performance in our directly controlled operations. Commitment and Responsibilities Standard across our value chain by 28 percent helps to ensure the presence and maintenance of by 2025, compared to 2010* Measurement plays a central role. To pinpoint foundational elements of our environmental and safety areas of greatest energy and water usage across management system (ESMS). This supports a “zeroLeveraging our Zero Loss Culture our most resource-intensive production facilities, loss culture” by leading with safety, developing strong process at our production we have installed metering devices for specific leaders and driving foundational system excellence. facilities, continuously improve: equipment and processes. This helps us identify energy and water savings opportunities and We track and manage environmental and safety Energy usage rates implement improvements. Learn more in the Reduce incidents, tasks and performance data using our Global energy usage and Reduce water usage sections. Safety Tracking and Environmental Management Solid waste generation rates Production sites** Water usage rates Achieve zero waste to landfill at: W E n 3  0 percent of our production AS T RO ZE facilities by 2020 n 1  00 percent of our production facilities by 2025 Continue to reduce U.S. fuel usage to support progress towards General Mills’ value chain GHG emissions reduction target* Use sustainable packaging design to support progress toward General Mills’ value chain GHG emissions reduction target* *Learn more about our GHG targets and implementation plan in our General Mills operates production sites around the world, climate change section and on our website. primarily in the United States, Europe, Latin America and China. **Some of these locations were divested after the end of General Mills’ fiscal 2015. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 62 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community System (GSTEMS), a global online information management platform used by more than 95 percent of our production facilities worldwide. At each facility, $200+ million Amount saved since 2005 through The second broad strategy is Holistic Margin Management (HMM), which calls on cross-functional teams to analyze the value drivers for our business we use scorecards to document and report progress. and eliminate non-value-added costs and activities. proactive sustainability initiatives In addition to improving environmental performance, Our Global Auditing, Self-Assessment and Compliance across the value chain, such as Assurance Standard requires each site to complete savings from these initiatives help offset inflation in energy efficiency, transportation raw material costs. This helps us to maintain consumer annual self-assessments on regulatory and company efficiency and packaging reductions prices and invest in innovation and marketing. standards. These are followed by periodic corporate verification audits, focused on environment, health and Our companywide target is to accrue US$4 billion in These efforts support two key business strategies. The safety regulatory compliance, as well as management HMM savings between fiscal 2010 and 2020, including first, Continuous Improvement (CI), focuses on loss system effectiveness. We report identified issues both environmental and nonenvironmental initiatives. elimination and is our zero-loss culture approach. CI using GSTEMS, develop appropriate corrective and Sustainability initiatives have contributed substantially encourages employee ownership of company processes – preventive actions, and promptly resolve open items. to our progress. Since 2005, we have saved more than from production facility workers to executive management Sustainability and business value: Our US$200 million through proactive sustainability initiatives – to end and prevent waste in every part of our business. sustainability initiatives create business value for across the value chain, such as energy efficiency, For example, our companywide Ingredient Over-usage General Mills while reducing our environmental transportation efficiency and packaging reductions. Reduction Program uses a 12-step process to identify footprint. Each year, we invest millions of dollars G4-42, 48 and eliminate losses from the conversion of ingredients in projects that save money by reducing energy to finished products. This focus on understanding and and water usage, as well as waste generation. See removing system waste has benefited product quality and examples in the Reduce energy usage, Reduce water reduced production costs while increasing system capacity. usage and Reduce solid waste generation sections. PACKAGING AGRICULTURE TRANSFORMING CONVERTING SHIPPING SELLING CONSUMING SUPPLY CHAIN Growing and transporting Turning crops into food Making food available Enjoying food (shopping, crops (planting, tending ingredients (cleaning, Producing packaging Making products Moving food from suppliers for purchase (promoting preparing and eating) and harvesting) milling and preparing) materials (making from food ingredients to facilities and on to stores and storing) and disposing and transporting) (mixing and cooking) (transporting and delivering) r The content in this section relates primarily to the Packaging Supply Chain, Converting and Shipping phases of our value chain. For a more detailed view of our value chain, see page 7. G4-12 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 63 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 4A Reduce GHG emissions Manage the climate impact of General Mills 1 and Scope 2, from our directly controlled Greenhouse gas emissions, 2005 – 2015 Progress Metric tons CO2e/metric ton of product operations. Although this is a relatively 0.30 1,400,000 small part of our overall footprint, we Target: Reduce GHG are committed to reducing emissions 1,200,000 0.25 emissions rate by 20 percent whenever we have the opportunity. 1,000,000 0.20 by 2015 (2005 baseline). GOAL Metric tons CO2e Since 2005, we have decreased our 800,000 absolute Scope 1 and Scope 2 GHG 0.15 Performance: We decreased 600,000 this rate by 23 percent through emissions by 11 percent, while net sales 0.10 2015, the same as in 2014, rose 57 percent. During this period, 400,000 and surpassed our target.1 emissions decreased by 14 percent, 200,000 0.05 not including Yoki and Yoplait. Key drivers: Recent progress 0 0 Most of these emissions are from 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014* 2015* against our goal is largely due Scope 1 Scope 2 burning fossil fuels (natural gas, fuel to significant use of renewable oil and propane) at our facilities and *Data for 2013-2015 include production facilities gained in the acquisition of Yoki and Yoplait. See the Environmental energy sources at our Yoki Data Summary on page 104 to view data for 2013-2015, not including those acquisitions. We updated emission factors from the generation of purchased for fiscal 2014 (which also apply to fiscal 2015) to reflect improvements in the power generation industry. facilities and our ongoing electricity. Therefore, using energy commitment to energy efficiency. consumed by the entire facility; waste We have implemented numerous more efficiently and shifting toward less heat recovery from the system reduced renewable energy initiatives at other GHG-intensive forms of energy are the site natural gas use by 10 percent. facilities worldwide that meet financial Approach most effective ways for us to improve performance. See Reduce energy usage n  ecreased GHG emissions by more than D guidelines and support our environmental As a global food company, General 9,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide objectives: We produce steam from for details about our efforts in this area. Mills recognizes the risks that climate equivalent (CO2e) as coal-generated burning oat hulls in Fridley, Minnesota; Use of innovative technologies is central generate electricity with onsite solar change presents to humanity, our electricity was replaced by biogas. to our approach. In fiscal 2014, we panels at five locations globally; and use environment and our livelihoods. installed an anaerobic digestor at our n  emoved 15 truckloads of whey R renewable energy sources including wood We take a broad approach to addressing Murfreesboro, Tennessee, facility that byproduct per day from the roads, at four of our Yoki sites in Brazil. Overall, we this issue. We work to decrease Scope uses self-renewing bacteria to convert the saving about 95,000 liters of diesel generated more than 138 million kWh of 1 and Scope 2 emissions from our whey byproduct from Greek style yogurt fuel and avoiding another 250 renewable energy onsite in 2015, almost directly controlled operations. We production into a combustible biogas. In metric tons of CO2e emissions. 5 percent of our total energy usage. We also collaborate with others to reduce fiscal 2015, this project had the following Scope 3 emissions from across our n  eturned 130,000 cubic meters R continue to review and pursue renewable environmental and financial benefits: of water to the watershed. energy projects at our facilities worldwide. value chain. See page 34 for more information about our holistic approach. n  roduced methane biogas, used to P n  aved US$2.4 million through S G4-16, EC2, EN15, EN16, EN17, EN18, EN19 generate electricity equivalent to energy generation and alternative About 11 percent of the GHG emissions more than 10 percent of the power waste processing. associated with our value chain are Scope 1 The statement of progress against the 2015 target, which is normalized to production, represents wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally and includes Yoki and Yoplait. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 64 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 4B Reduce energy usage Improve the energy efficiency of our facilities around the world practices across our locations, such as Energy usage, 2005 – 2015 Progress dryers, ovens and freezers optimization, 3.0 700 heating and cooling system improvements, kWh/metric ton of product 2.5 600 Target: Reduce energy usage and lighting replacement innovations. rate by 20 percent by 2015 500 2.0 Billion kWh Our absolute energy usage increased GOAL (2005 baseline). 400 by just 5 percent since 2005, while 1.5 300 Performance: We decreased net sales rose 57 percent. During that 1.0 period, energy usage decreased by 9 200 this rate by 10 percent through 0.5 2015, unchanged since 2014, percent, not including Yoki and Yoplait. 100 and falling short of our target.2 0.0 0 Improving energy 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014* 2015* Key drivers: Our recent performance and inability to achieve efficiency companywide Direct Indirect *Data for 2013-2015 include production facilities gained in the acquisition of Yoki and Yoplait. See the our energy usage rate goal is due Understanding energy use is essential Environmental Data Summary on page 104 to view data for 2013-2015, not including those acquisitions. largely to strong growth in products to ongoing improvement, and the Fivewith relatively higher energy Step Energy Reduction Process (see locations in the near future and expect this US$5.3 million in HMM reduction and intensity, such as Greek yogurt. graphic below) is key to our approach. initiative to save about US$20 million in avoided nearly 38,000 metric tons CO2e The 19 plants participating in this global energy use over the next several years. of GHG emissions. Compared to fiscal program, including nine added during In fiscal 2015, we implemented more 2014, this is an 86 percent improvement Approach 2015, represent 68 percent of our global than 300 projects at 17 sites through the in energy savings and a 56 percent energy use from manufacturing. We Five-Step Energy Reduction Process. These increase in avoided GHG emissions. The Energy is a significant operating Five-Step Energy Reduction Process has plan to launch this program at more saved over 132 million kWh, delivered cost for General Mills and the main source of GHG emissions from our directly controlled operations. Therefore, Five-Step Energy Reduction Process using it efficiently and reducing STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 consumption is a priority. Our main sources of energy are natural gas Establish Conduct Develop Execute Validate (52 percent of the total) and electricity Energy Energy Improvement Improvement Results (42 percent). Five percent of our energy Program Analysis Plan Plan is from onsite renewable fuels. Commit dedicated Perform an energy Use program-wide Create a three-year plan Use metering and analysis To motivate ongoing improvement, all personnel at the site balance assessment at tools to identify energy of projects to implement tools to continually General Mills production sites have to lead the program the site to determine losses, develop targeted at each site, based on assess performance annual targets to reduce energy use by and install meters how energy is used solutions and calculate the analysis performed. improvements and ensure 2 percent normalized to production. We to capture detailed and in what amounts. possible savings. gains are maintained. collect and share sustainability best energy usage data. 2 The statement of progress against the 2015 goal, which is normalized to production, represents wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally and includes Yoki and Yoplait. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 65 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 132+ identified future projects with similar or heat to warm ingredient water and use energy efficiency activities to save money, greater projected potential savings. in dehumidification processes. This decrease environmental impact and drive innovation will save approximately progress toward our energy reduction goal. Examples from the year include: n  ovington, Georgia – This cereal plant C US$445,000 and more than 18.4 Green building design also improves million kWh million kWh per year. It is also reducing Amount saved in fiscal 2015 installed a heat recovery system that our performance in energy use, as well water consumption by more than captures hot steam from a roof exhaust as water and waste. As of the end by more than 300 projects at 8,300 cubic meters per year and system. This provides 85 percent of the of fiscal 2015, about 12 percent 17 sites through the Five-Step preventing the release of approximately plant’s hot water at no charge, saving of the square footage at our world Energy Reduction Process 5,500 metric tons of CO2e emissions US$150,000 annually, reducing energy headquarters was certified as LEED annually. We are evaluating similar use by 5 million kWh and decreasing or LEED Commercial Interiors, and heat recovery projects at 14 other sites the site’s GHG emissions by 2 percent. approximately 30 percent of the space in that could save about US$2 million We plan to implement this approach our North American distribution centers annually. Our company was recognized at other sites in the coming years. was certified LEED Gold. Together, these by the U.S. Department of Energy for represented about 3.3 million square n C  edar Rapids, Iowa – At General Mills’ leadership in energy savings through feet. To further advance our efforts in largest production facility, a project innovative technologies. Learn more. this area, General Mills is a partner in was implemented to recapture waste n  ansas City, Missouri – This facility, K the U.S. Department of Energy’s Better which produces Bisquick and other flour Buildings Challenge. Through this products, was the first mill to join the initiative, we are committed to a 20 Five-Step Energy Reduction Process. percent reduction in energy intensity After extensive analysis, the location at all of our U.S. production facilities by converted electric water heaters to 2022, compared to 2012. Through 2015, gas; upgraded lights from high wattage we achieved an 11 percent decrease. metal halide and fluorescent lamps to During the year, two General Mills LED; and tested production equipment employees globally received recognition settings to reduce energy use. These from the Association of Energy Engineers’ enhancements and others will decrease World Energy Engineering Congress. energy use by 791,000 kWh annually and save US$60,000. During fiscal 2016, To view additional data about energy the site plans to implement additional usage in our directly controlled operations, improvements, increasing savings to including a breakdown by source, see 1 million kWh and US$75,000 per year. the Environmental Data Summary. G4-EN3, EN5, EN6 Beyond the Five-Step Energy Reduction r Duplex hot water heat recovery exchanger in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. Process, all of our facilities globally pursue GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 66 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 4C Reduce transportation fuel usage Improve transportation efficiency shift reduced diesel consumption by Fuel use per metric ton of product, 2009 = 100% U.S. transportation fuel use reduction, 2009 – 2015 Progress 100% over 23,000 liters and associated GHG 90% emissions by 28 percent per shipment. Target: Reduce U.S. fuel While these trucks represent less than 80% usage rate by 35 percent by 1 percent of our truck capacity, we are 70% GOAL 2015 (2009 baseline). 60% evaluating the scalability of this technology. 50% Performance: We reduced this rate by 25 percent through 2015, 40% Improving logistics an improvement from 22 percent 30% planning 20% in 2014, yet missing our target.3 Working with supply planning teams in 10% 0 each of our divisions, we continued to Key drivers: During fiscal 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 decrease our total transport costs for 2015, increases in carrier fuel customer freight by regionally sourcing efficiency and changes to shipped to rail or ship. Although our overall Kentwood, Michigan, to Calgary, products from General Mills facilities product mix (which raised intermodal usage remained constant last Canada, resulting in 105 less truck trips. rather than shipping them longer distances. capacity utilization) contributed year, it increased from 13 to 19 percent We also improved logistics planning to to performance gains. of total interplant shipments in North Using innovative fill trucks more completely and, when America between 2011 and 2015. technologies possible, used the same carrier for Examples during the year included: inbound and outbound freight, reducing Approach Innovative vehicle technologies can also the number of empty trucks on the road. n Increased rail use for flour shipments improve environmental performance. At Transporting our products is a significant from 55 percent in fiscal 2014 to 83 our Martel, Ohio, production facility, we During 2015, we expanded use of load source of GHG emissions, representing percent in fiscal 2015 on an 850partnered with a carrier to use lightweight optimization software to four new sites to an estimated 16 percent4 of the total mile route from Avon/Carlisle, Iowa, truck cabs to transport flour. As a result, improve overall shipping efficiency. This across our value chain. We work with to Buffalo, New York, decreasing between 2014 and 2015, we were able to technology takes into account product mix our suppliers, co-packers, transportation truck trips by nearly 190. increase the weight of products in each to optimize shipment weight and volume, providers and customers to reduce shipment by nearly 8 percent, reducing the environmental impact of shipping n Increased intermodal use for flour GHG emissions by a corresponding amount. our products around the world. shipments from 61 percent in fiscal 2014 to 100 percent in fiscal 2015, on Expanding on a pilot program launched Optimizing an 840-mile route from Kansas City, in 2013, General Mills used 20 new Missouri, to Social Circle, Georgia, semitrailers powered by compressed transportation modes eliminating more than 290 truck trips. natural gas to transport products to some In 2015, we continued working to improve U.S. retail customers as of May 2015. n Increased intermodal use for snacks transportation efficiency through modal The trucks traveled more than 136,000 and cereal shipments from 36 percent shift – moving loads to transport modes miles in 2015, a 140 percent increase in fiscal 2014 to 74 percent in fiscal r Use of rail for flour transport in Kansas with less impact, such as from truck compared to 2014. During the year, this City, Missouri. 2015, on a 1,760-mile route from 3 Transportation fuel use data covers outbound shipments in the United States by our logistics service providers. 4 This includes the transport of purchased goods from suppliers to General Mills’ facilities and the transport of General Mills’ products from our facilities to retailers. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 67 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community decreasing the number of truck trips needed volume shipments to Americold Overflow percent, compared to 74.6 percent the transport by spend (between plants by up to 23 percent. At one of the new by 24 percent compared to the prior year. prior year. Through our Direct Plant Ship and to customers) and more than 60 sites, we increased capacity utilization This eliminated more than 500 truck trips program, we provide customers incentives percent of our intermodal shipments by 4 percent, eliminating 101 truck trips. and 1,500 miles of unneeded transport. to accept full truckloads of some finished are with SmartWay certified carriers. We continually work to minimize the products directly from our plant, instead G4-EN19, EN30 Collaborating to of from our distribution centers. During 20,000+ practice of handling products multiple times – including at intermediate storage streamline shipments fiscal 2015, this eliminated more than locations – which increases environmental 20,000 truck trips and reduced miles We collaborate across General Mills impact and lowers operational efficiency. driven by more than 3.8 million. Number of truck trips eliminated and with our suppliers and customers to In fiscal 2015, by improving inventory reduce transportation impact. In fiscal We prioritize using shippers with by our Direct Plant Ship planning and on-site storage at our facility 2015, we increased average customerstrong environmental credentials. In program, saving more than in Belvedere, Illinois, we decreased surge bound truck capacity utilization to 77.3 North America, 90 percent of our road 3.8 million miles driven 4D Reduce water usage Lower consumption and reuse water page 55 for more information about our period, water usage decreased by 10 Progress efforts, including external collaborations, percent, not including Yoki and Yoplait. to champion the restoration of high risk We share best practices across sites to Target: Reduce water usage rate by cooling systems following the Yoplait watersheds in our supply chain by 2025. maximize benefits companywide. To 20 percent by 2015 (2006 baseline). acquisition in fiscal 2012, as well Our main uses of water are as an ingredient, better understand our opportunities to as expansion of our Greek yogurt Performance: This rate increased for cooling or heating and for cleaning and increase water usage efficiency, we have business, have contributed to this 20 percent through 2015, compared sanitizing equipment. Although only about adapted the Five-Step Energy Reduction performance. During the last few years, to a 17 percent increase in 2014, 1 percent of the water consumed to create Process (see Reduce energy usage) to production downtime and additional failing to meet our target.5 and distribute our products is within our also apply to water. During 2015, we cleaning requirements have also added directly controlled operations, we take launched this process at our Murfreesboro, to increased water consumption rates. Key drivers: High water usage in every opportunity to reduce consumption. Tennessee, site and plan to introduce it to These factors were only partially yogurt production and associated We track water consumption at each our Carson, California, facility in 2016. offset by savings at several facilities. of our locations to identify areas of high Locations with water savings initiatives in usage and identify opportunities for 2015 included: Approach our total water footprint. We work to understand water usage during every improvement. Every production facility has a target to decrease water use by 1 percent n  erwick, UK – Through changes in B Water is one of the most material phase, from watershed to production, each year, normalized to production. sanitation frequencies, staff training on environmental issues across our value and identify opportunities to increase equipment, increased use of dry cleaning Our absolute water withdrawal increased methods and other enhancements, chain, especially in agriculture, which efficiency and conservation. See page 8 for by 42 percent since 2006, while net this dough-producing facility represents an estimated 82 percent of a description of our broad approach and sales rose 51 percent. During this reduced water usage by 7 percent 5 The statement of progress against the 2015 target, which is normalized to production, represents wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally and includes Yoki and Yoplait. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 68 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Water usage, 2006 – 2015 in 2015 compared to 2014, saving To view additional data about water usage 18 4.5 18,700 cubic meters of water and in our directly controlled operations, 16 4.0 approximately US$40,000 annually. including withdrawal by source, see Cubic meters/metric ton of product n  arson, California – This facility is in C the Environmental Data Summary. 14 3.5 one of our priority watersheds (see G4-16, EN8, EN9, EN10, EN27 Million cubic meters 12 3.0 page 55 for more details about our 10 2.5 watershed initiatives). The location GOAL reviewed its water consumption data 8 2.0 and regulatory requirements regarding 6 1.5 dairy equipment sanitation. Based on this 4 1.0 analysis, we modified the site’s cleaning schedules and practices, reducing water 2 0.5 use without impacting product quality. 0 0 During the year, the plant reduced 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014* 2015* its water usage by almost 21,000 *Data for 2013-2015 include production facilities gained in the acquisition of Yoki and Yoplait. See the Environmental Data Summary on page 104 to view data for 2013-2015 not cubic meters, saving US$200,000 r System that regulates chemical and water including those acquisitions. in water, chemicals and utility fees. usage during cleaning processes at our facility in Carson, California. 4E Reduce solid waste generation Decrease impact and create value through reduction, reuse and recycling Progress Approach To reduce waste and related environmental impacts in our operations, we use the hierarchy below: Target: Reduce solid waste Key drivers: During 2015, we continued This year, we established generation rate by 50 percent by to focus on food waste reduction from targets to achieve zero waste REDUCE WASTE at the source by improving process efficiency 2015 (2005 baseline). operations and moving recyclables to and targeting opportunities for improvement. to landfill at 30 percent of our higher value markets including reuse. Performance: We decreased this production facilities by 2020, and REUSE WASTE for beneficial purposes when possible. We were challenged by decreased rate by 38 percent through 2015, 100 percent by 2025. Worldwide, production volumes and additional RECYCLE WASTE when reuse is not feasible compared to 41 percent in 2014, at the end of fiscal 2015, four General waste related to product changes (including composting organic waste). falling short of our target.6 Mills production facilities (about 6 percent that affected our reduction rates. of the total globally) met our zero-wasteRECOVER ENERGY from waste that We continue to push toward zero waste. cannot be reused or recycled. to-landfill criteria by reusing, composting or recycling at least 90 percent of all waste (the DISPOSE OF WASTE remainder is incinerated for energy recovery). These only as a last 6 The statement of progress against the 2015 target, which is normalized to production, represents wholly owned or resort. controlled production facilities globally and includes Yoki and Yoplait. Solid waste data in this section is from production and sites included Chanhassen, Minnesota, U.S.; Midland, excludes waste associated with construction as well as non-production activities such as new product trials. Ontario, Canada; Berwick, U.K.; and Landes, France. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 69 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community We reduced solid waste generation by value from waste provides General Examples from 2015 include: n  erwick, UK – Through interdepartmental B 27 percent in absolute terms since 2005, Mills a financial benefit, representing n  est Chicago, Illinois – Using a W collaboration on initiatives such as while net sales rose 57 percent. During this US$8 million of net revenue in 2015 compactor for waste food instead reducing trimmings size, identifying losses period, solid waste generation decreased by for our North American operations. of collecting it in boxes reduced on production lines and reformulating 43 percent, not including Yoki and Yoplait. This resulted from dozens of initiatives the use of cardboard at this site, dough mixes to enable increased use across our facilities. For example, sites saving 98 metric tons per year. of trimmings, this site reduced waste Improving reuse in the region reused nearly 15,000 by 35 percent, saving 800 metric metric tons of cardboard boxes, totes n  edar Rapids, Iowa – Instead of C In 2015, we reused or recycled over 86 tons and US$137,000 per year. and slip sheets in 2015, returning US$1.4 recycling the totes in which ingredients percent of our waste globally with the million to our facilities and generating are received for several semi-finished Solid waste by disposition remainder going to landfills (12 percent) or nearly twice the value of recycling. products including Marbits for Lucky (% of 2015 global total) energy recovery (2 percent). Recapturing Charms, this location started using them to ship the final cereal. This saves 200 Solid waste generation, 2005 – 2015 metrics tons of cardboard each year. Metric tons/metric ton of product 300,000 0.06 250,000 0.05 Metric tons 200,000 0.04 150,000 GOAL 0.03 100,000 0.02 50,000 0.01  ecycling 86% n R n E nergy recovery 2% 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013* 2014* 2015*  isposal* 12% n D n C omposting Less than 1% *Data for 2013-2015 include production facilities gained in the acquisition of Yoki and *Disposal includes landfill and incineration without Yoplait. See the Environmental Data Summary on page 104 to view data for 2013-2015 not r Reusing shipping totes in Cedar Rapids, Iowa. energy recovery. including those acquisitions. Collaborating to increase landfill diversion Advancing toward zero waste to landfill reduce waste to landfill. They engaged an for energy recovery, instead of sending is a priority at our sites globally. This external vendor, which resulted in more the combined materials to landfill. At the meets increasing consumer expectations, harmonized sorting and recycling solutions other locations, depending on the product, decreases environmental impact and and identification of new technology. the food waste is incinerated for energy saves money. Our strategy focuses For example, drawing on best practices recovery or recycled as animal feed. on reducing waste at the source and used at other General Mills sites, the Beginning in 2016, these innovations will increasing reuse and recycling (such Le Mans facility installed an extruder to significantly increase the recycling rates as through improved sorting). separate yogurt waste from containers. at each facility, with an objective to keep This enables us to use the recaptured approximately 600 metric tons of waste out In 2015, our locations in Arras (Häagenfood as feedstock for an anaerobic biogas of landfills and save General Mills $85,000 Dazs), Le Mans (Yoplait) and Seretram generator and incinerate the packaging annually at the three sites combined. (Green Giant), France, collaborated to v General Mills uses extruders at several facilities worldwide to separate yogurt waste from containers for recycling. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 70 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Increasing recycling of food waste each year – while nearly 1 billion people do not have enough to eat. our work with food banks worldwide in the Community section of this report. We reduce waste to landfill by Addressing this issue not only benefits Collaboration: We also help address food recycling production, office, packaging people but also the environment by waste through industry collaboration. and construction materials. decreasing demands on agriculture and General Mills is a founding partner of the n  arson, California – Our Yoplait C reducing food in landfills. This is critical, U.S. Food Waste Challenge, a collaborative facility worked with an off-site vendor since food waste has five times the impact effort of the U.S. Department of Agriculture during 2015 to separate 625 metric per kilogram in a landfill as packaging waste and the U.S. Environmental Protection tons of yogurt from its packaging due to the methane it creates – a GHG 20 Agency. This initiative encourages for recycling as animal feed. This times more potent than carbon dioxide. reduction of food waste; recovery of saved US$50,000, compared to We help reduce food waste by improving wholesome food for human consumption; processing the waste in-house. r Compost field at our site in Irapuato, Mexico. our production processes, donating surplus and recycling discarded food for other  artel, Ohio Based on an assessment M food to charitable organizations and uses, such as animal feed, compost or n of work processes and root cause Composting collaborating across our supply chain. energy recovery. We also participate in analysis of waste generation, a crossWe compost food and other organic the Food Waste Reduction Alliance. Operations: Due to our highly efficient functional team identified opportunities waste at our facilities around the world, G4-EN23, EN28 production processes, the amount of food to gain US$770,000 in productivity and reducing waste sent to landfills. waste we generate represents less than reduce waste by 24 percent – saving n W innipeg, Canada – Our Pizza Pops 2 percent of our total product volume. nearly 1,100 metric tons per year. Key facility converted all food waste Nonetheless, we continually pursue enhancements included standardizing work processes to reduce waste to compost, decreasing waste to landfill by 247 metric tons in 2015. opportunities to further reduce this waste. For example, in Midland, Canada, we <2% generating incidents and increasing assessed food waste sources related to n I rapuato, Mexico – Our Old El Paso recycling of plastic, pallets and barrels. pizza production and determined that and Green Giant locations in Irapuato n  ilwaukee, Wisconsin – Our snack M transformed waste from tacos, tortillas cheese was falling off the pizzas in transit Food waste from General Mills production facility implemented a and fresh and frozen vegetables – as from the freezer. Food specialists adjusted production processes compared pallet recycling program in 2015, well as cardboard – into compost. the sauce to improve adherence and to total product volume keeping 30 metric tons of wood During 2015, 575 metric tons of designed a chute to collect cheese that from landfill on an annual basis. organic waste were composted and did fall for reuse. These enhancements used as fertilizer in our greenhouses, will save more than 40 metric tons of Through our partnership up 35 percent from the prior year. cheese and US$125,000 annually. with Hauling for Hope, we donate scrap n  inneapolis, Minnesota – Our M Donations: We donate surplus food, metal from several headquarters diverted approximately including overruns of products with company locations. This organization 80 metric tons of organic waste from seasonal packaging or surplus ingredients. sorts and recycles materials that might landfills in 2015, reducing the facility’s In 2015, we provided US$49.9 million otherwise go to landfill and uses the landfill use by more than 45 percent. in food donations globally – enabling 20 proceeds to support programs for million meals that nourish people around children with special needs. Since 2013, Reducing food waste the world rather than recycling the food we have recycled nearly 77 metric tons (such as using it for animal feed) or Worldwide, about one-third of food is sending it to landfills. Read more about of metal through this organization. wasted – equaling 1.3 billion metric tons GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 71 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 4F Reduce packaging footprint Improve the environmental performance of packaging We use four key indicators to transport. It enables users to analyze how Progress assess progress: packaging impacts GHG emissions, water n R educing the package-to-product ratio use, human health and other dimensions. System improvements Target: Improve 60 percent In the summer of 2015, we began reduce packaging of global packaging volume n Increasing recycled content and recyclability piloting this tool in our cereal and snack environmental impacts by 2015 (initial 40 percent products divisions. It is now available to n Increasing renewable and In the past, to create customized goal exceeded in 2012). all packaging engineers companywide. compostable content retail-ready product cases, we Performance: We exceeded By collaborating across the packaging needed to first ship standard cases n F itting more products onto each truck our target, improving 70 supply chain, we identify opportunities to a separate facility for repacking. In for transport 2015, we invested in new packaging percent through 2015.7 to improve the sustainability of our We work to decrease our impact across packaging. In 2015, we joined the equipment that enables us to pack a Key drivers: During 2015, all indicators, ensuring that reductions in Association of Plastic Recyclers to variety of display-ready cases on one packaging redesign and related one area are not offset in another. General of our main cereal production lines, enhance our expertise in design for shipping efficiencies generated Mills has a target to source 100 percent eliminating the need to ship and recycling and advance recyclability of our fiber packaging by 2020 from repack. This saves 60 metric tons of our greatest material and of materials used in our packages. To corrugated cardboard annually for dollar savings. recycled material or from virgin wood advance improvements across the industry the packaging of one customer alone fiber regions that do not contribute to and beyond, we continue to promote and reduces transportation distance. deforestation. (Sources from high-risk effective waste management policy in In early 2016, we began testing the Approach regions will be independently verified.) In the U.S. through leadership engagement system with a larger customer and 2015, 99 percent of the fiber packaging with AMERIPEN, the American Institute hope to achieve even greater savings. Packaging is critical to keeping food General Mills purchased was sustainably for Packaging in the Environment. safe, convenient and at peak quality. sourced. See the Increase sustainability Proper packaging can extend the time of ingredients section for more details. that a product remains wholesome and appealing, which meets our customers’ We are committed to using sustainable Percent of packaging improved, 2009 2015 expectations and prevents food waste. packaging design to support progress 100% While satisfying those needs, we also toward General Mills’ target to reduce 80% innovate to reduce the environmental absolute GHG emissions across the impact of our packaging through better value chain. During 2015, we worked 60% GOAL design – by decreasing materials use, with Quantis International, a life-cycle 40% switching to lower impact materials and assessment consulting firm, to develop a improving truckload packing efficiencies. custom tool for our engineers to compare 20% This is critical, since our packaging supply packaging designs. This takes into 0% 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 chain represents 6 percent of total GHG account types and quantities of materials, (baseline) emissions across our value chain. customer use of packaging and product 7 Packaging improvement data are global. Products are only counted once. Therefore, incremental improvements on packaging that has previously been improved do not change the total. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 72 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Saving materials consumer complaints. As a result, during the 2 years of project implementation, while maintaining product quality and safety. Recycled content represents through innovation and we have reduced materials use by over about 49 percent of the weight of continuous improvement 450 metric tons of paperboard, while General Mills product packaging in the saving more than US$3 million. U.S. Approximately 84 percent of the In 2015, we collaborated with suppliers to packaging for those products is recyclable.8 improve the liners of bulk product totes that During the year, we identified a total carry our cereals between manufacturing savings of more than 1,800 metric tons of In 2015, we transitioned many of our facilities for use in other products. We packaging material and over US$4.5 million Old El Paso products from virgin to due to packaging improvements. recycled paperboard cartons. Although r How2Recycle labels educate consumers transitioned from a single layer film, about recyclability of packaging. composed of a blend of plastics, to a this material must be thicker to provide thinner film with discrete layers of different Designing packaging adequate product protection, the expanded the program to dozens of brands resins. This provides the same durability to optimize product benefits of using recycled content and hundreds of products. Two-thirds of our and product protection, while saving 140 justify the increased weight. metric tons of film annually. Twenty percent transport products with packages large enough for the icon now include it. We are committed Renewable materials are also part of our more of these liners fit on each delivery We also focus on the connection between to using the label on all products sold sustainable packaging efforts. In 2015, truck, removing the equivalent of six tractor packaging and product shipping, and in the U.S. where it fits, including on Cascadian Farm cereals increased the trailer loads from the roads each year. have learned that small changes can all of our Annie’s brand packaging. amount of certified plant-based material make a big difference. Shaving just 1/8 We also reduce packaging use by in its inner bag from 57 percent to 68 G4-EN2, EC1 inch off the case dimensions for certain improving existing designs. Our Old El Paso percent. As the affordable supply of this sizes of our Rice Chex and Multi Grain team determined that the protective tray material becomes more available, we Cheerios not only decreases packaging used in our hard shell tacos wasn’t actually will seek other opportunities to use it. weight, but more importantly reduces necessary. The team conducted a twoTo promote increased recycling of our transportation-related impacts. This phase scale-up, confirming that the change wouldn’t impact product quality or lead to simple change enables us to fit 64 pallets product packaging, in 2013 we were one of the first companies to feature 99% onto each truck instead of 60, eliminating approximately 830 truckloads annually. How2Recycle labels. Developed by the Sustainable Packaging Coalition, Using recycled and How2Recycle labels are simple, clear and Percent of fiber packaging standardized for use on different packaging General Mills purchased in 2015 renewable materials materials and formats by a wide range of that was sustainably sourced and promoting recycling manufacturers and retailers. Starting with We continue working to increase our Yoplait® Fridge Packs, as well as Green Giant r Improved, lighter packaging for Old El Paso hard shell tacos. use of recycled and recyclable materials, frozen vegetables and Chex Mix, we have 8 According to analysis conducted by General Mills in 2015. Packaging is considered recyclable if 60 percent or more of the U.S. population has access to recycling for the material. “In 2015, we joined the Association of Plastics Recycling to connect with members of the plastics industry, from resin through reuse. Through this network, our developers are gaining important and practical insights on packaging design and material selection to enhance recyclability.” – Dave Chmura, R&D Manager, General Mills GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 73 Workplace General Mills is committed to putting people first, every day. OUR STRATEGIES OUR GOAL is to foster a safe, ethical, diverse and inclusive workplace where employees can thrive. We do this by 1 MAINTAIN a safe workplace living our values: n Play to win n Win as a team 2 BUILD a strong workplace culture n n Grow and inspire Act boldly, move quickly n D  o the right thing, all the time 3 RESPECT, develop and invest in employees GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 74 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Overview A great place to work: We focus on making General Mills a safe, ethical, diverse and inclusive work environment. Workplace culture and business performance go hand-in-hand, so we strive to develop our employees by giving them opportunities both inside and outside the company to learn and grow. By doing so, we encourage employees to achieve their best while ensuring strong leadership for the future. Investing in talent is a key ingredient to our success. We recruit, retain and develop talented employees and continue to improve workplace safety through our efforts to prevent injuries and illnesses. We support our employees in being active, eating healthy and staying well. Performance dashboard Increase Strengthen our Increase diversity Increase employee workplace safety workplace culture and inclusion well-being We reduced our global total 74 percent of employees Our Board of Directors includes 27 percent Employees walked 37 million steps globally injury rate to 1.22 injuries per 100 said General Mills is a female directors and 18 percent who in 2015 through the worldwide Walk in Her employees in fiscal 2015, down great place to work.* are people of color. Our U.S.-based Shoes initiative focused on encouraging from 1.34 in 2014. Our ultimate *Data from most recent General Mills Employee workforce includes 39 percent women movement and building awareness about our goal is zero injuries and illnesses. Engagement Survey conducted January-February 2016. and 21 percent people of color. partnership to break hunger and poverty. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 75 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Our approach: inspire & win We work hard to earn our employees’ respect and trust At General Mills, our employees share a the organization. Our Chairman and on achieving a “zero-loss culture” helps competitively superior talent that reflects passion for serving the world through food Chief Executive Officer has ultimate reduce injuries and makes safety the top our markets and consumers. Additional and the continuous pursuit of excellence accountability for ensuring a healthy, priority across our facilities worldwide. responsibilities include developing and innovation. We know that engaged productive and motivated workforce, employees and delivering a culture employees drive innovation, shareholder with a Senior Vice President of Human that allows all employees to thrive. Coaching: Managers play a significant value and business performance. Our Resources functionally responsible for role in employee engagement, success The Executive Diversity Council includes purpose and pursuit of putting people first, developing strategies to achieve that goal. and satisfaction. Our Great Managers 12 senior leaders who oversee policies our brands and business practices, and our program helps managers become better and regularly review programs and results commitment to a clear Code of Conduct Governance: Governance for our leaders by building skills, reinforcing related to diversity and inclusion. However, help inspire our employees. Together, labor practices lies primarily within our positive behaviors and providing feedback. our Chief Executive Officer personally we work to bring our values to life. Human Resources, Law and Supply Chain Since 2008, we have trained more reviews our diversity and inclusion organizations. At an operational level, the than 2,700 managers worldwide to be progress quarterly and sets the tone for Commitment: The best companies Human Resources organization leads key good coaches for our employees. accountability throughout the company. attract committed employees who employee initiatives in partnership with grow to achieve their highest potential, company business leaders at multiple Communication and change: We Ethics & Compliance: Our Ethics making significant contributions to the levels. Reflecting the importance of strive to communicate transparently with & Compliance group, led by our business. We focus on hiring superior people to our business, General Mills has employees. That commitment includes Chief Compliance and Risk Officer, is talent, helping our people continually a Vice President of Global Inclusion and communicating difficult news as quickly, committed to upholding General Mills’ develop their skills and creating an Staffing; a Vice President of Global Health thoroughly and openly as possible. long-standing culture of integrity by organization that collaborates effectively. Services and Chief Wellness Officer; and Throughout fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2016, ensuring that employees know what it We encourage a healthy work/life balance. a Vice President of Engineering, Global General Mills conducted several multimeans to behave ethically and act in Safety and Environment. At the board year restructuring projects designed to compliance with our Code of Conduct. Key level, the Public Responsibility Committee Leadership: Our company leadership business leaders throughout our global accelerate long-term growth through maintains responsibility for issues related increased organizational effectiveness, maintains the highest ethical standards in operations are responsible for ethical to labor practices and decent work. reduced overhead expense and streamlined conducting business, and they honor and marketing and brand development. acknowledge employees’ contributions to operations. While these changes have the company’s success. Responsibility for Safety: We work to improve workplace Diversity and inclusion: The Senior been difficult, we are moving forward upholding our workplace commitments safety and reach our goal of zero injuries to create a stronger and more agile Vice President, Human Resources is starts at the top and extends across and illnesses. At General Mills, our focus company. For details on these restructuring responsible for attracting and retaining initiatives, please refer to our 8-K filings. “At General Mills, we put people first, every day. We recognize that our people are our most important asset, and that’s why we continually strive to cultivate a culture that allows every employee to succeed.” – Jacqueline Williams-Roll, Senior Vice President, Human Resources GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 76 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community OUR STRATEGIES AND ACTIONS 1 Maintain a safe workplace 2 Build a strong workplace culture 3 Respect, develop and invest in employees A L ead with safety A Set clear expectations for A Inspire healthy living ethics and compliance B I nvest in development and training B Champion diversity and inclusion C Create a culture of fairness, trust and openness D Foster a positive working climate 1 Maintain a safe workplace 1A Lead with safety Expand our safety culture and track progress business, including safety incidents – Impact has resulted in fewer injuries. Performance: In 2015, we continued Employee feedback Goal: Provide injury-free As part of our Climate Survey of n 7  8 percent of employees said on our path toward our goal of zero workplaces for our employees, international division employees in leaders consistently communicate injuries and illnesses by achieving a 9 contractors and visitors. 2015, workers shared insights about about safety objectives, percent reduction in our global total safety in our production facilities: priorities and performance. 9 percent reduction: Global total injury rate (TIR)* compared with 2014. Fiscal 2015 safety highlights include: n 8  2 percent of employees said injury rate of 1.22 injuries per 100 leaders have an undeniable employees in 2015, down from n 13 locations operated injury-free. belief that zero loss is 1.34 in 2014. n 23 locations had a TIR below 1.0. possible at their facility. n  5 locations had zero lost-time 2 n 8  3 percent of employees Zero-loss culture accidents due to injuries. said leaders hold employees accountable for following Our focus on achieving a zero-loss *Fiscal 2015 TIR excludes Yoki and Yoplait International; data from those businesses will be integrated into global zero-loss processes. culture – driving out all losses from our reporting beginning in fiscal 2016. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 77 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Leadership SAFETY Lead with safety: Global three-year roadmap SAFETY Safety governance: Established in 2013, We lead with safety LEARN-DO & COACHING STRENGTHEN LEADERSHIP CAPABILITIES our Corporate Safety Council is led by our 2015: North American pilots INCIDENT Every incident is preventable 2016: International pilot Lead with safety course Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, who FREE n G  MI senior leadership is responsible for General Mills’ policy We are all accountable n P  lant managers SAFETY n S  afety professionals and safety culture. Our Global Safety n L  ine leadership Governance Board (GSGB), composed of regional operating vice presidents, is r General Mills safety principles PROCESS RIGOR IMPROVEMENT TEAMS ONE GLOBALLY ALIGNED { responsible for the pace of global standards Incident investigation STRUCTURE We lead with safety; every incident is Safety observations Outcome: Information flows up and down development. In fiscal 2015, the GSGB One global preventable; we are all accountable. (Learn Lifesaving rules standard, n C orporate Safety Council chartered the development of one global Leading indicators n G lobal Safety more about our commitment to food safety in procedures Governance Board environmental and safety management Emergency response and training the Health & Wellness section of this report.) Learning & development n P lant Central Safety Committee system (ESMS) at General Mills. Under this global architecture, enterprise-wide Safety management environmental and safety standards will be deployed to further protect human systems injuries and illnesses. We have set interim Improvement teams: Our global locations safety and the environment. In addition, Historically, General Mills has a strong improvement targets that are the basis continued on the path to zero injuries the GSGB continues to support our global safety record when compared with our of our plant safety metrics. We also have and illnesses in 2015 with a strong focus Lead with Safety strategy efforts across our peer food group companies. We continue established clear safety targets specific on driving out losses through targeted worldwide supply chain. In 2015, our Lead to improve operations safety by using to each location and measure progress. safety improvement plans. Locations also with Safety efforts continued to improve clear safety management systems. established GSGB-sponsored process Roadmap: In 2014, we created a three-year our safety culture and process rigor. improvement teams to uniformly implement Safety targets: Our corporate policy on Lead with Safety roadmap for 2015-2018 standards. These global, cross-functional Safety principles: Our Lead with Safety workplace health and safety directs all to improve our safety performance. We process improvement teams, led by General initiative raises awareness about preventing operations to implement a management used insights from our global employee Mills “process champions” and supported employee and food safety incidents by system, standards and procedures that perceptions survey – conducted in 2013 by DuPont consultants, are working to reinforcing General Mills safety principles: will lead the company to our goal of zero in partnership with DuPont, a globally implement foundational standards and recognized leader in workplace safety – metrics at a world-class level, including: as well as safety metrics comparisons with our peer food industry companies n S  afety observation systems – and performance benchmarking with Ensuring systems are progressively recognized safety leaders. Guided by implemented to improve our that roadmap in 2015, we continued to culture and prevent incidents. implement safety improvement plans, build n I ncident investigation and reporting – leadership capabilities and gain alignment Providing timely and complete incident POLICY STANDARD PROCEDURE GUIDELINE around our global safety structure. investigations focused on ensuring What we What to do, How to meet Recognized best Global structure: In fiscal 2015, we effective root-cause identification, expect required actions, standards at practices, no risk control each location matter where established a Central Safety Committee at corrective action to prevent a minimums we operate pilot locations, led by the plant manager, recurrence and compliance with to ensure two-way communication with applicable regulatory requirements. r General Mills safety management process the Corporate Safety Council and GSGB. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 78 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Increase in reporting near-miss incidents 2015 near-miss incidents 3,559 2014 near-miss incidents 1,798 2013 near-miss incidents 965 r We improve employee safety by reporting and evaluating near-misses – events where employees came close to being injured – so we can learn from them and prevent future injuries. In fiscal 2015, near-misses reporting increased to 3,559 compared with 1,798 incidents reported in 2014; the ratio of near-misses to recordable injuries improved to 9.7 in 2015 compared to 4.6 in 2014. Rapid reporting: We have a 24-hour All employees are expected to work safely requirement for reporting all injuries. This by following all rules, procedures and rapid notification calls attention to potential training. Senior-level responsibility for safety risks so they can be addressed workplace safety lies with the Director quickly to prevent future incidents. We also of Global Safety and Environment, who r Stretching helps prevent injuries. We want all our employees and contractors to work injury-free. follow a standardized global process for reports to the Vice President of Engineering, incident investigation. We analyze GSTEMS Global Safety and Environment. n  afety and environmental leading S world-class safety standards, leadership trend data and target our efforts to prevent Committee: As part of the safety indicators – Establishing global expectations, safety observations with specific types of injuries, including injuries management system at General Mills, alignment on using leading indicators immediate actions, incident investigation categorized by hand, finger or wrist and production locations are encouraged as primary prevention tools. processes and action plans. those caused by strains, slips or cuts. to have safety committee meetings In fiscal 2016, deployment of these foundational safety standards will be Tracking and on a periodic basis (e.g., monthly). These Central Safety Committees implemented globally, led by General managing progress are organized by the formal and/or Mills trainers and process champions. System: Using our Global Safety Tracking informal safety leaders and consist of Leadership training: In fiscal 2015, more and Environmental Management System, wage and management employees. than 500 global leaders at all levels of the called GSTEMS, we track safety data Auditing: Corporate audits to verify company have been trained in Lead with at all worldwide production facilities, compliance are conducted on a periodic Safety expectations. Focus areas include including Yoki and Yoplait International basis. Any identified deficiencies sites as of fiscal 2016. GSTEMS allows r Employees reinforce a culture of safety are tracked until completion. us to track all workplace incidents – even through “iLEAD” – inspire, light the way, engage, activate, develop – an initiative that equips our G4-LA5, LA6, PR1 near-misses that did not result in an production facility leaders around the world with injury – and document necessary actions information needed to strengthen our zero-loss to reduce future risks and communicate culture every day. progress. Now we are configuring GSTEMS to record metrics that track compliance Responsibility with local regulations and our own safety and auditing standards. We expect to have in place the r Lead with Safety trainers are building capability Responsibility: Workplace health ability to report compliance assurance on in foundational safety processes using the learnand safety is the responsibility of line do-teach model and coaching approach. foundational standards by fiscal 2018. management and each individual employee. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 79 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 2 Build a strong workplace culture 2A Set clear expectations for ethics and compliance Do the right thing, all the time This certification is evidence of our high Commitment expectations for ethical conduct in every aspect of our business. In 2015, we were 2015 awards, honors and accolades General Mills is committed to ranked No. 39 on Corporate Responsibility General Mills received numerous awards in 2015. Listed below is some of the conducting business in an ethical Magazine’s “Best Corporate Citizens” list. recognition, illustrating our commitment to being the “Company of Champions.” manner that upholds best practices, complies with regulations and Ethics n 1 00 Best Companies to Work n C orporate Responsibility demonstrates integrity. For, FORTUNE magazine Magazine “Best Corporate Resources: Our Ethics & Compliance Citizens” list – No. 39 program motto, “Every Decision, Every n 5 0 Out Front: Best Places for Action, Every Day,” supports our “Do the Women and Diverse Managers n 1 00 Best Companies, Working Our comprehensive Code of Conduct right thing, all the time” value. With over to Work, Diversity MBA Mother Magazine – top 10 and Ethics & Compliance program 150 years of doing business with integrity, n D iversityInc Top 50 Companies n N ewsweek Green Rankings – No. 48 promote ethical behavior in all we know that knowing what’s right is easy, for Diversity List – No. 19 aspects of our employees’ work. but doing the right thing – all the time – can Conduct be hard. To help employees understand, of an employee’s overall rating is example, our Supplier Code of Conduct our program includes extensive online Our Code of Conduct describes the based on how the employee delivers (found on our General Mills website) resources and self-directed courses. principles that govern our business conduct on leadership expectations, including outlines our ethical expectations and is Communications and training also include and points employees to policies and doing the right thing, all the time. included in our contracts with business real examples of employee decisions that other resources to answer their questions. partners, which are required to indicate illustrate integrity, as well as ethical lapses Our Ethics Line allows employees to Topics include maintaining corporate they understand these expectations as that highlight the impact of misconduct on raise questions or concerns confidentially integrity; communicating appropriately; part of doing business with us. Internally, our company and employees. Our Ethics and anonymously, where allowed competing fairly and legally; preventing we ask detailed questions related to & Compliance website provides access by law. It is accessible globally by a bribery; ensuring personal safety; using corruption risk during each routine, into program resources – available in 10 toll-free phone call or on the Web at company resources appropriately; depth business unit audit conducted by languages – and all policies from our Global generalmillsethics@ethicspoint.com. and protecting consumer privacy. our Global Internal Audit team. This risk Policy Center that support our values. Program: We continue to strengthen assessment touches all our business units. Annually, our company leaders – from Our annual performance appraisal our anti-corruption program. We assess managers upward, nearly 7,000 employees Along with our anti-corruption process includes an explicit assessment risks in this evolving area, review program – must attest to compliance with our Code assessments, we continually assess on how employees accomplish their enhancements and apply best practices, of Conduct and business conduct policies. regulatory requirements, enforcement yearly priorities. Twenty-five percent including addressing third-party risks. For GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 80 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community trends and industry best practices to update our Ethics and Compliance program. online training courses. In addition, we supplement online training with face-topolicies. The Audit Committee of our Board of Directors reviews the investigation Feedback face anti-corruption training in markets and resolution of these allegations. Upon Employee feedback from our annual Training: Using both in-person and online where there is a higher risk of corruption. completion of the investigation, our Ethics Ethical Culture survey, which examines program modules, we train employees & Compliance group oversees appropriate employees’ perceptions of our ethical extensively on corruption risks and other Action: All allegations of employee disciplinary actions (including termination culture and resources, is used to improve business concerns, including conflicts of misconduct, including bribery and of third-party relationships), remediation our processes and strengthen our culture. interest, competition law and confidential corruption, are promptly and thoroughly information protection. More than 14,000 investigated in accordance with our ethics steps and internal/external reporting. G4-56, 57, 58, SO3, SO4 employees worldwide are enrolled in our and compliance procedures and corporate 2B Champion a culture of diversity and inclusion Take action through hiring practices, employee development and measurement orientation, cultural values, perspectives implements a diversity and inclusion Impact and beliefs. Our senior leaders reinforce strategic plan. Women now hold 45 diversity and inclusion throughout the percent of management positions and Legacy inspires action 21 percent of our U.S.-based company by advising employee networks, comprise 52 percent of all salaried General Mills is a long-time sponsor of the employees are people of color. recruiting and mentoring women and positions in the U.S. Among the 11 Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. Holiday Breakfast employees of color, and ensuring that members of our Board of Directors, three held in Minneapolis each year. At the 25th 39 percent of our U.S.-based women and people of color are carefully are women and two are people of color. annual event in 2015, keynote speaker Vernon employees are women. considered in all succession planning Jordan, who has served as a U.S. presidential Scorecard: Completed annually, our and leadership development. Our advisor, attorney and business leader, applauded Diversity and Inclusion Scorecard is Goal: Our goal is to build a culture mentoring programs have expanded to General Mills for taking a stand on racism and embedded in the enterprise-wide People of inclusion that allows us to attract, include veterans and LGBT employees. promoting marriage equality. He mentioned and Organizational review. The process retain and develop employees from the Cheerios ads featuring a multicultural defines meaningful diversity and gender a variety of backgrounds to help Actions objectives, including specific goals for the family and General Mills’ opposition in 2012 to a proposed constitutional amendment that drive innovation and growth. Leadership: Our leaders reinforce our officer level. Each senior leader’s scorecard would have prohibited same-sex marriages. At General Mills, we focus on building culture of inclusion and foster diversity includes a personal commitment to an inclusive culture that acknowledges, throughout our organization. Their focus building a culture of inclusion that respects and values diversity – the includes personal objectives regarding contributes to corporate goals. Evaluations individuality that gives us unique diversity and inclusion. Each of our of diversity performance are included in perspectives – in an environment that production facilities also creates and their yearly priorities, which influence supports all employees in being successful. Ensuring diversity of input and perspectives WATCH VIDEO is core to our business strategy. “Diversity plus inclusion equals business value. We connect with our consumers, customers and communities. We reap r In this video, Donzel Leggett, chair of the 2015 MLK Culture new ideas and innovation. And we recruit and retain the talent Breakfast committee and General Mills vice president of manufacturing, International, talks about working as part We actively cultivate an inclusive environment and respect all dimensions to win now and in the future.” of a coalition with other companies to drive community action inspired by Martin Luther King’s legacy. of diversity, including gender, race, sexual – Ken Charles, Vice President, Global Inclusion and Staffing GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 81 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community compensation decisions and incentives strategies to meet those needs. We 2015, female officers increased from and perspectives, these employees make for leaders throughout the organization. also engage in effective outreach 30 to 36 percent and minority officers a significant impact on our business. Recruiting: General Mills creates efforts, including through search increased from 9 to 19 percent. Similar Associations: We also sustain a diverse workforce by recruiting the firms, community groups, professional results are tracked and progress seen relationships with professional best talent from all communities to organizations and employee referrals. at all levels of our organization. associations, including the National drive innovation and consumer Results: Over the past 10 years, the Black MBA Association. We partner with engagement around the world. We number of minority and female officers Employee networks organizations, such as the Consortium assess our hiring needs for women at General Mills in the U.S. has increased and associations for Graduate Study in Management and and people of color and implement dramatically. Between 2005 and Employee networks: Members of our Management Leadership of Tomorrow, employee networks support each other which offer graduate fellowships and and help recruit new employees by career development opportunities increasing their confidence in General to high-potential African Americans, Mills’ approach to diversity and inclusion. Hispanics and Native Americans. Intergenerational networking brings together diverse viewpoints General Mills also has more than 30 employee clubs and hundreds of Connect Support for veterans Communities – online social networks that Retaining a diverse team of talented employees is key to our success. the values and perspectives of different age groups so all of us can enable employees to share information, ask Impact In March 2015, our Employee connect more effectively across questions and interact to support business needs, facilitate employee networks and 4 percent of our U.S.-based Networks, Inclusion Councils and generations. The event featured connect people with shared interests. employees are veterans. Women’s Networks cohosted an a panel discussion with a mix of intergenerational event – “Frank managers and their employees, Together, these networks, clubs and 650+ U.S. veterans are employed Sinatra meets Lady Gaga: Leveraging including Boomers, Millennials and communities help create a more inclusive, at General Mills. Talent Across Generations” – to Xers, followed by networking. vibrant and innovative culture; provide help employees better understand resources and development opportunities; and foster a sense of connection and General Mills recognizes the value belonging. Through their experiences of employing men and women who Candid conversations help build stronger teams General Mills seeks to create a culture that fosters openness, understanding and appreciation of employees’ differences. We held two roundtable events in 2015 to further develop our inclusive culture, unlock the potential of our diverse experiences and enable higher performing teams. Facing Race open conversations about race and and sexuality. Sponsoring groups included groups. Conversations centered around how In February 2015, we hosted a roundtable stereotypes in the work environment. leaders from our Black Champions Network, preconceived notions of others limit people’s discussion called “It’s Time to Talk: Facing Hispanic Network, Betty’s Family (LGBT contributions in team settings and inhibit our People First Roundtable Network) and Asian Heritage Network. More understanding of consumers. The roundtable Race,” focused on encouraging more Building on the Facing Race event, we than 50 people attended from across our identified the need to create more open inclusive dialogue among employees hosted a second roundtable in August finance, marketing, sales and supply chain forums for these productive conversations. across the company. The group exchanged 2015 to engage employees in challenging functions – with 80 percent of attendees ideas to facilitate more honest and conversations about race, ethnicity, gender not affiliated with any of the sponsoring GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 82 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community have served as enlisted members represent 4 percent of our workforce. We helps veterans transition from military in September 2015 to encourage all or commissioned officers of the U.S. support veterans through our Veterans service to their roles at General Mills. In employees who have served in the military Armed Forces. Their training, experience Network; specific recruiting, mentoring 2015, the Veterans Network focused on to identify themselves as veterans. and organizational skills are assets in and supplier diversity initiatives; and broadening awareness and expanding G4-LA12 the workplace. In the U.S., veterans our human resources (HR) guide that participation with a campaign launched Learning to be an ally: Betty’s Family leads the way Betty’s Family is a General Mills employee network that works to create an open environment for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) employees so that all employees are able to maximize their productivity. In 2015, Betty’s Family conducted Ally 101 orientation sessions to help employees understand what it means to be an ally and how to become one. Betty’s Allies are individuals who reach out and support the LGBT community at General Mills to feel comfortable bringing their whole selves to work. How to be an ally n F inding ways to visibly show support based on their sexual orientation and the Minneapolis, Being an ally is more than simply believing for the LGBT community. half of transgender employees have Minnesota, area. in equality or being sympathetic toward n A dvocating for equality been harassed at work. General Mills Other General those who experience discrimination. Being within the workplace. supports the rights of all employees to Mills employee an ally is about taking action to support n J oining advocacy groups to advance be treated fairly and with respect, and networks, including equal civil rights and gender equality. The broader legal and social issues. prohibits discrimination based on sexual our Veterans spectrum of ally engagement includes a orientation, gender identity or expression. Network and range of supportive activities, such as: Why allies are needed (See equal employment opportunity Women’s Network, also are adopting According to data cited in the Human Rights policy details in story 2C of this report.) the ally model to help ensure a more n C hallenging intolerance. Campaign Ally’s Guide to Issues Facing the Growing impact inclusive working environment for all. n I nitiating conversations. LGBT Community, more than one in four In March and June 2015, more than 110 n C ommunicating openly lesbian, gay and bisexual employees have people attended three ally sessions in about being an ally. experienced employment discrimination 2C Create a culture of fairness, trust and openness Ensure equal opportunity We believe every General Mills employee employees, General Mills prohibits applies to all employment practices and Commitment has the right to be treated fairly and discrimination based on age, race, procedures, including compensation. deserves the opportunity to stretch color, religion, sex, national origin, Practices: Employees are expected to report General Mills is committed to and grow throughout their career. marital status, disability, citizenship, situations that compromise their ability to providing a comfortable and safe sexual orientation, gender identity or working environment for Equal opportunity expression, military service, or other do their jobs. Formal channels are available for employees who seek advice or a solution. all employees. Policy: To provide a comfortable characteristics protected by law. This Everyone has the right to work without and safe working environment for all equal employment opportunity policy fear or intimidation. General Mills does not GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 83 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community accept abusive conduct or harassment – a incentives and merit increases are directly a culture that champions respect and policy made clear from an employee’s first linked to employee performance. We offer inclusion; and offer competitive rewards. day of orientation. Our policies strictly competitive pay, retirement programs, Our clear health and safety practices include prohibit retaliation against employees who employee referral assistance and education joint management-employee health and express concerns. We manage our business programs. Our annual performance and safety teams and committees; participation operations so that employees feel they awards statement was developed and of workers and/or worker representatives are being treated fairly and respectfully. revised in response to employee suggestions. in health and safety inspections, audits and accident investigations; and use of Benefits and Labor-management personal protective equipment, training r We value our employees, reward them for compensation relations and periodic inspections. We maintain their work and provide them with opportunities good relationships with our unions, and to grow. We believe our compensation, benefits Globally, General Mills is committed to our labor contracts are typically settled and incentive plans are competitive in providing workplaces that are among the relates to labor relations and a decent on time and without work disruption. our industry. At General Mills, we value safest production facilities in the world work environment. Examples include our employees and reward their work for all our union and nonunion production Measurement a refined performance management accordingly with our Total Rewards employees. In addition, we work to achieve process, annual employee surveys and compensation and benefits package. We full employee engagement as the foundation General Mills has established key a clearly articulated Code of Conduct. are a pay-for-performance culture, so of our mutual success; strive to create metrics and measurement approaches to understand our performance as it G4-LA2, LA5, LA8 2D Foster a positive working climate Gather feedback and strengthen processes We use employee feedback to improve “Our culture is what makes us special, and it’s been an essential Impact our processes and strengthen our culture. General Mills recently conducted several element to our success for almost 150 years. As the world 74 percent of employees said multi-year restructuring projects designed around us and the needs of our consumers change, we have General Mills is a great place to accelerate long-term growth. Our U.S. to be intentional about keeping the best parts of our culture to work.* salaried employee engagement scores reflected employee uncertainty during the while evolving the parts that could limit our ability to reach our 79 percent of employees said full potential.” – James Momon, Director, Culture and Inclusion transition. As a result, we saw a decline they were well informed about in the number of employees who said the reasoning behind company Culture Council: Our Culture Council, n  ncouraging candid dialogue E General Mills was a great place to work.** reorganizations.** formed in 2015 and led by senior leaders among all employees Looking ahead with representation from supply chain, n  reating an inclusive and C human resources, sales and other areas, Assessment Now our focus is on giving employees helps to drive winning performance and engaging work environment the tools and support they need to To measure our progress, we analyze General Mills regularly surveys our ensure General Mills is viewed as an move forward successfully and be internal and external feedback, including employees to gather feedback. Our annual employer of choice. The Council works fully engaged in the work of achieving employee responses to our engagement Employee Engagement Survey is an to build a more agile organization by: our purpose and pursuits. surveys about agility, leadership, candor, in-depth review of a wide range of topics. n Helping to develop inspirational leaders transparency, accountability, empowerment *Data from most recent General Mills Employee Engagement Survey conducted January-February 2016. **Data from May 2015 General Mills Climate survey. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 84 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community and inclusion; ratings by current and engagement and agility. Topics included Engagement Council: Our Engagement purpose and values; inspire trust in former employees on Glassdoor.com; fostering decision-making candor and Council, also created in 2015 following leadership; and capture employee input. external recognition, such as placement transparency; pursuing passion and company restructuring initiatives, builds As with the Culture Council, we rely on on Fortune’s annual Great Place to Work increased engagement; and developing on the efforts of the Culture Council. The employee engagement feedback and lists; and employee turnover reductions. a culture that supports risk-taking, Engagement Council brings together participation levels to analyze progress. The Dialogue: In August 2015, we conducted perseverance and empowerment. The representatives from global health, health Engagement Council is identifying ways an employee culture focus group to elicit session provided valuable feedback about and safety, human resources and other to create a fun and engaging workplace open, honest and meaningful dialogue the work environment. Those insights areas to find meaningful ways for people for employees around the world. about General Mills’ culture and identify are being used to refine our efforts to to be involved across the company in G4-56, 57, 58, SO3, SO4 any barriers to business growth, employee build a more agile workplace culture. order to: cultivate pride in our products, Connecting to the company’s purpose Purpose-driven companies with energized food people love. Employees signed employees are better positioned for pledge cards stating how they plan to success. In June 2015, more than 3,400 pursue the company’s new purpose; those employees celebrated the unveiling cards were used to create a “purpose of the newly articulated General Mills wall” at our headquarters facility. purpose: We serve the world by making 3 Respect, develop and invest in employees 3A Inspire healthy living Encourage work/life balance, health and well-being Impact Our employees are the key to our success. Whether working in a production facility Balance and flexibility We offer special leave programs and an onsite health clinic at our headquarters, or at our headquarters, union or nonunion, Resources: We dedicate resources to fitness centers at several of our production 37 million steps were taken by employees are vital to achieving our purpose. help employees balance the demands facilities and office locations, and employees globally through the of work and personal life. Our programs partnerships with community-based Benefits: We value our employees and Walk in Her Shoes initiative. are targeted to support employee needs programs. Our education and referral provide benefits specific to the needs wherever they work – at our headquarters, programs provide information and of each geography, including retirement production facilities, field sales offices resources on important subjects, such as savings plans, health care coverage and other locations around the world. child care, adoption, elder care and more. and flexible work arrangements. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 85 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Flexibility: We offer flexible work involvement, General Mills encourages Resiliency: Our LifeWorks Employee arrangements to accommodate employees, our employees to live healthy lifestyles. Assistance program helps employees build including telecommuting, flextime and resiliency through counseling, emotional Holistic approach: Our holistic approach the innovative Flexible User Shared support, and referrals to employees includes supporting employees’ physical, Environment program that allows and their families in the United States. emotional and social well-being, as well employees to create workspaces that best Counselors assist employees dealing as building resiliency and strengthening suit their personal and business needs. with stressful situations through onsite, connections with our communities. Evaluation: We evaluate our work/life face-to-face counseling, toll-free phone Nutrition and weight management: access, online resources and educational balance programs annually in an effort to We encourage good nutrition and materials. Some locations also offer onsite meet employees’ changing needs. We’re offer employees healthy dining support groups. This worldwide employee proud of the progress we’ve made. choices at our facilities. assistance program is available to help n  t our Belvidere facility in Illinois, A global HR professionals find resources 350 employees participated in a and information to support employee wellness session to improve their issues. Our facilities around the world understanding of nutrition and fitness; also offer programs tailored for local r Annie’s team members participated in 650 employees pledged to consume an early-morning race along the Chicago, employees. In addition, several of our healthier treats at work, including Illinois, waterfront in August 2015. The locations offer support to help employees run was part of our TriHealthalon wellness improve resiliency, manage stress and apples, yogurt and granola bars program that helps educate and motivate rather than cookies and cupcakes. sales team employees to maintain their reduce ergonomic-related discomfort. physical, emotional and social well-being. I n Argentina, a nutritionist visits r Ken Charles, vice president of Global Inclusion and Staffing at General Mills, was recognized n our production facility each week to Organizational in October 2015 with the Ted Childs Life Work provide body composition testing and included measuring blood pressure, body fat, hydration and cholesterol, leadership Excellence Award, becoming the second man to develop nutrition plans for employees. receive a national award from Working Mother as well as testing for diabetes. Responsibility: Overall responsibility for magazine that recognizes professionals who n  ur facility in Great Falls, Montana, O employee health and wellness programs advocate for work/life balance. Physical activity: We provide employees brought in a registered dietician to help lies with the Vice President of Global Health with opportunities to increase physical educate employees about nutrition, Services and Chief Wellness Officer. Health and well-being including how to adapt diets for shift activity. Initiatives vary by region, including onsite fitness centers and exercise rooms, We support our employees with resources work, portion sizes and weight loss. walking workstations, company-sponsored to aid them in being active, eating healthy n I n the U.K., more than 100 employees or -endorsed runs and walks, yoga and staying well. At our facilities, in participated in health screenings that classes, sports teams and tournaments. our communities and with our brands’ “At General Mills our employees are our most valued asset, and we take a holistic approach to their well-being by providing programming along with an environment that promotes healthy choices, encouraging them to excel both personally and professionally.” – Dr. Julia Halberg, Vice President, Global Health Services, Chief Wellness Officer GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 86 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Walking to increase wellness and awareness In 2015, employees from around programs that break cycles of Results: Employees embraced goal – and the 27 million steps the world participated in “Walk extreme hunger and poverty. the activity, exemplifying our walked by employees in 2014. in Her Shoes,” an initiative that Commitment: As part of Walk in pursuits of putting people first and n S  tories of girls in our program encourages employees to increase Her Shoes, employees committed treating the world with care: were shared each day as physical activity while learning to walking 8,000 steps per day – a n M ore than 1,300 employees a motivation to walk. more about our partnership with figure that mirrors the distance from around the world n T  eams were created and the humanitarian organization walked daily by women and girls participated in May 2015. encouraged in friendly competition CARE USA, which has helped in Malawi and India to meet basic n M ore than 37 million steps around daily step challenges. more than 5 million people needs, such as obtaining water were taken, surpassing our in Africa and India through and accessing education. Enhancing employee health and well-being around the world Highlighted below are some of the many ways our employees are being active, eating healthy and staying well around the world. Enhancing employee U.K. France health and well-being n Cafeteria food prepared with healthier ingredients, cooking methods and informative nutrition labeling n Training on safe driving, ergonomics around the world n Support for active travel (cycling/walking to work) and stress prevention n Fresh fruit distribution twice a week n Fitness assessments, tailored exercise plans and subsidized gym fees Highlighted here are n Public Health Responsibility Deal participation and encouraging n Comité d’Entreprise sports classes some of the many ways physical activity through Walk4Life Germany our employees are being n 50 percent of active, eating healthy Canada employees exercise using gym and staying well. n Fitbit challenge to track employees’ steps and memberships encourage activity n Wellness programming, health seminars, fitness classes, flu shots and ergonomic assessments Korea n Annual sports U.S. day event n Annual 5K ‘Trix’ run in California n Healthy food/exercise challenge for employees in Montana n More than 11,500 visits to onsite health clinic, 2,423 onsite flu shots, 49,364 fitness center visits and 10,100 miles at Greece walking workstations in Minnesota n Annual health checks n Fitness memberships, sports teams and ergonomic advice for employees in Illinois n Lectures on well-being n Wellness and weight management campaign in Michigan n Exercise tips, walks and healthy recipe sharing in Ohio Brazil topics, such as safe driving n Hydration campaign in Georgia n Free vaccinations for 4,800 employees Spain Argentina at 60 locations (80 n EFR certification by the Másfamilia percent of workforce Foundation for achieving balance with n Estar Bien program to improve nutrition, vaccinated) physical activity, health and positive attitude work/family life GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 87 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 3B Invest in development and training Reinforce our culture of learning and continuous development General Mills workplace culture Impact Virtuous cycle of great workplaces Building manager 88 percent of General Mills proficiency officers have been promoted from The updated Great Managers within the company. development program provides General Mills Individual 91 percent of our directors have Institute, functional Development Plans, continuous learning to 2,400 been promoted from within the training career planning managers around the world. The company. Values, program helps leaders become leadership proficient in the four key areas 80 percent of our managers have necessary to facilitate competitively expectations been promoted from within the superior results across their teams: company. n S  etting priorities Employee n D  eveloping people Focus: We respect, develop and invest engagement surveys, n A  ssessing talent in our people. We have a long history of scorecards making employee development a key n G  rowing and inspiring teams priority for the company and established the General Mills Institute more than 20 years ago to provide learning performance appraisals and Individual who work for “great managers” are twice n  social-enabled website to A opportunities. We know that engaged Development Plans (IDP). General Mills as engaged, motivated and innovative as give managers 24/7 access to employees create value and drive business employees have the opportunity to those working for “good managers.” We bite-sized learning content performance. In order to attract and create professional development plans created our Great Managers initiative n  ommunication to keep managers C retain competitively superior talent, we with the assistance of their supervisors. in 2009 to train and increase the informed and engaged develop all employees and work to have Managers and employees discuss effectiveness of our managers around Training: We offer numerous courses a depth of leadership prepared to take on career goals, strengths and development the world. In 2015, we centralized and at the General Mills Institute and new responsibilities when necessary. needs, and then use this information to modernized our strategy. Launched in online learning classes that support identify action items. IDP completion July 2015, the updated Great Managers professional development. Training rates are tracked to monitor employee development program delivers continuous courses range from “Core Business advancement in career planning. learning – providing 2,400 managers with Essentials” and “OnBoarding Fast Start” the knowledge they need, when they need Development plans: We are singleCoach and train it, in a way that’s easy to consume. The for new employees to “Managing People” and “Advanced Managing People” for minded when it comes to development; Coaching: Great managers are key to program’s four-pronged approach includes: improving managers’ skills. We leverage we plan for, invest in, track and evaluate it. retaining and motivating employees. n Centralized global classroom training our robust offering of eLearning courses Development takes many forms, including Internal analysis has shown that employees n Interactive live virtual sessions and other technology solutions to meet GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 88 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community the demands of an increasingly mobile development. Employees also rate Transition assistance: General development are both top-down driven and global workforce. We also provide the effectiveness of managers using Mills provides severance benefits for alignment and locally managed by funding for external training and education. the Great Managers Index. Feedback when employees are impacted training teams embedded in the business has led to a range of actionable items, by downsizing. The severance and functions. This matrix approach Measure effectiveness including additional resources to improve benefits include compensation and delivers relevant training that is responsive Measurement: General Mills continually managers’ skills and communication professional development assistance to business and function requirements. innovates to provide learning and and enhancements to the company’s through an external organization that G4-LA10, LA11 development support to our global global internal collaboration network provides outplacement services. workforce. We regularly assess learning of more than 1,000 communities. needs at every level of the organization. Organizational Our learning strategies link to key Continuity leadership performance indicators for each of the Continuity: Sixty-one percent of company Annually, the General Mills senior company’s business growth drivers. officers started their careers in entry-level management team conducts a strategic To measure effectiveness, we use positions at General Mills. This continuity review of the corporation’s strengths and scorecards to assess learning and behavior reflects our company’s broad-based opportunity areas. We use this process to improvements and their connections commitment to leadership development. identify a clear set of business imperatives to measurable business results. Globally, 80 percent of our managers are that we then translate into capability and Feedback: Our Employee Engagement promoted from within the company. We learning priorities. The HR team develops Survey includes data on employee consistently receive external recognition training plans at the corporate, business satisfaction related to professional for our performance in this area. and functional levels. Learning and r Employees in Korea participated in courses such as “self-leadership” – identifying interests and r We provide learning opportunities to meet the demands of our increasingly mobile and capabilities needed for their careers – and English business writing. global workforce. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 89 Community We believe in the power of food to nourish lives and communities in lasting ways, from farm to fork. OUR STRATEGIES OUR GOAL is to strengthen communities by increasing food security around the globe, while advancing the sustainability 1 INCREASE community food and nutrition security 2 of the agricultural and environmental systems upon which our ADVANCE agricultural planet’s food supply depends. and environmental sustainability 3 INVEST in our hometown communities GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 90 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Overview Nourishing our communities: In fiscal 2015, General Mills donated more than US$154 million to key initiatives that support communities around the globe. General Mills and its Foundation have contributed nearly US$2 billion to charitable organizations worldwide since 1954. We have the greatest impact where our company’s key strengths intersect with community needs. We focus our giving and volunteerism on increasing food and nutrition security, advancing agricultural and environmental sustainability, and strengthening our hometown communities. G4-EC1, FP4 Performance dashboard 2020 Goal 2015 Progress & highlights Provide 200 million meals globally n 2 0 million meals enabled through General Mills food donations globally during 2015 to food-insecure individuals through n M ore than 68 million meals enabled through General Mills food donations globally since 2013 General Mills food donations Strengthen 2,500+ food companies in the n T raining and technical support provided through Partners in Food Solutions to more than 620 small and Food & nutrition most vulnerable and food-insecure regions growing food businesses in six African countries security Expand market opportunities for n T hrough Partners In Food Solutions, 800,000+ smallholder farmers and their 4.8 million family members 1 million smallholder farmers in benefit from expanded market opportunities supplying small and growing food businesses in Africa vulnerable and food-insecure regions Improve the well-being of 20,000 people n C ARE programs in West Africa funded by General Mills focused on youth education, farmer business training in smallholder farming communities from and community food security have reached nearly 5,000 people in cocoa farming communities which General Mills sources key ingredients Sustainable Increase charitable investments in natural n U  S$500,000 contributed to The Nature Conservancy in fiscal 2015 in support of the global water risk agriculture resource conservation and sustainability to assessment project n C haritable investments in conservation and sustainability increased in fiscal 2015 by 83 percent versus 30 percent of corporate contributions* prior year (to 13.2 percent of total corporate contributions*) Achieve employee volunteerism rate of n 7 6 percent of employees worldwide reported volunteering in their communities, including 83 percent 80 percent worldwide of U.S.-based employees n U  S$154+ million in corporate giving provided during fiscal 2015, including nearly $28 million in grants Exceed US$2 billion in cumulative to charities in communities worldwide corporate charitable giving n G eneral Mills and its Foundation have contributed more than US$1.9 billion in cumulative corporate giving** Hometown communities n D  uring the 2014-2015 school year, U.S. schools earned more than US$78 million through Box Tops for Provide more than US$1 billion to TM Education™, including US$61 million earned through General Mills brands schools through Box Tops for Education n S chools have earned more than US$715 million through Box Tops for Education™ since cause marketing program the program began in 1996 *Of total corporate charitable contributions that are managed by the General Mills Foundation. **Since 1954, General Mills, Inc. and the General Mills Foundation have contributed US$1,969,655,470. This figure includes Foundation grants, Box Tops for Education giving, corporate contributions and the company’s global food donations. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 91 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Our approach: connect & lead Unite innovative ideas, resources and partners to make an impact around the world Skills-based volunteerism: Our 154.9 million At General Mills, our philanthropy and community engagement are closely employees contribute their time and $ connected with our core food business. expertise to community organizations The amount we gave to charitable causes in fiscal 2015 Our commitment to building strong through skills-based volunteerism, including Foundation grants communities includes providing grants programs such as GoodWorks. Worldwide, to nonprofit organizations from the 76 percent of General Mills employees $27.8 General Mills Foundation, donating million volunteer in their communities, including Corporate contributions/ food from our businesses, supporting 83 percent of U.S.-based employees – brand philanthropy brand partnerships to advance causes one of the highest rates of volunteerism Food donations $77.2 and supporting employee volunteerism among all companies nationwide. $49.9 million around the world. We strive to expand million our positive impact via our philanthropic Knowledge transfer: We facilitate focus areas of increasing food and the sharing of best practices through nutrition security, advancing agricultural programs such as Partners in Food and environmental sustainability, and Solutions (PFS), a nonprofit that links Brand partnerships: Our brands with support from program officers at strengthening our hometown communities. engage and connect with consumers our headquarters. In addition, employee the technical and business expertise of in dynamic ways to further support councils located across our key global Collective impact employees from General Mills and other leading companies to food processors and causes such as hunger prevention, nature operating locations around the world Philanthropy: General Mills has conservation and biodiversity through assist with grant-making by helping to millers in the developing world – thereby connected people and resources across programs including Trail View (Nature identify and nominate local nonprofit increasing food security in entire regions. communities since our earliest days. Valley), Bee Friendlier (Cascadian Farm) organizations eligible to receive funds. Many of our most successful philanthropic and Outnumber Hunger (multi-brand). The Foundation is governed by a Board initiatives are those where we have Creating shared value: Through of Trustees that includes the Senior Vice our philanthropy as well as General President of External Relations, who is partnered with a cross-sector mix of highly committed stakeholders from across the Mills’ sourcing and vendor activities, we Leadership and responsible for overseeing the company’s invest in programs around the globe that community or region so that key insights improve the livelihoods and well-being of governance philanthropic initiatives, and leaders from the company’s finance, supply and best practices can be shared and General Mills’ community engagement smallholder farmers and their families in chain, marketing, legal, human resources, further scaled for broader societal impact. and Foundation programs are led by the the communities from which we source sales and external relations functions. Executive Director of the Foundation ingredients for General Mills products. “When we share our employees’ food expertise, knowledge and skills with communities and partners around the globe, our potential for positive impact exceeds more than any philanthropic budget could ever yield on its own.” – Mary Jane Melendez, Executive Director, General Mills Foundation GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 92 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community OUR STRATEGIES AND ACTIONS 1 Increase community food and nutrition security 2 Advance agricultural and environmental sustainability 3 Invest in our hometown communities A E  xpand healthy food access for A Increase farm vitality, farmer resilience A I ncrease impact through employee families and communities and natural resource stewardship volunteerism and community giving 1 Increase community food and nutrition security 1A Expand healthy food access for families and communities Develop solutions to alleviate hunger and create food secure futures We support programs that alleviate The Global FoodBanking Network: In Through food donations, grants and involvement with network partners, hunger, expand food system capacity 2015, General Mills provided US$4.9 General Mills provides support to food banks around the world. Locations marked and address barriers to food security. million worth of food donations, in addition with circles below receive food donated directly from General Mills. to Foundation grants, to help The Global Food rescue and FoodBanking Network (GFN) create and food donations strengthen food banks around the world. In 2015, GFN rescued 1.2 billion pounds of Impact food and distributed it to 28,000 hungerrelief agencies that provided 1.5 billion US$49.9 million in food donations meals to 6.5 million hungry people. In globally in fiscal 2015. addition to our role as a GFN founding US$390 million donated in food worldwide since 1999. r In Chile, seniors receive nourishing meals provided by The Global FoodBanking Network. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 93 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community partner, General Mills continues to help Global FoodBanking Network 2015 impact: GFN alleviate hunger on an expanded global scale through food donations, grants, Global FoodBanking volunteerism and intellectual philanthropy. Network expansion GFN’s focus includes: n In  2015, GFN expanded to 750 food banks in 34 countries. n S upporting and strengthening food bank members n N  ew food banks were opened in Bangalore, Dominican Republic, n C reating national food bank Panama, Peru, Shanghai and Uruguay. systems where they are needed n F  ood banks in Chile, Costa Rica, Taiwan n L eadership education and training and Hong Kong opened their second for food banks worldwide branches to reach more people in need. n R educing child hunger and advancing r The Global FoodBanking Network helps improve food security for people in Mexico. nutrition around the globe “As a key partner and one of The Global FoodBanking Network’s leading supporters, General Mills has helped the GFN network of food banks in 34 countries rescue and redistribute surplus food to millions of hungry people. From financial resources to food donations to time and talent, General Mills together with food banks around the world is changing lives.” – Lisa Moon, President and CEO, The Global FoodBanking Network Feeding America: Our partnership to local volunteerism and Foundation Together, we provide nourishment to with Feeding America spans more grants. In fiscal 2015 alone, General Americans struggling with hunger. than 35 years and is multifaceted, Mills donated more than 23 million ranging from food donations to cause pounds of food to Feeding America’s marketing programs, board service 200 food banks across the United States. Meet the need and stabilize lives General Mills support to Feeding America n F  ounding partner n Leading food donor n E ngaging employees through volunteerism n 3  5 years of n Engaging consumers philanthropic support through Outnumber n F eeding America Expand and Optimize Address the Maximize Influence Hunger board engagement diversify food distribution of intersection access to people and sources nutritious food of hunger and government policy makers priority needs meal programs to take action GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 94 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Second Harvest Heartland: For more than retailers to systematically address food three decades, General Mills has partnered waste at the store level. The initiative with Second Harvest Heartland, one of the included development of FareShare largest, most efficient and innovative food FoodCloud, an online platform and mobile banks in the Feeding America national app that instantly notifies hunger relief network. General Mills’ support spans charities when there is food available at food donations, Foundation grants and their local Tesco for donation. As a result, employee volunteerism. In addition to thousands of tons of excess food are being developing and piloting innovative solutions rescued and donated annually to U.K. hunger for achieving community food security, charities. Once the program pilot in Tesco Second Harvest Heartland supports more stores has been fully assessed, FareShare than 1,000 food shelves, pantries and plans to roll it out to other supermarkets other hunger relief programs in Minnesota with the potential to create expanded food and western Wisconsin. With grants from networks for charities and community General Mills, Second Harvest Heartland groups across the country. FareShare is now has successfully advanced strategic r The FareShare FoodCloud mobile app and online platform link surplus food at the store level with redistributing enough food for 16.6 million local charitable organizations. initiatives focused on increasing the meals a year and driving food savings for availability of produce and other fresh foods FareShare: As part of our global food 25 percent increase over the previous 12 the charitable organizations served at the across the region’s hunger relief system, security strategy, we support the nonprofit, months – to more than 2,100 charities and rate of more than US$24 million annually. thereby expanding the capacity of food FareShare, in the U.K. During its most community groups. General Mills’ 2015 In addition to financial support, General shelves and agencies to source, distribute recent fiscal year, FareShare rescued and grant to FareShare included support for a Mills also donates food to FareShare. and increase consumption of fresh produce. redistributed 7,961 metric tons of food – a strategic project to enable U.K. grocery Second Harvest Heartland – fresh produce impact Impact: From 2013 to 2015, Second included US$250,000 in funding for Harvest Heartland distributed more than Share Fresh Minnesota, a ‘farm-to24 million pounds of fresh fruits and foodshelf’ agricultural surplus initiative vegetables – including more than 10 million that has resulted in millions of pounds pounds in 2015 – that would otherwise of excess produce going from the WATCH VIDEO have been unharvested or discarded. fields into the hunger relief system to nourish hungry neighbors statewide Support: General Mills’ support of r Learn more about how Share Fresh facilitates with locally sourced, healthy foods. Second Harvest Heartland in 2015 distribution of local surplus produce. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 95 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Strengthen community SOURCING food systems n S easonality n A  cquisition costs n G eography n T  ransportation costs Impact Food Waste Reduction Alliance: Through our participation in the Food Waste US$13.4 million invested globally HANDLING r General Mills supports the Campus Reduction Alliance (FWRA), we are helping through 2015 grants that support n R eceiving and handling practices Kitchens Project, a network of student to reduce the amount of waste being hunger and nutrition programs. n C old storage capacity at food banks volunteers in the U.S. focused on recovering and food pantries food and providing meals. sent to landfills and redirecting it instead to feed hungry people in communities US$1.3 million focused on expanding Campus Kitchens across the U.S. FWRA was formed in the capabilities of food banks in 2015. DISTRIBUTION Project: Since 1999, 2011 by a group of food retailers and 17+ million more pounds of n T imely and efficient distribution the General Mills food and beverage companies, including fresh produce nourishing Foundation has n F ood pantry and client education General Mills. In 2015, FWRA released communities in 2015. supported the Campus Kitchens Project, a a guide to food waste reduction best nonprofit focused on empowering college, practices and solutions that outlines r Contributions from General Mills are university and high school students to create strategies from leading food producers, Grants from the General Mills Foundation helping food banks overcome these barriers to sustainable solutions to food waste and retailers and foodservice operators and help our community partners expand expanding fresh food offerings. hunger. The network of student volunteer shares successful approaches to keeping systems capacity to receive and distribute Fresh Produce Expansion grants, organizations on nearly 50 U.S. campuses food out of landfills while maximizing food. We support a variety of efforts described below, are one way we trains and supports students as they opportunities to feed hungry neighbors to strengthen regional and local food are helping improve nutrition for attransform unused food from dining halls, in our communities. This toolkit, the 2015 systems to increase food security. risk people in our communities. grocery stores, restaurants and farmers’ Best Practices and Emerging Solutions markets into meals that are delivered to local Guide, includes input from more than agencies serving those in need. Since 2001, 30 FWRA member companies and Removing barriers to providing fresh produce Campus Kitchens Project has recovered expert partners from the hunger relief more than 5.1 million pounds of food and waste management sectors. Thanks to Fresh Produce Expansion grants from the General Mills Foundation to Feeding (including more than 1 million pounds during America in 2015, 7.5 million additional pounds of fresh produce are now nourishing U.S. 2015 alone), and has converted the rescued communities annually. This funding enabled food banks to eliminate barriers to sourcing and food into 2.5 million meals for the hungry. distributing more fresh food, including fruits and vegetables. Actions included: Equipping – Our support enabled food Transporting – From maintaining trucks to Food Waste Reduction Alliance goals banks to purchase refrigerators, freezers, obtaining trailers with lift gates, food banks air quality equipment and other needed were able to load, transport and unload food items to expand their capacity for storing more efficiently, boosting intake capacity. GOAL #1 GOAL #2 GOAL #3 Reduce the amount Increase the amount Recycle unavoidable fresh fruits and vegetables safely so they Coordinating – Additional staff members of food waste of safe, nutritious food waste, diverting can accept more produce and keep it fresh generated food donated to it from landfills increased the ability of food banks those in need longer. Sorting and packing equipment also to coordinate donations and make helped food banks accept bulk donations arrangements to gather and distribute and prepare them for distribution. food more widely, especially in areas r FWRA’s initial objectives were to reduce food waste to landfills and increase food donations. with high concentrations of poverty. The organization’s focus has expanded to include recycling of unavoidable food waste. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 96 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Partners in Food Solutions Connecting expertise with opportunity Recognition: In alliance with TechnoServe Now a standalone nonprofit, globally and USAID, PFS was recognized by the U.S. recognized and fueled by funds and State Department in 2015 as an outstanding volunteers from leading multinational public-private partnership through its corporations, Partners in Food Solutions nomination as a P3 Impact Award Finalist. (PFS) began as a program inside General Mills in 2008. The nonprofit organization is PFS supports small and growing food working to improve the capacity, efficiency processors and mills in Africa. r In July 2015, U.S. President Barack Obama r In Kenya, General Mills employees serving and product quality of food companies visited PFS client Faffa Food Share Company in as PFS volunteers are working with Osho Grain in Africa to improve food security and Ethiopia to highlight the significance of publicMillers to produce instant maize meal. private partnerships. “A part of our goal is not nutrition and drive economic development, just to provide to countries that may have food Cargill, DSM, Bühler and The Hershey thereby helping to improve living standards, scarcity, but to continually build up their capacity Company, which joined the effort in 2015; address chronic food supply issues across the board. And so, having strong corporate 6 1 implementation partners TechnoServe and respond to extreme hunger in the partners alongside local business can really make 2 a big difference.” – President Barack Obama and USAID; and strategic partners Root developing world. PFS links the technical 1 Ethiopia 3 Capital, Colle+McVoy and Ecolab. and business expertise of volunteers – 2 Kenya 4 train 2,000 food processors, generate 1,000 Tanzania 5 including food scientists, nutritionists and Expanding to West Africa: With the 3 new jobs, and create and sustain viable 4 Malawi engineers – from industry-leading food addition of The Hershey Company to markets for more than 1 million farmers 5 Zambia companies with 620 small and growing the PFS partner team, the organization 6 Ghana and their 6 million family members. food processors and millers in Africa. is expanding its footprint into West Additional partners: PFS collaborates Africa. Starting in Ghana, PFS is Goal: By 2019, PFS plans to broaden its with a range of organizations, including partnering with social investment fund reach to recruit and engage more than corporate partners General Mills, Root Capital to combine business and 2,000 corporate volunteers who will help technical expertise from corporate volunteers with capital lending and Impact: PFS results since 2008 financial training. PFS plans to extend this initiative into Côte d’Ivoire in 2016. WATCH VIDEO 620 food companies and 820+ skilled employees and retirees Flour fortification: In March 2015, ASTCO processors in six countries have from corporate partner organizations r PFS connects the expertise of volunteers Food Complex celebrated Ethiopia’s firstreceived training and support. have participated, including more like Dante Vargas, a General Mills employee, ever fortified wheat flour with the assistance than 480 from General Mills with small companies to help them grow. Learn 800,000+ smallholder farmers – of PFS volunteers, giving consumers new how PFS volunteers have helped a processor of (valued at nearly US$4.5 million). and their 4.8 million family access to essential vitamins and minerals. sunflower oil in Dodoma, Tanzania. members – benefit as they 62,000+ hours contributed by supply those processors. these volunteers have supported “The ability to connect the know-how, wisdom and expertise from companies more than 380 projects. like General Mills with promising food companies across Africa is bringing Improved access to more locally sourced, nutritious and safe food tangible benefits to many people. Assisting local food companies is a at affordable prices for both food catalyst for growing or sustaining the demand for the crops of smallholder aid and local retail markets. farmers, improving nutrition and food safety, and building local economies.” – Jeff Dykstra, CEO, Partners in Food Solutions GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 97 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Closing the missing Participation in the challenge resulted in a 24 percent increase in the number meal gap of breakfasts served to students eligible for free and reduced-price meals. By Impact promoting increased utilization of the school breakfast program, 9.54 Nearly 8 million breakfasts million meals were provided to food provided to at-risk students insecure and at-risk students, including through Breakfast Club of Canada, 1.1 million meals during the 2014School Breakfast Challenge and 2015 school year alone. The School China school meals programs. Breakfast Challenge is part of the School Breakfast Initiative, a partnership Reduced Minnesota’s (100 million of the Children’s Defense Fundmeal) missing meal gap by 70 Minnesota and Hunger-Free Minnesota, percent via the Hunger-Free working to expand participation in Minnesota campaign since 2011. the school breakfast program. 1.1 million meals provided through the Minnesota School Breakfast Challenge in 2015. r General Mills supports Breakfast Club of Canada, which serves nutritious breakfasts of fresh fruits, vegetables, dairy, whole grain and protein. For some students, it is their only meal of the day. communities through Breakfast Club of at a school with an existing Breakfast Club Breakfast Club of Canada: General Mills Canada. The program delivers food, funds, of Canada program, the greenhouse serves provides funding for nine school breakfast equipment and training to schools in lowmembers of an adjacent First Nations programs serving more than 2,100 income communities, helping them serve community struggling with food insecurity. children in First Nations, Métis and Inuit r More at-risk students receive nutritious 340,000 breakfasts each year. We also Minnesota School Breakfast Challenge: food through the Minnesota School Breakfast provide support for a greenhouse project In 2015, General Mills supported phase Challenge. in Exshaw, a community devastated by two of the School Breakfast Challenge, flooding in Alberta, Canada, that helps Western China school meals: In western providing financial support for 120 highstudents and community members to China, we provide support for school meals need Minnesota schools to increase sustainably grow nutritious food. Located served daily to more than 1,200 students breakfasts served to low-income children. “Breakfast Club of Canada is proud to count General Mills as a major contributor to the success of our mission. Thanks to generous partners like General Mills, we are able to help serve over 27 million breakfasts during the school year.” – Daniel Germain, President and Founder, Breakfast Club of Canada GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 98 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community at five rural schools in Yunnan’s Xuanwei Meal Gap Study by Feeding America and region. The meals, which include milk a rigorous business plan developed in and eggs, supply needed calcium, protein partnership with The Boston Consulting and other nutrients to students living in Group, the Hunger-Free Minnesota areas with high rates of malnutrition. team used a refined methodology first Hunger-Free Minnesota campaign: developed by Second Harvest Heartland Hunger-Free Minnesota, a three-year to identify a gap of nearly 100 million campaign to transform hunger relief in missing meals. Eight founding partners the state, came to a close as planned created the action plan, which was in 2015, with incredible results. The vetted by 500 stakeholders across the collective effort generated 70 million state. Interventions focused on improving meals to feed hungry Minnesotans, well food sourcing from farm to table and above the campaign’s 60 million meal in-between, building service capacity, and goal, while also making sustainable heightening awareness and participation improvements in how hunger relief works in government nutrition programs. in Minnesota. Launched in 2011 leveraging G4-EC1, FP4 r We help provide nutritious school meals for students in western China. community level data from the Missing Hunger-Free Minnesota HUNGER-RELIEF AGRICULTURAL SURPLUS FOOD RESCUE SNAP AWARENESS campaign highlights SYSTEM CAPACITY n C ross-sector collaboration to close the state’s missing meal gap, involving community, corporate, education, government, research and media entities at all levels n D ata-driven accountability across the campaign’s eight programmatic initiatives WOMEN, INFANTS & COMMUNITY HUNGER & HEALTH SCHOOL MEALS n C umulative investment (all partners) of CHILDREN PROGRAM (WIC) CLOSE-UP DATA INTERSECTION more than $9.7 million into communities n I mplementation of more than 400 food security projects n R esults included generation of 70 million meals for the hungry r The Hunger-Free Minnesota campaign directed investments into the most effective and transformational solutions to change the trajectory of hunger relief across the state. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 99 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Advance agricultural 2 and environmental sustainability 2A Increase farm vitality, farmer resilience and natural resource stewardship Improve the well-being and livelihoods of smallholder farmers and their families More than ever, General Mills is aligning In developing economies where General its philanthropy to further support Mills or our suppliers source raw the company’s global commitment to ingredients for our products, we work sustainable agriculture and environmental with smallholder farmers, NGOs and stewardship. Whether it’s investing in industry partners to ensure these farmers, NGO-led programs that strengthen the their families and communities have the smallholder farming communities from resources and support needed to increase which we source ingredients like cocoa their well-being and ability to prosper. or vanilla, or contributing to initiatives Cocoa-growing communities in Ghana: that conserve and restore watersheds General Mills invests in philanthropic around the globe, we believe these r In Ghana, our investments support CARE’s efforts to keep kids in school. programs led by the global humanitarian investments have a sustained benefit farming communities by engaging the Ashanti region (Ahafo Ano North and organization, CARE, in the cocoa-growing and value that is good for communities, with them in planning and resource South); one in the Brong Ahafo region communities of West Africa – including the environment and business. investments aimed at increasing cocoa (Tano North); and one in the Central communities from which our suppliers source cocoa for General Mills products. farmer livelihoods, eradicating child labor, region (Asikuma Odoben Brakwa). Read Support smallholder CARE’s programs foster prosperous, increasing household food and nutrition more about our commitments and efforts farmers and strengthen sustainable and security, and promoting education for all to support cocoa growers and their their communities resilient cocoachildren. The project operates in four of Ghana’s poorest cocoa districts: two in communities in the Sustainability section. Impact 1,577 smallholder cocoa farmers 76 percent increase in average and their family members benefited gross income of participating from expanded access to education, cocoa farmers. training and food security programs. 660 vanilla growers and their 20 cocoa communities supported in 2,640 family members benefited the formation of cooperatives. from our investments. r More cocoa farmers are joining cooperatives r Our support helps promote education and in their communities. increase food and nutrition security. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 100 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community Vanilla-growing communities in Madagascar: Our work with CARE in Protect natural Conservancy (TNC) included support for Water Stewardship for a Sustainable Madagascar during 2013 and 2014 resources Future, an initiative addressing at-risk has improved food security for vanilla watersheds in Central Mexico, California, farming communities, including 660 Impact New Mexico and the U.S. Central High farmers and their 2,640 family members. Plains, through heightened watershed In 2015, employees from our HäagenSupporting watershed projects analysis to inform conservation efforts. Dazs production facility in Arras, France, in communities that are TNC and General Mills share findings from traveled to Belambo, Madagascar, to home to 95 million people. this work with local communities around help inaugurate a new secondary school r The Belambo community library is now well US$500,000 provided in 2015 the watersheds and develop collaborative building and establish a committee to stocked with books, thanks to donations from to The Nature Conservancy to action plans with stakeholders, including oversee the community library. These visits General Mills employees. protect at-risk watersheds. large water users, governments and are part of an ongoing relationship between interested community members. We also 83 percent year-over-year work with TNC to ensure implementation the Häagen-Dazs team in Arras and the increase in charitable investments of these action plans and strategies. vanilla growing community in Belambo. to advance sustainability. This connection includes an ongoing “sister Learn more about our water stewardship school” cross-cultural education program work to protect at-risk watersheds and between the primary schools in Arras and Water conservation: We understand that improve the sustainability of water Belambo in which the students discuss water stewardship is not only good for use throughout our supply chain in French and Malagasy daily life. Learn more business, it is also vital for communities story 2A and water conservation r A General Mills employee from Arras, about how we are helping farmers increase and the natural ecosystems upon which efforts in our own operations in story France, works with the new manager of the sustainability and improve their livelihoods we all depend. During fiscal 2015, General 4D of the Sustainability section. community library in Belambo, Madagascar, a in the Sustainability section of this report. Mills contributions to The Nature G4-EC1, EN9, EN27 village where we source vanilla. r General Mills employees in Arras raised money to fund a school building and donated books, stationery and clothing for the community in Belambo. The new school serves older students, ages 11 to 14, and enables 120 additional students from the surrounding area to attend classes. r We support water stewardship projects in our communities. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 101 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 3 Invest in our hometown communities 3A Increase impact through employee volunteerism and community giving Share skills and best practices Our employees contribute their skills and Impact volunteer their time to achieve results in communities around the world. We work 76 percent of General Mills with partners at the global, national and employees worldwide report local levels to strengthen our communities volunteering in their communities, by harnessing our collective insights including 83 percent of and resources for greater impact. We U.S.-based employees. reinforce our employees’ efforts through flexible giving programs and by supporting 10,000+ hours volunteered by their skills-based volunteerism. nearly 2,000 employees in 60 locations during Think Global, Volunteer Local activities in 2015. Skills-based volunteerism 50+ communities supported Our employees have built a strong legacy through local grants in 2015. of volunteerism at General Mills by Nearly US$28 million in applying the skills they develop in their r Employees collected vegetables from the Giving Garden at General Mills headquarters. jobs to help community organizations. grants provided to charities More than 2,500 pounds of produce from the garden were donated in 2015 to local nonprofit in communities worldwide. organizations, including Prism and Second Harvest Heartland. More than 14,000 pounds of Good Works: Our Good Works program produce have been donated to hunger-relief programs since the garden was established in 2010. leverages employees’ on-the-job Supporting schools Since Box Tops for Education™ began in 1996, U.S. schools have earned more than US$715 million through the program, including over US$78 million during the 2014-2015 school year. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 102 Health & Wellness Sustainability Workplace Community 10,000 knowledge for the benefit of our broader strategy to connect employees in China: More than 200 General Mills communities worldwide. Founded in meaningful ways with our communities employees from Shanghai, Guangzhou, 2009, the Good Works program links so they can make a positive impact Nanjin and Sanhe participated in a variety In 2015, General Mills nonprofit organizations with General throughout the year. TGVL is strategically of volunteer opportunities ranging from Mills marketing and consumer insights focused on hunger, nutrition, sustainability environmental projects to serving meals. For employees volunteered more professionals around the globe, enabling and environmental community projects. example, in Guangzhou, employees focused than 10,000 hours in their our employees to apply their business These efforts reinforce our core values. on recycling unwanted goods, while in communities as part of Think skills and passion via pro-bono projects for Listed below are just a few examples of Nanjing, efforts focused on roadside cleanup Global, Volunteer Local. selected nonprofits. Since the program’s our employees’ many acts of volunteerism. in a mountain area. Employees from Sanhe inception, more than 200 employees collected donations for children in Gansu, Brazil: Community involvement have served as Good Works volunteers a poverty stricken area in western China. continues to grow in Brazil. More than and completed 45 projects, receiving G4-FP4 680 employees participated in TGVL in strong reviews from the nonprofits about 2015 – a 21 percent increase from the the quality and impact of their work. previous year – including people from all plants, several distribution centers Think Global, and the São Paulo main office. TGVL Volunteer Local activities occurred in 15 cities, with many In 2015, nearly 2,000 General Mills volunteers helping institutions supported employees from 60 locations around by Mesa Brasil, a food bank that works the world volunteered more than 10,000 against hunger and waste. General Mills hours in their communities as part of our employees helped prepare and serve food, r Hong Kong employees collected bottles r Spanish volunteers worked with GREFA, renovated buildings and participated in for recycling. which focuses on the rehabilitation of Spanish Think Global, Volunteer Local (TGVL) wildlife and habitat, on a project benefiting the event. This annual initiative is part of our activities with children and teenagers. European Galapagos. r Employees in Brazil helped renovate buildings as part of TGVL. r In China, employees from Shanghai provided care for children of migrant workers and served them Wanchai Ferry dumplings during TGVL. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 103 APPENDIX Environmental Data Summary*,**,*** 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 Excl 2013 Incl 2014 Excl 2014 Incl 2015 Excl 2015 Incl In thousands, except rate data Yoplait/Yoki Yoplait/Yoki Yoplait/Yoki Yoplait/Yoki Yoplait/Yoki Yoplait/Yoki Energy usage rate (kWh/metric ton of product) EN5 580 570 579 557 546 534 533 528 530 524 532 523 538 523 Energy usage (kWh) EN3 2,769,236 2,740,885 2,738,032 2,754,617 2,685,422 2,656,939 2,601,972 2,465,263 2,503,348 2,926,949 2,522,890 2,923,925 2,513,520 2,894,479 Direct energy usage by primary source (kWh) 1,509,968 1,511,989 1,527,708 1,496,014 1,471,627 1,509,856 1,462,563 1,358,819 1,388,055 1,641,653 1,413,128 1,660,881 1,399,399 1,643,339 Fuel oil (kWh) 50,237 58,580 37,242 29,597 24,192 23,556 22,055 22,413 19,002 23,326 10,045 14,323 4,465 9,023 Natural gas (kWh) 1,414,573 1,370,316 1,405,408 1,379,694 1,377,570 1,382,944 1,350,699 1,266,571 1,283,946 1,385,563 1,308,555 1,411,983 1,308,898 1,416,748 LP gas (kWh) 4,484 5,846 4,787 2,989 14,458 17,085 4,171 2,747 2,013 29,042 2,889 27,091 1,690 14,923 Solar panels (kWh) NA NA NA NA NA NA 82 121 119 119 121 121 118 118 Cogeneration electric (kWh) 14,146 19,129 21,128 20,744 14,672 27,221 25,234 17,763 17,871 17,871 20,314 20,314 16,345 16,345 Cogeneration steam (kWh) 26,528 58,117 59,143 62,989 40,736 56,698 52,330 30,646 39,348 39,348 44,675 44,675 44,193 44,193 Biomass (kWh) NA NA NA NA NA 2,352 7,993 18,559 25,756 146,383 26,530 142,375 23,690 141,990 Indirect energy consumption (electricity) (kWh) 1,259,268 1,228,897 1,210,325 1,258,603 1,213,794 1,147,082 1,139,408 1,106,444 1,115,293 1,285,296 1,109,762 1,263,044 1,114,121 1,251,140 International (kWh) 104,083 110,689 125,176 178,336 159,683 138,470 140,497 149,890 156,838 326,841 152,379 305,661 160,288 297,307 North America (kWh) 1,155,185 1,118,207 1,085,148 1,080,267 1,054,112 1,008,612 998,911 956,554 958,455 958,455 957,382 957,382 953,833 953,833 Energy usage, by region International (kWh) 215,212 253,647 284,709 291,888 264,858 262,493 268,289 284,020 295,020 718,621 292,876 693,911 307,049 688,009 North America (kWh) 2,554,025 2,487,239 2,453,324 2,462,729 2,420,564 2,394,446 2,333,683 2,181,243 2,206,894 2,206,894 2,226,512 2,226,512 2,206,471 2,206,471 GHG emissions rate (metric tons CO2e/ metric tons of product) EN18 0.226 0.222 0.225 0.216 0.211 0.204 0.206 0.206 0.205 0.181 0.196 0.173 0.197 0.173 GHG emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) (metric tons CO2e) 1,076 1,068 1,062 1,068 1,037 1,017 1,006 961 970 1,013 928 965 922 956 Scope 1 (metric tons CO2e) EN15 280 283 285 282 273 285 273 251 254 281 259 284 255 278 Fuel oil (metric tons CO2e) 12 14 8 7 5 5 5 5 4 5 2 4 1 2 Natural gas (metric tons CO2e) 267 268 275 274 265 277 267 246 250 270 256 274 253 273 LP gas (metric tons CO2e) 1 1 1 1 3 4 1 1 0 6 1 6 0.4 3 Scope 2 (metric tons CO2e) EN16 797 786 777 786 763 732 733 710 716 732 669 681 667 678 GHG emissions from renewables (not in Scope 1 or 2) NA NA NA NA NA 0 1 3 5 44 8 48 10 48 GHG Emissions, by region International (metric tons CO2e) 64 76 86 85 84 87 91 95 100 143 95 132 96 129 North America (metric tons CO2e) 1,012 993 977 983 953 930 915 866 870 870 833 833 826 826 Water usage rate (cubic meters/metric ton of product) 2.383 2.266 2.222 2.258 2.186 2.112 2.135 2.111 2.902 2.076 2.794 2.137 2.858 Water withdrawal (cubic meters) EN8 11,100 10,600 11,000 11,000 10,800 10,300 10,000 10,000 16,200 10,100 15,800 10,000 15,800 Groundwater (cubic meters) NA NA NA NA NA NA 2,000 1,800 1,700 7,800 1,700 7,100 1,700 7,200 Municipal (cubic meters) NA NA NA NA NA NA 8,300 8,200 8,300 8,400 8,400 8,700 8,300 8,600 Solid waste generation rate (metric tons/ metric tons of product) 0.057 0.052 0.047 0.051 0.040 0.037 0.037 0.034 0.033 0.034 0.032 0.033 0.033 0.035 Solid waste (metric tons) EN23 266 241 221 239 197 183 178 159 155 190 152 186 152 193 * Data in this table is reported on a May-April basis (through April of the year noted). Energy, GHG emissions, water, and solid waste generation absolute and rate data are from wholly owned or controlled production facilities globally. Solid waste data in this table is from production and excludes waste associated with construction as well as non-production activities such as new product trials. ** Some segments do not add up to total, due to rounding. *** Some data are restated compared to reporting in prior years to reflect improvements in data gathering and tracking methodology. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 104 2015 Commitments/Goals/Progress Our goal is to provide people with convenient, nutritious food that – Health & Wellness when combined with exercise and activity – can help them live healthier lives. Target Progress Improve product health profiles U.S.: Reduce calories, fat, saturated fat, trans fat, sugar or sodium by 10 percent or more 77% of U.S retail sales volume nutritionally improved since 2005, including more than per serving. Increase beneficial nutrients – including vitamins, minerals and fiber – by 10 percent 1,000 products. or more per serving. CPW: Announced targets in 2012 for nutritionally improving about 5.3 billion portions of cereals 85% of net sales of CPW kids and teens brands worldwide achieved Global Nutrition popular with kids and teens in more than 130 markets. Commitment criteria in 2015. Reduce sugar U.S.: In 2009, we pledged to reduce all of our cereals advertised to children under 12 to single-digit 100% of Big G cereals marketed to children contain 10 grams of sugar or less; nearly 69% grams of sugar per serving. of Big G cereals have 9 grams of sugar or less per serving. In 2015, we reduced sugar by 25% in each serving of Yoplait® Original, decreasing the amount of sugar from 26 grams to 18 grams; since 2007, we have reduced sugar in three other yogurts – Yoplait® Go-Gurt, Yoplait® Trix and Yoplait® Kids – by nearly 25%. Reduced sugar by at least 10% in more than 250 products since 2005; introduced lower-sugar products. Reduce sodium U.S.: Reduce sodium by 20 percent across top 10 retail product categories by 2015. As of the end of 2015, we met or exceeded our goal in seven of 10 categories and made significant progress in the other three, with reductions across the 10 categories ranging from 18-35%; this effort includes sodium reductions in more than 350 products – more than onethird of our U.S. retail sales volume. Reduce calories U.S.: Reduce calories by 10% or more per serving. More than 1,000 General Mills’ U.S. retail products (64%) have 150 calories or less per serving; more than 550 General Mills’ U.S. retail products (36%) have 100 calories or less per serving. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 105 2015 Commitments/Goals/Progress Health & Wellness (con’t) Target Progress Remove artificial ingredients U.S.: In June 2015, we committed to removing artificial flavors and colors from artificial sources U.S.: 77% of General Mills U.S. retail cereals, including Cinnamon Toast Crunch and original from all of our U.S. retail cereals by the end of 2017. Cheerios, are made without artificial flavors and colors from artificial sources. U.S.: 100% of U.S. retail Nature Valley Granola Bars, Betty Crocker Cookie Mixes, Mott’s and Equity Fruit Snacks have no artificial flavors or colors from artificial sources; 100% of U.S. retail Nature Valley Granola Bars and Yoplait® Original yogurt contain no artificial sweeteners. Expand wellness offerings to meet diverse consumer needs Expand our leadership in gluten-free products. U.S.: 980+ gluten-free products offered in the U.S.; second-largest U.S. producer of gluten-free products. Grow our natural and organic food business to US$1 billion in sales by 2019, nearly double U.S. and Canada: 262 organic retail products offered in the U.S. and Canada; third-largest U.S. its current size. natural and organic food producer. Expand protein-rich product offerings. U.S.: 225 U.S. retail products offered with at least 10 percent daily value of protein per serving. Expand food safety Achieve Global Food Safety Initiative (GFSI) certification of all General Mills-owned 72% of General Mills-owned facilities are GFSI certified; 75% of co-production sites and 49% facilities by 2020. of ingredient supplier sites also are GFSI certified. Responsible marketing U.S.: Comply with Children’s Food and Beverage Advertising Initiative (CFBAI) child General Mills has been in full compliance with CFBAI standards since their inception in 2006, advertising nutrition standards. including the Uniform Nutrition Standards that took effect in December 2013. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 106 2015 Commitments/Goals/Progress Our goal is to protect the resources upon which our business depends by promoting Sustainability environmentally and socially responsible practices across our entire value chain. We are committed to collaborating across our company, value chain and industry to help tackle the Climate change global challenge of our changing climate. Target Progress Address climate change 2025 Goal: Reduce absolute GHG emissions across our full value chain by 28% (compared to 2010). Progress on our 10x20 sustainable sourcing commitment (see below). Improvement in energy use, GHG emissions and packaging within our 2050 Goal: Reduce absolute GHG emissions across our full value chain by 41-72% operations (see page 109). (compared to 2010) to achieve sustainable levels in line with scientific consensus. Collaboration across industries and organizations, including We Mean Business and BICEP. For more information on our climate change goal and plans, see pages 34-35. We are committed to sustainably sourcing 100% of our 10 priority ingredients by 2020, representing more Sourcing than 50% of our annual raw material purchases. RAW MATERIAL COMMITMENT 2015 PROGRESS* Vanilla 100 percent of spend sourced sustainably by 2020. 45 percent Cocoa 100 percent of spend sourced sustainably by 2020. 28 percent Palm oil 100 percent of spend sourced sustainably by 2015. 100 percent Sugarcane 100 percent of spend sourced sustainably by 2020. 59 percent Oats 100 percent of spend sourced sustainably by 2020. 40 percent U.S. wheat 100 percent of spend sourced sustainably by 2020. 24 percent U.S. sugar beets 100 percent of spend sourced sustainably by 2020. 47 percent U.S. corn (dry milled) 100 percent of spend sourced sustainably by 2020. 26 percent U.S dairy (fluid milk) 100 percent of spend sourced sustainably by 2020. 20 percent Fiber packaging 100 percent of spend sourced sustainably by 2020. 99 percent *Progress numbers may vary from year to year due to changes in suppliers, market conditions or improvements in data tracking methodology. See sustainability definitions for each raw material on page 38. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 107 2015 Commitments/Goals/Progress Sustainability (con’t) Water stewardship We are committed to improving the sustainability of water use throughout our supply chain. Target Progress Improve water stewardship Reduce water risk by applying four-phase water stewardship approach in priority at-risk watersheds. Introduced a formal Water Policy. Signed the CEO Water Mandate. Joined Connect the Drops. Made progress in eight priority at-risk watersheds through analysis, action planning and collaboration. We are committed to conducting business with high ethical standards and we expect our suppliers to Human rights do the same. Target Progress Respect human rights We hold ourselves and our suppliers to the same level of compliance expectations for Launched our Policy on Human Rights. respecting human rights in our supply chains as outlined in our Policy on Human Rights Members of the AIM-PROGRESS Responsible Sourcing Forum and the Supplier Ethical and Supplier Code of Conduct. Data Exchange (SEDEX). Signatories to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and UN Women’s Empowerment Principles. Guided by the International Labour Organization’s (ILO) 1998 Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. ANIMAL WELFARE Animal welfare We support the humane treatment of animals in agriculture. Target Progress Protect animal welfare Source 100% cage-free eggs for our U.S. operations by 2025, matching the 100% Updated Animal Welfare policy. free-range eggs used for all Häagen-Dazs ice cream produced in Europe. 40% of our egg purchases globally are either cage-free or free-range, including 100% free-range eggs for ice cream produced in Europe. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 108 2015 Commitments/Goals/Progress Sustainability (con’t) Operations We are committed to improving the environmental performance of our operations. Target Progress Reduce environmental footprint GHG emissions: 20% reduction in GHG emissions rate by 2015 (2005 baseline). Reduced GHG emissions rate by 23% since 2005. Energy: 20% reduction in energy usage rate by 2015 (2005 baseline). Reduced energy usage rate by 10% since 2005. Transportation fuel: 35% reduction in transportation fuel usage rate by 2015 (2009 baseline). Reduced transportation fuel usage rate by 25% since 2009. Water: 20% reduction in water usage rate by 2015 (2006 baseline). 20% increase in water usage since 2006 primarily due to impact of Yoplait International. Solid waste: 50% reduction in solid waste generation rate by 2015 (2005 baseline). Reduced solid waste generation rate by 38% since 2005. Packaging: 60% global packaging volume improved by 2015 (2009 baseline). 70% of packaging volume improved since 2009. Our goal is to foster a safe, ethical, diverse and inclusive workplace where employees Workplace can thrive. Target Progress Increase workplace safety Goal: Zero injuries/illnesses. We reduced our global total injury rate by 9% to 1.22 injuries per 100 employees in fiscal 2015, down from 1.34 in 2014. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 109 2015 Commitments/Goals/Progress Our goal is to strengthen communities by increasing food security around the globe, while Community advancing the sustainability of the agricultural and environmental systems upon which our planet’s food supply depends. Target Progress Increase community food and nutrition security 2020 Goal: Provide 200 million meals globally to food-insecure individuals through General Mills 20 million meals enabled through General Mills food donations globally during 2015. food donations. 2020 Goal: Strengthen 2,500+ food companies in vulnerable and food-insecure regions. Training and technical support provided through Partners in Food Solutions to 620 small and growing food businesses in six African countries. 2020 Goal: Expand market opportunities for 1 million smallholder farmers in vulnerable and foodThrough Partners In Food Solutions, 800,000+ smallholder farmers and their 4.8 million family insecure regions. members benefit from expanded market opportunities supplying small and growing food businesses in Africa. Advance agricultural and environmental sustainability 2020 Goal: Improve the well-being of 20,000 people in smallholder farming communities from which CARE programs in West Africa funded by General Mills focused on youth education, farmer General Mills sources key ingredients. business training and community food security have reached nearly 5,000 people in cocoa farming communities. 2020 Goal: Increase charitable investments in natural resource conservation and sustainability to $500,000 contributed to The Nature Conservancy in fiscal 2015 for global water risk 30% of corporate contributions. assessment; charitable investments in conservation and sustainability increased by 83% in fiscal 2015 to 13.2% of total corporate contributions. Invest in our hometown communities 2020 Goal: Achieve employee volunteerism rate of 80% worldwide. 76% of employees worldwide reported volunteering in their communities. 2020 Goal: Exceed $2 billion in cumulative corporate charitable giving. $154+ million in corporate giving during fiscal 2015; $1.9+ billion in cumulative corporate giving since 1954. 2020 Goal: Provide $1+ billion to schools through Box Tops for EducationTM. $78+ million earned by U.S. schools through Box Tops for Education™ during the 2014-2015 school year; $715+ million since 1996. All dollars cited are U.S. dollars. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 110 Composition of governance body (G4-LA12)* Board of Directors Diversity (% of total) % Male 72.7% Female 27.3% Black 18.2% Asian 0% Hispanic 0% Native American/American Indian 0% Age 50+ 90.9% Global workforce data summary (G4-10 A-D)** Total number of employees by employment contract and gender Total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender Employment type Total Female Male Workforce breakdown Total Female Male Full Time 28,209 11,564 16,645 All employees 29,495 12,430 17,065 Part Time 526 446 80 Supervised by gender N/A N/A N/A Short Time 21 10 11 NonScheduled 204 152 52 Total workforce by region and gender Temporary/Casual 430 213 217 Workforce breakdown Total Female Male Seasonal 105 45 60 Africa 83 42 41 Asia Pacific 2,117 736 1,381 Total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender Greater China 3,773 2,091 1,682 Permanent contract Total Female Male Australia/New Zealand 497 240 257 Full Time 28,209 11,564 16,645 Canada 802 446 356 Part Time 526 446 80 Europe 2,817 1,165 1,652 Short Time 21 10 11 Latin America 3,792 1,509 2,283 Middle East 45 21 24 USA 15,569 6,180 9,389 *As reported on p.iii of our 2015 Proxy Statement **This data excludes Yoki, Annie’s, wage employees at Häagen-Dazs and Liberté, and China third-party employees. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 111 General Standard Disclosures Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization. CEO letter, 2015 Annual Report G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 2015 10-K Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization. 2015 10-K G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services. Introduction, 2015 10-K G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters. 2015 10-K G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant operations GeneralMills.com/Company/Countries or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form. 2015 10-K G4-8 Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). GeneralMills.com/Company/Countries G4-9 Scale of the organization. 2015 Annual Report G4-10 Total workforce by employment type, employment contract, and region, broken down by gender. Appendix G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. Approximately 45% of U.S. production employees are covered by CBAs. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Introduction, Sustainability G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership or its supply chain 2015 Annual Report G4-14 Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. GeneralMills.com/Responsibility G4-15 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes CEO letter, Introduction, Sustainability or which it endorses. G4-16 Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations. Introduction, Health & Wellness, Sustainability, Community Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Operational structure of the organization, including main divisions, operating companies, subsidiaries, and joint ventures. 2015 Annual Report G4-18 Process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries; how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles Materiality section of Introduction for Defining Report Content. G4-19 Material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. GRI Index G4-20 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization. Materiality section of Introduction G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization. Materiality section of Introduction GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 112 General Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries (con’t) G4-22 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. Appendix Environmental Data Summary G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. General Mills continues to align with the Global Reporting Initiative G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Stakeholder Engagement G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. Introduction, Health & Wellness, Sustainability, Community G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. Introduction, Health & Wellness, Sustainability, Community G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement. Introduction, Health & Wellness, Sustainability, Community G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement. Introduction, Health & Wellness, Sustainability, Community Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. Introduction G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). April 2015 G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). Annual G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. Introduction G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen; report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. Introduction, Appendix GRI Index G4-33 Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. Introduction Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. GeneralMills.com/Investors G4-35 Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance body to senior executives Introduction and other employees. G4-36 Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, environmental Introduction and social topics. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 113 General Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments Governance (con’t) G4-37 Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and social topics. GeneralMills.com/Investors G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. GeneralMills.com/Investors G4-39 Whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer. GeneralMills.com/Investors G4-40 Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting GeneralMills.com/Investors highest governance body members. G4-41 Processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. GeneralMills.com/Investors G4-42 Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the organization’s purpose, Introduction, Sustainability value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts. G4-43 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and social topics. G4-44 Processes for evaluating the highest governance body’s own performance, particularly with respect to economic, environmental, GeneralMills.com/Investors and social performance. G4-45 Procedures of the highest governance body for overseeing the organization’s identification and management of economic, GeneralMills.com/Investors, environmental, and social performance, including relevant risks and opportunities, and adherence or compliance with Introduction internationally agreed standards, codes of conduct, and principles. G4-46 Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes for economic, GeneralMills.com/Investors, environmental and social topics. Introduction G4-47 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. GeneralMills.com/Investors, Introduction G4-48 Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and ensures that all material Introduction, Sustainability Aspects are covered. G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. GeneralMills.com/Investors G4-50 Nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and the mechanism(s) 2015 Proxy Statement used to address and resolve them. G4-51 Linkage between compensation for members of the highest governance body, senior managers, and executives 2015 Proxy Statement (including departure arrangements), and the organization’s performance (including social and environmental performance). G4-52 Process for determining remuneration. 2015 Proxy Statement G4-53 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of votes on remuneration policies GeneralMills.com/Investors and proposals, if applicable. G4-54 Ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees in the same country. G4-55 Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees in the same country. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 114 General Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. GeneralMills.com/Company, GeneralMills.com/Responsibility, Workplace G4-57 Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity. Workplace G4-58 Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity. Workplace Specific Standard Disclosures Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments ECONOMIC Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed, including revenues, operating costs, employee compensation, donations and other Health & Wellness, Community, community investments, retained earnings, and payments to capital providers and governments. Sustainability, 2015 Annual Report, 2015 Proxy Statement G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate change. Introduction, Sustainability, Carbon Disclosure Project G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations. 2015 10-K G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government. Indirect Economic Impacts Material issue: Smallholder farmers G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported. Sustainability, Community G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts. Sustainability, Community Procurement Practices Material issue: Smallholder farmers G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operations. Sustainability GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 115 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments ENVIRONMENTAL Materials Material issue: Packaging footprint G4-EN1 Total weight or volume of materials that are used to produce and package the organization’s primary products and services during the reporting period. G4-EN2 Percentage of recycled input materials used to manufacture the organization’s primary products and services. Sustainability Energy Material issue: Energy use G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization. Sustainability, Appendix Environmental Data Summary G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization. Carbon Disclosure Project G4-EN5 Energy intensity. Sustainability, Appendix Environmental Data Summary G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption. Sustainability G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. Water Material issue: Water stewardship G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source. Sustainability, Appendix Environmental Data Summary G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water. Sustainability G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused. Sustainability Biodiversity Material issue: Biodiversity G4-EN11 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas. G4-EN12 Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high biodiversity Sustainability value outside protected areas. G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored. Sustainability G4-EN14 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction risk. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 116 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments ENVIRONMENTAL (CON’T) Emissions Material issue: Climate change G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1). Sustainability, Appendix Environmental Data Summary G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 2). Sustainability, Appendix Environmental Data Summary G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 3). Sustainability, Carbon Disclosure Project G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity. Sustainability, Environmental Data Summary G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. Sustainability G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS). Ozone-depleting substances (ODS) are most commonly used in small quantities for closed-loop refrigeration systems and occasional fumigation actvitiies. ODS emissions are strictly regulated. G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions by type and weight. Air emissions primarily include particulate matter and organic compounds from ingredient handling, cooking and drying, as well as emissions associated with fuel combustion. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. Effluents and Waste Material issue: Food waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination. We do not discharge untreated sanitary wastewater to land or surface waters at any of our locations. Wastewater discharges primarily consist of organic matter from ingredient handling, food production and cleaning processes. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method. Sustainability G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills. There were no significant spills at our manufacturing locations during the reporting period. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 117 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments ENVIRONMENTAL (CON’T) Effluents and Waste Material issue: Food waste G4-EN25 Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention Annex I, II, III, The quantity of hazardous waste and VIII, and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally. produced and shipped is insignificant relative to the amount of solid waste generated at General Mills. Hazardous waste shipping and disposal is restricted by government regulations. G4-EN26 Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the reporting No water bodies are significantly organization’s discharges of water and runoff. affected by company discharges. Our production facilities are governed by applicable regulations as well as our compliance management program. Products and Services Material issue: Packaging footprint G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services. Sustainability G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed by category. Sustainability Compliance G4-EN29 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws General Mills received no significant fines and regulations. or regulatory sanctions during the reporting period. Transport Material issue: Climate change G4-EN30 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials used for the organization’s operations, Sustainability and transporting members of the workforce. Supplier Environmental Assessment Material issue: Supply chain relationships G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria. Compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts. G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 118 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments LABOR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK Employment Material issue: Workforce management G4-LA1 Total number and rate of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender, and region. Throughout fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2016, General Mills conducted several multiyear restructuring projects designed to accelerate long-term growth through increased organizational effectiveness, reduced overhead expense and streamlined operations. Details can be found in our 8-K filings. G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by major operations. Workplace Labor/Management Relations Material issue: Workplace safety G4-LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety committees that help monitor and advise Workplace on occupational health and safety programs. G4-LA6 Rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities by region and by gender. Workplace G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions. Workplace Training and Education Material issue: Workforce management G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category. G4-LA10 Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability of employees and assist them Workplace in managing career endings. G4-LA11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender. Workplace Diversity and Equal Opportunity Material issue: Workforce management G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, Workplace, Appendix, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. GeneralMills.com/Investors Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices Material issue: Supply chain relationships G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria. Compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts. G4-LA15 Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain and actions taken. Sustainability GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 119 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments HUMAN RIGHTS Investment G4-HR1 Total number and percentage of significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or that Compliance with our Supplier Code of underwent human rights screening. Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts. Nondiscrimination Material issue: Human rights G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Material issue: Human rights G4-HR4 Operations and significant suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and collective bargaining may be Sustainability violated or at significant risk, and actions taken to support these rights. Child Labor Material issue: Human rights G4-HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute Sustainability to the effective abolition of child labor. Forced or Compulsory Labor Material issue: Human rights G4-HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to Sustainability contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labor. Indigenous Rights Material issue: Human rights G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken. Assessment G4-HR9 Percentage and total number of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews and/or impact assessments. Sustainability Supplier Human Rights Assessment Material issues: Human rights, supply chain relationships G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria. Compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 120 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments HUMAN RIGHTS (CON’T) Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms Material issues: Human rights, supply chain relationships G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken. Sustainability G4-HR12 Number of grievances related to human rights filed, addressed and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms. SOCIETY Local Communities G4-SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs. Sustainability, Community Anticorruption G4-SO3 Percentage and total number of business units analyzed for risks related to corruption. Workplace G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures. Workplace Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of financial and in-kind contributions to political parties, politicians, and related institutions by country. GeneralMills.com/CivicInvolvement Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Material issue: Supply chain relationships G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society. Compliance with our Supplier Code of Conduct is a term in our standard purchase orders and standard purchase contracts. G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken. Sustainability PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY Customer Health and Safety Material issue: Food safety G4-PR1 Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement. Health & Wellness, Workplace G4-PR2 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning health and safety impacts of products Health & Wellness and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes. Product and Service Labeling G4-PR3 Type of product and service information required by procedures, and percentage of significant products and services subject to Health & Wellness such information requirements. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 121 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY (CON’T) Product and Service Labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction. In fiscal 2015, our U.S. consumer satisfaction rate was 97%. Globally, we invest in measurement and monitor satisfaction on an ongoing basis. Marketing Communications Material issue: Responsible marketing G4-PR6 Sale of products that are the subject of stakeholder questions or public debate. Introduction, Sustainability G4-PR7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship by type of outcomes. FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Across All Aspects of Sourcing Material issue: Supply chain relationships FP1 Percentage of purchased volume from suppliers compliant with company’s sourcing policy. Sustainability General Mills adheres to a strict supplier code of conduct and utilizes independent third parties to assess supplier compliance with this code. FP2 Percentage of purchased volume which is verified as being in accordance with credible, internationally recognized responsible Sustainability production standards, broken down by standard. Healthy and Affordable Food Material issues: Food security, health and nutrition wellness FP4 Nature, scope and effectiveness of any programs and practices (in-kind contributions, volunteer initiatives, knowledge transfer, Health & Wellness, Sustainability, partnerships and product development) that promote access to healthy lifestyles; the prevention of chronic disease; access to Workplace, Community healthy, nutritious and affordable food; and improved welfare for communities in need. Customer Health and Safety Material issues: Food safety, health and nutrition wellness FP5 Percentage of production volume manufactured in sites certified by an independent third party according to internationally recognized Health & Wellness food safety management system standards. FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that are lowered in saturated fat, trans fats, sodium Health & Wellness and added sugars. FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that contain increased nutritious ingredients like fiber, Health & Wellness vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 122 Specific Standard Disclosures (con’t) Disclosure # Disclosure Text Location/Comments FOOD PROCESSING SECTOR SUPPLEMENT (CON’T) Product and Service Labeling FP8 Policies and practices on communication to consumers about ingredients and nutritional information beyond legal requirements. Health & Wellness GeneralMills.com/Whole grain GeneralMills.com/Benefits of Cereal GeneralMills.com/Benefits of Yogurt GeneralMills.com/Nutrition Generalmills.com/Bell Institute of Health and Nutrition Breeding and Genetics Material Issue: Animal welfare FP9 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species and breed type. General Mills does not raise or process animals in its production operations. Meat that is used in our products is processed by our suppliers. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. Animal Husbandry Material Issue: Animal welfare FP10 Policies and practices, by species and breed type, related to physical alterations and the use of anaesthetic. General Mills does not physically alter animals or use anaesthetics. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. FP11 Percentage and total of animals raised and/or processed, by species and breed type, per housing type. Sustainability General Mills does not raise or process animals. For information on our approach to animal welfare, see our policy. FP12 Policies and practices on antibiotic, anti-inflammatory, hormone, and/or growth promotion treatments, by species and breed type. Sustainability Animal welfare policy Transportation, Handling, and Slaughter Material Issue: Animal welfare FP13 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with laws and regulations, and adherence with voluntary standards related to transportation, General Mills does not transport, handle or handling, and slaughter practices for live terrestrial and aquatic animals. slaughter live or aquatic animals. GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 123 UN Global Compact 10 Principles Principle Information in report Human rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection Ethics and compliance, page 80 of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Equal opportunity, page 83 Advance socially responsible supply chains, page 58 Code of Conduct, link on page 76 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Ethics and compliance, page 80 Advance socially responsible supply chains, page 58 Labor Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Advance socially responsible supply chains, page 58 the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Supplier code of conduct, link on page 58 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Advance socially responsible supply chains, page 58 Supplier code of conduct, link on page 58 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and Advance socially responsible supply chains, page 66 Supplier code of conduct, link on page 66 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Ethics and compliance, page 80 Diversity and inclusion, page 81 Supplier code of conduct, link on page 58 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Environment approach, page 62 Sourcing approach, page 37 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Environment performance, page 61 Sourcing performance, page 38 Ingredient sustainability, page 38 Sustainability in our operations, page 61 Water stewardship, page 55 Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environment performance, page 61 Sourcing performance, page 38 Ingredient sustainability, page 38 Sustainability in our operations, page 61 Water stewardship, page 55 Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Supplier code of conduct, link on page 58 Code of Conduct, link on page 76 GENERAL MILLS GLOBAL RESPONSIBILITY 124
