Communication on Progress UN Global Compact 2015 When two visions align, how will our country benefit? As a founding member of the UN Global Compact Network in Romania, we believe the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact align closely with our own purpose of building a better working world. Table of contents Our vision, values and impact in About EY 1 Romania EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and Introduction 3 advisory services. The insights and quality services we deliver help build trust and confidence in the capital markets and in economies the world over. We develop outstanding leaders who team to deliver on our promises to all of our stakeholders. In so doing, we play a critical role in building a better working world for our people, for our clients and for our communities. EY refers to the global organization, and may refer to one or more, of the member firms of Ernst & Young Global Limited, each of which is a separate legal entity. Ernst & Young Global Limited, a UK company limited by guarantee, does not provide services to clients. For more information about our organization, please visit Supporting our clients, Increasing the ey.com. Supporting our people 4 our profession and our marketplace 18 sustainability of our planet 32 Our combined global revenues for the financial year ending 30 June 2015 were US$28.7 billion. With a total headcount of 211,000 people, EY operates in more than 150 countries around the world. Read our Global Review, which can be found at www.ey.com/ globalreview , to learn more about our financial performance and for further information about EY. Under our Vision 2020 plans we are explicit about our purpose of building a better working world, and this has given us great momentum both inside and outside the organization. It has helped us engage with our clients and guide our successful work on their complex issues; it has also helped us attract, retain and motivate our people. We are proud of this year’s results, which saw fast-paced growth across all of our service lines and in each geographic area. In Romania, EY has been a leader on the professional You can read more about our services market since its set up in 1992. Over 650 commitments in our Global Review employees in Romania provide seamless assurance, tax, (www.ey.com/globalreview), transactions, and advisory services to clients ranging Global Transparency Report from multinationals to local companies. Our offices are (www.ey.com/transparencyreport) based in Bucharest, Cluj-Napoca, Timisoara, Iasi and and EY Global Code of Conduct Chisinau. (www.ey.com/codeconduct). This Communication on Progress provides brief highlights of actions that EY is taking UN Global Compact in Romania to address United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The 10 principles are listed below, and Introduction throughout the report you will see how EY upholds them. Principles 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of We’re living in times of extraordinary change. We are internationally proclaimed human rights witnessing the world reshape at a pace faster than ever. Human rights The digital transformation has erased boundaries and has 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses opened new uncharted waters of opportunity. It is up to us to flex and harness this immense potential. At EY, we are constantly focusing on understanding change and turning it into valuable insights and directions for our stakeholders. 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the As a proud founding member of the United Nations Global effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Compact (UNGC) Romania Network, we believe the 10 principles outlined by the UNGC align closely with our own 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor purpose and values. We share a desire to build a sustainable Labor and inclusive Romanian economy that delivers lasting 5 The effective abolition of child labor benefits to people, communities and the entire market. 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Bogdan Ion In 2015, we have done this by coming closer than ever to and occupation Country Managing Partner Romanian entrepreneurs all over the country and supporting EOY Program Sponsor for România them to seize opportunities and grow their local brands into national and regional players. We have delivered insights and quality services that contribute to our clients’ success, that support capital markets, regulators, and investors Moreover, 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to we have created and supported high-performing teams environmental challenges — teams that work across borders and cultures to deliver exceptional client service. Environment 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Throughout this report, you can read about how EY is building a better working world in these areas and more, 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally and upholding the UNGC principles in the areas of human friendly technologies rights, labor, anti-corruption and environment. Anti-corruption 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 | page 3 Supporting our people At EY Romania, our people are our only significant asset and success for us is dependent on the quality and commitment of our people and how they team together. That is why creating the highest-performing teams — attracting, developing and inspiring great people and promoting a culture that supports them in working together — is central to EY’s strategy. We know that bright, talented people are keen to develop personally and professionally. We work hard to engage and inspire our people, so that they can reach their goals and ensure their time at EY is valuable in terms of what they learn, the experiences they get, and the development of their own personal brand. To define this commitment, we have developed a unique proposition for our people. We promise that whenever they join EY, however long they stay, the exceptional EY experience lasts a lifetime. To support this promise, we are committed to a valuable recruiting experience, developing future leaders, seeking out and leveraging diversity, promoting learning and development, delivering flexibility and, above all, protecting the safety and well-being of our people. In this section, you will read about our award-winning culture, how we are developing our people and the ways in which EY is evolving to meet the changing needs of our workforce. In this section, see how we are addressing the UNGC principles focusing on Human Rights and Labor. Creating high-performing teams We know from experience and research that our bestTo support these teams, we are committed to: performing teams are made up of highly engaged individuals from a diverse range of backgrounds. These teams excel • Providing our people with training that develops their skills. by being adaptable and flexible without losing focus and by welcoming diverse views. They consistently use best• Delivering challenging client opportunities. in-class approaches, tools and methodologies; undertake • Creating a diverse and inclusive workplace. learning, experience and coaching; and are always focused • Ensuring flexibility and choice. on delivering the best results, rather than on where, when or • Building a robust framework to guide our people through how the work gets done. their career development. Differences matter Globalization brings an influx of information from an Our journey to change increasingly diverse workforce. In this fast changing environment, every situation and context brings its own set Our Area and Regional leaders take overall responsibility for The exceptional EY experience D&I within EY. They are accountable for driving this through of challenges. The ability to invite and learn from different We want the time people spend at EY to perspectives is fundamental to driving innovation, building the business — through hiring, succession planning and be more valuable than time spent with strong relationships and delivering the best approaches for promotion — and in leading by example. any other employer. And we believe our clients. We ensure that our leaders communicate the importance of the relationships people make and the leading inclusively to our people. Specifically, articulating experiences they have should start before how to turn the diversity of our global organization into they join us — and last a lifetime. competitive advantage and how working inclusively will help Attracting great people and providing them Diversity and inclusiveness (D&I) our people build vital leadership skills. To support this: with a best-in-class recruitment experience • Our Global Executive sponsored the creation of a is vital if we are to be the employer of At EY, we have a specific definition of D&I. roadmap for success. EY’s Winning through diversity and choice for future global leaders. Diversity is about differences: each of us is different, and inclusiveness: a roadmap for success has been shared at EY we value and respect individual differences. Today, we with our partners around the world to support their D&I We work hard to attract people who are activities. curious and entrepreneurial, who thrive in think broadly about differences — they include background, education, gender, ethnicity, nationality, generation, age, • Our leadership programs across the globe develop international teams and who have a global the skills of all our people to team and lead inclusively. mindset. If, and when, people choose to working and thinking styles, religious background, sexual orientation, ability and technical skills. There are also These programs explore the impact of unconscious bias, leave EY, we don’t see this as an end to the develop inclusive behaviors, and inspire our current and relationship, just the next stage. Wherever differences according to service line, sector and function. future leaders to practice how to value and leverage they go on to work, they will be a lifelong Inclusiveness is about leveraging those differences: it differences. member of the EY alumni network. is about creating an environment where all of our people • We embed core principles of inclusiveness in all our feel, and are, valued, where they are able to bring their processes and across our entire organization, so that D&I Above all, we want every interaction that differences to work each day, and where they contribute is a part of everything we do. people have with us to be positive so that even if they choose not to join us, or if we their personal best in every encounter. This ultimately don’t make them an offer, they will still achieves better business results. speak positively about our brand. page 6 | Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 | page 7 Diversity recruitment Enabling mobility and EY was the first of the Big Four to assign full-time, partnercross-border opportunities level leadership to diversity recruiting. We are committed Our people undertake transfers or assignments on global to embedding D&I into our recruiting practices around the mobility programs for certain periods of their working lives world. In Romania, we focus on gender and on hiring and in order to fill a business need and to develop their careers. promoting diverse talent at all ranks. These efforts are duly reflected in the workforce mix illustrated below. Welcoming back our boomerangs Building diverse leadership teams by increasing the We are very proud that a relatively high proportion of our number of senior women leaders is a key focus for us: people are what we call “boomerangs” — people who have left EY but have subsequently returned to us. At EY we work to ensure that everybody has equal Tracking progress opportunities. As a result, out of 650 people* working at 70% To ensure we are tracking progress, each of our Developing and supporting our Training to suit individual needs EY Romania, 456 are women. women geographical areas is looking at its D&I metrics and actively people through world-class We provide our people with access to high-quality formal learning through a structured organization-wide curriculum looking at leadership and partner pipelines and promotion processes around the world. learning that contains technical content. It is accessible in a variety of formats, including: In Central and Southeastern Europe region, where EY We want our people to get the most out of their time at EY, whether they are here for two years or twenty. Helping our • Face-to-face: through case studies, lectures and Furthermore 58% Romania is included, we have introduced a gender reporting simulations of managers in template, covering a range of metrics including gender, people to learn, develop and lead is fundamental to creating 58% our local firm promotions, recruitment, leavers, performance ratings and engagement scores. The data are reviewed on a regular value for our people and our clients. To support this, we have a unique global career development framework • On-the-job training • Virtual: through web-based, videos, webcasts women are women. basis with leaders so that trends can be identified and called EYU, which stands for “EY and You” and focuses on Our web-based global learning management system enables addressed. learning, experiences and coaching. people to organize their learning. They can use it to search for content, identify where gaps in their learning might exist, Within our management team, 45% of More broadly, we measure how people feel about our work Our people can find all the information they need about and develop a “learning map” to meet future needs. Partners & Executive Directors are women culture through our biennial Global People Survey. EYU, regardless of their location or service line, through our dedicated internal EYU website. Through our World-Class Learning Program, we are working to ensure our people receive the same baseline level of highquality learning across the globe. Our global team develops Monitoring and strengthening performance a learning curriculum that is relevant across our entire organization, as well as specific programs for each of our EYU links to our global Performance Management and service lines. The program blends classroom, mobile and Development Process (PMDP). PMDP helps our people * Medium number of employees in Romania in 2015 electronic learning. monitor and direct their performance and align their efforts to our strategic priorities. The most important element of PMDP is the conversations our people have with their counselors as they build their careers at EY. Coaching In addition to technical content, our people develop through To make it easier for people to adjust goals and to seek and coaching. We encourage as many coaching conversations share feedback as an ongoing activity throughout the year, as possible throughout the year, and our global coaching we created My Development Site. This global online system curriculum enables people to develop their coaching skills as features a list of the experiences that are currently available they progress within EY. to people in a given location. With one click, individuals can select an experience that they think meets their development needs and send details to a sponsor who will help them to gain that experience. page 8 | Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 | page 9 „High-achievers who graduate university today know very well what they want – they pursue a solid career and the prospect to climb to the top of the company they work for. They want to be part of global organizations, where they can have access to resources and opportunities matching their life goals. But they also want flexibility, autonomy and more time for their private life. To attract these talented Romanians, you have to offer them the advantages that will motivate them to grow personally and professionally with the company. But beyond that, you have to offer them a mission and a set of values relevant for them in this era of transformation.” Developing leaders Andreea Mihnea – HR Director, EY Romania Developing leaders is fundamental to our future success and we want to be the employer of choice for future leaders. We are committed to developing our people and nurturing lifelong relationships: creating outstanding leaders who bring their vision and skills to EY and may also go on to other roles in industry, government and academia, joining our alumni network of 2,000 EY brand ambassadors in Growing a new generation of business Junior Recruitment Campaign: Romania. Professionals 101 new graduates were employed within EY Romania EY has committed to supporting the growth of a new in September 2015, representing the largest number of This is why we: generation of leaders and business professionals. As part graduates employed after the opening of the EY office in Organize milestone events of this commitment, we develop strategic programs and Romania in 1992. About 60% of the new employees have initiatives with students associations, NGOs and universities. joined the Assurance practice, while the rest have joined the Newly promoted seniors, managers, senior managers Tax and Legal, Transactions and Advisory departments. and executive directors in Romania are invited to regional In 2015, the initiatives we developed with partners such as milestone events. These face-to-face events follow a global ASE Bucharest, West University Timişoara, Babeş Bolyai According to the surveys that targeted the most desirable format and combine a mixture of learning and celebration. University in Cluj, numerous student associations, Junior employers, published by Catalyst and Trendence in July Members of the leadership team, right up to our Chairman Achievement and many others, allowed us to interact 2015, in professional services, EY Romania is currently the and CEO, play an active role at these events. with over 2,000 students and young professionals in the employer of choice in the country and the most wanted entire country. Our colleagues volunteered their time and employer of the Big4 companies. Local leadership development programs knowledge to offer them interactive training sessions, All new managers go through a rounded New Managers workshops and internships throughout 2015. As the new program right after the international milestone event to integrate and practice the skills needed in the new role. Another local program targets Partners’ and Executive academic year begins, we will further expand and build on these successful education programs. 65 events done 64 people involved Directors’ continuous personal leadership development and alignment on cultural level. This blended leadership program lasts 6 months and contributes to building a strong leadership culture within EY Romania. 10 campus EY Ambassadors 1683 140 Focusing on future leaders As part of our commitment to building a better working world, we also engage, develop and learn from young applications finalists people who we believe will become future leaders – within or outside of EY. We are helping the future workforce and future leaders Also, EY holds the first position and is preferred by young develop the skills and characteristics required to enable people and MSc students, being perceived as the company businesses and societies to thrive through a variety of with the most attractive and innovative training programs. opportunities. For example, in Romania we run soft skills Overall, according to Trendence, EY Romania ranks 7th in workshops or leadership development training for university the Top10 companies young people in Romania wish to work students and student associations. for. page 10 | Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 | page 11 No Professional Company in Romania 2015 Catalyst Trendence EY increases 8 points in the overall ranking from EY increases 4 points in the overall ranking 23rd place in 2014 to 15th place in 2015 from 11rd place in 2014 to 7th place in 2015 1 EY overcomes all its competitors jumping from EY maintains its position first among Big4 and the last among Big4 to being the first one in 2015 2 3 detaches form its competitors with 7 points. EY reaches an increase of 46% EY reaches an increase of 75% in the last 5 years ranking and for the first time in in the last 5 years ranking history gains a place in the top 10 ranking EY is no. 1 most favorite company EY is first among Big4 for business among master students students being on the 9th place in the overall ranking EY is no. 1 most favorite Big4 among women EY is ranked as the most attractive employer in Big4 among high potentials EY is no. 5 in the market for conversion rate and no. 1 among Big4 EY Young Tax Professional of the Year Program — is Internship Program — each year, in Romania we’re helping EY is first among Big4 for business students aimed at finding the tax leaders of tomorrow. The worldwide EY interns gain practical experience of working and building top of mind being no. 4 in the overall ranking competition gives participants the chance to make their credentials and networks. With 30 interns in 2015, EY is no. 6 in the market for training & we are proud of having brought our contribution to growing followed by Deloitte on the 10th place connections with tax and business leaders, to understand development and no. 1 among Big4 the key trends and challenges for the profession and to the next generation of business professionals. share experiences with people from a range of backgrounds. Junior Achievement (JA) — we’re working with JA in EY Romania is affiliated to the global program since 2010. Romania, where our Country Managing Partner is member EY is ranked among Big4 as being the company with: In 2015, 200 students enrolled in this competition in of the organization’s Board of Administration. We’re Romania and 35 de students were selected to participate. proud to be supporting the world’s largest organization The best Competitors have undergone an intense program of dedicated to educating students about workforce readiness, environment lectures, case-studies and tests over the course of two days. entrepreneurship and financial literacy through hands-on In the end, 10 finalists were selected and received junior programs. positions within EY Romania, while Roxana Mocanu was the Alliance for YOUth — EY pledged to offer 55,000 Best career The best winner who represented Romania in the global competition traineeships and 35,000 internships by 2020 across Europe fair presence trainings EY Young Tax Professional of the Year. as member of the Alliance for YOUth, an initiative through which leading businesses will help to address high levels of youth unemployment in many parts of Europe. We’re tracking our Alliance for YOUth commitment and continue to make strong progress. Since July 2014, we have provided The best career Most work experience for more than 9,000 people through paid advertisements innovative internships. That’s over a quarter of the way towards our 2020 target. As of the end of 2015, we have made more than 16,700 new hires — more than 30% of our target figure in 18 months. The employer that hires The highest level of the most graduates personal responsibility Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 | page 13 A dynamic and flexible work environment Engaging with our people We also connect with our people in Romania through: • Daily internal email newsfeeds Engaging with employees means listening, sharing, • Magazines published by our service lines recognizing and rewarding them for their energy and We want our people to succeed personally and professionally Flexibility and choice commitment. In Romania, we do this in a variety of ways. • Internal newsletters and aim to create a workplace that supports them in doing Flexibility is an increasingly important issue for our people • Town-hall meetings so — one that supports flexible working practices and boosts collaboration between people and teams. and potential recruits — specifically the ability to combine • Our EY Romania Twitter account a career with other aspects of their lives such as family Valuing and rewarding our people • Our EY Romania Facebook page High-performance teaming relies on creating the right commitments, volunteering in the community or sports. • Our EY Romania YouTube channel environment for our people, and our Workplace of the Future At EY, we believe in providing our people with highly In Romania, EY employees can access the WorkSmart • Our EY Romania SlideShare page initiative is helping us improve the way we team, connect competitive compensation in keeping with local needs, the program, which allows them to make flexible working and perform across teams and borders. As part of this prevailing employment market circumstances and relevant • Our local EY Flash mobile app arrangements regarding work hours and remote working. initiative, we are developing a trust-based, output-focused business conditions. 35% people at EY Romania have accessed the program in environment: introducing new IT and communications 2015 and we work continuously to increase the usage of Through our Chairman’s Values Award (CVA), we celebrate Innovation Think Tank technologies and innovative space design, and supporting this program. those who live our values in their day-to-day lives. This is our the health and well-being of our people. Ultimately, these way of helping our people nominate and acknowledge the Innovation Think Tank is the first innovation program changes will help us to continue to deliver the quality service inspiring individuals around them who have gone the extra implemented at EY Romania, through which we plan to fuel that our clients expect and support a culture of flexibility Seamlessly connecting our people mile for their clients, their colleagues and their communities. and empower the creativity of our people. The program was and empowerment that helps to attract and retain great launched in 2015 and gives EY employees the occasion to people. Flexible work practices need the right technology to address a simple and actionable area: our own productivity support them. Our Messaging and Collaboration Program and efficiency for a better work life. EY Romania was the first office in Central and Southis overhauling our technology capabilities. By accessing Sharing, listening and responding Eastern Europe, where the company applied this new way of new and exciting technological capabilities, our people We are committed to engaging our people, understanding 80 colleagues have joined the program during 6 ideation using the working space in 2013. The EY office in Bucharest can connect with each other more easily than ever before. their views, asking for feedback and acting on it. To do this, sessions as Innovation Ambassadors. They have generated includes mobile work stations to accommodate employees For example, videoconferencing is now possible from we use: 110 winning ideas, which entered the final selection with flexible work programs, informal meeting spaces and individuals’ laptops with just a few clicks of a button, and resulting in 25 finalists and 3 winning idea tribes. We want IT solutions to stimulate collaboration and connectivity Listening tools: EY’s Global People Survey (GPS) is one innovation to become an organizational habit, which is why cloud technology supports enhanced and instant access to between teams, employees traveling outside the office and way we listen to our people. As part of the survey, which we plan a second Innovation Think Tank program for 2016. global information, networks and knowledge. This means those in other countries. takes place every two years, we ask all our people how our people will have increasing flexibility around where and they think EY is doing. Questions cover our strategy and In 2015, our colleagues in Cluj-Napoca and Timisoara have how they work and a greater ability to adapt their working patterns to meet their client and personal commitments. leadership, quality, recognition and rewards, inclusiveness, EY Romania sporting tribes and volunteers moved to new offices. The new premises are the first EY development and corporate responsibility. The survey regional offices to implement Workplace Of The Future provides our leadership with valuable feedback on what The EY sport “tribes” is an initiative through which our concept. These moves come as a natural step for the local is working and what we can improve on. In 2015, we colleagues can get involved in many sporting and social consolidation of our teams in Cluj and Timis, which, since Supporting health and well-being conducted a full Global People Survey. events promoting a healthy life-style and a responsible civic their establishment, have been constantly growing and Health and well-being programs at EY are not just about conduct. The members are active and enthusiastic, but most attracting new clients. Transparent communications: at EY, we believe in being of all they were winners at almost all the competitions they keeping fit — they cover broader issues relating to work-life transparent with our people: no organization can engage engaged in throughout 2015: balance. Reflecting this, we ran a program called “Wellness its people without communicating with them clearly and Month” in November 2015 – a series of 15 pampering • National Corporate Football Championship regularly. And in turn, we expect our people to demonstrate sessions and workshops, addressing the body, mind and • Bucharest Half Marathon this culture of transparency with their stakeholders. Some spirit. Around 150 people at EY Romania participated in the • The Color Run of the ways we connect with our people around the world program. include: • Bucharest International Marathon Social networking tools: in 2014 we introduced a new • Striving for Hope Ioana Birta, our exceptional colleague Safety social networking tool, Yammer, which allows us to share from Cluj, has climbed Mount Kilimanjaro during the Kilimanjaro for Hope campaign, to raise money for our best practices, successes and suggestions with each a single mother with seven children. She has also The safety of our people is our priority, wherever they are other worldwide. It enables greater networking across ranks, competed in the Cluj Marathon for kids suffering from located. Our dedicated team oversees EY’s rigorous and service lines and cultures, and helps people to share ideas. chronic renal failure. clear policies, which have been developed to protect our Our Yammer network is also expanding opportunities for people and assets against reasonably foreseeable threats partners and other senior leaders to communicate with that might result in injury, loss, damage or impairment. everyone in EY. page 14 | Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 | page 15 Our values create a strong Code of Conduct EY/Ethics Hotline Updated people numbers foundation The Code provides a clear set of the standards that guide our actions and our business conduct. Organized into five We support the Global Code of Conduct with our EY/Ethics Hotline that can be used confidentially, either anonymously In 2015, our total headcount in Romania reached an all-time high of 673 people at 31 December 2015. Like any responsible and sustainable business, our values categories, the Code contains principles that are to be or on a disclosed basis, to report an activity that may involve are the fundamental beliefs of our global organization. They followed by everyone within EY. And we ask everyone at EY, conduct that is unethical, illegal, in violation of professional are the bedrock of our culture and they guide our actions no matter where they are in the world, to make a personal standards or otherwise inconsistent with our Global Code of and behavior. Specifically: commitment to abide by our Global Code of Conduct. Conduct. Employees, clients and others can contact the hotline Specifically: by telephone or internet using their local language, 24 hours a • EY’s senior leaders set the tone from the top day, 365 days a year. • Our values are shared by our people • Working with one another • EY’s Code of Conduct and policies provide guidance on • Working with clients and others When a report comes into the EY/Ethics Hotline, it receives how we should behave and what we should expect from • Acting with professional integrity immediate and careful attention. Depending on the type of others • Maintaining our objectivity and independence issue, people from Risk Management, Human Resources, Legal or other functions are involved to address it. Although we • Respecting intellectual capital encourage people to raise any concerns with their counselor, mentor, local partner or any other person of trust first, the Shared values hotline is available for circumstances where other channels of communication are inappropriate. Our shared values inspire our people and guide them to do the right thing, and EY’s commitment to quality is embedded www.eyethics.com in who we are and in everything we do. We are: • People who demonstrate integrity, respect and teaming • People with energy, enthusiasm and the courage to lead • People who build relationships based on doing the right thing page 16 | Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 | page 17 Supporting our clients, our profession and our marketplace Fundamental to building a better working world is our commitment to promoting increased trust and confidence in business, sustainable growth, within and beyond EY, development of talent in all its forms and greater collaboration. An important way we do this is through our services — which help build trust and confidence in the capital markets, around the world. This is why our efforts to support our clients, our profession and our marketplace are underscored by working together with stakeholders. We are proud to work with governments, policymakers, nonprofits and regulators to create positive, long-term change. Our multi-pronged approach reflects our belief that our profession plays a vital role in promoting investor confidence in financial reporting and the world’s capital markets. We recognize the importance of this role and take seriously our commitment to executing highquality professional services. EY’s reputation for quality is fundamental to this. Through globally consistent policies and practices, independence processes and our Global Code of Conduct, we continue to set the bar for service quality. Additionally, we are committed to helping support economic growth and job creation that is driven by entrepreneurs and the increased participation of women in business, as well as contributing to developing the next generation of talent. Through this focus we believe that we have a significant role to play in supporting sustainable economic growth and in addressing some of the society’s most pressing issues such as youth employment — one of the most intractable issues affecting business, society and the economy today. In this section, see how we are addressing the UNGC principles focusing on anti-corruption. Building a better working world through our services At EY, we believe that through every audit, every tax return, Tax service line, we are dedicated to helping clients meet every advisory opportunity, every interaction with a client their complex tax obligations and to understand risks or colleague, our people are making the working world a associated with their tax decisions. better place than it was before. And our services are helping Advisory service line, we focus on improving clients’ to build trust and confidence — directly and indirectly. For performance by helping them to translate their strategy example, through our: into reality through better risk management, improved Assurance service line, we help build confidence to finance functions, and better supply chain and customer stakeholders. Auditors play a vital role in the efficient management. functioning of our capital markets by promoting Advisory’s sub-service lines include: Performance transparency and supporting investor confidence. Improvement, Risk, and IT Risk and Assurance. It has deep Transaction Advisory Services (TAS), we help our clients competencies in risk, finance, supply chain and customer raise, preserve, invest and optimize capital — and to work and information technology. more efficiently and effectively. Promoting transparency and trust Helping clients report transparently We take our public interest responsibilities seriously, and Through our Climate Change & Sustainability Services we work hard to maintain an open and frank dialogue with in Romania, we are helping clients with environmental our stakeholders as part of our broader commitment to challenges. We have a wide span of services, from building a better working world. When meeting with our waste management to environmental reporting. This stakeholders, we seek to better understand their points of often requires companies to measure processes and view and provide our perspective. We support improvements impacts they have not measured before. In addition in legislative framework, corporate governance, financial to creating greater transparency, this can also help in reporting and other matters that affect our market more efforts to reduce the use of natural resources, increase broadly. Specifically: efficiency and improve operational performance. Transparent reporting can also help companies to Through engagement — We are engaging increasingly with strengthen their reputation, increase access to capital, local organizations including the: and meet the expectations and increase the trust of • The Chamber of Financial Auditors in Romania their stakeholders. • The Chamber of Certified Accountants in Romania • The Chamber of Fiscal Consultants • The National Chamber of Commerce Tackling fraud and managing risk • The American Chamber of Commerce Our fraud investigation and dispute professionals in • The National Bank of Romania Romania are helping clients deal with complex issues • The Government of Romania of fraud, regulatory compliance and business disputes. • The Romanian Banking Institute We do this by assembling teams who bring their broad sector experience, their deep subject matter knowledge • The Coalition for the development of Romania and the latest insights from our work. By helping • Romanian Business Leaders our clients manage their fraud risk and compliance • The Foreign Investors Council exposure better, we are helping to build trust in the • The French Chamber of Commerce in Romania marketplace. • The Romanian-German Chamber of Commerce EY Romania Major Events & Partnerships During 2015, we participated in national forums and professional events that bring together thought leaders on issues important to us and our stakeholders. page 20 | Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 | page 21 Executive and Regions Global risk management EY is organized into the Executive and Regions. The EY’s Global Vice Chair — Risk Management is responsible 100 EY client events Executive includes the Global Executive, our highest management body, its committees and teams. It sits across for enterprise-wide risk management, including overseeing organization-wide quality initiatives across EY’s four service and speaking 28 Regions, which are divided into four Areas: Americas, Asia-Pacific, EMEIA (Europe, Middle East, India and Africa) lines in Assurance, Advisory, Tax and Transaction Advisory Services. opportunities for and Japan. EY Romania is part of Central and Southeastern The Global Vice Chair — Risk Management is also responsible Europe Region located in EMEIA Area. for establishing globally consistent risk management our people in 2015 Our Code of Conduct execution priorities and enterprise-wide risk management. These priorities cascade to member firms, and their execution is monitored through a formal Enterprise Risk EY’s Code of Conduct, explained in detail earlier in this Management Program. report, sets out our principles and guides our behavior For more information, read the EY Global Transparency across all areas of activity. Our stance will always be that no Report 2015, www.ey.com/transparencyreport. client is more important than professional reputation — the reputation of EY and the reputation of each of our people. Tackling bribery and insider trading Insider trading Our Insider Trading Global Policy reaffirms the obligation of our people not to trade in securities with insider information, provides detail on what constitutes insider information and identifies with whom our people should consult if they have questions regarding their responsibilities. Anti-bribery The Anti-bribery Global Policy provides our people with direction around certain unethical and illegal activities. It emphasizes the obligation of our people to comply with anti-bribery laws and provides greater definition of what constitutes bribery. It also identifies reporting responsibilities when bribery is discovered. In recognition of the growing global impact of bribery and Walking the walk It enables us to implement our global strategy effectively and helps our member firms deliver consistent quality and corruption, efforts have been increased to embed antiexceptional client service. Other benefits include a greater bribery measures across EY, and training is mandated scale of resources and more opportunities for our people. for all our people. Our organization is built on strong internal structures and frameworks. These include policies that set the foundation In terms of audit, our integrated approach helps us to apply for us as an organization. They guide the behavior of each global audit standards, enhances audit quality, and supports EY person, help us limit risk, ensure independence and the consistent application and inspection of our audit and support measures like anti-corruption. other service methodologies. But the benefits go beyond just audit. Importantly, an integrated focus on quality and risk management, including independence, across all service A globally integrated approach lines increases our ability to produce clear, consistent guidance and related training in a timely way. Over the past decade we have transformed our organization to keep in step with globalization and the changing needs of The structure of the EY organization and our global policies EY’s people and clients. Today, global integration is one of and procedures on quality follow Article 40 of the European our greatest strengths. Union’s 8th Company Law Directive. page 22 | Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 | page 23 Complying with legal requirements • A Client Acceptance and Continuance Policy that sets out Independence practices Audit partner rotation principles to determine whether to either accept a new Data privacy: the Global Personal Data Privacy Policy sets client or engagement or to continue an existing client Auditor independence is fundamental to the quality of audits EY supports audit partner rotation because it provides out the principles to be applied to the use and protection or engagement. These principles are fundamental to and investor confidence in financial reporting and more a fresh perspective and promotes independence from of personal data, including data relating to current, past maintaining quality, managing risk, protecting our people broadly in the capital markets. We have a number of policies company management, while retaining expertise and and prospective personnel, clients, suppliers and business and meeting regulatory requirements. and systems in place to support this. Examples include: knowledge of the business. Audit partner rotation, combined associates. • A Conflicts of Interest Global Policy that defines global with independence requirements, enhanced systems of • EYG Independence Policy — this sets out the standards for addressing categories of potential conflicts internal quality controls and independent audit oversight, Document retention: EY member firms apply their independence requirements for member firms, of interest and a process for identifying them. It also helps strengthen independence and objectivity. Together, retention policies to all engagements and personnel. professionals and other employees. includes provisions for managing potential conflicts of they are important safeguards of audit quality. Documents must be preserved whenever any person interest as quickly and efficiently as possible through the • Global Independence System (GIS) — an intranetbecomes aware of any actual or reasonably anticipated use of appropriate safeguards. based tool that helps determine the listed entities from EY member firms comply with the audit partner rotation claim, litigation, investigation, subpoena or other which independence is required and the independence requirements of the code of the International Ethics • A Global Audit Methodology (EY GAM) that provides government proceeding involving a member firm or any of restrictions that apply to each. Standards Board for Accountants (IESBA) and each a global framework for delivering high-quality audit its work. services through the consistent application of thought • Global Monitoring System (GMS) — an important global individual country’s standard setter and/or regulator. processes, judgments and procedures in all audit tool that helps identify proscribed securities and other Visit EY’s Global Transparency Report 2015, for more engagements. impermissible financial interests. For more information, read the EY Global Transparency information. www.ey.com/transparencyreport. • Audit committees and corporate governance — EY Report 2015, www.ey.com/transparencyreport • The Global Tool for Acceptance and Continuance (GTAC) — EY’s intranet-based system for efficiently coordinating recognizes the important role audit committees and similar corporate governance bodies play in overseeing Internal quality control systems client and engagement acceptance and continuance auditor independence. Through our quality review Supply chain rigor activities in line with global, service line and member firm Providing high-quality professional audit services policies. GTAC takes users through the acceptance and programs, we monitor and test compliance with our We also look at our supplier relationships both to make independently, objectively and ethically is fundamental continuance requirements and identifies the policies and standards for audit committee communications, as well our supplier base more diverse and to raise supply chain to EY member firms’ success as independent auditors. references to professional standards needed to assess as the preapproval of services, where applicable. standards. Our Global Procurement Policy includes a We continue to invest in initiatives to promote enhanced both business opportunities and associated risks. • Service Offering Reference Tool (SORT) — this includes Supplier Code of Conduct to ensure that those organizations objectivity, independence and professional skepticism. For • The Global AQR program — the cornerstone of our guidance around which services can be delivered to audit that supply us with products or services operate to the high example, we have: process to monitor audit quality. All EY member firms and non-audit clients, as well as independence and other standards that we expect of ourselves. execute the Global AQR program, report results and risk management issues. • Designed a comprehensive set of global audit quality develop responsive actions plans. The program’s primary • Business Relationship Evaluation Tool (BRET) — control policies and practices that meet the requirements goals are to determine whether global and member firm supports our business relationships’ compliance with of the International Standards on Quality Control, issued quality control systems are appropriately designed and independence requirements. Our people are required to by the International Auditing and Assurance Standards followed in executing audit engagements and to provide use BRET in many circumstances to evaluate and obtain Board (IAASB). member firms reasonable assurance of compliance with advance approval of any potential business relationship policies and procedures, professional standards and with an audit client. regulatory requirements. page 24 | Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 | page 25 EY Entrepreneur Of The Year™ As the first and only truly global award of its kind, our Levente Hugo Bara is the new country winner who will program celebrates those who are building and leading represent Romania at the World Entrepreneur Of The Year successful, growing and dynamic businesses, recognizing finale in Monte Carlo in 2016. them through regional and national awards programs in over 150 cities in more than 60 countries. Each nation’s winner The registrations for EY Entrepreneur Of The Year™ then competes for the title of EY World Entrepreneur Of The – 2015 Romania (EOY) closed on 1 August 2015 and Year™. during August and in September, we were busy with the interviewing phase, taking place at the headquarters of the Strengthening our communities In 2015, we organized the second edition of EY Entrepreneur Of The Year in Romania. This offered us a entrepreneurs. The winners have been announced at an awarding gala on 12 November 2015. We believe we can make our most significant impact on Supporting entrepreneurs unique opportunity to acknowledge and award 48 of the society by concentrating our efforts on the areas where most successful entrepreneurs in Romania. Find out more: www.eyromania.ro/eoty society’s needs intersect with our own business strategy EY has been advising, supporting and championing and the distinctive skills, services and experience of our entrepreneurs for decades and we are proud of our role in people. By extending the reach of our core business and helping them succeed and grow sustainably. Entrepreneurs competencies in the areas of entrepreneurship, the next drive innovation and create jobs and wealth for their Competing entrepreneurs in the 2015 edition: Number of competitors by county generation of talent and a diverse and inclusive society, we communities, which results in broader economic growth and can support global, regional and local economic stability and other social benefits in the marketplace. This is why we are growth and address some of the major issues that the world is facing. committed to helping entrepreneurs — big or small — achieve their potential. 48 entrepreneurs have competed for the 6 Sibiu 2 Mureș 1 Suceava 1 2015 România Cluj Iași 4 Programs for entrepreneurs Entrepreneur Of The Year, Emerging Entrepreneur Of The Year și Social Bihor 1 Brașov 4 At EY, we believe in supporting entrepreneurs at their Entrepreneur Of The Year titles CSR initiatives Alba 4 many stages of development through programs delivered Buzău 1 Cum Schimbam Romania 1 by our people, and in some cases designed by them. By Aggregated data from competitors: Founded and produced by Timiș 2 EY is an active contributor to the local CSR Culture by sharing their time, experiences and skills, our people help 1,2 billion EUR Ialomița 1 playing a leading role in assessing the Romanian CSR entrepreneurs to make a difference to their businesses and aggregated turnover 1 1 Dolj environment. In partnership with CSRmedia.ro, we launched their communities. At the same time, we recognize that our in 2014 Olt București 19 in 2015 the third edition of CSR Survey, with focus on the support of mediumand small-scale entrepreneurs enables supply-chain sustainability. our people to develop new skills and experience how a 9.000 business operates in its entirety. employees in 2014 The winners of Entrepreneur Of The Year The study was very well received by the CSR community, Romania 2015 contributing to EY’s positioning as the only Big4 which We also believe that by supporting entrepreneurship — Entrepreneur Of The Year conducts such studies in Romania. We commit to developing through teaching, collaboration and our intellectual capital Average data per competing company Levente Hugo Bara the CSR survey annually, so that we can present local CEOs — we can address the issue of youth unemployment. This is Supremia Grup and CFOs with a relevant tool for including CSR in their why, in addition to the thousands of young people we hire, we help thousands more develop the skills needed to join the 27 million EUR business model. average turnover working world as young entrepreneurs or to become more in 2014 34 million EUR 280 turnover in 2014 current employees Also in 2015, we have started the first CSR specialists’ valued employees. Enrolled entrepreneurs by gender community in Romania, called “CSR sau Cum Schimbam 200 employees on average per company in 2014 Emerging Entrepreneur Of The Year Romania”. We have hosted three informal events, where we Dan Isai gather people involved in CSR and sustainability projects, Competing companies Salad Box for sharing ideas and insights from our joint experience. were on average over 80% 14 years old 8,6 million EUR 400 1 How we change Romania men Most entrepreneurs enrolled are active in turnover in 2014 current employees the following industry sectors: Social Entrepreneur Of The Year 20% “Romanian entrepreneurship is now a large community of people with drive, ideas and determination, who do not Cristian Ispas 17 wait for change to happen in Romania, but rather generate it. They create jobs in times when few think of new hires. 7 5 4 Motivation They are the ones that see opportunities during economic crises and that continue to invest even when the economy women Fast moving Technology is in recession.” Social Professional consumer 2,8 million EUR 97 businesses Bogdan Ion, Country Managing Partner, EY Romania goods services turnover in 2014 current employees page 26 | Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 | page 27 Promoting entrepreneurship EY partnered Microsoft in Business Zone events EY supports entrepreneurial mindset Our colleagues were invited as speakers to Microsoft’s exclusive events dedicated to SMEs in Bucharest and Cluj, EY Romania hosted in 2015 two workshops for which analyzed the latest technology trends in financial entrepreneurs, as part of the Romanian Business Leaders services and data management. program, “Ateliere de antreprenoriat”. EY professionals networked with entrepreneurs on topics, such as financing EY speaks about entrepreneurship to local entrepreneurs the business and sailing through the Romanian fiscal Throughout 2015, our colleagues in Tax and Marketing system. have travelled the country to speak to hundreds of local EY event dedicated to family businesses entrepreneurs about overcoming fiscal challenges and growing Romanian brands. 11 cities were targeted through Showcasing our commitment to helping family businesses 13 events in two dedicated programs: IMM Restart, where grow, EY Romania organized, in partnership with Family EY was partner, and Arena Afacerilor, organized by EY and Business Network Romania the second event dedicated Raiffeisen Bank to Romanian family businesses and succession planning. On this occasion, we launched the first Romanian Family EY Romania Thought Leadership on Entrepreneurship Business Barometer. Supporting our commitment to consolidate the Entrepreneur, looking for financing entrepreneurship culture in Romania, we published a series of studies which analyze the various dimensions of The 5th edition of the Wall-Street conference analyzed the entrepreneurship in Romania: financing alternatives available for companies, together with over 100 entrepreneurs. Gabriel Sincu, EY Tax Executive • Entrepreneurs Speak Out 2015 – this is our annual Director, was speaker at this event, reviewing the major flagship study on Romanian entrepreneurship fiscal changes and challenges entrepreneurs face in 2015. • Family Business Survey 2015 – the first survey looking at how local family businesses have emerged from the transition economy page 28 | Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 | page 29 EY Thought Leadership in Romwania EY is leading in the media EY local studies Throughout 2015 we have continued our relentless efforts EY Romania is conducting surveys and studies to provide annual benchmarking information on the local market. We have to bring our insights to the general public. Our people have positioned EY as a valuable source for market insights, by developing 11 local surveys in 2015. contributed constantly with articles, opinions and media This effort is built up throughout the year and we will continue to bring unique and timely information about the local statements. We have issued 150 press releases, opinion economy. You can access these valuable research studies by subscribing to our SlideShare profile. articles and interviews. We are in the lead every month capturing the greatest media share of voice among Big4. February 2015 March 2015 May 2015 May 2015 Between January and October 2015, EY Romania generated 5,468 press mentions, ranking 1st in terms of Romania Romanian Banking share of voice and capturing 35% of all articles mentioning Big4 companies, according to the Mediafax monitoring M&A Barometer Barometer ARB & EY 2015 2015 program. A vision for growth – Business Barometer Romania M&A Barometer 2015 “Kindness helps the company” – study on Romanian Banking Barometer ARB & EY 150 press releases, opinion articles and interviews Protected Units 2015 5,468 press mentions between January and October 2015 No Big4 company in the media May 2015 June 2015 September 2015 September 2015 with 35% share of voice EY and Publica book launches In collaboration with Publica, EY Romania supports ongoing book launch projects in an effort to give readers from Romania the opportunity to scroll through some of the most CSR Trends and Realities A vision for growth – Mobile devices usage in Romania 2015 Mid-year Business important texts on personal development written in recent Barometer years. Entrepreneurs With books launched in 2015, like “The Virgin Way” by Speak Out 2015 Richard Branson, “Never eat alone” by Keith Ferrazzi and “The Blue Ocean Strategy” by Chan Kim and Renee Mauborgne, EY also took this approach as a means to interact with Generation Y, as the volumes are offered at the many events we organize. October 2015 November 2015 December 2015 We are very excited to have an approximate number Social media şi mediul de of 6000 copies (2000 per title) in circulation so far, afaceri românesc Impactul marketingului prin intermediul offering valuable know-how to help our readers deliver to the standard of expectation that they have set-forth for reţelelor de socializare (social media) asupra mediului de afaceri local 27 noiembrie 2015 themselves. Family Business Survey How NGOs and SMEs use Social media and the business 2015 the Sponsorship Law environment in Romania page 30 | Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 | page 31 Increasing the sustainability of our planet We believe the biggest contribution we can make to minimizing the negative effects of climate change is to support our clients and the market in moving toward a lowcarbon economy. Through our new Climate Change and Sustainability Services (CCaSS) that we are offering in Romania we are helping our local clients operate more sustainably. At the same time, we’re challenging ourselves to work in a more environmentally sustainable manner and to find new ways to reduce our carbon footprint and waste stream. In this section, see how we are addressing the UNGC principles focusing on the environment. “EY contributes to the contemporary business on the globe by sharing the insight with its clients in diverse EY Romania’s carbon footprint Scope 1 and 2 emissions from office energy areas. While doing this, EY always operates with responsibility. As such, we, employees of EY, are well advised consumption and EY owned vehicles about our responsibilities towards our communities, countries, and to the environment that we are living in. When EY has decided to invest into Climate Change and Sustainability Services locally in Romania, I volunteered for being part of this important service offerings. Now, with my colleagues in this newly establish service line 1,215 we are proudly representing EY’s sustainability mission not only within EY but also carrying this notion to our tCO2eq 615.10 clients in diverse sectors.” 1.83 tCO2eq Burcin Atakan, Climate Change & Sustainability Services Leader, EY Romania tCO2eq / FTE accounting for 50,63% of the total impact Supporting our clients on their lower-carbon Our local carbon footprint EY Romania’s total travel emissions Paper consumption journey We also continue to increase the energy efficiency of our Our new CCaSS team will help organizations in Romania offices and, although travel is critical to our business, 507.44 92.34 address the environmental, social and economic impacts we have invested in travel alternatives, like Telepresence tCO2eq tCO2eq of climate change. Our colleagues help clients reach their videoconferencing and enhanced desktop and mobile sustainability goals by providing a range of skills and options. accounting for 41,76% of the total impact contributing by 7,60% of the total impact services. For example: By globalizing many of our core business functions, such as • Our local CCaSS practice will help organizations IT, real estate, procurement and travel, we are increasingly understand the components of a sustainability strategy able to share insights and progress around the world. This and improve their performance in this regard. We have allows us to improve the environmental sustainability of our developed regional best practices to help clients address operations both in Romania an worldwide. the most important sustainability factors, including Explanatory Notes managing risk in a resource-constrained economy. At local level, EY Romania has implemented the certified • We will also advise clients on meeting compliance targets quality and environment management systems according Methodology Data collection related to waste management and pollution, helping to ISO 9001:2008 si ISO 14001:2004. Our carbon footprint follows the Accounting and We collect activity data from all our offices in Romania them to reduce carbon emissions and enhance their corporate reputation. Reporting Principles established by the Greenhouse in order to estimate our emissions. This data is then Gas Protocol (GHG Protocol) for the corporate carbon multiplied with the corresponding conversion factors. footprint accounting. Specifically: Emission factors • Emissions from offices energy consumption are estimated using activity data collected from our We have used internationally recognized and reliable data main office in Bucharest alongside with ones in Clujsources for the corporate carbon footprint calculation, Napoca, Iasi and Timisoara. based on the GHG Protocol emission factor selection • Emissions from air travel are estimated taking into criteria. Examples of these sources are the GHG Protocol consideration all routes, class ticket and number of calculation tools and worksheets, Intergovernmental passengers. Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), the Department for • Emissions from ground travel (99 cars (98 diesel Environment, Food and Rural Affairs of the United engines and 1 petrol engine) and 567 employees Kingdom (DEFRA), Ecometrica. travelling by foot, by bike or by public transportation) are estimated using fuel consumption and fuel/engine efficiency. • Emissions from hotel stays are estimated considering the time of year, number of people and number of nights for both internal and external stays. • Emissions from printed materials are estimated taking into account the format of the printing and number of copies. During the course of 2015, we have made important steps in the way we see our environmental impact, consequently our carbon footprint. We started accounting for our impact and we are proud to say that we have now a baseline for future assessments, also allowing us to propose measures to improve our results and decrease our CO2 footprint. page 34 | Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 | page 35 Contacts Bogdan Ion Country Managing Partner EY România +40 21 402 4000 Burcin Atakan Partner, Climate Change & Sustainability Services EY România +40 21 402 4000 Oana Gorbanescu Corporate Communication & CSR Officer EY România +40 21 402 4000 page 36 | Our vision, values and impact in Romania UN Global Compact 2015 EY | Assurance I Tax I Transactions I Advisory About EY EY is a global leader in assurance, tax, transaction and advisory services. Worldwide, our 212,000 people are united by our shared values and an unwavering commitment to quality. We make a difference by helping our people, our clients and our wider communities achieve their potential. For more information, please visit www.ey.com ©2016 EYGM Limited All Rights Reserved. EY refers to one or more of the member firms of EY Global Limited (EYG), a UK private company limited by guarantee. EYG is the principal governance entity of the global EY organization and does not provide any service to clients.
