2015 Sustainability Report 02 OVERVIEW Content Sistema owns key assets in several industries that are of paramount importance for the development of the Russian Federation`s economy. Thus, as a large investment corporation, Sistema influences significantly on the lives of millions of Russians. Acting as a responsible investor, the Corporation takes into account various environmental and social aspects of its activities and fully accepts its responsibility to all stakeholders. 88.2 OVERVIEW 04 Key Performance Indicators 06 Calendar of Events RUB bn 10 Awards and Achievements tax payments 16 Chairman’s Message 20 Sustainable Development Agenda 139.2 SECTION 1. CORPORATE PROFILE RUB bn investment programme 28 1.1. Investment Strategy 38 1.2. Economic Performance and Investments 40 1.3. Corporate Governance 1.35 45 1.4. Procurement Activities 52 1.5. Risk Management RUB bn 57 1.6. Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities сharitable and social expenditures 64 1.7. Personnel Management 90 1.8. Stakeholder Engagement 100 1.9. Managing Corporate Social Responsibility > 155 thousand employees To get some more information, please, visit our corporarte web site: http://www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Contents Key Performance Indicators 03 SECTION 2. INVESTMENT IN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT 2.1. 112 2.1.1. New talents for an innovative economy 121 2.1.2. Developing the Innovative Potential of the Youth Investments in Human Capital 2.2. 129 2.2.1. Social & Economic Partnerships 135 2.2.2. Improving Standards of Living 146 2.2.3. Supporting Healthcare Development of Regions and Communities 2.3. 155 2.3.1. Innovation and Modernisation of Manufacturing 163 2.3.2. Development of Science-Driven Industries 166 2.3.3. Improving Infrastructure Technological 168 2.3.4. Promoting Import Substitution Leadership 2.4. 177 2.4.1. Greening of Business 180 2.4.2. Sustainable Consumption of Resources 184 2.4.3. Preservation of Biological Diversity Green Economy Appendices 188 Appendix 1. About this Report and Determining Materiality 195 Appendix 2. Implementation of Sustainable Development Plans in 2015 199 Appendix 3. Shared Value Projects of Sistema Group 201 Appendix 4. Table of Compliance with GRI G4 Guidelines and the UN Global Compact Principles 206 Appendix 5. Certificate of Public Assurance by the RSPP Council on Non-Financial Reporting 207 Glossary and Abbreviations 209 Contacts www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 04 04 OVERVIEW Key Performance Indicators Revenue, Share of Sistema’s Operating profit, revenue in Russia’s RUB bn GDP,% RUB bn 708.6 0.88 69.0 2015 708.6 2015 0.88 2015 69.0 2014 631.9 2014 0.83 2014 60.9 OIBDA, Number of developing Percentage of dividends assets that paid out received from developing RUB bn dividends, pcs. assets (vs total dividend amount),% 176.4 9 17.8 2015 176.4 2015 9 2015 17.8 2014 165.2 2014 9 2014 6.9 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Key Performance Indicators Calendar of Events 05 05 Sistema Group’s Tax payments to federal Total environmental investment programme, and regional budgets, protection expenditures RUB bn RUB bn and investments of Sistema Group companies, RUB bn 139.2 88.2 1.6 2015 139.2 2015 88.2 2015 1.6 2014 115.8 2014 100 2014 1.4 Charitable and social Headcount, Personnel engagement expenditures, in voluntary RUB bn persons activities,% 1.35 155,251 6.7 2015 1.35 2015 155,251 2015 6.7 2014 0.90 2014 155,779 2014 4.2 www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 06 OVERVIEW Calendar of Events January March Idea Contest Youth Summit Finals of the Intellect2All Youth Contest of promising technology ideas and developments of students, young researchers, developers and entrepreneurs was held in Moscow as Start of a joint social programme part of the All-Russian Lift to the Future of Sistema Charitable Foundation, scientific and educational programme. Medsi Group, MCCV and the Moscow More than 400 applications were Department of Labour and Social submitted for the contest. Protection to provide free sanatorium care to the WWII veterans on the Sistema, MTS and SSTL held premises of Medsi’s sanatorium International Innovation Youth Summit Otradnoye near Moscow. February at the Skolkovo School of Management in Moscow. Lift to the Future school Import Substitution Partnership with regions Sistema signed agreements on social and economic cooperation with the Vologda and Kirov regional governments. Segezha Group and Petrozavodsk State University signed an agreement on scientific and technical cooperation. Opening of a spring scientific and BPGC signed a contract with Siemens educational school Lift to the Future in AG for production of innovative importCharter Sukko (Krasnodar Territory), which was substituting grid equipment for the attended by 500 children from all over MTS and Detsky Mir joined Russia. Smart Grid project in Bashkortostan. the Anti-Corruption Charter of Russian Business. Education HR Brand Award Taking care of veterans Sistema became a partner of the HR brand award. Elena Vitchak, honourary An agreement was signed between member of the jury, Vice President, Sistema Charitable Foundation and Head of the HR Department, presented Sistema signed a cooperation NPO Chess in Schools to promote the the award in the category ”World” for agreement with the Moscow City inclusion of chess in the Russian school the best HR projects implemented in Council of Veterans of War, Labour, curriculum and strengthen the role Russia and other countries. Armed Forces and Law Enforcement of chess in education initiatives. Agencies (MCCV). 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Key Performance Indicators Calendar of Events Awards and Achievements 07 April Contest of projects May Support for Innovation Social Partnership A tripartite agreement was signed Oilfield services holding Targin signed between Sistema Charitable Foundation, an agreement with Ufa State Oil the Government of Moscow and MCCV Technical University on cooperation on social partnership in supporting in the field of training and retraining, veterans and providing patriotic introduction of scientific and technical education for young people. developments, implementation of joint Completion of the national contest social projects, as well as with Skolkovo of regional youth projects System Foundation on the establishment of the of Priorities of the 2014-2015 academic Victory Day Centre for Research and Development year held within the framework of Lift (R&D Centre) in the Skolkovo Innovation to the Future in the All-Russian Centre, and was a regional sponsor of Children’s Centre Smena (Anapa) with the Russian Startup Tour (RST) aimed the support of the Russian Ministry at finding advanced innovative solutions of Education and Science, and in the and developing the competencies of Children’s health centre named after startup teams implementing high-tech Yuri Gagarin (Stupino, the Moscow projects. region). More than 700 applications were submitted. All-Russian Olympiad More than 400 employees of 22 Support for The Russian Museum Sistema Group companies participated as volunteers in greeting and assisting veterans in Moscow as part of the celebration of the 70th anniversary of the Victory in the Great Patriotic War. The Corporation’s employees participated in the improvement of the premises of four sponsored orphanages, where cleanup days and holidays for the With the support of MTS Bank, the children and veterans were organised finals of the 10th All-Russian Olympiad as part of the Volunteer Victory Garden The State Russian Museum hosted on Financial Markets and Basics of initiative. an exhibition ”National War. The Art of Consumer Knowledge for high school 1941-1945” with the support of Sistema A formal opening of a new armoured students took place in Moscow. The Charitable Foundation. As part of the vehicles exhibition organised with event was attended by more than exhibition opening ceremony, Sistema support from Sistema Charitable 6,000 high school students from all together with MTS and the Committee Foundation was held on the territory over Russia, as well as from Kazakhstan, on Social Policy of St. Petersburg of the Prokhorovka Field State Memorial Uzbekistan, Moldova and Ukraine. conducted a tour for the veterans Estate in the Belgorod region. of the Great Patriotic War and the survivors of the Leningrad siege and Environmental Initiative congratulated them on the 70th Road Show in Saudi Arabia anniversary of the Victory. MTS announced the start of the Federal Sistema was the general sponsor of Environmental Protection Programme, the Russian Business Week ”Russia and under which a comprehensive collection Honouring veterans Saudi Arabia – New Prospects for Trade, and recycling system for waste batteries Economic and Investment Cooperation” of cell phones, smartphones and tablets The Central House of Scientists in and the Russian regions’ road show will be introduced in MTS stores Moscow hosted a gala reception for in Jeddah under the auspices of the in Russian regions. 200 war and labour veterans, the former Russian Embassy in Saudi Arabia and employees of Sistema’s enterprises. the Russian Chamber of Commerce. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 08 OVERVIEW June July IASS-2015 Participation in Economic Corporate Social Responsibility Forums seminar Sistema, jointly with MTS, held a corporate seminar on social responsibility, which was attended by more than 50 representatives of the Corporation’s subsidiaries. RTI and Kronshtadt Group demonstrated their latest developments High tecnology for Moscow at the 12th International Aviation and Space Show in Zhukovsky, the Moscow region. Sistema’s top managers headed by the Board of Directors’ Chairman Vladimir Sistema supported a programme for Evtushenkov and the President Mikhail honouring veterans and heroes of Shamolin held dozens of business aviation ”Wings of Victory”. A special meetings on the sidelines of the 19th cultural programme was organized St. Petersburg International Economic for the guests of honour with the Forum (SPIEF) and took part in its key participation of cadets. Also, VIP sections. stands were provided to watch the demonstration flights. The Russian-Saudi Business Forum Mikron signed a contract with the State attended by the Corporation’s top Unitary Enterprise Mosgortrans for the managers took place in St. Petersburg supply of land transport contactless with Sistema’s support. tickets, thus becoming the main supplier of tickets for the entire transport September network of Moscow, namely: ground, Agreements with the Regions underground transport and suburban Microelectronics trains. Sistema signed cooperation agreements Mikron became a resident of the with the Governments of the Zelenograd Special Economic Zone Arkhangelsk and Irkutsk regions where it works to implement its chip at SPIEF-2015. August technologies R&D project. Corporate cleanup day Forest care Holiday Backpack for first graders Sistema, MTS and RTI took part in the international environmental initiative FSC Friday organized by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) to support responsible attitude towards forests, and collected the largest volume of paper for recycling among Russian companies that participated in the campaign. Sistema conducted a company-wide eco-cleanup day dubbed ”Energy Sistema Charitable Foundation and of Sistema” in Medsi’s sanatorium the Moscow Book Centre launched Week of Knowledge Otradnoye near Moscow, with a volunteer campaign to collect school supplies for children from Sistema held its first Week more than 2,000 employees of the 30 orphanages in Moscow and the of Knowledge, which was attended Corporation as participants. The Moscow region by the beginning by more than 400 employees Corporation’s top managers, together of the new academic year. of the Corporation. with the veterans, laid a commemorative Victory Walkway. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Key Performance Indicators Calendar of Events Awards and Achievements 09 Summer Games November Partnership agreements Sistema organized its 13th Summer MTS signed agreements with the Games at Yantar stadium, Swedish telecommunications equipment 17 Corporations’ teams participing Week of Saudi business manufacturer Ericsson on cooperation in 14 sports. in the development and implementation Chairman of Sistema’s Board of fifth-generation communication of Directors Vladimir Evtushenkov technologies (5G) in Russia and with took part in a meeting of the Russianthe international manufacturer of home October Saudi Business Council and the Joint Intergovernmental Russian-Saudi appliances REDMOND on partnership in the development and promotion of Commission on commercial, economic smart household appliances and other and technological cooperation. devices. Memory book Memoranda of intent were signed with BPGC and Ufa State Oil Technical the Saudi company Wafrat Al Tawasul University signed a cooperation to establish a Russian-Saudi investment agreement in the field of education, company for investing in the agricultural research and innovation, vocational sector, infrastructure, transportation guidance and graduates’ employment and other industries, as well as to promotion. create a joint venture with Targin for the manufacture of drill bits in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. Charitable events MTS handed over to the State Historical Museum a unique memory book ”Life Corporate Education During the War. 1941-1945”, which included more than 320 stories and photos of war veterans collected by their relatives – employees of the Company. Energy Forum Thousands of employees of different BPGC was the general sponsor of the Sistema Group companies participated 15th Russian Energy Forum ”Effective in a campaign to fulfil wishes of Energy” in Ufa, which was attended by underprivileged children as part of the more than 1,500 industry professionals. The Higher School of Management traditional charitable event ”Tree of At the forum, BPGC and Rossetti signed and Innovation of the Lomonosov Wishes”, which included buying gifts, an agreement on cooperation in the field Moscow State University opened a new holding volunteer toures and New of unified technical policy. ”Innovation in Development” corporate Year’s parties for children from eight retraining programme for Leader Invest’s sponsored orphanages. top managers. Forum of talents in Yaroslavl A charitable New Year’s party for underprivileged children was jointly held December by MTS and Detsky Mir in the Cultural Centre of railway employees. Support for volunteers Sistema Charitable Foundation co-organized the 4th Moscow International Forum ”Corporate NPP Lift to the Future, MTS and RTI jointly Volunteering: Business and Society”, presented educational programmes and which was attended by representatives conducted master classes for young of Sistema, SCF, MTS, Medsi, Detsky people at the 3rd All-Russian Forum Mir, Stream and employees of other ”Future Intellectual Leaders of Russia”. Sistema Group companies. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 10 OVERVIEW Awards and Achievements Sistema and Group Companies Corporate Social Responsibility INVESTMENT LEADERS OF CORPORATE BEST RUSSIAN ANGEL CHARITY – 2015 SOCIAL PROJECTS 1. Sistema became the winner of the World Investment Award ”Investment 3. Sistema ranked among the top 5 companies of a nationwide ranking 4. The ”Taking Care of Veterans” project was the winner of the 4th annual Angel” for its contribution to ”Leaders of Corporate Charity – 2015” national programme ”Best Russian the achievement of sustainable development (a joint project of Donors Forum, Social Projects” in the category ”Projects for goals. The award was established by the PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) and the the Underprivileged”. MTS was featured in World Organization for Development Vedomosti newspaper), and was second the ”Corporate projects” category for the (WOD) – an international non-governmental in the ”Best Programme/Project to Support ”Memory Book” project. organization having a special consultative Contemporary Art and Culture” category status with the Economic and Social Council for its long-term State Russian Museum of the United Nations (UN ECOSOC). support programme, and third in the ”Best Programme/Project Contributing to the Development of Volunteering in Russia” category for its project to establish a THE GOOD CAUSE volunteer centre at Sistema Charitable CHAMPIONS Foundation. BEST IN CSR The ranking also included Mobile TeleSystems (MTS) and Detsky Mir. MTS was awarded a special prize ”For Transparency” and received a diploma from the Russian Union of Industrialists and 5. Entrepreneurs (RSPP) in the category ”Best Sistema Charitable Foundation Programme/Project Reflecting the Corporate became the winner of the national Charity Policy and Social Investment ”The Good Cause Champions” Award Principles” for the All-Russian charity project for contribution to development of corporate ”Generation M”. volunteering (Russia’s Managers Association 2. Sistema, MTS, Bashkir Power Grid Company (BPGC) and Medsi Group and the National Council for Corporate Volunteering with the support of the Russian (Medsi) became the winners of a competition as part of the Best in CSR Ministry of Economic Development) in the project (organised by Sustainable Business category ”Urban Environment Project” for its magazine) for implementation of best ”Volunteer Victory Garden” initiative. MTS practices in the field of corporate social was awarded in the category ”Best Project responsibility and sustainable development to Engage and Motivate Corporate in Russia and the CIS. Volunteers” for its ”Do Good!” project. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Calendar of Events Awards and Achievements Chairman’s Message 11 Personnel TOP 1000 RUSSIAN CEO-OF-THE-YEAR CRYSTAL PYRAMID – 2015 MANAGERS RUSSIA 2015 1. 39 Sistema’s top managers took top places in the Top 1000 Russian 2. Sistema’s Vice President, Head of the HR Department Elena Vitchak became 4. Sistema’s President Mikhail Shamolin and Chairman of Mikron’s Board of Managers ranking of Russia’s the winner of the professional ”Crystal Directors Gennady Krasnikov became Managers Association and Kommersant Pyramid – 2015” award established by the winners in a number of categories of publishing house. Sistema’s Board Chairman Organising Committee of the summit of an international ranking of presidents of Vladimir Evtushenkov was named among HR directors of Russia and the CIS in the international companies CEO-of-the-Year the best Russian business leaders, and category ”HR Manager”. Russia 2015 complied by Swiss research President Mikhail Shamolin ranked first company Obermatt. among the top managers of multi-business companies. The Chairman of the Investor Relations and Dividend Policy Committee of Sistema’s TOP 25 CORPORATE Board of Directors David Iakobachvili SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY was recognized as the ”Best independent MANAGERS Director” in the Top 1000 Russian Managers ranking. Two MTS’s top managers Vice President for Marketing Vasil Latsanich and Vice President for Technology and IT Andrey Ushatsky – became winners in the categories 3. Four Corporation’s representatives were included in the first All”Best Marketing Director” and ”Best IT Russian ”Top 25 Corporate Social Director”. Responsibility Managers” ranking according to the Managers Association. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 12 OVERVIEW Subsidiaries and Affiliates Procurement Corporate Social Responsibility NATIONAL PROCUREMENT DIRECTOR OF THE YEAR – 2015 HR BRAND TRANSPARENCY RATING 5. Three independent members of Sistema’s Board of Directors Robert 1. Sistema and MTS were recognized as commercial customers with a high 1. MTS ranked among Top 5 Best Employers in Russia and became Kocharian, David Iakobachvili level of procurement transparency a third-time winner of the HR brand and Roger Munnings, as well as MTS’s in the National Procurement Transparency award established by HeadHunter, in the Independent Director Stanley Miller, were rating compiled by the National Association categories ”Career Start”, ”For Contribution included in the ”50 Best Independent of E-Trade Participants. to HR Branding Development” and ”Big Directors” ranking compiled as part of the Heart” (for the implementation of the best ”Director of the Year – 2015” National Award socially-oriented charity project). The OZON (Association of Independent Directors, RSPP Green project to improve environmental in partnership with PwC). Ron Sommer, responsibility of OZON Group’s employees Chairman of MTS’s Board of Directors, took the prize in the ”Capital City” category. was awarded in the category ”Chairman COMPETITIVE PROCUREMENT of the Board of Directors: Contribution to LEADERS the Development of Corporate Governance”. Managers of Sistema, MTS and MTS Bank were named among the ”Top 25 Corporate Governance Directors Corporate CORPORATE EDUCATION Secretaries”. LEADERS 2. MTS and Moscow City Telephone Network (MGTS) were included in the ”15 Corporate Education Leaders” 2. Sistema became the finalist of the ”Competitive Procurement Leaders” ranking compiled by RBC. award (the electronic trading centre B2B-Centre) in the category ”Trade and Procurement Innovations Leader”. MTS became the winner in the category ”Best Supplier Management System”, BPGC – in the special category ”For Stable and Transparent Procurement System”. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Calendar of Events Awards and Achievements Chairman’s Message 13 MTS WINING THE MOSCOW TIMES BPGC WINING CONTESTS AWARDS 2015 CONTESTS 3. MTS won the following contests: 4. MGTS won in the category “Corporate Social Responsibility” of The Moscow 6. BPGC became the winner in the categories “Socially Responsible • ”Leaders of Russian Business: Dynamics Times Awards 2015 for its “Good Electric Grid Company” and “The and Responsibility 2015” (RSPP) in the Cause” project, and in the category “For Most Transparent Electric Grid Company” category ”For High-Quality Sustainability Efficient Support of Small and Medium-Sized of the 6th All-Russian contest “Best Russian Reporting”; Telecommunications Businesses “ of the Electric Networks” (Energo-News) and “Basis for Growth – 2015” award. took third place in the category “Best Social • The 4th All-Russian Small & MediumProject in Business” in the 8th All-Russian Sized Business Support Award ”Basis contest “Press Service of the Year”. BPGC’s for Growth – 2015” in the category newspaper “Energetik Bashkortostana” ”Infrastructure Project of the Year” (Power engineer of Bashkortostan) became (category ”Business”) for the the winner in the “Best Corporate Publication implementation of the international of the Republic of Bashkortostan” category youth innovation contest ”Telecom Idea”; CHARITY IN FOCUS within the framework of “Press Ball – 2015” • ”For Active Corporate Information contest. Disclosure Policy” established by Interfax news agency; • ”Top 10 IT Projects for Public Sector. Educational and Healthcare Institutions” (ComNews) in the category ”Best Bashkirenergo (BPGC’s subsidiary) was Education Media Project” for its project included in the top 10 best Russian ”Children Teach Adults”. companies in occupational safety and health on the basis of the All-Russian contest “Success and Safety – 2015”. 5. Medsi was second in the “Charity in Focus” contest of the “Donors Forum” for the photo “Forgetting everything”made at the inclusive children’s festival at the Moscow International Music Centre organized by Medsi for the Children’s Day jointly with MTS, charitable foundations Sistema, Detsky Mir, Galchonok, Downside Up and Podari Zhizn. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 14 OVERVIEW Personnel Services THE STATE PRIZE BEST IMPLEMENTED ENVIRONMENTAL IN THE FIELD OF SCIENCE HEALHCARE FACILITY RATING AND TECHNOLOGY CONSTRUCTION PROJECT 8. Segezha Pulp and Paper Mill (SPPM) and Lendersky PPM (companies of 1. President Vladimir Putin awarded the State Prize of the Russian Federation 1. Clinical and Diagnostic Centre Medsi at Krasnaya Presnya became the Segezha Group) were named among in the field of science and technology winner of the citywide competition the most environmentally responsible for the development of semiconductor “2015 Best Implemented Construction logging operators in Karelia in the structures with controlled and stable Project”, organised by the Moscow rating compiled by the regional public electro-physical parameters for modern Department of Urban Planning Policy, in environmental organisation SPOK. microelectronic production to Mikron’s the category “Best Implemented Healhcare General Designer, CEO of NIIME, and Facility Construction Project”. member of the Russian Academy of Sciences Gennady Krasnikov on the Russia Day, in Kremlin. GOLDEN BEAR AWARD SHOP OF THE YEAR PERSON OF THE YEAR 9. Detsky Mir took second place in the category “Social Project of the Year” 2. Detsky Mir took the top places of the 6th National “Golden Bear” in the categories “Shop of the Year” Award in the field of goods and services for and “Best Goods for Pregnant children for its volunteer corporate puppet theater. 2. CEO of Detsky Mir Vladimir Chirakhov came out on top in the and Breastfeeding Women” of the 6th National “Golden Bear” Award in the field category ”Person of the Year” of the of goods and services for children. 6th National ”Golden Bear” Award in the field of goods and services for children. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Calendar of Events Awards and Achievements Chairman’s Message 15 25 LARGEST RUSSIAN PRIVATE MGTS WINING MEDICAL COMPANIES NEW ELECTRONICS –2015 IN TERMS OF REVENUE CONTESTS 3. Medsi took first place in the ranking “25 Largest Russian Private Medical 5. Mikron won “Golden Chip 2015” prize in the category “For Achievements 7. MGTS became the winner in the category “Best Customer Experience Companies in Terms of Revenue” in Import Substitution” within the in the Telecommunications Sector” compiled by RBC. framework of the international exhibition of the National Award “Customer “New Electronics –2015” for the release eXperience Awards Russia 2015” held by of the first Russian microprocessor the International Association of Customer “Elbrus-2SM”. Experience Management Experts (ICXC), the digital magazine “Library of Loyalty” and RBC media holding, and became the MTS BANK WINING winner in the category “Most Dynamically Developing Operator in Terms of Revenue CONTESTS from Fixed and Wireless Broadband Access TELECOM LEADERSHIP Services” of ComNews Awards 2015 AWARDS 2015 professional award. TOP 3 RUSSIAN IT CONSULTANTS 4. MTS Bank was named among the top 10 companies in the ranking “Best Russian Internet Banks” compiled by J’son & Partners Consulting Company (J&P) and among the top 10 companies in 6. Sistema Shyam TeleServices Limited (SSTL, MTS India) became the winner the ranking “Best Mobile Banks” compiled of Telecom leadership Awards 2015 by Deloitte. It also won in the category in “Product Innovations”, “Customer “Financial Services, Online Banking” and took Services” and “Internet Services” categories. second place in the category “Best usability/ Ux” (interface and user experience) at the largest annual All-Russian Internet Projects Contest “Golden Website”, and won the 8. NVision Group was named among the top 3 Russian IT consultants according following awards: to CNews. • “Golden App 2015” contest in two categories: “Finance, Business, Insurance” and “Best ui/ux”; • “Runet Rating 2015” in “Finance and Insurance” category. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 16 OVERVIEW Chairman’s Message I am happy to present Sistema’s non-financial report that discloses all aspects of the Corporation’s contribution to the social, economic and environmental areas, i.e. improvement of the quality of life and development of Russia’s regions, support for innovation, modernisation of infrastructure and manufacturing capabilities in Russia, as well as our key social and charitable programmes. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Awards and Achievements Chairman’s Message Sustainable Development Agenda 17 G4-1 Dear shareholders, investors and partners, to achieve good financial results today, but also to create value in the long term. We consistently invest in the real sector of the 1.5 times Today, it has become obvious that the economy, development of manufacturing, increased charitable and social expenditures as compared to 2014 world is facing a systemic crisis and infrastructure projects and human capital new challenges related to the cyclical to ensure growth in both traditional and new development of the economy. At the sectors, where a breakthrough is possible World Economic Forum in Davos experts through R&D work, implementation of and business leaders declared an end innovative approaches and improvement Our sustainability strategy focuses on to the era of rapid growth driven by of asset management quality. This includes investments in fixed assets,innovative hydrocarbons production and processing, such aspects of sustainable development which is particularly keenly felt by Russia technologies and human resources. as human resources management, business amid sanctions and unstable geopolitical ethics, risk management, as well as environment. Given the new challenges, the anti-corruption, social and environmental urgent task of the global community is not policies. only to stimulate growth, but also to ensure long-term sustainability, social stability and Our people are our greatest assets. The environmental balance. value of professionals who are able to act as innovation champions, to generate new These issues were addressed in the revised ideas, to improve business processes and 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development achieve good results, increases each year as adopted by the United Nations and aimed the global competition for talents intensifies. at eradicating poverty, preserving the Earth’s Sistema hires the best professionals resources and ensuring everyone’s welfare. and creates favourable conditions for Achievement of these goals depends on the motivation and development of its the joint efforts of the public, private and management team by making the most nonprofit sectors. Sistema, being a member of its internal resources and expertise. of the UN Global Compact, is involved in At the same time, we try to look ahead and this process by consistently investing in fully support the development of additional the social sector, education, health, new engineering and technical training using technologies, and creating competitive jobs a project-based approach that allows the and decent employment conditions for younger generation not only to develop 155,000 people in more than 13 industries. professional competences, but also to gain valuable skills of teamwork in real-life Analysts are right to believe that the main projects. No school or university offers such drivers of sustainable business development, an opportunity. which should be taken into account by the companies seeking to maintain In 2015, Sistema established a record in leadership in a highly volatile and uncertain investments, acquired a number of new environment, are investments in fixed assets assets and started to create vertically (primarily state-of-the-art equipment), integrated groups in such industries as innovative (primarily information and forestry, pulp&paper and agriculture, as well communications) technologies and human as expanded its high-tech portfolio by adding resources. These aspects are the focus promising projects of Kronshtadt Group. of our strategy enabling us not only www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 18 OVERVIEW It is revealing that while the level of switched to a 10-year period of RAB tariff In the context of the growing demand for investments in fixed assets throughout regulation, which provides a balance domestic tourism, we intend to develop Russia decreased, Sistema’s capital between the required investment needs our hotel chain by creating an attractive expenditures in 2015 increased to almost and the interests of energy consumers. The infrastructure. Therefore, we have built a 2.5% of the total Russian expenditure company also continued its work with the 5-star health resort within several years at in nominal terms. Our portfolio companies Ministry of Education of the Republic of the premises of a maral breeding farm in the continued active implementation of Bashkortostan aimed at preventing child Altay Republic. This facility is one of a kind their investment programmes aimed at electrical traumas. in this area. Sistema also acquired two hotels modernising infrastructure, increasing in Karelia, and launched a new eco-hotel production capacity, expanding the range, In 2015, a cutting-edge multidisciplinary Izumrudny Les (Emerald Forest) in the Klin improving the availability and quality of clinic Medsi was established in Moscow. district near Moscow during the reporting services and products in order to achieve, It became the largest investment project year. among other things, the government’s of Sistema, which spent RUB 4.5bn on the import substitution objectives. creation of this new clinical and diagnostic Over the past year, we have significantly centre. The clinic has the capacity of +1,200 expanded the package of cooperation Thus, MTS Group, while remaining a leader patients per shift and offers 16 high-tech agreements with the Russian regions, in terms of mobile revenue volumes and types of medical care. An Austrian company particularly the Arkhangelsk, Vologda, growth rate in Russia, spent more than Vamed, one of the European leaders in Irkutsk and Kirov regions. Our cooperation is RUB 96bn for the development of data the design, construction, equipping and primarily concerned with the modernisation networks in all target markets and for management of complex healthcare and development of the timber industry, modernisation of landline communication facilities, became the company’s partner and provides for the implementation of networks in Moscow and Russian regions. in this project. In addition, a new state-ofrelevant investment programmes that have In 2015, MTS launched LTE new-generation the-art children’s healthcare department considerable social impact, alongside with networks in 83 Russian regions, and the was opened in Krasnogorsk. Large-scale their economic value. Thus, the launch of Moscow City Telephone Network almost reconstruction of the clinic building in a modern automated line for the production completed a major RUB 50bn project Khoroshevskoye district of Moscow is the of paper bags in Segezha (the Republic of launched in 2011, on replacement of the next step. We believe that private healthcare Karelia) in 2015 resulted not only in creation obsolete ADSL network with advanced will become widespread in Russia in future of 60 new jobs, but also a 15% increase optical GPON networks providing broadband and intend to further develop this socially in tax revenues for all levels of budgets. Internet access at speeds up to 1 Gbit/s significant area in accordance with the The opening of Detsky Mir’s large logistics on all landline communication lines in the best international practices of high-quality complex in the Bekasovo village made it Moscow region. As a result, about 95% affordable healthcare. possible to create about 2m new jobs, which of Moscow households obtained Internet was a significant contribution to the social access through optical cables and digital We also contribute to the urban environment and economic development of the Moscow television, as well as favourable package transformation. In the past year, our real region. rates and additional smarthouse services. estate development company Leader Invest completed the construction of the Our social investments also increased, Bashkir Power Grid Company opened one first residential real estate in Moscow – despite the challenging economic of the most modern and technologically “House on Izumrudnaya St.” The company’s environment. Not only have we preserved advanced Grid Management Centres portfolio includes a number of other projects, our key programmes, but we also launched in Russia as part of a programme for including transforming obsolete and new major initiatives by increasing charity reconstruction of the Ufa electrical grid decommissioned industrial buildings into financing by half as compared to 2014. The complex based on the Smart Grid concept modern residential complexes. In addition, main share of the funds was invested in the implemented in the pilot area of the capital Leader Invest is engaged in one of the most implementation of our flagship programme of Bashkortostan. Jointy with Siemens, BPGC ambitious projects of the Government ”Lift to the Future” aimed at building a talent localised the production of modern electrical of Moscow on integrated development pool for high-tech and knowledge-intensive equipment for smart grids that meets the of the territory of the former ZIL car factory, industries. The programme attracted about requirements of Russian regulators, as well where Nagatino i-Land business park has 200,000 people from around the country as introduced an advanced ERP enterprise been established. Now, it is planned to within the five years it has existed. management system. I would like to note build residential areas and related social that in 2015, Bashkir Power Grid Company infrastructure, i.e. kindergartens, schools, became the first Russian company that a healthcare centre, recreation and sports areas, pedestrian streets and boulevards. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Awards and Achievements Chairman’s Message Sustainable Development Agenda 19 What is even more important, many young, In this report, we do not just sum up the talented people have already received the results of the year, but also share specific opportunity to realise their full intellectual plans for further work on the key aspects potential and have been quite successful in of the Company’s sustainable development. it. In 2015, our graduates were able to qualify We are open to new ideas and look forward for the presidential grants, which proves the to feedback from all our stakeholders. effectiveness of the created mechanism of selection and training of a new generation of specialists for the Russian economy. We intend to continue supporting high schoolers and students who are focused on activities in the engineering sector, and to create conditions for their professional fulfillment in Russia by integrating education and real sector, science and business. Maintaining a decent standard of living for vulnerable groups of the population is an equally important mission, particularly due Vladimir Evtushenkov to the inevitable increase in the state’s role in ensuring social security. A vivid example Chairman of Sistema’s Board of Directors of efficient cooperation of businesses, the non-profit sector and public authorities in this field is an agreement signed in May 2015 between Sistema, the Moscow City Council of Veterans and the Moscow Mayor’s Office on cooperation in the field of social support of veterans of the Great Patriotic War and patriotic education of young poeple. The Corporation organised an ambitious programme of events for the 70th anniversary of the Great Victory. It includes a health care and rehabilitation programme ”Taking Care of Veterans” in Medsi’s health centre in Otradnoye near Moscow, assistance to veterans in purchasing land plots near Moscow, numerous charitable, voluntary, cultural and educational campaigns such as cleanup days, meetings of veterans with the youth, foster children visiting the largest military history museums, exhibition at the Russian Museum, etc. Sistema spent the total of about RUB 60m for the support of veterans in 2015. We are focused on extending the programme scope, and hope that other socially responsible companies will join us. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 20 OVERVIEW Sustainable Development Agenda Sistema develops its corporate social responsibility (CSR) programmes and projects focusing on the current challenges and trends of sustainable development in Russia and abroad, monitoring the relevant documents and concepts to better address economic, social and environmental challenges faced by the Corporation, the society and the state. 12 key areas of sustainable development have been distinguished based on the analysis of a number of Russian and foreign sources(1). By working together to achieve the sustainable development goals, Sistema Group companies achieve synergy. Thanks 12 key areas Objectives that are consistent with Sistema’s to our joint efforts, we manage to achieve of sustainable activities and reflect its real contribution have significant positive results and help to solve development been formulated for each of these areas. the social problems of our country and key regions of Sistema’s operations, thereby for each of these areas have been formulated objectives that are consistent with Sistema’s forming a favourable environment for longactivities and reflect its real contribution term business development. (1) The analysis is based on the following documents: • Millennium Development Goals 2015 UN Report • Millennium Development Goals in the context of Russia 2015 UN Report • Transformation of our world: 2030 Agenda in Sustainable Development Agenda 2015 UN Report • Concept of Long-term Social and Economic Development of the Russian Federation till 2030 (RF Government) • Social Charter of Russian Business • Anti-corruption Charter of Russian Business 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Awards and Achievements Chairman’s Message Sustainable Development Agenda 21 № Area Goals References to Report Sections ECONOMY 1. Making a breakthrough in the •• To maintain economic growth per capita. 1.1. Investment Strategy transition to a new type of •• To win the confidence of shareholders, owners 1.2. Economic Performance economy – innovative, sociallyand investors. and Investments oriented and competitive •• To support fair competition. 1.3. Corporate Governance in the global arena •• To diversify the industry and increase the competitiveness 2.2.1. Social & Economic of sectors. Partnership •• To reduce the gap in the development of regions. 2.3.1. Innovation and •• To support domestic producers. Modernisation of Manufacturing •• To develop the agro-industrial sector. 2.3.4. Promoting Import Substitution •• To develop and implement strategies to promote sustainable tourism that contributes to the creation of jobs, development of local culture and manufacturing of local products. 2. Creation of a sustainable •• To improve productivity by developing, among other 2.3.1. Innovation and infrastructure, promotion of things, the value-added and labour-intensive sectors Modernisation of Manufacturing industrialisation and innovation of the economy. 2.3.2. Development of Science•• To upgrade the infrastructure and retrofit industrial Driven Industries enterprises, making them sustainable by increasing 2.3.3. Improving Infrastructure the efficiency of the use of resources. 2.4.2. Sustainable Consumption •• To intensify research and to increase the technological of Resources capabilities of the industrial sectors. •• To essentially expand access to information and communication technologies, and seek to provide universal and affordable access to the Internet. 3. Eradication of extreme poverty •• To diversify the structure of employment and to create new 1.7. Personnel Management and poverty reduction jobs. 2.1.1. New talents for •• To reduce the share of young people who do not work, study an innovative economy or acquire professional skills. 2.1.2. Developing the Innovative Potential of the Youth 4. Anti-corruption efforts •• To significantly reduce corruption and bribery. 1.4. Procurement Activities •• To manage companies based on anti-corruption 1.6. Business Ethics and Antiprogrammes and to engage employees in their Corruption Activities implementation. 1.8. Stakeholder Engagement •• To implement effective financial control. •• To reject illegal benefits. •• To ensure transparent and open procurement procedures. •• To ensure public disclosure of anti-corruption measures. •• To cooperate with the government. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 22 OVERVIEW № Area Goals References to Report Sections SOCIAL SPHERE 5. Participation in local community •• To support the government’s efforts and civil initiatives 2.2.1. Social & Economic development in the field of economic, social and cultural development Partnership in regions of operations. 2.2.2. Improving Standards •• To produce only high-quality products and services that are of Living safe and good for the health of consumers, to ensure fair attitude, respect for the human dignity and culture of consumers. 6. Promotion of sustainable •• To increase agricultural productivity and income of small 2.3.1. Innovation and agricultural development, food producers. Modernisation of Manufacturing ensuring food security •• To increase investment in rural infrastructure, agricultural 2.4.3. Preservation of Biological research and agricultural propaganda. Diversity •• To create sustainable food production systems. •• To ensure preservation of genetic diversity of agricultural and domestic animals, and their respective wild species. 7. Encouraging life-long learning •• To increase the number of young people and adults with 1.7. Personnel Management opportunities relevant skills required for obtaining decent employment 2.1.1. New talents for and doing business. an innovative economy •• To establish and improve educational facilities. 2.1.2. Developing the Innovative •• To ensure equal access to all types of education and Potential of the Youth vocational training for vulnerable groups of the population. 2.2.1. Social & Economic Partnership 2.2.2. Improving Standards of Living 8. Recognizing employees •• To protect labour rights and promote reliable and safe 1.6. Business Ethics and Antias the most important asset working conditions for all employees. Corruption Activities •• To treat human life as the supreme asset: no tradeoff 1.7. Personnel Management between health, safety and profits. •• To implement social protection systems and measures for all. 9. Supporting healthcare •• To ensure that healthcare services are available for all 2.2.3. Supporting Healthcare •• To improve the quality of healthcare services. 2.3.2. Development of Science•• To promote research and development of vaccines Driven Industries and drugs. •• To substantially increase funding for healthcare and selection, development, training and retention of medical personnel. •• Promotion of healthy lifestyle skills. To reduce the mortality rate among children, to reduce infant and maternal mortality rate. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Awards and Achievements Chairman’s Message Sustainable Development Agenda 23 № Area Goals References to Report Sections ENVIRONMENT 10. Ensuring the transition to rational •• To achieve sustainable development and efficient use 2.4.1. Greening of Business consumption and production of natural resources. 2.4.2. Sustainable Consumption models •• To reduce the amount of waste. of Resources •• To improve water quality by reducing pollution, eliminating waste discharges and minimizing emissions of hazardous chemicals and substances. •• To provide people around the world with relevant information and data about sustainable development and life in harmony with nature. 11. Ensuring access to affordable, •• To ensure universal access to affordable, reliable 2.3.3. Improving Infrastructure reliable, sustainable and modern and modern energy supply services. 2.4.2. Sustainable Consumption energy sources •• To increase the share of energy from renewable sources of Resources in the global energy balance. •• To improve the global energy index. •• To expand infrastructure and upgrade technologies for modern and sustainable energy supply. 12. Protection and restoration •• To promote methods of sustainable use of all types 2.4.3. Preservation of Biological of terrestrial ecosystems and of forests. Diversity promotion of their rational use •• To reduce biodiversity loss. •• To mobilise extensive resources to finance sustainable forest management and preserve biodiversity. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 24 CONTENTS Corporate Profile 28 1.1. Investment Strategy 38 1.2. Economic Performance and Investments 40 1.3. Corporate Governance 45 1.4. Procurement Activities 52 1.5. Risk Management 57 1.6. Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities 64 1.7. Personnel Management 90 1.8. Stakeholder Engagement 100 1.9. Managing Corporate Social Responsibility “In the reporting period the Group’s revenue increased by 9.7% year-on-year. At the same time, Sistema is a well-diversified business with a balanced investment portfolio which is comprised of a number of promising assets. These assets open up unique business development opportunities despite the difficult macroeconomic environment, making Sistema resistant to economic downturns.” Mikhail Shamolin President of Sistema PJSFC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com 25 25 www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 26 26 CORPORATE PROFILE G4-7 G4-3 Sistema Public Joint Stock Financial Corporation (Sistema PJSFC)(1) (hereinafter Sistema or the Corporation) is a Russian 1.3 diversified holding company established in 1993. It is a major tn RUB private investor in the real sector of the Russian economy. Total assets of the Corporation as of 31 December 2015 Sistema is one of Russia’s top 10 companies by revenue, and is one of the largest private investors in the world. G4-5 Sistema’s headquarters are located in Moscow. Sistema’s investment portfolio consists Sistema’s global depositary receipts are listed SISTEMA’S MISSION mainly of Russian companies, which serve under the SSA symbol on the London Stock around 150 m customers in Russia, the Exchange. Ordinary shares of the Company CIS, Europe and Asia in more than 13 are listed under the AFKS symbol on the Sistema’s mission is to build a first-class industries, including telecommunications, Moscow Stock Exchange. Russian investment company capable of high technology, power, finance, banking, ensuring long-term growth of the shareholder consumer sector, logging and timber value through efficient management of the processing, agriculture, real estate, assets portfolio and achieving high returns healthcare, pharmaceuticals, hotel business, on investments. and other. SISTEMA’S PORTFOLIO(3) Sistema’s activities are focused on improving the operational efficiency of the 61% 4% acquired assets through restructuring and attracting industry partners, strengthening market expertise, reducing financial and non-financial risks. The Corporation is the Telecom Oil services controlling shareholder in most of its portfolio companies and aims to create leaders in such sectors as healthcare, agriculture, wood processing, and high technologies. Sistema is included in the list of 199 strategic 4% 9% organizations, approved in February 2015 by Banking Children’s retail the Government of the Russian Federation(2), which includes groups and vertically integrated companies that have significant impact on the GDP, employment and social stability, whose total profits account for more 11% 6% than 70% of the total national income, and High-tech Other whose headcount is more than 20% of the total number of employed people in Russia. Sistema was named among 27 largest Russian companies by total revenues, profits, assets and market capitalisation, included in 5% the Global 2000 rating published by the US Pulp & paper Forbes business magazine in May 2015. (1) In accordance with the requirements of the Civil Code of the Russian Federation, on 20 July 2016, Joint Stock Financial Corporation Sistema (Sistema JSFC) changed the company name to Sistema Public Joint Stock Financial Corporation (Sistema PJSFC). (2) The list of strategic organizations, source: Ministry of Economic Development of the Russian Federation. (3) Based on Sistema’s consolidated revenues. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com 27 27 SISTEMA’S VALUES OUR OPERATING OUR BUSSINESS PRINCIPLES We create value through our competences Our structure is compact and competitive OUR STRATEGY OUR EFFICIENCY We are focused on achievement Our remuneration depends on the of specific targets real income of the Corporation PARTICIPATION OF SISTEMA V. Evtushenkov, Chairman of Sistema’s Board • Supervisory Board of the So-Yedineniye AND ITS REPRESENTATIVES of Directors, is a member of the following Foundation for the Support of the Deafentities: Blind; IN THE WORK OF PUBLIC ORGANISATIONS • Patriarch’s Supervisory Board G4-16 • Bureau of the Board of the Russian Union G4-15 to restore the Valaam Monastery of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (Head of the Transfiguration of the Savior. Sistema is a member of a number of of the Industrial Policy Committee); influential non-governmental organizations • Management Board of the Russian Corporation’s representatives are members and business associations. Chamber of Commerce and Industry of special advisory bodies of a number (Chairman of the Sci-Tech Innovations of industry associations and public Russian organizations and associations: and High-Tech Committee); organisations, including those dealing with • Russian-Arab and Russian-Saudi corporate social responsibility issues, i.e. • Russian Union of Industrialists the following: and Entrepreneurs (RSPP); Business Councils (Chairman of the Russian-Arab Business Council); • Chamber of Commerce and Industry • CSR and Demographic Policy Committee of the Russian Federation (CCI); • Presidium of the National Council of RSPP; on Corporate Governance; • NPP “Russian Institute of Directors”; • CSR Committee of the Russian Managers • Management Board of the Moscow Association; • Managers Association; Confederation of Industrialists and • Association of the Directors of Entrepreneurs (Employers); • Committee of AKMR for Promotion Communications and Corporate Media of Social Responsibility and Charity • Supervisory Board of the State Russian in Mass Media; of Russia (AKMR); Museum Development Foundation, • Russian Risk Management Society Friends of the Russian Museum • Representatives of Sistema Charitable (RusRisk). Foundation are members of the Donors (Chairman); Forum and the National Council on • Supervisory Boards of the Lomonosov Corporate Volunteering. International organizations Moscow State University and Institute and associations: of Russian Language and Culture of the Lomonosov Moscow State University; • NPP EU/Russia Industrialists’ Round Table; • Supervisory Board of Graduate School of Management of Saint Petersburg • Business Council for Cooperation State University; with India; • Russian-Chinese Business Council; • Supervisory Board of the Russian Geographical Society; • Russo-British Chamber of Commerce; • Supervisory Board of the Foundation • Belgian-Luxembourg Chamber for the Support of Russian Olympians; of Commerce in Russia. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 28 CORPORATE PROFILE 1.1. Investment Strategy Sistema’s strategy aims to increase the shareholder value of the Corporation through monetisation of the investment portfolio and search for new projects with high growth potential. In the long term, the Corporation strives to achieve one of the highest return rates for shareholders in the Russian market and a comparable contribution of assets to the total value of the portfolio through diversification of investments and increase in the level of returns on investment. “We buy promising assets whose management systems and business processes are in need of improvement. Our investment decisions are based on the assets’ competitiveness and product quality. Using Sistema’s Sistema focuses on large and medium-sized As part of improving operational efficiency expertise and experience, we transform the assets in Russia and the CIS countries as of the acquired assets by means of acquired companies into efficiently operating the main region for investments. Using restructuring and implementing best assets, thus contributing to their successful its experience and competencies, the corporate governance practices, Sistema monetisation.” Corporation creates, based on its assets, oversees implementation of the investment recognized market leaders in such industries strategies of portfolio companies Mikhail Shamolin as high technology, private healthcare, by participating in the work of their President of Sistema agriculture, wood processing, real estate, and governing bodies and nominating industry other. Acquiring assets mainly in the sectors professionals to the companies’ boards that are complementary to our current of directors. portfolio enables us to make the most of the synergy of different businesses. Sistema also invests in new attractive industries, if For more information about Sistema’s portfolio strategy, see the Annual Report, adequate industry expertise or an industrial pp. 10-11. partner is available. Being an investment company, Sistema Thus, in its investment process Sistema builds its business model around investment adheres to the principles of responsible portfolio monetisation through receiving investment: Socially responsible investing is dividends and selling assets (equity stakes), the process of making investment reinvesting the proceeds in new promising • takes into account environmental, social decisions, taking into account projects with high returns on invested and governance factors and risks in the social and environmental capital and in development of the existing analysing opportunities and making consequences of investments within assets in order to increase their value, as investment decisions; the framework of the traditional well as through distributing profits in the • aligns business objectives with financial analysis. form of dividends among the Corporation’s the priorities of socio-economic shareholders. development of the regions and countries of operations; Given the scale of its operations, Sistema’s • promotes the introduction of uniform decisions have significant impact not only standards and sustainable development on portfolio companies, but also on the principles in its portfolio companies entire industries, affecting the lives of as well as the formation of the millions of Russians, i.e. employees, Corporation’s open and transparent customers, partners and suppliers. business practices based on ethical values, respect for its employees, shareholders and customers, and care for the environment. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Investment Strategy Economic Performance and Investment 29 G4-12 Value Creation Chain REINVESTMENT CAPITAL SEARCH FOR INVESTMENT ALLOCATION OPPORTUNITIES INCREASE OF SHAREHOLDER MONETISATION VALUE DIDIVDENDS PAID TO SHAREHOLDERS REVENUE FROM SALE OF ASSETS Total dividend payout of more than RUB 4.5 bn Revenue from asset sales amounted to RUB 9.75 bn DIVIDEND YIELD FROM ASSETS Total dividends amounted to RUB 28.7 bn STRATEGY DEVELOPMENT Updated Sistema’s portfolio strategy and the new assets’ development strategy (Segezha Group, etc.) EXPERTISE AND EXPERIENCE Creation of joint ventures and venture capital funds within the Corporation More than 20 years of market presence MANAGEMENT EFFICIENCY FINANCIAL RESOURCES Best corporate governance practices were confirmed RUB 26 bn invested in new assets acquisition (National corporate governance rating — 8th place) MANAGEMENT RESOURCES BUSINESS TURNAROUNDS Sistema has 729 top managers, 39 of whom were The share of dividends received from developing assets included in the TOP-1000 Russian Managers ranking increased by 10.9% in a year REPUTATIONAL RESOURCES SYNERGY WITH THE COMPANIES RAEX confirmed the A+(I) rating of Sistema ”Very high OF THE GROUP level of creditworthiness” Consolidation of procurement activities in the Corporation made it possible to cut costs by 7.5% www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 30 CORPORATE PROFILE Compliance with these principles is ensured “We are focused on developing our by multi-level analysis and collective review subsidiaries. Many of them have already of all Sistema’s investment transactions in become leaders in their respective market compliance with the Corporation’s existing segments and are making a significant procedures. In 2015, to improve the system contribution to the vital sectors of the of managerial decision-making Sistema economy. Our investment strategy takes established Expert Investment Council. It into account not only economic, but also is a new permanent advisory body chaired social factors, enabling us to achieve strong by Sistema’s President, which prepares draft financial results and contribute to positive decisions and recommendations on issues changes in the society.” related to the management of investment ideas. The respective amendments were made to the Investments and Projects Code. Vladimir Evtushenkov Chairman of Sistema’s Board of Directors Corporation’s investment process control diagram Approval of the investment idea • Origination of an investment idea and its preliminary review • Approval of the idea by the Expert Council and decision regarding the need for its further scrutiny • Approval of the idea by the Strategy Committee (if the idea was proved to be of strategic importance) Project launch • Setting up a working group and appointing Project Management Committee • Detailed project study and development of a business plan • Review of the project and taking a decision on investing in the project at the Finance and Investment Committee meeting Preparation of the transaction • Preparation and approval of transaction documents • Review and approval of the project at the Management Board meeting prior to submitting it to the Board of Directors • Review at the Strategy Committee meeting (if the project is of strategic importance) • Corporate approval at the Board of Directors’ meetings of Sistema and S/As (if necessary) Transaction completion • Signing of documents • Allocation of funding Post-control • Evaluation of investment results 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Investment Strategy Economic Performance and Investment 31 Key Results of the Investment Strategy in 2015 In 2015, Sistema invested RUB 26bn Our key asset, MTS, completed its transition in undervalued assets and expanding to 4G, and now the company can spend its its operations in the sectors proved to uncommitted funds on other large-scale be particularly promising in the current telecommunications projects. At the same economic environment. In particular, time, new opportunities open up for Sistema the Corporation acquired a number of enabling it to expand its investments in other agricultural assets with strong growth promising sectors.” potential that are involved in import substitution and have an effective model of production cost formation. Also, the Vsevolod Rozanov Corporation supported the operating Senior Vice President, Head of Sistema’s strategy of Segezha Group aimed at “We continued to invest heavily in acquisition Finance and Investment Function expansion of the asset base in the forest of new assets and organic growth of our industry and entry into new export markets. subsidiaries despite the difficult economic situation. In 2015, the Corporation invested RUB 139bn, a record level in its entire history. In 2013-2015, the Corporation invested RUB 350bn, thus increasing the scope of its investment programme by 46% compared Size of the Corporation’s investment programme, RUB m with 2013. Total for Company 2013 2014 2015 2013-2015 Mobile TeleSystems 81,573 92,599 106,537 280,709 Detsky Mir 772 1,591 5,308 7,672 Sistema’s investment programme RTI 3,026 4,036 5,115 12,177 in 2013-2015, RUB m Segezha Group – – 4,648 4,648 Bashkir Power Grid Company 3,054 3,224 4,035 10,312 + 46% 139,223 Medsi Group 90 3,014 3,775 6,878 115,778 Targin – 3,666 2,720 6,386 95,365 Sistema Shyam TeleServices 1,458 1,664 1,595 4,716 LimitedSTL (SSTL) MTS Bank 681 1,060 631 2,372 Others 4,713 4,924 4,860 14,496 Total 95,365 115,778 139,223 350,366 2013 2014 2015 www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 32 CORPORATE PROFILE G4-13 Sistema’s investment programme Sistema’s portfolio on the basis Key Mergers and Acquisitions (M&As) broken down by S/As, % of consolidated revenue, % in 2015 • In January, Sistema consolidated 100% of shares of Intellect 3% 6% 3% 4% Telecom, a developer of high-tech 4% 4% 4% telecommunications equipment for 5% mobile networks and broadband Internet 10% access. 9% • In July, Sistema Telecom Assets and RTI (Sistema’s subsidiaries) completed the sale of 100% of shares of NVision Group 61% to the telecommunications operator 11% MTS. 76% • In October, Sistema acquired 100% of shares of Kronshtadt Group from the Industrial Investors Group and its MTS RTI Telecommunications Banking partners. Others Segezha Group Hightech Oilfield Services Detsky Mir BPGS • In October, Sistema acquired 25.02% Hightech Other of shares of Medsi Group from the State Timber Unitary Enterprise Medical Centre under the Moscow Mayor and Government’s Department of Business Affairs. • In November, Sistema signed binding documents on the merger of the Indian telecommunications business of Sistema and Reliance Communications Ltd (RCOM), one of the largest telecommunications operators in India. • In December, Sistema’s subsidiary, DM Finance, sold 23.1% of Detsky Mir shares to the Russian-Chinese Investment Fund (RCIF). • In December, LLC Razvitie, a joint venture of Sistema and LSR Group, won an open tender for the right to acquire a 100% stake in LLC ZIL-Yug. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Investment Strategy Economic Performance and Investment 33 Implementation of S/As’ Development •• Segezha Group proceeded with SISTEMA’S INVESTMENT STRATEGY Programmes in 2015 the implementation of a project for IMPLEMENTATION PLANS FOR 2016 comprehensive modernisation of •• Mobile TeleSystems built more than Segezha Pulp and Paper Mill (SPPM) 1. Implementation of new efficient 15,000 base stations to operate in 3G in Karelia, and invested more than RUB investments, including building up and 4G networks. Active construction 0.7bn in a project to expand the capacity presence in agriculture and timber of networks allowed the company of Segezha Packaging, having increased sectors. to become the first operator of the the enterprise productivity by 90m 2. Reduction of MTS’s share in the revenue ”Big Three” to launch LTE networks paper bags per year. structure of Sistema’s portfolio through throughout Russia, except for the Crimea and Sevastopol. •• RTI invested more than RUB 5bn in the development of businesses that have R&D work and production and technical rapid value growth potential in the short •• Medsi Group invested about RUB 3.8bn support, including the modernisation and medium term. in the creation of modern clinical and of the Yaroslavl radio factory by updating 3. Creation of investment platforms in diagnostic centre in Krasnaya Presnya technologies and bringing production Europe, Asia and the United States in Moscow, in the expansion of pediatric in line with ECSS international standards. to invest in international projects in services of the clinic in Krasnogorsk, In addition, Mikron invested about order to raise funds from co-investors, as well as in the implementation of RUB 450m in the development of its to diversify the country-based risk, and the programme for providing medical production and technical upgrade. to provide additional points of growth for centres with modern equipment, which Investments were directed mainly Sistema’s portfolio (export markets). started in 2014. to the implementation of the project to •• The size of the investment programme create a line of serial 65 nm technology 4. Entry into venture capital investment of Bashkir Power Grid Company chip production, to develop own market to search for promising business exceeded RUB 4bn. These funds were assembly production of 180/90 nm ideas, products and technologies with used mainly for major construction, chips and to modernize RFID tags high potential for value growth. retrofitting and overhaul of power production. grid infrastructure facilities, including •• RZ Agro Group invested about modernisation of distribution networks RUB 0.1bn in the renewal of tractors of the pilot area in Ufa with introduction and equipment for tillage and in the of Smart Grid elements and creation expansion of the sowing machinery fleet, of a new Grids Management Centre. which contributed to the improvement •• Detsky Mir completed the construction of quality and the reduction of the period of a distribution centre with an area of of field, planting and tillage works. about 70,000 m2 and worth more than RUB 3bn in the PNK-Bekasovo industrial park. The company has also opened 104 new stores, having increased its total sales area to 491,000 m2. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 34 CORPORATE PROFILE G4-4 G4-6 G4-8 G4-9 G4-10 G4-13 Sistema’s Key Assets Sistema’s Headcount, Assets Description Industry Scope of activities ownership persons stake,% > 107m subscribers, including 77.3m in Russia 1. Mobile Number one telecom operator in MTS’s Retail network grew by Russia and the CIS. MTS entered the 22% – up to 5,136 outlets TeleSystems system integration (IT) and satellite Telecommunications 71,830(1) 53% More than 15,000 base stations (MTS) TV market in 2015. were built in 2015, including 7300– for work in LTE networks, 4400 – in 3G networks Major Russian industrial holding company, developer and manufacturer of high-tech products and 5.8m industrial chips per year infrastructure solutions using own 1.5m chips for biometric travel microelectronic technologies. passports > 350m transport cards 2. RTI RTI’s subsidiaries have their own R&D High technologies 16,479 85% infrastructure and implement projects 69th place in the Defense News unique in their complexity and scale Top 100 annual international in the fields of radio communication rating of defense companies and space technology, safety, in the world microelectronics, IT infrastructure, automation and system integration. > 420 stores, including 104 ones opened in 2015 Largest retailer of children’s goods in Russia and the CIS. The Group Total sales area increased by 26% includes the Detsky Mir retail chain in – to 491,000 m2. 3. Detsky Mir Russia and Kazakhstan, the ELC retail Retail 10,066 76% Number One company in chain (Early Learning Centre) in Russia the market of children’s goods and online stores. and clothes in Russia > 132m visitors annually MTS Bank is engaged in banking activities in Russia providing Included in the top 50 Russian a complete range of financial banks in terms of assets volume(2) 4. MTS Bank services to individuals and corporate Finance 2,809 87% customers as a system-relevant The highest capital adequacy operator of payment, credit and ratio in the industry – 18. savings market. Russian wood processing holding The total area of the leased forest with the largest vertically integrated fund is 5.5m ha, including the infrastructure and full-cycle logging forest fund certified according to and high-level timber processing. Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) 5. Segezha The holding consists of Russian Logging and timber 9,249 standards – 5.2m ha (94%). 100% Group processing and European enterprises of timber, Number One in Russia in terms woodworking, and pulp-and-paper of paper bag production industries, including paper packaging Number Two in Europe in terms production plants. of production of paper bags (1) Including the Retail network of MTS, MGTS, “NVision group”. (2) Source: RIA Rating agency. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Investment Strategy Economic Performance and Investment 35 Sistema’s Headcount, Assets Description Industry Scope of activities ownership persons stake,% Large Russian multi-product oilfield > 130 kinds of oilfield services services holding company that Customers: Bashneft, Gazprom 6. Targin operates in main oil-and-gas Russian Oilfield services 17,436 100% Neft, Slavneft-Megionneftegas, and Serbian regions NK Rosneft, Tatneft 29,829 managed cars One of the leading railroad stock operators in Russia. It renders a full The turnover of liquefied range of services on transportation petroleum gases is 36.6bn. t/km Railway 7. SG-trans(1) of a large variety of gas, bulk oil, transportation 1,218 Loading volume is 19,700 tonnes 50% petrochemical, ore mining and 30% share in the segment of oil construction loads across Russia, and gas complex products railway Europe, and the CIS transportation 11 database storage of LPG 8. Independent distributor of liquefied in 5 Federal counties Sale 756 100% SG-trading petroleum gas (LPG). 53 automotive gas station Length of 0.4 A 500 kV The company combines distribution networks is 87,000 km 9. Bashkir and transmission grid assets, Total installed capacity of Power Grid renders services on electric power Power industry 7,540 substations is 16,777.5 MVA 91% Company transmission to population and organizations of the Republic In 2015, 21,765 new customers (BPGC) joined (10% more compared of Bashkortostan. to 2014). 10. Sistema Shyam Mobile operator rendering telecom 8m subscribers Telecommunications 1,432 57% TeleServices services in India (under MTS brand). > 1,250 towns in 9 circles Limited (SSTL) > 1,800 doctors Medsi is a leading federal private > 7m visits 11. Medsi healthcare services provider in Russia, 20 hospitals, 55 healthcare offering a full range of services in Group prevention, diagnostics and treatment Medical services 6,184 centres 100% (Medsi) of diseases, as well as rehabilitation 3 sanatoriums of children and adults. > area of clinics and hospitals is 230,000 m2 Fastest growing retailer, one of the > 415 stores in 103 Russian cities 12. Concept leading women's and children's Retail 2,220 40% 4 brands of children’s and Group clothes retailers in Russia. women’s clothes The company operates in the hospitality industry, specializing in the management and development of hotel projects in Russia and 7 hotels 13. Intouris abroad. Russia's largest tourist Hospitality 1,215 4 countries 66% holding company operating in the > 2,500 – room fund hospitality industry, specializing in the management and development of hotel projects in Russia and abroad. (1) Sistema completed the sale of 50% of SG-trans shares on 31 August 2016. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 36 CORPORATE PROFILE Sistema’s Headcount, Assets Description Industry Scope of activities ownership persons stake,% Binnopharm is a pharmaceutical company that operates one of Russia's Area of the production complex largest full-cycle manufacturing 14. in Zelenograd – 32,000 m2 facilities, producing biotech drugs Pharmaceutics 439 74% Binnopharm in line with the international quality 6m HBV doses in 2015 standard GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice). The top 10 agricultural holdings by land bank size in the South of Russia (100,000 ha) One of the largest producers of grain Gross production – 272,000 15. RZ Agro and oilseeds in the south of Russia. tonnes, including 168,000 tonnes Holding Group It comprises six farms grouped into Agriculture 953 of wheat 50% (RZ Agro) three regional clusters in the Rostov 91% of arable land is processed Region and the Stavropol Territory. Geography of exports:, shipments are made to Lebanon, Albania and African countries in addition to Turkey, Egypt, and Armenia It combines a series of highly efficient agricultural enterprises located in 40% of the harvest of winter 16. Steppe Krasnodar region. Agro Holding's wheat was shipped for export, Agro Holding Agriculture 3,095 100% activities are divided into four areas: and 60% was sold on the (Steppe Agro) crop production, animal husbandry, domestic Russian market. horticulture and vegetable farm-out. Sistema in the real estate business 113,800 sales contracts is represented by a number of concluded on the secondary 17. Real estate companies, the key ones being Leader Real estate 519 housing market in 2015 100% assets Invest, Biznes Nedvizhimost and 19,600 co-investment Mosdachtrest. agreements concluded. Leading e-commerce platform in Russia with a strong brand and own logistic service. The Group owns > 700,000 E-shop customers 18. OZON Ozon.ru (one of Russia's leading Retail a day 10,8% Group (OZON) e-commerce companies) and Ozon. > 3.5m of various goods Travel (leading online travel agency in Russia). > 150 products and solutions for a number of strategic areas: aircraft construction and operation of air transport, navigation and communications, defense and national security, 19. Kronshtadt The Russian leader in the development prevention of emergency Group and production of high-tech products situations, mining, processing (the asset and solutions necessary for the High technologies 1,273 and transportation of mineral 100% acquired creation, development and safe use of resources, vocational training, in 2015) gadgetry in the air, at sea and on land. and culture. 25 to 50% of the Russian market in the segment of flight simulators and training hardware (depending on the type of simulators). 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Investment Strategy Economic Performance and Investment 37 Sistema’s Headcount, Assets Description Industry Scope of activities ownership persons stake,% Developer of high-tech telecommunications equipment for mobile communication networks. The company performs a full R&DThe company is a member of the cycle for the manufacturing of International Telecommunication 20. Intellect products in partnership with leading Union (ITU). hardware and software vendors in High technologies 131 100% Telecom Products to provide cost-effective the most promising segments of coverage of the countryside, the telecommunications market: roads and railways heterogeneous networks (HetNet); capacity transfer cellular system, the Internet of Things (IoT). www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 38 CORPORATE PROFILE 1.2. Economic Performance and Investments The Corporation’s performance has significant impact on the development of many industries, the economy and the society 1% of the regions of operations and the entire country due to the the total contribution of Sistema Group to the gross domestic product (GDP) of the Russian Federation distribution of the created value. G4-EC1 The total contribution of Sistema Group Created and distributional economic value, RUB bn to the Russian gross domestic product (GDP) was approximately 0.88% in 2015 Indicators 2015 .Additionally the revenue growth rate of the Group companies exceeded the GDP growth Created value 727.1 rate in 2014-2015(1). The consolidated revenues showed growth of 9.7% year over Revenues 708.6 year in 2015 due to the consolidation of Segezha Group (the share of the timber Financial income 18.5 holding in the revenue of Sistema Group Distributed value 676 amounted to 5%), the dynamic growth of revenues from data transmission services Operating costs 529.5 and sales of MTS smartphones, as well as the expansion of Detsky Mir on the Russian Wages and other payments and benefits to employees(2) 139.7 market, the acquisition of Kronshtadt Group Payments to the state (tax payments)(3) 66.4 and agricultural assets. Investing in the community (charity) 1.4 For more information about the financial Financial expenses 51.2 performance of Sistema Group, see 2015 Annual Report. Dividend payments 27.5 Undistributed value 51.1 Share of Sistema’s revenue Due to Sistema’s scope of activities, the Tax payments to the federal in the Russian GDP, RUB bn Corporation is one of the largest taxpayers and regional budgets in 2015, in Russia. The total amount of tax payments RUB bn to federal and regional budgets, and other Sistema’s obligatory payments in 2015 0.88% amounted to about RUB 88.2bn. About 70% of the total amount of the Corporation’s tax 1.4 payments are paid to the federal budget. 86.7 0.83% The bulk of the tax payments are paid to 708.6 the budgets of Moscow (49%), Republic of Bashkortostan (9.2%), Moscow region 646.3 (3.7%), Republic of Karelia (3.4%) and Trans-Baikal Territory (2.4%). 2014 2015 S/As Corporate Centre Revenuee, RUB bn Share in GDP (1) According to Rosstat: Russia’s GDP dropped by 3.7% in 2015 after 0.7% growth in 2014. GDP volume in 2015 amounted to RUB 80,412.5bn against RUB 77,893.1bn in 2014. (2) It includes the cost of wages, bonuses, social security contributions and employee remunerations in kind. (3) It does not include pension, health and social security payments, which are included in the line “Wages, and other payments and benefits to employees”. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Investment Strategy Economic Performance and Investments Corporate Governance 39 Tax payments of Sistema’s S/As Payments to non-budgetary funds of the Russian Federation, RUB bn in 2015 broken down by budgets, RUB m Indicators 2014 2015 Tax payments, including to the following funds: 100.0 88.2 26,798 Russian Pension Fund 10.9 16.6 Federal Mandatory Medical Insurance Fund 2.0 3.9 Social Insurance Fund 0.8 0.9 Regional Mandatory Medical Insurance Funds 0.8 0.4 59,950 Tax payments of Sistema’s S/As in 2015 broken down by regions, RUB k Federal budget Budgets of Russia’s regions 12,930,514 Payments, RUB k Tax payments of Sistema's Payments, % companies in 2015 broken down 48.9% 6,464,608 by S/As, % 2,418,562 979,938 900,681 630,817 620,240 518,965 24.5% 9.2% 515,985 445,566 3.7% 3.4% 2.4% 2.3% 2.0% 16% 2.0% 1.7% 2% 3% 59% 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 4% 6% 1. Moscow 5. Trans-Baikal Territory 9. Nizhny Novgorod region 2. Republic of Bashkortostan 6. Saint Petersburg 10. Other regions 3. Moscow region 7. Krasnodar Territory 10% 4. Republic of Karelia 8. Yaroslavl region MTS Detsky Mir RTI Targin BPGC Corporate Centre Other 290 RUB bn 21.8 RUB bn Sistema’s Group сompanies paid to budgets total tax payments spent on pensions, health and off-budget funds of various levels and regions and social security in 2015 of the Russian Federation from 2013 to 2015 G4-EC4 In 2015 Sistema received no financial assistance from any public authorities. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 40 CORPORATE PROFILE 1.3. Corporate Governance Maintaining the high quality of corporate governance and informational transparency is one of the most essential components of Sistema’s strategy as an investment company. The corporate governance system of the Corporation complies with the best international practices to ensure effective decision-making and serves as a model for developing appropriate governance structure and regulatory documents in the portfolio companies. PRINCIPLES OF CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Transparency and clarity Board of Directors Investment decisions Transparent dividend of all processes for activity and the in accordance with policy investors and partners professionalism established procedures Board of Directors The active role of the Development corporate attention to all Board of Directors in ogovernance in portfolio transactions with related the strategic planning companies parties process 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Economic Performance and Investments Corporate Governance Procurement Activities 41 Shareholders’ Equity and its Structure Sistema has 9,650,000,000 outstanding ordinary shares, with a par value of RUB 0.09 per share. The shareholders’ equity totals RUB 868,500,000. Vladimir Evtushenkov, Sistema’s Board “In order to maintain the high quality Structure of Sistema’s Shareholders(1), Chairman, is its principal shareholder of the Corporation’s corporate governance % system, we regularly monitor the changing with 64.2%. 3% requirements in this area and bring the The Corporation’s shares are traded 14% individual components of the system in line on the London Stock Exchange (LSE) as with best international and national practices. Global Depositary Receipts (GDRs). One Also, being guided by the Corporation’s GDR represents 20 ordinary shares. The principles, we are aiming to build an efficient Corporation’s shares are also listed on the corporate governance system in each of the Moscow Stock Exchange. 19% acquired assets. Sistema’s GDRs are included in the MSCI As part of this policy, we are going to establish Russia Index – the stock index of the 64% a corporate governance system in Segezha Russian market, which belongs to the MSCI Group in 2016. We will implement activities Emerging Markets indices. Inclusion in the aimed at developing a risk management MSCI indices evidences the international system, an internal control and audit system, recognition of the company, which helps V. P. Evtushenkov a system for recruiting professional directors, to strengthen the issuer’s reputation among Deutsche Bank (GDR program)(2) a transparent information disclosure system, large institutional investors. National Settlement Depositary and a dividend policy”. (Moscow Exchange) Other(3) Igor Petrov Corporate Secretary, Head of the Secretariat of Sistema’s Board of Directors (1) As of 31 December 2015. (2) GDRs belonging to Sistema Group companies account for 1.4% of the share capital. (3) Ordinary shares belonging to Sistema Group companies account for 0.3% of the share capital. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 42 CORPORATE PROFILE Corporate Governance Structure The General Meeting of Shareholders is Sistema’s supreme governance body. Its activities and competence are regulated by the Russian laws on joint stock companies, provisions of the Charter and internal documents of the Corporation, in particular by the Terms of Reference of the General Meeting of Shareholders. In 2015, the General Meeting of Meetings of Sistema’s Board of Directors Shareholders was held on June 27. It was are held regularly in accordance with the attended by shareholders who have, in total, approved annual plan. 81.57% of the votes, including GDR holders having 9.47% of the votes. The General Meeting of Shareholders appoints the members of Sistema’s Board of Directors, which is responsible for strategic 11 meetings 3 extraordinary meetings were held by the Board of Directors in 2015 held in absentia in 2015 management of the Corporation. The Board of Directors’ terms of reference are set out in Sistema’s Charter. Sistema’s Board of Directors effective as of 31 December 2015 8 meetings 91 items was elected at Sistema’s Annual General Meeting of Shareholders on 27 June 2015. were held by the Board of Directors in 2015 considered according to the agenda in 2015 Board of Directors, % Russian Institute of Directors confirmed Sistema’s 15% rating at level 8 of the National Corporate Governance rating — “Best corporate governance practices” on 26 October 2015. This is the highest level among Russian companies, which in 2015 was confirmed in four organisations only, including 54% Magnitogorsk Iron & Steel Works, TransContainer, 31% and RusHydro. Executive Directors: F. Evtushenkov, M. Shamolin Non-Executive Directors: V. Evtushenkov, A. Dubovskov, D. Zubov, S. Boev Independent Directors: B. Dickey, P. Clanwilliam, R. Kocharyan, J. Krecké, P. Mandelson, R. Munnings, D. Iakobachvili 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Economic Performance and Investments Corporate Governance Procurement Activities 43 G4-34 Sistema’s Corporate Governance Structure GENERAL MEETING BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF SHAREHOLDERS COMMITEES Strategy Committee Board of Directors’ Chairman Secretariat Nomination, Remuneration and Corporate Governance Secretariat of the Board Committee of Directors Investor Relations and Dividend Policy CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD Committee OF DIRECTORS Ethics and Control Committee Auditing BOARD OF DIRECTORS Audit, Finance, and Risk Auditor Commission Committee Secretariat of President PRESIDENT, CHAIRMAN OF MANAGEMENT BOARD PRESIDENT COMMITTEES MANAGEMENT BOARD Tender Committee HR Committee MANAGERS OF INVESTMENT PORTFOLIOS Security Committee Internal Control Committee Discipline Committee SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES Finance and Investment Committee www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 44 CORPORATE PROFILE Development of the Corporate Governance System and 2015 Results 13 members were elected to Dividends were paid in The corporate governance the Corporation’s Board of accordance with Sistema’s system has been brought in Directors, with seven of them Divident Policy. line with the requirements of meeting the independence the applicable law and the new criteria of the Moscow Listing Rules of the Moscow Exchange and the Russian Stock Exchange. In particular, Corporate Governance Code. the content of an independent director concept, used in the Terms of Reference of Sistema’s Board of Directors was changed, as well as the number of procedural and substantive clarifications to the powers of the Committees of the Corporation’s Board of Directors The procedure for nominating were introduced. candidates for the members of The requirements to Sistema’s Sistema’s Board of Directors employees, particularly to top was regulated, and, in particular, managers, in the field the role of the Nomination, For detailed information on corporate governance, see Sistema’s 2015 Annual of ethical business practices Remuneration and Corporate Report, pp. 81-101. and prevention of conflicts Governance Committee was of interest were extended. described in detail. Plans for 2016 Bringing the corporate governance system in line with the requirements of EU Developing a system for Market Abuse Regulation managing the investment funds (MAR) Regulation No. included in Sistema’s portfolio. 596/2014 dated 16 April 2014. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Corporate Governance Procurement Activities Risk Management 45 1.4. Procurement Activities Management of the Corporation’s procurement activities and supply chain is based on the principles of fair competition, economic feasibility, openness and transparency for potential suppliers, subject to specified quality of purchased goods and services at the best price to meet the needs of the Corporation in a timely manner and in the required amount. The main internal documents regulating The Corporation’s basic procurement management principles Sistema’s procurement activities is the Tendering and Procurement Code and Terms of Reference of the Tender Committee. ProCompetitiveness Establishing a reasonable level of competition among curement activities in S/As are based on the potential suppliers/customers local regulations of the Corporation and FedEquality Establishing equal competitive opportunities, uniform eral Law No. 223-FZ as of 18 July 2011 “On and unambiguous requirements for bidders, as well as bid procurement of goods, works and services evaluation rules for all potential suppliers/customers by certain types of legal entities”. Economic Feasibility Assessing the necessity/advisability of procurement in The objectives of the Corporation’s terms of economic feasibility at any procurement stage procurement activities management are Openness Use of open competitive procedures as the priority form as follows: of procurement •• timely provision of high-quality goods, Transparency Possibility of monitoring and controlling any stage works and services; of the procurement process •• efficient use of funds for the purchase Professionalism Highly professional implementation of procurement of goods, works and services intended oricedures with qualified personnel engaged to increase the value of the product/ Procurement Classification Dividing all procurement operations into categories project for whose creation/salethey are (sub-categories) based on their purpose, characteristics, acquired; application area and markets •• ensuring the lowest possible level of expenses related to acquisition Strategic Categories Management of each procurement category based (ownership, operation) of goods, works Management on the principles and management rules described in and services; the category-based strategies and/or individual regulatory and administrative documents of the Corporation •• ensuring the disposal of the property (by sale or otherwise) and the rights that Responsibility Establishing KPIs for the Corporation’s employees who may are no longer needed in production on be personally responsible for the compliance with the Code the most economically favourable terms; Compliance with Fundamental Collective review and decision-making concerning the •• ensuring transparency of procurement Provisions and Requirements of economic feasibility of procurement, review of the results procedures and objectivity of the the Corporate Anti-Corruption and contract awarding, as well as verification of compliance decisions made; Policy with the Corporation’s local procurement regulations •• prevention of corruption and other types by the Internal Control and Audit Department of abuse in procurement. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 46 CORPORATE PROFILE Procurement Management System SISTEMA’S MANAGEMENT BOARD GOALS AND OBJECTIVES FINANCE AND INVESTMENT FUNCTION METHODS AND TOOLS PROCUREMENT PROCUREMENT CONTRACT EXECUTION PLANNING PROCEDURES AND PERFORMANCE Procurement initiator Tender Procurement Initiator Procurement initiator (business units) committee (business units) (business units) Finance Finance and Finance Legal function and investment investment function Inspector function Procurement Security and IT committees Tender committee department Counterparty of business units PROCUREMENT ACTIVITIES AUDIT INTERNAL CONTROL AND AUDIT DEPARTMENT 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Corporate Governance Procurement Activities Risk Management 47 Sistema as a leading company in terms of transparent and competitive procurement Sistema and MTS joined the ranks of the companies with a high level of transparency in the National Procurement Transparency Rating among commercial customers at year-end 2015. The rating is compiled annually by Non-Profit Partnership National Association of E-Trade Participants with the support of the Ministry of Economic Development, the Federal Antimonopoly Service and the Audit Chamber of the Russian Federation. In addition, Sistema participated in the 2015 Competitive Procurement Leaders competition held by electronic trading centre B2B-Centre and became the finalist in the category “ Trade and Procurement Innovations Leader “ together with BPGC, which became the winner in the special category “ For Stable and Transparent Procurement System”. MTS became the winner in the category “Best Supplier Management System “. Feedback from suppliers Sistema receives extensive feedback from suppliers: any bidder (including those of subsidiaries) may send all requests or complaints related to the tendering process to zakupki@sistema.ru, as well as to the Group companies’ hotlines. Every message containing information about alleged violations and abuses Procurement activities of the Corporate in the supplier selection process is reviewed and analysed by the Internal Control Centre are mainly public, with the and Audit Department. information being published on the official website of the Corporation in “Procurement” There were no complaints related to the Corporate Centre procurement activities section. Also, electronic commerce tools are in 2015. used, with Sistema’s trading section at the Sberbank-AST electronic trading platform being operational since 2011 . www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 48 CORPORATE PROFILE Management of Procurement Activities and Supply Chains in S/As In all Sistema’s subsidiaries, procurement The Corporate Centre continuously monitors •• implementation of procurements of high management systems are based on common the S/As’ procurement activities and provides materiality and relevance; principles, a unified legal framework is methodological support in terms of the •• execution of recommendations issued introduced, the procurement function is following: to improve the level of control, treated as a separate business process, the transparency and cost-effectiveness; limits and areas of responsibility related to •• development and implementation of the legal framework; •• compliance with corporate values decision-making are set, and collective bodies and professional requirements to are created and successfully operate. This •• development, implementation procurement management executives. work is carried out in each asset acquired and execution of the functional strategy; by Sistema. Product Category Management 3. Determining approaches to planning Algorithm materials/equipment. Determining theprocurement procedure procurement 1. Selection of materials and equipment strategy. categories that have significant impact 4. Implementation of procurement strategy, Procurement Management on the business. interaction with the supplier. 2. Study of external and internal factors that Model impact the selected category. 5. Continuous monitoring of performance by category of materials / equipment. In 2015, Targin started building a modern, high-tech, competitive business, which 1. required developing a new end-to-end Category procurement management model – Supply identification Chain Management (Supply Chain Management / SCM): 5. 2. •• centralised planning of the needs Category Chains of Targin Management Company verification by category and classification of inventory items; •• procurement in accordance with the delivery plan including specified indicative prices; •• logistics and timely delivery of quality 4. 3. product to the end consumer, i.e. ruling Category-based out downtime of production teams; Implementation strategy and tactics •• inventory management: creating a of the project module for maintaining minimum levels of inventory and ensure timely restocking, while monitoring unclaimed supplies and their further disposal. The reforms are expected to be completed approaches, consolidation of volumes, in 2016. However, even at the initial stage, and thereby strengthened the company’s these procurement reforms have generated commercial advantage in negotiations with additional cost savings of at least 5%, suppliers and ensured the stability of the core resulted in harmonisation of planning business. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Corporate Governance Procurement Activities Risk Management 49 By offering consumers a wide range of high quality children’s products at affordable prices, Detsky Mir expands cooperation with domestic manufacturers of children’s clothing, including school uniforms of Russian brands. These manufacturers are capable Support for domestic of responding quickly to the local market demand with the needs of schools, students manufacturers of children’s and their parents taken into account. clothes With a view to making its contribution to import substitution in Russia, the Company has been supporting the All-Russian “School Uniform” contest for two years. This contest organised by the Russian Ministry of Industry and Trade with the participation of the Russian Ministry of Education and Science is part of the programme for promoting Russian consumer goods and textiles. The contest aims to promote domestically manufactured school uniforms and makes it possible for the best school uniforms, including those from regional producers, to enter retail chains. The main prize for the winners is an “Being a leading Russian retailer we are opportunity to enter into contracts for primarily focused on cooperation with the supply of uniforms to School Fairs in domestic producers. More than 60% of school 30 flagship stores of the Detsky Mir retail uniforms sold through our retail chain were chain. Winners of the first contest offered more than 260,000 items worth RUB 380m “The long-term contracts for production of made in Russia”. school uniforms provided manufacturers with for sale in Moscow and St. Petersburg. The contest reached a new level in 2015: the certain guarantees, which, against the backVladimir Chirakhov best school uniform styles were selected not drop of the economic crisis, made it possible CEO of Detsky Mir only by representatives of the professional not only to avoid production stoppages, but community, but also by the general public even helped increase production output by up and educational facilities across Russia. More to 20% compared with our crisis plan. The than 130 manufacturers, including regional proceeds from sales will be used for further ones, applied for the contest. The evaluation development of production and process criteria took into account both the aesthetic modernisation”. component, and the quality of fabrics, >130 comfort, durability and affordability of school clothes. Viktor Evtukhov Deputy Minister of Industry and Trade manufacturers The Russian Ministry of Industry and Trade of the Russian Federation estimated that school uniforms of the applied for the contest “School Uniform” in 2015 Russian manufacturers make up about 35% of the market. The price of school uniforms produced abroad rose by about 40% in 2015, while the increase in the price of domestically manufactured uniforms showed correlation with inflation rate. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 50 CORPORATE PROFILE Procurement Results in 2015 The Corporation’s total procurement volume amounted to about RUB 205bn in 2015. Approximately 90% of the Corporation’s total procurement volume accounted for MTS, Segezha Group, Targin and BPGC, which are major customers of goods, works and services in their respective industries in the Russian Federation. The Corporate Centre’s procurement volume was less than 1% of the total procurement volume of Sistema’s Group Companies. Corporation's total procurement volume in 2015, % 4% 5% 4% Procuring voluntary medical insurance services 6% 81% MTS BPGC Procurement of voluntary medical insurance (VMI) for the personnel of the Corporate Centre Segezha Group Others and some S/As was done on a partnership basis in 2015. The project was implemented as Targin follows. The share of Sistema’s procurement procedures using the ETP increased by 15% in 2015 as compared with the previous year, and amounted to about 60% of the total 1. Subsidiaries with similar working conditions and medical services provided to personnel (in terms 2. A pool of companies was formed based on this analysis. The list included, in addition to the procurement volume. About 70% of the total of their range and scope) were identified Corporate Centre, such companies as procurement was conducted through open within the Corporation. Binnopharm, Intourist, Intellect Telecom, tender procedures. real estate assets and other small companies. Also, the work among the S/As for partner procurement was continued in 2015. Despite the fact that Sistema’s Group companies are 3. 4. diverse, there is a possibility of synergy in Terms of Reference were formed A multi-stage open procurement matching categories in different companies. for the total pool of employees procedure was carried out with the Procurement consolidation at the Group’s level featuring standard conditions use of an electronic trading facility. allows additional discounts for large companies in terms of the range and the scope The largest insurance companies filed due to large volumes, and the best conditions of VMI programmes available to their bids. for small companies. the companies’ employees. As a result, conditions were obtained that allowed the subsidiaries not only to save money, but also to improve the quality of voluntary medical insurance programmes available to employees. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Corporate Governance Procurement Activities Risk Management 51 The following partnership projects were implemented in 2015 7.5%(1) cost savings carried out through specialised procurement procurement of TV departments for different product categories across advertising the Corporation purchase of IT equipment acquisition of mobile communications at unified tariffs and discounts “The Corporation paid special attention to the introduction of joint procurement practices in 2015. Several projects with S/As were implemented, which made it possible consolidated discount on the purchase of Aeroflot flight to strengthen synergies within the Group, tickets to achieve significant cost savings while expanding the range of services, and to ensure higher quality. All of this was done due to the consolidation of procurement volumes and conclusion of the agreement for the acquisition of Microsoft harmonisation of requirements for suppliers. licenses Sistema sets stringent requirements for reliability of suppliers and purchased products. In making procurement decisions we strive to minimise the risks associated with purchasing low-quality products or services for financial gain by choosing certified products, optimal Plans for 2016 conditions of warranty service, etc.” Nadezhda Nosova Managing Director for Risk Management and Procurement at Sistema 1. Improvement of the legal framework for 4. Creation of a procurement competence procurement management in Sistema centre in the Corporation (professional and its S/As. seminars, sharing knowledge and best 2. Transition to the quarterly monitoring practices between affiliateS/As). and control of S/As’ procurement 5. Completion of the formation / activities. modernisation of procurement 3. Expansion of partnership procurements management in Targin and Detsky Mir. among Sistema’s Group companies 6. Reorganization of the procurement by category: IT, facilities and services, business process in Segezha Group in marketing, maintenance and supply accordance with the Corporation’s rules goods. and principles. (1) Performance indicator for procurement procedures in S/As varies depending on the industry and preferential categories of goods and services procured. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 52 CORPORATE PROFILE 1.5. Risk Management In its activities, the Corporation faces various risks associated with processes and factors over which Sistema has virtually no control. Assessment of the existing risks and their probability, and efficient risk management comprise an important component of Sistema Group strategy. The main document regulating the Corporation’s risk management activities is the Risks Code. It describes the key stages and principles of establishment and operation of the Integrated Risk Management System, as well as insurance operations at Sistema and its S/As. “We continuously manage two levels of risks: the Corporate Centre’s risks associated with external factors and the risks of our portfolio companies that can affect the stability of the Corporation as a whole. Being part of the Corporate Centre, we are primarily concerned with financial implications of the risks existing in our subsidiaries. We monitor the S/As’ risks through analysing how the risks specific to their activities affect their financial standing and, subsequently, that of the whole Corporation. Following the analysis, we develop risk mitigation plans for our assets in cooperation with relevant The Risk Management System at Sistema departments of Sistema’s subsidiaries.” is based on a two-tier approach to risk management, which implies determining Nadezhda Nosova the risks existing both in the Corporation and in its portfolio companies (S/As), with their Managing Director for Risk Management subsequent integration for the purpose of and Procurement at Sistema assessing their impact of the Corporation as a whole. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Procurement Activities Risk Management Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities 53 Risk management process in Sistema CC Level Audit, Finance, and Risk BOARD OF DIRECTORS Committee PRESIDENT Finance and Investment Head of the Finance Management Board Committee (FIC) and Investment Committee Risk Subcommittee at FSC (Financial FIC / CC Risk Managers Supervision Committee) Risks of investment ERM of Corporate Centre Insurance of Corporate Regulations,limits projects and S/As Centre and S/As Risk Owners CC representatives in the BoD Information about the risks of S/As and Committees of S/As S/As Level Audit, Finance, and Risk BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF S/AS Committee Risk Owners PRESIDENT / CEO Unit 1 Risk Owners Financial Director Management Board Unit 2 Risk Owners Risk Managers / Coordinators Risk Committees of S/As Unit n in S/As www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 54 CORPORATE PROFILE The Corporation introduced an integrated The risk management system is monitored on For more details about the activities of the risk management system (Enterprise Risk a quarterly basis by the Management Board committees, see Sistema’s 2015 Annual Report, pp. 88, 95. Management, ERM) based on international and Sistema’s Risk Subcommittee. The top standards and best practices in risk management of the Corporation presents a management(1). The main objective of the regular risk management report to the Audit, system is to provide a reasonable guarantee Finance and Risk Committee of Sistema’s that the strategic goals will be achieved Board of Directors. The annual report is and to ensure that the level of risk will be submitted to the Board of Directors. kept within the limits acceptable for the shareholders and Sistema’s management. Once every three months, S/As’ risk managers form registers of the companies’ risks and a consolidated register of the Internal risks(2) Corporation’s risks, set priorities, analyse the dynamics of the risk map and the impact of significant risks on the financial performance 1. Implementation of business strategy 8. Licenses and permits of individual companies and Sistema. Plans 2. Acquisition, integration, disposal 9. Privatised companies to manage risks and lists of pre-developed or restructuring of assets activities are prepared with respect to all the risks. 3. Management and key personnel 10. Anti-corruption standards 4. Cash flows from subsidiaries and affiliates 11. Competition from other companies 5. Dependence on MTS’s performance 12. Brand quality and reputation Strengthening control over financial 6. Raising of capital or financing 13. Environmental, social and governance counterparties risks (ESG)(3) 7. Restrictive covenants An inventory of all types of Sistema’s credit risks (both direct and indirect) was carried out at the Corporation’s level in 2015. The audit resulted in more stringent External risks(4) requirements for counterparties, increased control of violations of established procedures and 1. Financial risks 4. Taxation system of the Russian Federation improved the process of placement 2. Political and social risks 5. Securities markets of idle funds. The frequency of meetings of the Subcommittee on 3. Legal risks the Corporate Centre’s risks was increased to once per month in order to increase the level of control For detailed description of risks: see over the risks of counterparties Sistema’s 2015 Annual Report, pp. 73-77. and to rapidly respond to emerging situations. (1) Enterprise Risk Management – Integrated Framework developed by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) in 2004. (2) Risks associated with economic and productive use of resources; direct or indirect damage risks resulting from core operating activities of Sistema and its S/As. (3) For more details, see Sistema’s 2014 Sustainability Report, pp. 37-38. (4) Risks associated with changes in the external environment in which the company operates: changes in law, politics, economics, competition risks and risks of external physical interference in the activities of the organisation. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Procurement Activities Risk Management Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities 55 Industrial accidents occur, but do not exceed In addition, in August 2015, Targin average industry rates. For each case, we established a compulsory education conduct internal investigations, monitor methodology service. Training of personnel the corrective actions at all levels aimed at allowed covering up to 97% of employees establishing not only direct, but also systemic under the Defensive Driving programme, causes of such accidents (inadequate and up to 85% under the Key Safety Industrial risks procedures, standards, training, etc.). At Rules standard. Also, a training area with management the end of the year, Targin draws up a report simulators was launched, where production for the HSE Committee (Health Safety risks are simulated. Environment). Based on this report, lessons Oilfield services business is associated with learned from such accidents are distributed high industry-related risks, which is why among all the business units. For each Targin pays special attention to occupational lesson, measures are taken to prevent similar safety. accidents. In order to further reduce the risks for the personnel, Targin’s Functional HSE Strategy for 2015-2020 was revised. As part of the new strategy, it is planned to implement > 2,000 corporate standards and initiatives aimed employees at improving the culture of occupational safety, achieving the absence of injuries, and were trained during the year at a training area with reducing the number of accidents, incidents simulators, where production risks are simulated and other emergencies. In the 2014 school season, the National Technical Regulations of the Customs Union Union of School and Official Uniform ”On the safety of products intended for Manufacturers (Soyuzforma) addressed children and adolescents” (TR CU 007/2011). Detsky Mir Group with a request to withdraw Then the finished products made of already a number of school uniform items from sale tested fabrics shall be tested for the most in chain stores on the basis of the results important indicators: hygroscopicity, Quality assurance of sanitary-hygienic examination carried out breathability and toxicity. Upon detection by this nonprofit organisation. In 2015, the of serious complaints about the quality Union performed a repeated examination. and safety, Detsky Mir provides for the return Children’s products appear to be a category For most items, the company presented of all the consignment to the supplier and of goods on which strict requirements in certificates and reports of compliance tests the termination of any relationship with this the field of quality and consumer safety are conducted by suppliers. supplier in the future. At the same time, imposed. thanks to the well-functioning and efficient However, in order to reduce possible risks process of safety and quality control of from unscrupulous suppliers in the future, products implemented in the Group, it is requirements were posed to school uniform extremely rarely necessary to resort to these manufacturers to strengthen the quality measures, particularly there was no such control of goods. Before use, all the fabrics an event in the reporting period. shall be tested for compliance with the www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 56 CORPORATE PROFILE Industrial Safety Management • provision of the activity in this area • enforcement of industrial safety with all the necessary resources standards from contractors / (financial, human, material, subcontractors performing work methodological); on hazardous industrial objects • public liability insurance of the owner of the company; of hazardous production facilities for • informing and maintaining an damage to third parties as a result open dialogue with all interested The company’s policy in this area is mandatory for all employees, aimed of an accident; parties of the company (public, at reducing the risk of incidents and • prevention of failures, damage to government and other supervisory accidents at hazardous production technical devices or deviations from authorities, etc.). facilities and minimizing the potential the regulated modes of operation negative economic, social and that can lead to dangerous incidents; environmental impacts. In order to • timely replacement and repair of ensure the effective functioning of the industrial safety system, SG-trading equipment, buildings and facilities has assumed a set of commitments, for their safe use; including: • integration of industrial safety requirements into the labour activity • constant monitoring of accident and the increase in the technical risks, as well as development, level of the personnel, including implementation and monitoring consultation with the workers of of measures to reduce them; hazardous production facilities; 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Risk Management Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management 57 1.6. Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Sistema pays special attention to compliance with ethical rules and procedures. The Corporation strictly follows its own Code of Ethics and cooperates fully within the implementation of general principles of responsible business conduct in subsidiaries. G4-56 To comply with best practices and the Number of Sistema’s Ethics recommendations of the Corporate Committees meetings held Governance Code prepared by the Bank In 2015, MTS updated the Code of in 2015 of Russia, in October 2015 the Board Business Conduct and Ethics, which of Directors approved a new edition of contains standards and requirements Sistema’s Code of Ethics, which details aimed at promoting fair and ethical the principles of ethical conduct for all major business lines and business processes, and describes the most typical situations 7 meetings business practices. The Code covers relationships between MTS and employees, customers and that the Corporation qualifies as a conflict the Ethics and Control Committee of Sistema’s Board society. The provisions of the Code of interest. The obligation to comply with of Directors establish the procedure for notifying the Code of Ethics is fixed in employment MTS of violations of the Code contracts and job descriptions of Sistema’s and the company’s responsibility employees. Separate rules and regulations to its employees, subscribers, of ethical business conduct are also regulated shareholders, partners and all by the Internal Code of Conduct, the HR Code and the Logistics Code. 3 meetings interested parties, including the general public. Standards of Business Conduct and Ethics set out in the Matters of employees’ adherence to the Discipline Committee under the President Code also apply to all the assets business ethics and responsible conduct of Sistema of the MTS Group companies. are considered by the Ethics Committee of Sistema’s Board of Directors and the Discipline Committee under the President of the Corporation. For more details about the activities of the Committees, see Sistema’s 2015 Annual Report, pp. 91, 96.) During the reporting period, no violations of the Sistema’s Code of Ethics were registered. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 58 CORPORATE PROFILE Informing of employees about the In 2015, all employees of the Corporate Observance of human rights principles and procedures for ethical Centre completed compulsory web-training G4-HR5 G4-HR6 conduct “Rules for dealing with insider information Sistema and S/As are scrupulous of Sistema”, which was aimed at teaching On the basis of Sistema’s updated Code about observance of human rights. The the basic requirements and procedures in of Ethics, a distance training course was Corporation strictly follows the principle of order to minimize the liability risks of the developed in 2015, which introduced key tolerant attitude to racial, religious, physical Corporation and/or its employees. changes in the document to the Corporate and other differences of employees; it has In addition, in September Sistema’s Legal Centre’s employees. Web-training of every never used and will not use any child Function organised an informational and Sistema’s employee, and subsequent tests or involuntary labour. educational training on the topic “Rules, revealed their proper understanding of the requirements and restrictions when dealing In its efforts to prevent discrimination applicable rules and principles of the Code with insider information” and invited an and violations of human rights, the of Ethics. This work allowed forming uniform expert from White & Case international law Corporation is guided by the norms of the ethical standards of activity, as well as firm for assistance. Russian legislation. The non-discrimination to quickly identify and resolve conflicts of interest. provisions are included in Sistema’s basic In 2016, Sistema plans to continue training internal regulations: Code of Ethics and HR aimed at preventing the dissemination In connection with the update of the Codes Code. of insider information. of Ethics in the reporting period, similar G4-HR3 online training in S/As is planned in all key Sistema’s Plans for business ethics No cases of discrimination and human rights portfolio companies of the Corporation development in 2016 violations within the reporting period were for 2016. •• Distance training of all employees recorded in the Corporation. Training to prevent the dissemination of the Corporate Centre and S/As. Adhering to the principle of privacy, Sistema of insider information •• Conducting of ethical certification ensures protection of the personal data in Sistema, as a public company, pays special of senior and middle managers, who its possession. The Corporation operates attention to compliance with laws and participate in the long-range motivation the Security Code which regulates in detail regulations governing the work with insider programme in Sistema and subsidiaries. all aspects of personal data protection. information. •• Analysis of received declarations on When dealing with personal information, ”Ethics and Conflict of Interest” and their in all cases not regulated by any regulatory The Corporation strives to fully further consideration by the Ethics and documents of the Corporation, the inform the personnel about the basic Control Committee of Sistema’s Board employees shall be guided by the applicable requirements of applicable law and of Directors. legislation of the Russian Federation. There securities market regulators in Russia were no leaks of personal data in 2015. •• Development and implementation of and the UK (Compliance)(1), as well as measures to address conflicts of interest about the procedures for dealing with declared. insider information set forth in the internal documents of the Corporation which the personnel is required to know and comply with. (1) Compliance stands for compliance with any internal or external standards. Compliance means a part of the organisation’s control/monitoring system associated with compliance risks and legal risks (not meeting the requirements of legislation, regulations, rules and standards of supervisory bodies, industry associations and self-regulatory organisations, codes of conduct, etc.) 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Risk Management Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management 59 MTS – the territory MTS attends to all who wish to work in the company, including applicants the candidate fully complies with the requirements. At the moment, no of equal of a special category – persons with employees who need specially equipped disabilities. workplace work in the company: all the opportunities employees with disabilities work in the Since 2014, MTS has been a member workplaces with standard equipment of the Business Council on Disability, on medical grounds. which unites organisations that initiate the integration of people with disabilities The survey of about 600 managers (employees, partners, clients, etc.) in of business units from different regions their activities. The company carries of MTS operation, conducted in order out purposeful work to create the to identify potential vacancies for people territory of equal opportunities: the with disabilities, showed that 16% of company assessed the readiness of unit heads are already working with the infrastructure to the recruitment people with disabilities, 62% of unit of people with disabilities, developed heads are ready to take students with an internship programme for students disabilities from specialised universities with disabilities, and adapted the profile for internship or practical training in of candidates for the company’s current their units, 57% of unit heads are ready jobs, MTS recruits applicants with to involve employees of their units to disabilities for open vacancies in full conduct tours and master classes for compliance with the requirements of students with disabilities, and 46% of the job. The company also provides for MTS unit heads are ready to consider the creation, if necessary, of specialised the possibility of creating specialised (equipped) workplaces in case workplaces. Number of Corporation's employees Corporation's dynamics with disabilities of recruitment of employees with disabilities, persons 84 +153% 45 933 88 348 369 124 244 MTS Medsi Group RTI Other S/As 2014 2015 Targin Segezha Group www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 60 CORPORATE PROFILE Universal hotline Since 2014, the Corporation has been Number and topics of messages Based on Sistema’s recommendations, implementing the Non-Compliance received through Sistema's the portfolio companies have developed and Reporting Programme ”Universal Hotline”, updated the Charter of the Non-Compliance Universal Hotline in 2015, messages which aims to combat possible abuse, fraud Reporting Programme ”Universal Hotline”; and corruption. information about the programme is 2 available on the corporate websites; daily In the reporting year, the Charter of the working cooperation between safety 28 Non-Compliance Reporting Programme departments and internal control and audit ”Universal Hotline” of Sistema was updated. departments has been established. Now, it covers not only the Corporation’s 29 employees, but also third parties (including In 2015, S/As received 987 messages counterparties, partners, customers, clients, through hotlines. More than 30% of 16 suppliers and contractors), which allows complaints were fully or partially confirmed. the general public to inform the Corporation 17 As a result of their review, various of detected violations. disciplinary measures were applied to 78 employees of the Corporation, The Hotline allows the managers and twice as many as in 2014. employees of the Corporate Centre and Restriction of competition in procurement S/As, counterparties and other persons Conflict of interest Improvement of the efficiency of the dealing with Sistema and its S/As to Low-quality services and breach of contractual Universal Hotline has been made possible report potential corrupt practices and obligations thanks to the following measures: their reasonable suspicions regarding the Official's abuse actions of employees to the Corporation’s Management accounting misstatement • expanding the operating zone of the top management. All calls to the hotline are Non-Compliance Reporting Programme recorded and analysed. Then, if there are ”Universal Hotline” of Sistema; reasonable grounds, official investigations Messages are received mainly through the • placing the link to the Universal Hotline are initiated to confirm the relevant facts. special page on the website of Sistema, page on Sistema’s home page, indicating The investigation findings are reported to which ensures complete anonymity of the purpose of the programme and the top management of Sistema and its applicants, if they do not want to disclose contacts; S/As. their identity. • strengthening the competencies of As demonstrated by effectiveness evaluation auditors: experts in the field of financial During the reporting period, the Universal of the Corporation’s hotlines, in 2015 the audits, procurement and construction Hotline office received 92 messages, which Corporation managed to achieve generally supervision were accepted for initiated checks by Sistema’s Internal Control positive dynamics in the organisation and employment; and Audit Department and the relevant units of S/As. According to the results of the quality of their work. • conducting joint audits on individual checks, the facts stated in 38 messages were complaints by the Internal Control fully or partially confirmed, and corrective and Audit Department and the Security actions for them were developed and Number of messages received through and IT Department of Sistema, as well implemented. In particular, 14 employees the Universal Hotline in 2015 (breakdown as by the relevant units of S/As. were brought to responsibility (including by communication channels) dismissals). Plans for 2016 in terms of the Universal Number Hotline efficiency improvement Communication channels of messages • Update of Universal Hotline pages on Corporation e-mail subsidiaries’ and affiliates’ websites. As compared to 2014, the number 85 • Informing S/As’ employees and and website of messages grew more than 6-fold, counterparties about the Universal indicating the increase of confidence Voice message 4 Hotline. in the Universal Hotline. • Implementation of the Universal Hotline Mail 3 in new Sistema’s assets. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Risk Management Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management 61 Anti-Corruption Sistema considers corruption management as one of the basic principles of responsible business practices. The Corporation carries out its activities in strict compliance with anti-corruption legislation, including normative legal acts of the Russian Federation, as well as the UK Bribery Act and the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). G4-SO5 Corruption management is based Implementation of the Anti-Corruption As a result of the measures taken: on the following principles: Policy •• 358 disciplinary sanctions were •• legality; In 2015, the activities aimed at the imposed; prevention of corruption and minimising •• rejection of corruption in all its forms •• 10 contracts with contractors were the consequences of corrupt practices were and manifestations; terminated; introduced in the core business processes •• inevitability of responsibility for of the Corporation, and included: •• 35 results of tender procedures were corruption; cancelled; •• prioritised implementation of measures •• identifying the causes and conditions •• 3 S/As’ employees ceased to be to prevent corruption; conducive to the emergence of corrupt founders of counterparties and potential practices; counterparties. •• involvement of all employees of the Corporate Centre and S/As in corruption •• coming to know partners, customers and competitors; Active implementation of anti-corruption prevention and detection processes; measures in the Corporation in 2015 made •• comprehensive approach to anti•• developing and implementing teaching it possible to prevent damage(1) totalling corruption, anti-fraud and anti-theft; aids on anti-corruption; about RUB 16m and compensate damages(2) •• constant interaction between •• assisting the newly created security totalling RUB 8.5m. departments of the Corporate Centre units in subsidiaries and affiliates; and S/As; •• auditing the financial and economic •• experience exchange in the framework activities of subsidiaries and affiliates; of anti-corruption. •• bringing perpetrators to responsibility and compensation for damage caused The Anti-Corruption Policy is the primary by corruption practices. document regulating the anti-corruption efforts of Sistema. It promotes the anticorruption mindset manifested in intolerance of the employees to corrupt practices, and defines measures to prevent and address causes and conditions leading to corruption. The main set of anti-corruption measures of the Corporation is carried out by the Security and IT Department. (1) Prevented damage stands for aborted losses, including property, and lack of other unwanted changes as a result of measures previously conducted by the security departments of the Corporation and S/As, or the difference between the damage calculated without taking into account measures for its prevention or reduction and the damage calculated with the account of these measures. (2) The amount of damage caused (or damage that could have been caused) by illegal actions is calculated by summing the expenses of the Corporation and S/As which have been or will be incurred to restore the violated rights of the Corporation and S/As, the loss of or damage to property and/or lost income, that the Corporation and S/As could receive if acts of corruption were not committed. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 62 CORPORATE PROFILE G4-SO5 Key anti-corruption measures’ results Informing about anti-corruption policies Anti-Corruption Plans for 2016: in 2015 and methods G4-S04 The provisions of local regulations of Sistema 16 in the field of fight against corrupt practices are mandatory for all employees of the 1. Examination, updating and development of local normative documents of the Corporation Corporation. Employees being recruited RUB m undertake to abide by the anti-corruption in the field of combating and detection of corruption, conflicts of interest and legislation. Completion of anti-corruption procedures to resolve them the amount of prevented damage training and proper understanding of the applicable requirements of the rules and procedures by every employee of the 2. Corporation allows minimising the risks of Regular anti-corruption 8.5 bringing the Corporation and its employees to responsibility for failure to comply with monitoring and control of economic feasibility of costs RUB m anti-corruption legislation, and reducing in areas with high corruption risks the probability of fraud. (including the exchange of business the amount of compensated damage gifts, entertainment expenses, charitable In 2015, all employees of the Corporate donations, fees to external consultants) Centre participated in a mandatory web training ”Anti-Corruption Policy of Sistema”, which introduced them to the key 3. requirements of the Russian legislation and Combating unfair competition the UK, as well as to anti-corruption rules during procurement procedures and procedures of the Corporation. 4. Implementation of the mechanism for reducing corruption risks in transactions that require monitoring of compliance with corporate procedures, transactions related to mergers and acquisitions, as well as the disposal of assets of the Corporation 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Risk Management Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management 63 MTS and Detsky Mir joined the Anti-Corruption Charter In March 2015, MTS and Detsky Mir joined the Anti-Corruption Charter of Russian Business developed by the largest business associations of Russia in the framework of the National Anti-Corruption Plan for 20122013: Russian Union of Industrialists and For example, the risks associated with Sistema presented certificates of accession Entrepreneurs, the Chamber of Commerce the construction of network infrastructure, to the Charter to its S/As in the framework of the Russian Federation, the All-Russian interaction with public authorities, of the International Scientific-Practical Public Organisation of Small and Medium customers and partners are separately Conference “State and Business Partnership Businesses Support of Russia and the Alldistinguished. MTS conveys its experience in the Fight Against Corruption” organised Russian Public Organisation Business Russia. to its subsidiaries and affiliates, developing by the Chamber of Commerce of the Russian there a full-fledged system of compliance Federation, the United Nations Office on MTS also represents Russia in the and anti-corruption procedures. To assess Drugs and Crime and the International international project committee for the the performance of this work, MTS Group Anti-Corruption Academy. Since 2012, development of future international standard conducted an independent evaluation of the the Charter have been acceded by more than on anti-corruption compliance ISO 37001. In effectiveness of anti-corruption compliance a thousand Russian companies which seek 2015, the company tightened the disciplinary system with the assistance of an external to comply with international law and Russian responsibility of employees for violation of consultant. legislation in the field of preventing and the compliance procedures, and introduced combating corruption, and are guided by the the Compliance Day, as well as improved Detsky Mir was the only retailer in the ethical standards of conduct of open and fair regulations to better identify, update and children’s segment of the market that decided business. manage corruption risks, focusing on to join the business community to jointly the risks specific to the activities of the combat corruption and form the principles company, to the regions of operation, as of zero tolerance to its manifestations both well as to potentially vulnerable business in the cooperation with the public authorities processes. and in corporate relations. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 64 CORPORATE PROFILE 1.7. Personnel Management In the new economic conditions, people are the main asset which creates business value, and the effective management of human capital, attracting and retaining the best staff is one of the main competitive advantages in the market. In view of these trends, in 2015, a new The Corporation’s objectives for personnel management and their implementation HR Strategy of Sistema as an investment in 2015 company was developed and implemented. The Corporation continues to maintain its leading position in the ranking of preferred Improving the efficiency of top executives employers. •• Recruitment, adaptation and evaluation procedure for senior executives was improved. •• Competency model for senior executives was developed and approved. Creating a system of Corporation continuity and personnel reserve •• Procedure for assessing the heads of the Corporate Centre was implemented. •• Internal succession pool of executives was established: 67% of internal appointments to the position of a functional direction director. •• Internal talent pool was established in S&As: 22% of talents from the pool got promoted. Creating opportunities for efficient staff retention and development “The HR system at Sistema is developed in a way providing for maximum flexibility of the Corporation and facilitating efficient •• Reward system was updated in Corporate Centre and S&As. adjustment to business environment changes •• Training activities plan was implemented in excess of the established indicators: by means of successful implementation of compared with 2014, the number of trained personnel has increased by 33%. required changes and innovations. Main 2015 challenges called for build-up of competences and motivation of the top managers and for creation of strategic candidate pool for key In 2016, the main emphasis will be made positions in the Corporation. The main focus on adjusting the existing remuneration was maintaining the operational stability and systems to the changes in the business retaining key employees capable of solving conditions, on implementing performance the tasks. Therefore, within the reporting improvement tools and on establishing period we have implemented a variety of a culture of achievements, responsibility projects aimed at developing internal reserves and high performance.” of Sistema Group companies, streamlined and consolidated procedures for continuous Elena Vitchak assessment of the employees’ performance, Vice President, Head of HR Department motivation and development. In general, at Sistema such actions allow the Corporation to keep and improve its reputation as a socially responsible employer. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement 65 Development of Corporation’s HR Community Today, Sistema’s HR Department is responsible for the implementation of and compliance with the corporate standards by HR subdivisions in more than 20 Sistema Group companies. HR departments, the total personnel size of which in the Corporation in 2015 amounted about 1% of the total headcount, play an important role in ensuring the stable functioning of business through high-quality selection, assessment, motivation, training and development of personnel and the formation of corporate culture. To effectively implement these tasks and to strengthen the integration, the process of formation of internal human resource asset composed of employees responsible for human resources management was launched in 2015. The target audience of the programme – HR directors of S/As of the Corporation and Criteria of forming the Corporation’s HR high-potential employees’ group their direct subordinates. Plans for 2016: • to systematically analyse the human resource asset composed of employees responsible for human resource management; • to develop and implement a plan for WORK EXPERIENCE PROFESSIONAL developing and rotating key managers IN THE COMPANY COMPETENCE in the field of personnel management. CURRENT ACTIVITY PERSONAL COMPETENCES EFFECTIVENESS EVALUATION www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 66 CORPORATE PROFILE Personnel Structure and Headcount G4-10 155,251 Headcount of Sistema’s Corporate Centre by type of employment and gender people(1) Year Full time Men Women the total headcount of the Corporation in 2015 2013 154 164 2014 149 150 2015 151 153 Number of the Corporation's employees by gender, % G4-10 43% 44% Average headcount of Sistema’s S/As by type of employment Year Full time Part time 57% 56% 2014 114,522 763 2015 148,714 3,366 G4-10 Headcount of Sistema’s Corporate Centre by gender 2014 2015 Year Men Women Female 2013 161 166 Male 2014 156 152 2015 157 158 Number of the Corporation's employees by companies, % G4-10 10.6% 0.2% Headcount of Sistema’s Corporate Centre by type of employment contract and gender 4.0% 4.8% Indefinite term 5.9% Year 46.2% Men Women 6.5% 2013 160 166 2014 155 152 10.6% 2015 153 152 11.2% MTS BPGC Targin Medsi The vast majority of Sistema’s employees The Corporate Centre has no part-time RTI Sistema work in the company under full-time employees at all. The personnel structures Detsky Mir Others permanent employment contracts. in individual S/As depend on the specific Segezha Group features of the industries they operate in. (1) The data consolidation path includes: Corporate Centre, Targin, Intourist, MTS, SSTL, Binnopharm, Detsky Mir, RTI, Mosdachtrest, SG-trans, Leader Invest, Business Nedvizhimost, Medsi, Intellect Telecom, MTS Bank, Segezha Group, Kronstadt Group, SG-trading, Concept Group, RTC, SMM, Steppe Group (figures are presented for 2015), RZ Agro Holding (figures are presented for 2015). The total number of S/As’ personnel in different sections may not match due to different accounting policies in some companies. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement 67 G4-10 G4-LA1 Average headcount of Sistema’s S/As by type of employment contract The average personnel turnover in Sistema Group companies was 18%(1) in 2015. This Year Indefinite term Fixed term indicator for Sistema Group companies is generally consistent with industrial trends 2014 111,044 5,079 and, as compared to 2014, is reduced. The total personnel turnover is lower than the 2015 143,746 8,266 total personnel turnover in Russia in 2015, which was more than 29%(2). G4-EC6 Share of executives of Sistema’s Corporate Centre hired from among the local population Average turnover rate for Sistema (Moscow and the Moscow region),% Group companies, % Percentage of the total number Year Number of managers of managers 29.1% – personnel turnover in Russia 2015 15 88 23% 5% 18% Age profile of employees of Sistema's Headcount of Sistema's S/As S/As, % by regions, % 30% 25% 26% 6% 21% 21% 23% 2014 2015 22% 37% 37% Female 33% Male 15% 17% 16% 37% employees 71% are with the Corporation more than 5 years 2013 2014 2015 Over 45 Aged 25-34 Moscow Aged 35-44 Under 25 RF Regions, including the Moscow region Foreign countries > 50% employees The Corporation’s personnel are a young and dynamic team. under the age of 35 years, 37% of them at the age 25-34 years (1) Excluding the retail sector. (2) Number of retired workers as a percentage of the number of employees in the Russian Federation for 2015 (according to the Federal State Statistics Service). www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 68 CORPORATE PROFILE Motivation and compensation Creation of a competitive remuneration system for Sistema’s management, and formation of “success stories” of managers of subsidiaries and affiliates are an important element of the HR strategy and aim to attract and retain the best managers in the Corporation. In general, incentive system in Sistema is tied to the implementation of the investment strategy and is continuously updated with respect to current business objectives. FINANCIAL INCENTIVE SYSTEM A new version of Sistema’s HR Code was projects for senior and middle management approved in the reporting year. The policy on of Sistema’s portfolio companies. This Compensation system in Sistema and remuneration payable to Sistema employees programme links the direct result of the in the majority of its subsidiaries is based for project execution and generation of cash management of S/As and the portfolio on a grading system (levels of positions). income in 2015 was amended in terms manager. Compensation principles, procedure and of bonus(1) discounting. methods of calculation of remuneration are recorded in the internal regulations of each In 2015, Sistema improved the earlier Group Company. launched programme for long-term incentive for the implementation of investment The history of development of the financial incentive system ••Project agreement concept ••S/As and the Corporate of the Corporation is implemented as a basis Centre long-term for motivating investment motivation triggers are portfolios managers. updated for portfolio ••Triggers of long-term strategies. ••The process of transition ••The results of the first year incentive programme for ••Implementation of coto the investment model of Corporate Centre project the investment project investment mechanism of business is completed, motivation are summed implementation are for Corporate Centre organisational structure is up a bonus for individual installed for S/As. investment portfolios. formed. result in accordance with ••Triggers of long-term the project portfolio. ••Development and ••Remuneration system for incentive programme for implementation of the implementation of ••Corporate Centre Corporate Centre managers Corporation investment investment projects and motivation is supplemented are installed. funds remuneration the creation of a monetary and specified, including cothroughout the perimeter. profit are developed and financing mechanism. approved. ••Long-term incentive ••6 investment portfolios programs for investment distributed responsibility project implementation for assets under 24 S/As’ for S/As in the context and 8 investment projects’ of individual assets are management. introduced. 2013 2014 2015 2016 (1) Discounting stands for the correction of future (expected) cash payments value to the current moment. Over time, money loses its value, so the starting point shall be the time of evaluation, and all future cash receipts (bonuses) will be adjusted (corrected to the current moment). For these purposes, the discount factor is applied. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement 69 In 2015, the Corporation started using The system of long-term incentive for the management of S/As three-year TDIs for the Corporate Centre and S/As. The Corporation is focused on the implementation of the annual key financial LONG-TERM INCENTIVE Traditional incentive programme performance indicators set in the budget PROGRAMMES FOR (aimed at increasing on the basis of TDIs, namely: THE MANAGEMENT the company’s value) • revenues, OIBDA , net profit; • net cash flow, debt covenants(1). Programmes of shortand long-term incentives for the management of S/As are For the implementation implemented in accordance with portfolio of investment projects strategies. (applied in fast-growing business, whose strategy includes the implementation of investment NON-FINANCIAL INCENTIVE projects / monetisation OF EMPLOYEES of the asset) Sistema cares for the welfare and social security of its employees, providing them with additional social benefits in addition to the mandatory package of social benefits G4-EC5 envisaged by the legislation. Standard salary of Sistema’s entry-level employees compared to the statutory minimum salary in Moscow and the Moscow region Non-financial incentive system includes both formalised programmes, which include all the units of the Corporation, Minimum monthly Minimum monthly Minimum Sistema and additional unique benefits of a multiYear wage for an entrywage (MMW) wage to MMW business company, including special offers level position, RUB in the region, RUB in the region,% of subsidiaries’ products and services to their 2015 32,000 17,300 185 employees. Traditional additional social benefits listed in the adopted local regulatory documents Expenditures of S/As on voluntary health insurance and social programmes in various Sistema Group companies, for employees (life insurance, pension insurance, etc.) in 2015, RUB usually include payment for sick leave in excess of the minimum specified by Expenditures on voluntary Expenditures on social Indicator the Russian legislation, financial assistance, health insurance programmes voluntary health insurance, payment for food, travel, and partial compensation for S/As’ 848 561 502 353 619 113 accommodation of non-resident employees. Expenditures The exact list of these additional benefits varies depending on the actual needs of the employees of various subsidiaries. Standard salary of Sistema’s employees corresponds to a competitive level for the financial and investment sector. (1) TDI – top down indicators (input parameters to define the objectives and budgeting of Sistema) developed to meet shareholders’ expectations, portfolio strategies, etc. (2) OIBDA – operating income before depreciation and amortisation. (3) Covenants – obligation of a borrower or an issuer to comply with certain restrictions on financial indicators and individual aspects of activities, which, when broken, entitle creditors to demand early performance of obligations. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 70 CORPORATE PROFILE G4-LA2 Additional social benefits for employees of the Corporation Voluntary Health Insurance Sistema provides its employees (including families of some classes of employees) with voluntary health insurance. Total insurance premium with regard to voluntary health insurance amounted to RUB 12.9m in 2015. Number of employees of the Corporate Centre who received voluntary health insurance services in the reporting year – 304 persons. Healthcare In the event of temporary incapacity due to illness, an employee’s salary is still paid (2 weeks for out-patient treatment, 3 weeks for in-patient treatment). In addition, employee’s sanatorium treatment in Medsi’s sanatoriums can be arranged for with a discount. All employees and their relatives can use the discount. Retirement Plan In addition to the mandatory pension insurance, all employees of the companies included in Sistema have the opportunity to participate in the non-governmental pension programme (NGPP). The development of Sistema’s pension programmes is based on a non-governmental pension fund (NPF) Big Pension Fund (BPF). Big Pension Fund is a member of the state system, which guarantees safety of pension savings, belongs to a group of pension funds with the highest level of reliability A++ (confirmed by the rating agency Expert RA), and is ranked third in Russia in terms of the accumulated return among all NPFs. The overall size of the pension savings of BPF exceeds RUB 29bn, which belong to more than 560,000 people across Russia. BPF is ranked second among the NPFs in terms of accumulated return (141%), second in terms of average annual return among the market leaders (9.9%) and first in terms of short-term return (6%). Other The employees are also provided with: • extra paid leave at child birth, wedding registration, or death of close relatives for 3 working days; • financial assistance of RUB 30,000 due to death of close relatives; • three extra holiday days for irregular working hours. of non-governmental pension fund Selecting Big Pension Fund allows employees Big Pension Fund, which is an authorised of the Corporation the following: partner of the Corporation to provide pension services. Everyone could learn • to save and increase retirement savings about the changes in pension legislation, in real monetary terms; ask questions and conclude an agreement • to ensure governmental protection Adaptation of Sistema’s for the formation of the accumulative part of pension savings by the Deposit employees to changes of pension. Insurance Agency (DIA); • to manage their accumulation account in the pension system Employer deducts the monthly state and transfer it by succession. premium of 22% of salary, including 6% for accumulation account of future pension. In future, BPF, as the operator of pension In December 2015, in connection with For employees who moved from the state programmes of the largest employers, plans the changes to the pension system of the pension fund to the non-governmental to develop personnel-incentive programmes Russian Federation, a meeting was held pension fund until the end of 2015, and early retirement programmes. in the office of Sistema for employees replenishment of funded pension will of the company and the representatives continue. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement 71 Comparison of accumulated return of Big Pension Fund, Vnesheconombank (Pension Fund of the Russian Federation) and inflationи(1) 140 120 MTS: Cafeteria of Benefits 100 At the end of 2014, MTS launched a 80 pilot project of the Cafeteria of Benefits 60 programme: now, an employee can form a unique set of benefits based on his/her 40 needs. This approach allows to qualitatively vacation or training of children, tickets satisfy the distinct needs of employees with to theatres and concerts, etc. – a total 20 of 20 options. The most popular among a high cost-effectiveness. MTS employees is food compensation 0 A fixed amount is reserved for every (32%), then follows repayment of loans ‘05 ‘06 ‘07 ‘08 ‘09 ‘10 ‘11 ‘12 ‘13 ‘14 employee of the company. Its size does (30%) and purchase of medicines (15%). not depend on the position and length Big Vnesheconombank of service. Beneficial funds can be spent The pilot project was considered a success, at employee’s discretion: for the repayment and as of 1 July 2015 it covered 30 Inflation of loans, Foodcard, MTS shop certificate, subsidiaries and affiliates. medical services, insurance, sports, S/As’ special offers for the Corporation’s employees in 2015 Valid for the Corporate S/A name Description of the offer Valid for all the S/As Centre Promotions and discounts, invitations Detsky Mir to events The Bank at your Office programme — MTS Bank Promotions, new offers Promotions, new offers, invitations MTS to events Promotions, new offers, invitations MGTS to events in recreation house Iskra Special offers of medical and spa Medsi services, invitations to events and charity events (1) According to Big Pension Fund. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 72 CORPORATE PROFILE G4-LA3 Providing maternity and paternity leaves to Corporate Centre employees Indicator 2013 2014 2015 Number of employees entitled to a leave 9 22 20 Number of employees who took a leave 9 22 20 Number of employees who returned to work after the leave – 3 2 Return to work coefficient ,% (1) 0 50 28.5 G4-11 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING Number of the Corporation Number of Corporation employees AGREEMENTS employees covered by collective covered by collective bargaining bargaining agreements in 2015 agreements in 2014-2015, % In Sistema, all significant matters on regulating relations with the personnel 6,421 1,511 +8.9% (benefits, payments, health insurance, 33.6% pensions, etc.) are specified in the personnel policy. Besides, collective bargaining 17,358 7,540 agreements are in force in eight of 24.7% the Corporation’s subsidiaries. In total, 52,121 employees of Sistema Group companies were covered by collective bargaining agreements in the reporting year, representing about 34% of the total number 9,251 of employees and exceeding the number 10,040 of persons covered in 2014 1.4 times, which means that the collective bargaining Targin BPGC 2014 2015 agreement practice is fairly widespread MTS Segezha Group in the Corporation. RTI Others (1) Return to work coefficient = the total number of employees who returned to work after the leave / the total number of employees who had to return to work after the leave × 100. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement 73 Team of professionals Sistema attaches great importance to the development of personnel. Strong qualifications and expertise allow the Corporation to efficiently compete on the market and successfully perform business tasks. IMPROVEMENT OF PERFORMANCE OF TOP MANAGERS Sistema’s top managers are leaders The success of the implementation of the ranking of the best Russian of Sistema’s portfolio strategy is largely executives dependent on the management team, so the Corporation is focusing on the use of In the 2015 Top 1,000 Best Russian internal human resources and attaches great Managers ranking prepared by importance to the selection, assessment the Managers Association and the and motivation of top managers(1). Kommersant publishing house, the President of Sistema Mikhail Shamolin ranked first among the top managers of multi-holding companies. Chairman In 2015, a comprehensive procedure for of Sistema’s Board of Directors selecting and recruiting candidates for the Vladimir Evtushenkov was named top managers positions was implemented, among the country’s business leaders. which included an assessment of business reputation of a candidate for the top The following top managers of Sistema Industry ratings of top managers manager position, a check of his/her became the best in their professional included the following CEOs references, a test of his/her personality categories: Elena Vitchak – Vice of Sistema Group companies: Vladimir profile, as well as a collective approval of President, Head of the HR Department; Chirakhov – CEO of Detsky Mir, the candidate by the Human Resources Oleg Mubarakshin – Vice President, Andrey Dubovskov – President of Committee under the chairmanship of Head of the Legal Function; Alexander MTS, Andrey Ershov – CEO of MGTS, Sistema’s President Mikhail Shamolin. Budnikov – IT Managing Director; Elena Brusilova – President of Medsi. Within the framework of the approved Sergey Semkin – Managing Director procedure, adaptive training for S/As’ CEOs for Government Relations. Two more In total, the 2015 Top 1,000 Russian and monitoring of performance during the top managers jointed the top three: Managers rating included 39 top adaptation period is further provided. Also, Vsevolod Rozanov – Senior Vice managers of Sistema Group an effective model of competencies of President, Director of the Finance companies. The Corporation has top managers of portfolio companies was and Investment Function (second demonstrated the best results developed and implemented in the reporting place) and Sergey Kopytov – PR in Russia. year. Managing Director (third place). (1) Top managers in the Corporate Centre – positions not lower than IP Investment Director, Executive Vice President in Departments and Functions, top managers in S/As – employees that report directly to the CEO / President. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 74 CORPORATE PROFILE Model of competencies of S/As top managers Business erudition Creation Effective solution of innovations of complex problems LEADERSHIP Creation and effective Adherence to ethical management of the team principles Commitment to results > 70% Recruitment Department of the Corporation independently selects candidates for top Appointments of top managers in the Corporate Centre and S/As, % of candidates manager positions. appointed to top manager positions in the Corporate Centre and S/As in 2015 were the employees of the Corporation (internal candidates) 29% Recruitment Department of the Corporation independently selects candidates for top manager positions: 71% raising standards and qualification 1. requirements when selecting and hiring senior executives Exterior channels Interior channels 2. forming a steady pool of external candidates 3. maintaining a high percentage of internal appointments in S/As 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement 75 ASSESSING THE PERSONNEL Based on the assessment results, AND ESTABLISHING the following was made: THE CANDIDATE POOL •• formation of the internal pool of Corporate Centre managers Sistema relies on the development of internal to be promoted; human resources potential and recruitment of prospective managers with successful •• development of the corporate experience of investment activities programme of development of key Talent Management and projects that they can successfully managers of the Corporate Centre implement in the Corporation. of Sistema and top managers of at MTS Group subsidiaries and affiliates for 2016; To increase personal effectiveness •• approval of the process for setting of key management and form planned individual goals and evaluating Since 2012, a comprehensive Talent “career paths” of top managers, in 2015 the performance of key managers Management programme is being the Corporation performed individual of Sistema. implemented to improve the career assessment of competencies of key development mechanisms within the personnel: 80% of investment portfolio In 2015, 46% of employees of S/As of the company and retain the best personnel managers, 55% of heads of Functions Corporation were assessed. In Sistema’s S/ in MTS. and Departments (completion in Q2 As, the internal candidates’ pool was formed, Purpose of the programme is to provide 2016). Assessment results demonstrated which included 2,176 employees (2% of the equal opportunities in promoting every a sufficient level of development of total number of employees in subsidiaries). employee on the basis of his/her abilities competencies required to solve the problems During 2015, 22% of succession candidates and talent. The programme content is of the current level of complexity at current were internally promoted. designed for employees of the three positions, as well as allowed to determine categories: decision-making professionals the development areas. with a high development potential, employees with unique expertise (IT, engineers, technicians) and successors to leading positions. Top 5 companies in terms of the scope of personnel assessment activities: Thanks to the Talent Management programme, about 85% of managerial positions and 80% of all vacant positions in the company are filled by internal human resources. From September 2014 to March 97% 92% 2016, 42 successors and 109 high potential Detskiy Mir BPGC employees took new positions. In April 2016, MTS started selecting human resources for the new programme cycle until 2018. 85% 85% RTI MTS 58% Medsi www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 76 CORPORATE PROFILE G4-LA11 Percentage of assessed S/As’ employees,% 43% Specialists 39% Low-level 56% managers 40% 68% Middle managers 37% 25% Top managers 12% Corporation 46% in general 39% 2015 2014 For more information about the approach to the formation of candidates’ pool of the Corporation, see Sistema’s 2014 Sustainability Report, p. 58. Key objectives for the formation of candidates pool for 2016: •• increase in the share of internal appointments; •• expansion of the practice of promotion of employees from among the candidates’ pool of S/As on the basis of transparent job performance. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement 77 Corporate personnel training and development system Human resources are the most important resources for efficient development of the Corporation. In order to increase the number of employees with the skills and knowledge required for efficient professional activity, Sistema initiated implementation of a series of educational and training projects for Corporate Centre personnel and for the personnel of its affiliate companies. Internal corporate educational and training activities involve in-house coaches that consider actual current cases taking into account the specific features of Group Companies. SISTEMA ACADEMY Nevertheless, many Group companies still were not able to continuously upgrade Sistema Academy, a corporate-wide skills of their employees. Thus the idea educational project launched a year earlier, and key principles of Sistema Academy have reached its design capacity in 2015. The appeared, and their implementation started best in-house coaches of Sistema Group “In-house coaches have been working in in 2014. When developing this project, we companies provide training for S/As’ subsidiaries of Sistema since 2004. Then were trying to tackle the practical tasks of managers and specialists based on the a key decision was taken on constant arranging the education and development uniform certified standards as part of this skills development of specialists and lowfunction in the Corporation according to project. It aims not only to ensure personal level managers, as opposed to one-off unified standards. Today the project is being and professional development of the training that involved external business personnel, but also to solve daily business scaled out into regions.” coaches. It all started with MTS that needs tasks. to train newly hired employees in the field of communication with clients and Elena Vitchak Having engaged the majority of its Vice President, Head of Sistema salesmanship. In the course of time, other companies in Sistema Academy’s activities, HR Department subsidiaries started involving in-house the Corporation has achieved maximum synergy in its employees’ competence coaches: MTS Bank, Cosmos Hotel, Detsky development. Mir, Medsi, NVision Group. Sistema Academy basic principles are as follows: Involvement of the best in-house Maintaining the cost of programmes at 70% 19 coaches in the programme below the market without compromising the quality Sistema’s S/As take part in the project Sistema Academy Additional motivation for employees and development Maximum use of corporate of the best in-house coaches resources www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 78 CORPORATE PROFILE The following training courses are offered within the framework of Sistema Academy programme: “Situational Leadership”, “Capable Leader: Task Formulation and Achievement of Results”, “Capable Leader: Control of Compliance and Communications With Employees”, “Basic Management Skills”, “Successful Presentation”, “Financial Accounting for Beginners”, “Negotiation Techniques”, “Time Management” and others. The first training for coaches (“Information conversion to a game or a task”) was held in October 2015. An English Conversation Club within the framework of Sistema Academy project was opened in May 2015. The meetings are organised by professional linguists – Sistema’s translators/interpreters. 2015: First results Number of Sistema Academy Training cost for 787 employees, participants in 2015, persons K RUB 1. 800 employees of the Corporation’s companies upgraded their skills 346 15,740 x 4 economy 186 150 2. More than 12 training programmes for management and personal efficiency 105 3,870 improvement have been developed Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 External providers 3. Employees are provided with a possibility to independently arrange their professional Sistema Academy development and to receive training both at cost of the Company and at their own Development plan • Distant training concept development cost with the purpose of covering more Training programmes will be further employees. developed within the framework of Sistema • Increase in the number of coaches, Academy and will be focused on the including by means of additional 4. The Sistema Academy project business needs which will contribute to recruitment of in-house coaches in S/As. has proved its economic best expertise interchange between the efficiency: in comparison subsidiaries and creation of the environment • Training for coaches in order to improve with external providers, the education for personnel development. training skills of the Corporation’s cost of the Corporation’s in-house personnel. coaches is lower by 70%. Development plan for 2016: • English Club development. • Regional replication of the project for . Segezha Group, Targin and Concept Club subsidiaries. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement 79 G4-LA10 CLASSROOM EDUCATION The Corporation proceeded with the A “Knowledge Week” event was development of employees’ professional arranged by Sistema for the first time competences in the reporting year, including in autumn of 2015. The event was held by developing corporate universities in S/As in a new format – several short master (MTS, MTS Bank, RTI, Targin, Detsky Mir, classes of 1.5-4 hours each in the Concept Group) and in-house forms beginning and in the end of a working of study. day. More than 400 employees of the Corporation took part in Knowledge Week. They gained knowledge in the Read more: Section 2.1. Human Capital field of leadership, time management, Investment memory training, negotiation techniques, stress control, public presentations, etc. Quantity index of in-house training efficiency improvement of Corporation S/As,%(1) G4-LA9 8% Average number of training hours per Corporate Centre’s employee in 2015 MTS 16% by personnel category 6% Targin Number of 5% Number of Time for training hours Personnel categories 9% persons category, hrs per employee, Medsi 52% hrs 36% Top managers 16 979 61.18 Detsky Mir 60% Middle managers 35 103 2.94 36% Specialists 264 410 1.55 MTS Bank 44% Total 315 1 492 4.74 reduction in training costs increase in trainees’ number Training cost reduction was achieved by in-house training activities with in-house +33% coaches engaged. increase in the number of the Corporation’s employees trained in 2015. (1) S/As with the greatest part of employees involved in training are presented in the Table. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 80 CORPORATE PROFILE Classroom education at Sistema covers Number of S/As’ employees who took external and in-house training all the personnel categories and includes within the 2015 reporting year, persons practical training sessions (complicated accounting and tax issues, accounting and taxes in 2015, changes in tax legislation, 74,621 etc.), professional workshops (contemporary management technologies, decision External making optimisation in the course of In-house personnel selection for leading positions, 38,643 etc.), conferences (participation in VIII International Coaching Congress and others), as well as training programmes within the frameworks of Sistema Academy 320 76 2,167 1,468 (Situational Leadership, Financial Accounting for Beginners, Conflict Control programmes, etc.) and occupational retraining and Top managers Middle managers Specialists advanced training (programmes of High School of Management and Innovation of Lomonosov Moscow State University). DISTANCE EDUCATION Sistema has a Distance Learning Portal After mandatory training completion, participants must take a test. + 237% designed to broaden the reach of educational The most popular optional distant courses programmes and to make sure that for the reporting year were the adaptive test increase in the distance learning web portal traffic employees learn mandatory information. in English (446 employees of the Corporate to 12,000 people In particular, the online format is convenient Centre and S/As) and Microsoft Excel for distribution of corporate materials 2010 master class (474 employees of the in S/As. Corporate Centre and S/As). The Portal provides several training courses developed by the Corporation. Some Upon training completion the employees may give feedback on the training course quality which facilitates the development 3,715 of the courses are mandatory for Sistema employees and are dedicated to antiof the training system. employees corruption requirements and procedures of the Corporation took distance learning courses in the Corporation, fraud risk mitigation, An electronic library was established in 2015 in 2015 insider information management regulations, and provided the Corporation’s employees information non-disclosure, etc. with free access to 5,000 books on business and related fields. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement 81 Segezha Group pays close attention to the personnel training and arranges training activities for all the personnel categories. The form of study includes workshops and professional skills development events. Training and development Number of employees who took “We maintain high professional level programme for Segezha of our specialists by developing external external and internal training, Group’s employees persons and in-house training programmes; we also cooperate with branch institutes. In the future, we plan to provide 1,753 training for our employees in the field 1,334 of production, as well as to develop administrative competence of managers, 840 including such within the frameworks 755 of Sistema Academy and on the basis of High School of Management and Innovation of Moscow State University.” Tatyana Gromova 2014 2015 Vice President for Human Resources and Organisational Development External training at Segezha Group In-house training During the weekend, the participants had a unique opportunity to attend lectures by external experts and business coaches (in the field of education and development, science, health or parenting style psychology) and improve work and everyday MTS: Knowledge Fest practical skills at master classes (including subjects such as visual thinking, voice as one of business communication tools, parent The first Knowledge Fest was held in as a coach and others). The attendees got November in the DI Telegraph co-working to know how Big Data will make difference area in the building of Central Telegraph. in the next five years, how to manage It is a large-scale education event organised personal power, how to read books in by MTS, with the participation of Sistema the right way, how to use computer games and other Corporate companies (MTS and digital gadgets for child development Bank, Medsi, Detsky Mir, MGTS and others) and how to develop creative thinking. employees. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 82 CORPORATE PROFILE Medsi Training “The requirements to medical facility Centre administrators become tougher as the need in quality medical services grows. The efficient manager in the The Training Centre was created in the end field of medical service and health of 2014. It includes business coaches of shall be characterised by the following the high expertise level and work experience in various business directions. priority features: field-specific medical education, high-scale professional Training Centre courses became mandatory for all Medsi personnel groups. Business coaches develop programmes using 2,313 education and administration skills, efficient education programme including unified methodology. Employees have employees economics. We introduce the education an opportunity to attend more than 10 took part in Training Centre programmes in 2015 system for medical workers taking different training courses. They include ”Star into account these requirements. Doctor” programme for medical advisers, Medical specialists of the company ”Excellent Service” programme for register regularly attend professional retraining officers and ”Manager School” training cycle 2,313 employees took part in Training Centre courses and participate in conferences aimed at business skills improvement for programmes in 2015, 50% of them belong medical directors and formation of unified to the main production personnel (doctors, and international forums within this management infrastructure. The company medical personnel and administrators) programme. Workshops are arranged for has also developed and implemented the and 45% of them are junior and middle medical workers on the basis of Medsi expertise support system and business managers. 8 new training programmes Training Centre. These workshops deal coaches work efficiency appraisal. have been developed, 10 facilitation team with customer oriented communication sessions have been held. According to Prior to Training Centre creation, the and efficient communication with a Medsi employees’ inquiry, 95% of them are company did not provide any other training satisfied with training results and format. patient, improvement of managers’ courses except for professional re-training administration competence and creation of medical workers. The business coach Medsi’s strategy up to 2020 includes of a unified management culture, team determined the following key the following in-house training plans: personal performance improvement, directions: welcome training, customer•• Training process automation; including financial literacy, and internal focused service and management skills. The training programmes were adapted for •• Distant training methods introduction; expertise development in a company.” industrial personnel by directors and chief •• Training programme line extension; medical officers of business units. Elena Brusilova •• Creation of unique programmes for President of Medsi Group the medical products market in order to attract personnel of other medical companies to take part in the training; •• Self-sufficiency of the Training Centre. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement 83 HIGH SCHOOL OF MANAGEMENT AND INNOVATION OF LOMONOSOV MOSCOW STATE High School of Management and Innovation: UNIVERSITY corporate professional re-training programme High School of Management and Innovation, for top managers of Leader Invest a joint faculty of Sistema and Lomonosov Moscow State University, was established in 2006 and provides education for highly qualified specialists to be prepared for work in the global market of innovative products and services. The principles and operation formats of the School were revised and re-evaluated in 2015, and a new strategy A new professional re-training and relation of business companies aimed at creativity and innovations was programme for top managers with state authorities of China. developed. of Leader Invest, Innovations Top managers of Leader Invest in Development, started on have also visited Economics and School activity results in 2015 11 November 2015. The programme Management Department Faculty is aimed at professional development business laboratory – “Shanghai stock The MBA programme Leadership in and company leaders manager exchange”, which is the exact copy of Innovations was started in the School competence enhancement, the stock exchange, where students in October 2015. The first cohort are comprehensive study of global perform real time trading. the leaders selected for the Talent Pool, progress in the field of planning and i.e. the so-called “Golden hundred” large-scale projects implementation In the office of Russian-Chinese (the Corporation’s candidate pool). and large cities urban territory University in Shenzhen which is development. established by Lomonosov Moscow The Strategic Management and Innovation State University in affiliation with programme included new courses, such as Within the programme framework, Beijing Institute of Technology, New Product Development System, Risk Leader Invest top managers the attendees of Innovation in Management, Corporate Marketing at Global completed an internship in Beijing Development programme took part Markets, Intelligent Techniques of Business Institute of Technology in autumn in round-table discussions on the Information Analysis. of 2015. They attended a course issues of property developers in China of lectures on specific features of and municipal authorities’ role running business in China, on state in urban development. participation in economic process “Segezha Group, BPGC, Binnopharm But the main goal of the School’s and other Sistema’s subsidiaries activities is still the preparation of became partners of High School of Sistema’s highly qualified managers who Management and Innovation in 2015. are competitive in the global market.” Currently, the School has moved to a new stage. International cooperation Viktoriya Pechkovskaya is being developed along with various Dean of High School of Management levels training programmes in innovative and Innovation theory. It is a completely new specialty for the Moscow State University. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 84 CORPORATE PROFILE An MBA programme Strategic Management Plans for 2016 and Innovations has been implemented since September 2015 in two formats: •• The School plans to train students on full-time (evening classes) and part-time integrated bachelor degree courses for (modular training). A new part-time form Innovative Studies in 2016, which will allowed 20 regional managers from Sistema allow graduates to work in a number of S/As to start training. A standard for areas. Currently, learning and teaching Master’s programme in Innovation Studies support materials are being prepared in (Management in Engineering Systems) order to obtain license and accreditation. was developed. Sistema subsidiaries are •• Modular training courses on the ready to become sites for student practice corporate social responsibility with subsequent employment of the most management basics are being developed successful applicants. Also, a double degree with due account for the best practices programme was developed in 2015 together of the Corporation. with one of the oldest European business •• The School plans to take part in a largeschools, BS University of Durham. scale project of the largest technology park of Lomonosov Moscow State University. Sistema’s Plans for Personnel Management Improvement in 2016 1. 2. 3. Creation of environment for Development of a candidate pool Creation of conditions for top managers work efficiency and succession system in the efficient employees’ retention management system: Corporation’s S/As: and development: •• Improvement of standards and •• Creation of comprehensive •• Development of motivation qualification requirements in the functional candidate pools; programmes according to business selection and recruitment of top •• Assessment activities; needs; managers; •• Creation of the environment •• Approval of the pool of efficient •• Consistent process of individual managers and creation of a matrix for permanent development targets preparation and Sistema of professional development and and qualification upgrade; employees efficiency assessment; career advancements. •• Development of an HR community •• Corporation’s key management across S/As; development programme •• Personnel engagement survey; implementation. •• Corporate culture improvement. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement 85 Corporate Culture and Volunteering Corporate culture is defined as unique ideological ideas, values, beliefs, regulations and behaviour patterns that integrate the Corporation into a single whole and are shared by the employees. The corporate culture supports the business strategy of Sistema and is used in all the processes within the personnel management field. Corporate culture was improved in 2015 in the following areas: XIII Sistema In 2015, the Annual Sistema Summer • Internal communications development and involvement of subsidiaries into Summer Games Games were visited by 17 S/As’ teams participating in 14 sports: the corporate culture; sprint, rope war, football, volleyball, • Personnel engagement increase street ball, family relay race, table by means of corporate activities; tennis, golf, chess, dominoes, darts • Promotion of sports and healthy and table tennis. The Corporation’s lifestyles among employees; managers took part in such sports • Corporate volunteer services as target shooting and hoop shoot development. contest. Spectators strongly supported the Corporate culture development results sportsmen: additional scores for as of 2015 are the following: teams were given for this as well. Each • 100% of S/As are involved spectator could take part in Big Break in the Corporation’s activities; Game, participate in game-oriented sports and thus gain scores for their • Annual clean-up day attendance rate team. is increased by 15% (to 4,000 people); • Number of volunteering activities Artistic master classes have been participants is increased by 1.5 times arranged for children of employees. (over 10,000 employees); A lottery was arranged for all the • 18 corporate offers and promotion participants of the sports fest. campaigns for Corporate subsidiaries are The winner received the official implemented; Champions League ball with Sistema top managers’ signatures. • Three issues of Sistema’s corporate magazine were published ; • Content on the internal corporate portal was fully updated; • A new mobile format of the digital library and opinion surveys of employees was introduced. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 86 CORPORATE PROFILE “Sistema’s Energy” A clean-up day dedicated to the 70th Anniversary of Victory Day was arranged united volunteers on 30 May 2015 at Medsi Otradnoye Sanatorium near Moscow. Over 2,000 and veterans employees of Sistema and its 27 subsidiaries in Otradnoye and their families took part in the site improvement. Over 1,300 trees, flowers and bushes were planted, more than 17 flowerbeds and flowerpots were beautified and bright playgrounds and gym sites were arranged. A special programme was arranged for “These clean-up days have already children and adults. It included master become our corporate tradition. In 2015, classes, sports games, a performance the clean-up day was arranged for the of Detsky Mir puppet show and other first time at Otradnoye Sanatorium, outdoor activities. where the war veterans undergo The clean-up day special guests were the rehabilitation treatment. We worked representatives of the Moscow municipal hard to improve the premises and veteran council. A concert was arranged to plant trees in the parks and alleys by volunteers for the battle-front veterans of the health resort. We established along with a tour of the health resort. a memorial Victory Alley together with veterans to make walking enjoyable for people. This spring activity is a great opportunity for team-building, “The annual corporate clean-up day is a real spring festival enjoyed by > 2,000 involvement of subsidiaries’ employees in activities for the benefit of our society. employees of Sistema companies employees The anniversary of the Victory day is and their families. The site choice has took part in the site improvement also a good opportunity to remember its symbolic meaning: on the occasion the heroism of our fathers and of the 70th Anniversary of the Victory grandfathers and to pay tribute to their Day we have jointly improved the memory.” territory of Otradnoye Sanatorium where > 1,300 veterans get health care services under Mikhail Shamolin a joint social programme with the President of Sistema Moscow government. We joined our trees efforts in this good and important were planted during a clean-up day activity. I’m sure that such community events contribute to the corporate spirit and give energy for new achievements.” Elena Brusilova President of Medsi Group 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement 87 CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING Results of Corporate Volunteer Centre in 2015 Corporate volunteer initiatives have been widely developed for the last two years in Sistema companies as an efficient tool for the implementation of social and charity Corporate Centre 16 social partners projects and improvement of non-financial and 11 S/AS motivation. For many subsidiaries corporate volunteering became part and parcel of corporate culture, with the average rate of engagement in 524 volonteers 2,406 hours of work voluntary activities going up by half, to roughly 7% of the total headcount, which matches the maximum penetration of volunteering among Russians(1). The Corporation’s coordination centre for 8,200 beneficiaries 55 events held volunteering services is Sistema Volunteer supported Centre, which develops and implements general corporate social programmes with participation of Sistema and its subsidiaries. From 4.2 to 6.7% staff involvement with volunteer initiatives is up by half Key events of Corporate Volunteer Centre in 2015 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Olympic Sports Day Aid to Veterans, delivery of groceries Backpack for First Generation Mowgli performance held for disabled children of to war veterans Graders, a school supplies in Kremlin for children from social Zhuravushka care home collection for children from establishments Celebratory reception for veterans located near Moscow orphanages (back-toand Leningrad siege survivors at the Career guidance for children from school season) Live History, a programme National War exhibition held in Russian orphanages in cooperation with for patriotic education of Museum Acquisition of a tractor Stroganov Academy, Russia Today children from orphanages. for Zhuravushka and National News Service Honouring of the Corporation’s The programme is dedicated orphanage in Krasnaya veterans at the Scientists’ Palace Tree of Wishes show, New Year to the 70th Anniversary Dubrava with money gifts collection for eight sponsored of the Great Patriotic War Volunteers Victory Garden, including donated by employees; orphanages Victory Day clean-up days in four orphanages clean-up day located in Moscow and the Moscow Visiting Snow Queen, a benefit Russian Museum region performance in the State Academic Quest for citizens of Maly Theatre for 700 children Victory Garden event held within Saint Petersburg on the framework of volunteering clean-up International Charity Day Hospital Clowns non-profit organisation days and meetings with veterans teamed up with Sistema’s volunteers to in orphanages offer New Year greetings to 90 critically ill children at Moscow hospices Dr. Powderpill benefit performance dedicated to Children’s Day Arrangement of registration and accommodation for veterans in MEDSI Otradnoye health resort within the framework of Taking Care of Veterans programme (1) According to the survey of volunteering movement in Russia carried out by the Public Opinion fund. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 88 CORPORATE PROFILE Backpack for First Collection of school supplies was Tractor for Graders initially arranged in August-October of 2015 for children of 25 orphanages Zhuravushka of Moscow, the Moscow region and Central and Northwestern Federal Districts. The promotion activity was arranged in shops of Moscow Book Centre retail chain and in the Corporation subsidiaries’ offices. It was supported by school supplies manufacturers and representation offices of President of the Russian Federation in Tver and Vologda regions. The Corporation’s volunteers with the engagement of Moscow International Cinematography school volunteers collected 50,000 school kits for the amount of RUB 1m by the beginning of the school year. Corporate volunteers and donations of MTS, MGTS, Medsi and Sistema Charitable Foundation helped to collect a total of RUB 500,000 for the acquisition of a specialised tractor and its appliances for Zhuravushka disabled children home in Krasnaya Dubrava. Children with disabilities can move in no other way but using wheelchairs; thus, their chance for outing depends on the state of garden paths. Garden tractor application will significantly facilitate garden cleaning Tree of Wishes Children could also send their wish letters via e-mail. More than 800 gifts for 2,200 and improvement of the care home show children were collected during the campaign. territory. Children would spend more time Seven volunteer tours to orphanages were outdoors. SCF arranged a volunteer tour to arranged to deliver the gifts and organize Zhuravushka children care home in Krasnaya New Year’s parties. Dubrava in October. Volunteers presented Over 100 Sistema and S/As’ volunteers the tractor to this social establishment. took part in arrangement of traditional corporate promotion event, Tree of Wishes show in 2015. Real Christmas trees with > 800 wishes of children from eight orphanages of Moscow, Tver, Vladimir, Yaroslavl regions were installed in the offices of the Group companies and federal information media gifts holdings – News Media and National News Service. Segezha Group delivered 40 pines gifts for 2,200 children were collected during the campaign from Karelia to Moscow and MGTS arranged for storage of the trees. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement 89 A technology platform for corporate volunteer movement development was started in December 2015 together with Dobro Mail.Ru project. The online service custom designed for MTS allowed the company to organise volunteer projects’ MTS volunteer initiatives management and to provide the required tools for coordination of large-scale volunteer movement in various regions. MTS corporate volunteer project ”Do Good!” Volunteer movement participants may has been active for more than 6 years. track the history of their participation in the Currently it includes 6,500 people who company’s social programmes through a regularly take part in social activities. The convenient personal profile, via which MTS company volunteers arranged more than projects news are also available. 500 events in 2015. The company employees receive virtual badges for participation in all volunteer initiatives. They may share their achievements in social networks. Read more about Sistema Corporate Volunteer Centre projects and activities on the website: http://bf.sistema.ru. Corporate culture development plans for 2016 1. 3. 4. Internal communications Involvement of subsidiaries Loyalty improvement and development: into the corporate culture: improvement of employees engagement level: •• Development of a project on internal •• Development of new corporate portal transition to a new digital promotion activities and S/As’ •• Development of new formats platforms and mobile version / offers for Corporate employees; for corporate activities. portal application development; •• S/As’ employees volunteer •• Development of a new mobile movement engagement growth; format of the digital library and •• Arrangement of clean-up days 5. Corporate culture elements internal opinion surveys in the Corporation’s subsidiaries; development, in particular, of employees. •• Development of promotion creation of employees’ unified activities for veterans support. work principles that contribute to the Corporation’s strategy implementation. 2. Promotion of sports and healthy lifestyle among employees. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 90 CORPORATE PROFILE 1.8. Stakeholder Engagement G4-26 G4-25 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT LIST OF STAKEHOLDERS The rank map of stakeholders was created PRINCIPLES and considered relevant in 2016. During preparation of Sistema’s 2015 Stable, mutually beneficial and transparent Sustainability Report, the managers were Read more: Sistema’s 2014 Sustainability relationships with all stakeholders are the surveyed in order to clarify and range Report, p. 79. mandatory condition of business reliability the stakeholders by their impact on the and efficiency of the Corporation’s strategy Corporation’s operations and the impact implementation. of the Corporation’s operations on them. Sistema makes efforts to consider opinion of the wide range of stakeholders within the framework of certain tasks’ solutions associated with economic, social and Stakeholders rank map environmental role of the Corporation. Individual notification, feedback and 2,00 engagement methods were developed 1 2 and implemented for each target group(1). 1,80 10 Impact of the stakeholders on the Corporation’s activities Read more: Sistema’s 2014 Sustainability 1,60 Report, p. 80. 4 6 1,40 12 3 G4-24 1,20 7 5 11 The Corporation’s stakeholders include(2): 1,00 13 1. Shareholders 2. Management 0,80 8 9 3. Personnel 0,60 14 4. Subsidiaries and affiliates 16 17 5. Media 0,40 15 6. State authorities 0,20 7. State control/supervision bodies Impact of the Corporation’s activities on stakeholders 8. Local government bodies 0 0,20 0,40 0,60 0,80 1,00 1,20 1,40 1,60 1,80 2,00 9. Local communities 10. Investment community 11. Business partners 12. Customers/consumers 13. Professional associations 14. Academic community 15. Educational institutions 16. Public environmental organisations 17. Non-profit social and charitable organisations (1) Cooperation of Sistema with the key stakeholders is governed by individual internal regulatory documents such as Information Policy, Internal Communications Standard and Sistema’s Interaction with State Authorities and Public officers Policy, etc. (2) Sistema’s Stakeholders are marked with boldface type. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement Managing Corporate Social Responsibility 91 G4-26 G4-27 Stakeholder Engagement in 2015 RELATIONS WITH STATE State legislative authorities The Russian-Saudi Business Forum was held AUTHORITIES During the reporting year, Sistema continued on 17 June during the visit of Mohammad its active expert cooperation with the bin Salman Al Saud, deputy royal prince Federal executive agencies specialised committees and commissions of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia, to Saint During the reporting year, the Corporation of the State Duma and the Federation Petersburg. Its participants included continued stable cooperation with the Council of the Federal Assembly, in about 60 representatives of Saudi Arabia Russian Government, federal ministries particular, in the field of mobile commerce. companies and state organisations, as well and agencies on supporting investment The State Duma passed a bill on as over 100 Russian businesspeople and and social projects of the Corporation. amendments to Article 54 of the Federal government officials. Vladimir Evtushenkov, Law ”On Communications” and Article Chairman of Russo-Arab and Russo-Saudi Agreement with the Russian Ministry 15 of the Federal Law ”On the National business councils, held a speech at the of Finance on instalment payment for Payment System”, which improves the forum opening event; top managers of stock repurchase of SSTL Russian-Indian payment procedure using a cellphone and Sistema, Targin, Medsi and Binnopharm communication company from the cancels significant restrictions on mobile participated in the round-table events on government until 2020 within a stock commerce in Russia. infrastructure development, transportation option plan was one of significant results and electric power resources, oil and of this work. The agreed instalment payment Sistema also contributed to the introduction gas sectors, agriculture, medicine and terms are considered in the federal budget of a bill on Network Sharing to the State healthcare. for 2016 and further confirmed in the Duma. According to preliminary estimates, Agreement between the Federal Agency communication providers could save According to the results of the meetings held for the Administration of State Property significant capital and operational expenses in Moscow in 2015 by Russo-Saudi Business and Sistema, concluded in June 2016. through the construction of common base Council and Joined Intergovernmental stations for LTE networks. It will contribute Russo-Saudi commission on commercial, Furthermore, Sistema provided assistance to quality improvement and accessibility economic, scientific and technological to its portfolio companies in 2015 to get of current telecommunication services. cooperation, Sistema and Wafrat Al Tawasul, access to the state programme of support a Saudi company, announced the intention to for strategically valuable companies that is International cooperation create a Russo-Saudi investment company implemented within the framework of the A road show of Russian regions and for capital investments to agricultural sector, crisis bailout plan of the Government of the companies was held from 26 to 28 May infrastructure construction, transportation Russian Federation. For that end, anti-crisis 2015 in Jiddah (Saudi Arabia) under the and other industries. A Memorandum of measures were analysed and proposals authority of the Chamber of Commerce and Understanding was concluded between to the State authorities with forms Industry of the Russian Federation. Among Targin and Wafrat Al Tawasul on and methods of sectoral support were the participants were Vladimir Evtushenkov, establishment of joint venture in the territory developed. The preferential focus was Chairman of the Board of Directors, who of the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia for drilling given to the S/As operating in the field headed the Russian delegation; Mikhail bits manufacturing. of pharmaceuticals, forest management, Shamolin, President of Sistema, and other crop farming and high technologies. representatives of the Corporation’s top management; Oleg Ozerov, extraordinary In 2015, the Corporation’s partnership with and plenipotentiary ambassador of the the Ministry of Education and Science of the Russian Federation to the Kingdom of Saudi Russian Federation moved to another level Arabia; Mikhail Bogdanov, Deputy Minister in implementation of the programme for of Foreign Affairs of the Russian Federation, search and preparation of young technology and more than 100 representatives of leaders for knowledge-intensive companies Russian business communities, authorities and perspective branches of domestic and regional governments. The event industries. The administrative department showed opportunities for cooperation with provided quota for the participants of Lift to partners in Saudi Arabia in agriculture and oil the Future’s engineering and design schools and gas sector. on the basis of federal child centres. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 92 CORPORATE PROFILE Representatives of private and in Krasnodar region. Guests from state companies for Saudi Arabia Saudi Arabia learned about the visited the following assets of companies’ operations, market Sistema Group companies within position, plans and development the framework of Saudi Business strategy. The Saudi delegation Week in Moscow in November 2015: was composed of several dozens Medsi diagnostic and treatment representatives of private and centre at Belarusskaya underground state companies and organisations, station, flagship store of Detsky Mir including Saudi General Investment “The trade and economic relations between on Vosdvizhenka Street, business Agency (SGIA), agricultural Russia and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia park Nagatino i-Land and Krasnodarinvestment company SALIC, Saudi Agro agricultural enterprises Food & Drug Authority, etc. are gradually evolving, although there is still room for greater cooperation. The Russian business week in Riyadh, and now the Saudi Arabian business week in Moscow are landmark events contributing to effective Relations with India are traditionally cooperation between Russia and Saudi important for Sistema in the context Arabia. The promotional tours and visits of international relations. Sistema representatives took part in a meeting of delegations to the Russian companies of Intergovernmental Russian-Indian are extremely important for facilitating Commission that was held in Moscow informational exchange and fostering a on 20 October. The issues of commercial, relationship of trust and openness between economic and industrial cooperation the business communities of the two between the two countries were discussed countries.” during this meeting. Vladimir Evtushenkov The most important result of longstanding “In current economic conditions, China steps relationship of Sistema and Chinese banks Chairman of Sistema Board of Directors, forward as an international source of funding was a successful closure in December Chairman of the Russian-Arab Business for Russian borrowers. But the main condition 2015 of a long-term club deal with China Council on behalf of Russia Development Bank and Bank of China for cooperation with Chinese lenders is time. for an unsecured 6-year credit limit They examine the borrowers for a long time of USD 350m. and tend to build long-term relationships. The deal that Sistema succeeded to close is INTERACTION WITH REGIONAL a result of the said long-term relationships, which have been developing for ten years.” AND LOCAL AUTHORITIES A number of business meetings were held Vsevolod Rozanov with local administrations across Russia with Senior Vice President, Head of the Finance a view to searching and extending regional and Investment Function at Sistema investment opportunities in 2015. The possibility of cooperation in areas of priority relevance to Sistema was discussed as well. Special focus was placed on the forest and woodworking industry. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement Managing Corporate Social Responsibility 93 As a result of these meetings, framework Counsel of Veterans, Medsi Group, and the INTERACTION WITH INVESTMENT cooperation agreements were signed Department of Labour and Social Protection, AND BUSINESS COMMUNITIES with the Arkhangelsk, Kirov, Irkutsk and the Corporation started a large-scale Vologda regions, seeking to create beneficial programme titled Taking Care of Veterans, The success of Sistema’s business is economic, investment, and social conditions giving access to free healthcare to over largely defined by long-term relations with in the geographies that are of particular 500 beneficiaries. co-investors and industrial partners. In importance the Corporation. The general 2015 Sistema’s senior management held idea is to overhaul the local businesses, several business meetings with investment improve their operating efficiency, and For more details please see Section 2.2.2. Improving Standards of Living funds, large-scale international companies enlarge their footprint in local markets. E.g., and financial analysts in Russia and abroad, the Vologda Region Adminsitration provided including road shows organised specifically Segezha Group with optimum conditions for In 2015, the Moscow region and the to present the new strategy and meetings developing their existing business while also Krasnodar territory provided vast support at the largest global business forums: making the region more attractive to other to Lift to the Future’s school of engineering Sistema companies, such as Medsi Group, and design organised locally. Representatives January 21–24: the 45th World Economic Detsky Mir Group, MTS, Sitronics KASU, of the two regional administrations took Forum in Davos (Switzerland), Binnopharm, and OZON Group. part in official school opening and closing June 18–20: the XIXth Saint Petersburg ceremonies. International Economic Forum, For more detail see Section 2.2.1. Social & September 3–5: the Eastern Economic Economic Partnerships.) Forum (Vladivostok), September 9–11: the IVth International Business Summit Russia: Together On 16 July 2015, the Prime Minister to the Future! (Nizhny Novgorod), of the Republic of Kalmykia Igor Zotov held a business meeting October 2: the International Investment Within the framework of the Forum Sochi-2015, Agreement with the Republic of involving the local Minister of Karelia, the Corporation issued Economic Affairs and Labour Erdeni November 24–26: Exhibition & Forum Russia “Republic of Karelia Investor Guide” Boldyrev and representatives of and the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia: new in Russian and in English, which was Sistema’s Secrity & IT Department prospects of commercial, economic presented at Russian Federation to discuss potential cooperation in and investment cooperation, Security Council Secretary meeting, setting up Safe City infrastructure November 27: Russo-Saudi Business dedicated to the 100-th Anniversary and a crisis prevention centre in Investment Forum (Moscow), of the Republic of Karelia formation the republic. December 8–9: Moscow Exchange Forum and implementation of the federal (organised jointly with UBS) in London, target programme for the Republic of Karelia Development for a period October 13–14: VTB Capital’s Investment up to 2020. INTERACTION WITH Forum RUSSIA CALLING! SHAREHOLDERS A new corporate website of Sistema was launched in May of 2015. Among the new Several major institutional funds became conceptual features of the website is a Furthering cooperation with the Government Sistema’s shareholders in the autumn of compelling presentation of the broad scale of the Republic of Dagestan in the security 2015. Currently, the top ten shareholders of Sistema’s investment portfolio and activity area, Sistema’s businesses in 2015 worked of the Corporation include the Singaporein various national industries. hard to implement their signature projects based investment firm GIC (No.1 by such as Safe Region, System 112, etc. holdings), BlackRock Group, Skagen, Norges, and Pictet. This results from regular investor Within the framework of the Corporate meetings and greater transparency social policy, a three-party agreement of Sistema’s non-public assets. was signed in May 2015 between the Moscow City Government, the Moscow For more details about Sistema’s Municipal Council of Veterans, and Sistema. shareholders see Sistema’s 2015 Annual This marked the start of a broad social Report, pp. 81-83 partnership in the area of veteran support and patriotic education of young people. Together with the Moscow Municipal www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 94 CORPORATE PROFILE INTERACTION WITH PERSONNEL In 2015, Sistema strengthened and furthered On Day 1 of the event the participants its existing mechanisms of interaction with determined the area (“convenient drugs”) personnel, including the Hotline, a channel to focus on when moving towards leadership for employees to report problems such as in the pharma market. Day 2 was dedicated abuse of rights, fraud, and corrupt practices. to formulating the key vision, mission, and values of the company. For more detail see Section 1.6 Business Binnopharm: At the end of the session, the participants Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities. strategy session had a ready list of principles to adhere to in their business practices. Special attention was also paid to the development of the corporate volunteer Like every other business of Sistema Group, movement. Campaigns organised by SCF’s Binnopharm held a strategy session on volunteer centre engaged employees of 24-25 June 2015 aiming to formulate a longvirtually all Sistema Group companies. term development strategy for the company. For more detail see Section 1.7 Personnel Management. INTERACTION WITH S/AS Openness: be open to new opportunities Existing assets of Sistema are grouped and to discussing failures and problems into Investment Portfolios based on the to search for optimum solutions principles of deal origin and available industrial expertise. Portfolio managers and their teams help subsidiaries formulate and implement their development strategies. In order to coordinate this work, the leaders of numerous portfolio companies took part Leadership: set new goals in improving the standards in Sisteama’s offsite strategy sessions held of living of customers and employees and assume in September and November 2015 to discuss responsibility for their achievement the Corporation’s portfolio strategy. Scientific approach: support your case with facts and analytical thinking Productive results: serve practical interests of customers and employees as much as possible 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement Managing Corporate Social Responsibility 95 Sistema’s Functions and Departments regularly interact with subsidiaries too address corporate management and implementation of Corporate standards in the field of business ethics, procurement, personnel management, anti-corruption actions, social accountability and other areas. Representatives of S/As regularly take part in on-site and off-site sessions, task groups and meetings held by Sistema to discuss various subjects. “Security is a prerequisite for sustainable Sistema’s investment and budgeting functioning of business processes and procedures, accounting methodology and comfort of our employees. In 2015 we other issues were discussed during an offsite Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is upgraded our earlier accomplishments in the session of Sistema’s Finance and Investment Function in October 2015. A programme one of the crucial areas of cooperation comprehensive security area by implementing of activities to improve the efficiency of between Sistema and its subsidiaries with new endeavours in terrorism prevention, hotlines used at various S/As along with an eye on integration and synergies. E.g., recovery of financial damage, etc. To improve progress reports and targets for 2016 were Lift to the Future’s programmes in 2015 the manageability of security systems discussed in June and December 2015 at engaged representatives of RTI, Sarov of specific subsidiaries, we integrated all joint meetings of the Internal Control and Technopark, Mikron Group, MTS, BPGS, security teams into a single comprehensive Audit Committee and the Safety Committee Business Nedvizhimost, Detsky Mir Group, security system.” under Sistema’s President, as well as at Binnopharm, Medsi, Targin, STREAM, MGTS, the meetings of Internal Control and Audit and Leader Invest, who provided lectures, master classes, and assessments of prposed Vladimir Shukshin Committees of specific S/As. projects in such areas as information and Vice President, Head of Sistema’s Security In 2015 Sistema and S/As establihed some telecommunication technologies, medicine and IT Department specific mechanisms to cooperate in the and biotechnologies, transportation, fields of security and information technolindustrial technologies and new materials, ogies and organised a series of extended living environment and society, and energy. sessions to discuss comprehensive security, hotlines, and measures to prevent terrorism, For more information on Lift to the Future’s fraud, theft, abuse of powers, and other programmes see Section 2.1 Investments issues. in Human Capital On top of that, S/As continued cooperating to develop new social projects based on the shared value approach and enhance the transparency of Sistema Group’s businesses. For more information on cooperation between S/As in CSR see Section 2 Investments in Sustainable development. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 96 CORPORATE PROFILE INTERACTION WITH MASS MEDIA Sistema actively cooperates with leading business media in Russia and abroad to Partnerships ensure all-round coverage of its activities, with media to help business strategy, key deals, and assets. In 2015 special emphasis in public children communications was given to Sistema’s stability, i.e., the corporation’s image as a reliable investor and partner of the national In 2015 Sistema Charitable Foundation government and images of specific S/As (SCF) launched a series of partnerships as leaders in their respective industries. with media outlets to provide occupational Numerous publications, including interviews guidance to children in orphanages and with senior managers in printed media and promote the concept of charity nationwide on TV, showcased Sistema’s informational by engaging journalists in socially-oriented openness and a clear vision of existing volunteer initiatives. development prospects. In November-December 2015, children Another area of Sistema’s publicity focus in from Moscow’s Orphanage No.12, Boarding 2015 was the corporation’s numerous social School No.587, Boarding School No.1363, projects, with Lift to the Future (23 media and Noginsk Social Rehabilitation Centre partners, over 380 media publications) for the Minors visited the editorial offices and Taking Care of Veterans (more than 100 of the major federal media Multimedia > 150 children publications and TV stories) becoming the Holding, Russia Today, and News Media, highest-profile endeavours. According to welcoming them with master classes an annual research performed by the Donors’ and tours and inviting them to apply Forum, Sistema Charitable Foundation for internships. participated in the New Year charity screening maintains leadership among Russian of the new animated motion picture The Snow charities in terms of media coverage, having To celebrate the New Year, Russia Today Queen 2: The Snow King made Top-25 funds by media references. organised a charity screening of the new animated motion picture The Snow Queen 2: The Snow King. The invitees included more than 150 beneficiaries from family education centres Yuzhny and Solnechny Krug and the Top corporate foundations by media Interregional Social Aid Fund Vozrozhdeniye. The initiative received coverage by dozens mentions(1) The project titled The Wishing Tree invited of media outlets. SCF is committed to further employees of Sistema and News Media to developing socially-oriented projects for donate Christmas gifts for children from four the underprivileged children in and around Sistema foundation 1,001 Moscow in concert with federal and regional orphanages, including a social rehabilitation centre under the auspices of the Svyatomedia. Safmar 336 Alekseyevskaya Monastery in the Yaroslavl Minara 262 region. AUCHAN generation 207 Pochet 160 Kupol 98 Katren 59 Renova fund 33 (1) Source: Donors’ Forum 2015 Report on current status & development of Russian charities. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement Managing Corporate Social Responsibility 97 Sistema’s new corporate website version Sistema’s involvement with the XIVth INTERACTION WITH contains a CSR newsfeed to keep readers Moscow Easter Festival allowed residents PROFESSIONAL AND BUSINESS updated about the corporation’s efforts in of vast swathes of Russia—from the Black ASSOCIATIONS sustainable development. In 2015 alone, Sea coast to the extreme North-East— Sistema released 190 news reports about to visit concerts of the Mariinsky Theatre In January 2015 Vladimir Evtushenkov (along various social projects and campaigns, Orchestra, one of the world’s best symphony with leaders of other Russian businesses) which, along with business news, were fed orchestras that performed 170 shows joined the task group of the Russian Union into the corporation’s official Twitter account in 22 Russian cities. of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs (RSPP) (whose number of followers has quadrupled charged with matters of financial stability since March 2015) and a dedicated YouTube Several subsidiaries of Sistema (MTS, and economic recovery. Chaired by RSPP’s channel demonstrating corporate videos and Medsi, Detsky Mir, and Kronshtadt) became president Alexander Shokhin, the group TV stories. The total audience of Sistema’s partners of KidZania Moscow, Europe’s discussed a whole range of anti-crisis social media accounts is now ~2.5 million largest occupational learning project for measures to help economic recovery, users. children. The companies will organise whole including those in industrial production. interactive areas for kids to try their hand at different professions under the guidance INTERACTION WITH LOCAL of experts. COMMUNITIES Sistema has been working hard to expand programmes targeting the well-being of local communities in geographies where Sistema Group is active. Partnership The nation-wide programme Lift to the Future enabled more than 700 high school with RusRisk students from all over Russia to take part in science contests in 2015, resulting in 350 young talents receiving tickets to Sistema is a partner to the Russian Risk inspiring think-tank school sessions. Management Society, a member of the Among other community-oriented initiatives Federation of European Risk Management is Sistema’s long-term programme seeking Associations (FERMA). RusRisk sees its to support art exhibitions and virtual reality mission in shaping national risk management branches of the State Russian Museum that standards in various industries and brings Russia’s largest collection of national improving the quality of risk management arts near to local audiences. systems on the ground in order to reduce potential economic and social consequences Federal Agency for Technical Regulation of environmental, man-induced, and other and Metrology (RosStandart), RSPP, and For more detail see section 2.2.1 Social & disasters. the Russian Chamber of Commerce and Economic Partnerships. Industry, attending regular forums, seminars, Sistema’s executive in charge of risk and conferences. In particular, in 2015 management is on RusRisk’s Supervisory Sistema’s risk managers delivered speeches Board, while other risk officers of Sistema at a number of conventions, round tables, Group are engaged in ISO’s TC262 risk and business breakfasts arranged by RusRisk, management committee and other task Ernst & Young, IC Energy, Palisade, etc. groups along with representatives of the www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 98 CORPORATE PROFILE The participants discussed top-of-theagenda matters pertaining to occupational guidance for the young, interaction of businesses with schools and colleges, and new-generation education programmes designed to strengthen the ties between the national educational system and the real economy. The second event is the 4th international forum Corporate Volunteering: Business Sistema Charitable Foundation (SCF) is and Community organised by the Russian a permanent contributor to the annual Managers’ Association, the National conferences of the Donors’ Forum, a For several years SCF has been cooperating Council for Corporate Volunteering, and partnership of Russian and foreign charities with the European University in Saint SCF. The forum discussed success cases that pursue comprehensive philanthropic Petersburg. In 2015 SCF provided support and best practices in corporate volunteering campaigns in Russia. The XIIIrd conference to the University’s programme designed to presented by SCF, Sistema, MTS, Medsi, held on 22 October 2015 in Moscow was promote promising educational initiatives Detsky Mir and Stream. themed on assessing the efficiency of charity and help leading research and education projects. centres of Russia. INTERACTION WITH In 2015 Sistema contributed to two CSR Sarov Technopark—a project jointly pursued events organised by the Russian Managers’ THE ACADEMIC COMMUNITY by Sistema, Rosatom, and Rusnano— Association, one of Russia’s leading business AND EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTIONS continued the implementation of innovative societies aiming to develop the management knowledge endeavours at the National expertise of professional communities and Sistema is a long-standing partner of Nuclear Research University for the benefit foster social responsibility of businesses. The Moscow State University in two major of the larger economy or Russia. first event is the VIIIth PEOPLE INVESTOR projects: the Higher School of Management forum conducted on 19 November at and Innovation (effectively a fully-fledged Plekhanov Russian University of Economics. university department) and Lift to the Future, For more detail about Sarov Technopark see As a partner of the forum, Lift to the Future a project that greatly expanded its academic section 2.3.1 Innovation and Modernisation outreach in 2015, closing partnerships of Manufacturing in concert with Sistema launched a dedicated forum thread titled Investment with the Moscow Aviation University; in Human Capital and Modern Education. the Tsiolkovsky Russian State University Not confining itself to national boundaries, of Technology; St. Petersburg National Sistema is heavily engaged in international Research University for IT, Mechanics & innovative projects. In particular, in March Optics; Lobachevsky Nizhny Novgorod of 2015 Sistema teamed up with its State University; Moscow State University offshoots MTS and SSTL to hold a first-ever of Mechanical Engineering; and Ufa State Russian-Indian Youth Innovation Summit Petroleum Technological University. in New Delhi designed to promote social cooperation and development of social entrepreneurship in Russia while sharing For more detail about the Higher School innovative expertise with India. of Management and Innovation see section 1.7 Personnel Management; for more detail about Lift to the Future see section 2.1 Investments in Human Capital. For more detail about the summit see section 2.1 Investments in Human Capital. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Personnel Management Stakeholder Engagement Managing Corporate Social Responsibility 99 INTERACTION WITH ENVIRONMENTAL NON-PROFITS In 2015 Sistema continued cooperating with the non-profit organisation Far Eastern Leopards, making yearly donations to preserve and restore the population of leopards in the Primorye (Russian Far East). Sistema also carried on cooperation with the Russian Geographic Society, one of Russia’s oldest civic organisations tasked with research and preservation of the country’s natural riches. For more detail see section 2.4.3 Preservation of Biological Diversity. INTERACTION WITH SOCIAL AND CHARITY NON-PROFITS In 2015 Sistema’s Corporate Volunteer Centre closely cooperated with numerous Sistema Charitable Foundation (SCF) also non-profit organisations, such as the Russian sponsored Detsky KinoMay’s 2015 charity Paralympic Committee, Moscow’s IT film forum that swept across Moscow. Department and Social Security Department, In February 2015 SCF invited Paralympic the private nonprofit Hospital Clowns, champions to arrange a sport event for charity funds under the patronage of V. disabled children in Zhuravushka, a care Gergiev and V. Spivakov, etc. home in the Moscow region. The volunteer One of Sistema’s longest-standing noncampaign was designed as a celebration profit partners is the charitable foundation of the first anniversary of XXIInd Olympic Detsky KinoMay. Among the charity’s Games and XIth Paralympic Games of 2014 many endeavours supported by Sistema hosted in Sochi. was the conference titled Time. Culture. Children held in Moscow in June of 2015 For more detail about Sistema’s charity to discuss specific initiatives promoting efforts see sections 1.9 Managing Corporate cultural initiatives for Russian children as Social Responsibility and 2.2 Development well as strategies for streamlining interaction of Regions and Communities, as well between professionals creating art for kids. as SCF’s official website www.bf.sistema.ru. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 100 CORPORATE PROFILE 1.9. Managing Corporate Social Responsibility Having a significant impact on the development of various Russian industries, Russian society and environment, Sistema perceives corporate social responsibility (CSR) as a strategic platform for sustainable development that blends successful businesses in various industries and geographies with basic human values and the nation’s development priorities. In 2015 Sistema updated its corporate General corporate KPIs in the CSR area approved for 2015 policies governing CSR and charity initiatives(1) to reflect progress made in the fields of corporate governance and Corporate volunteering corruption prevention, while Sistema Charitable Foundation (SCF) upgraded % of staff participating in volunteer projects (average for the Group) its regulatory base in compliance with Sistema’s standard anti-corruption policy, Shared Value projects regulation on expenses, and regulation on settling conflicts of interest, and updated its number of social projects aiming to shape shared values and benefit society corporate governance regulations. and the business Social reporting Sistema’s Board of Directors reviews annual reports on the corporation’s CSR and charity number of Group companies that release GRI reports strategy as well as progress made in these areas, after which it determines priority Regional developement areas of strategic focus and KPIs to pursue in the future. number of new social & economic cooperation agreements signed with local goverments On top of this, every socially oriented Mass media coverage or charity programme/project of Sistema is assigned specific KPIs based on the number of media publications about the Group’s CSR & charity projects particular goals and objectives pursued. Such KPIs may include both quantitative (e.g., number of events organised, charity recipients, social partners involved; amount of funds raised; volunteer hours, etc.) and qualitative (e.g., relevance & maturity of practices to be rolled out nation-wide) parameters. (1) These internal regulations include: • Sistema’s CSR & Charity Strategy; • Corporate Social Responsibility Policy; • Charity Policy; • Charter. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Personnel Management Managing Corporate Social Responsibility 101 CSR & charity management structure Sistema’s Corporate Centre Corporate Communications Function Functions and Departments General CSR management tasks General CSR management • Project coordination tasks: • Activity promotion • Formulation of best • Reporting practices • Implementation of standards at S/As Transfer of best practices • Motoring Sistema Charitable Portfolio Companies Corruption Prevention & Foundation (S/As) Ethics Main Tasks: Main Tasks: HR Management Volunteer Movement • Arrangement of large-scale • Application of unified Investments in SCF charity projects to improve standards and principles Joint Projects the Group’s reputation Health and Security • Arrangement of projects • Initiating and coordinating synergistic with other S/As general corporate charity • CSR reporting and Risk Management and volunteer programmes publcising • Publicising Sistema’s contribution to the Environment improvement of standards of living Development of regions Sistema’s Corporate Communications Each of Sistema Group companies has Function supervises any and all matters special officers or whole departments tasked pertaining to CSR, charity, and non-financial with interacting with Sistema and SCF in reporting, coordinates interaction with SCF pursuance of general corporate programmes and with/between subsidiaries in the CSR & and with managing such company’s own charity spheres, and ensures media coverage social, charity, and volunteer initiatives. of Sistema’s socially oriented efforts. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 102 CORPORATE PROFILE CSR as a platform for sustainable business development In July 2015 Sistema and MTS conducted a joint seminar titled CSR as a Platform of Sustainable Business Development designed to improve the efficiency of the Corporation’s CSR efforts, strengthen integration between subsidiaries, internalise best non-financial reporting practices, and enhance the performance potential of social investments made. The seminar was attended by 50 representatives of Sistema Group businesses. In his opening speech, Sistema’s Vice MTS’s Vice President for HR Mikhail President & Head of the Corporate Arkhipov shared the company’s know-how in Communications Function Evgeny Chuikov CSR standard implementation: MTS became formulated Sistema’s key objectives and Russia’s first company ever to perform a selfstrategic priorities in the CSR area: assessment of business practices using the ISO 26000 standard. •• better transparency of non-financial reports and implementation of unified Representatives of RSPP (Russian Union reporting principles based on the GRI of Industrialists and Entrepreneurs), the standard; Higher School of Marketing and Business •• deep engagement with the regional Development, the corporate development development of geographies where agency Da-Strategy, EY, and other invitees Sistema’s businesses are active; made reports on the latest global and national trends in non-financial reporting •• more social projects based on the Shared and CSR, synergies achievable through Value approach; blending business with CSR efforts, and key •• support to talents, science, education, tools for assessment of socially oriented and innovation. projects. The seminar addressed the findings of a Sistema intends to make the seminar CSR audit performed in the spring of 2015 a regular practice. and commended the best social projects performed by S/As: The Memory Book (MTS), Taking Care of Veterans (Medsi), Participate! and Operation Toys (Detsky Mir), Safe Childhood (BPGC), and promotion of financial literacy (MTS Bank). 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Personnel Management Managing Corporate Social Responsibility 103 Charity is one of the crucial components In 2015 SCF continued the transformation SCF’s governance and controlling of Sistema’s corporate social responsibility of its structure and activities in accordance bodies are: cultivated in parallel to the corporation’s with Sistema’s business model as an business strategy through “social investment company, targeting a transition investments”, i.e., a targeted long-term from corporate philanthropy to social the Board of Trustees as strategy blending corporate strategic goals investments with defined goals and the highest governance body in the sphere of sustainable development measurable results. The foundation has been with the interests of its shareholders and designing a whole new corporate investment evolution of society at large. strategy, planning large-scale corporate the Management Board (chaired programmes, accumulating requisite funds, When managing its social investments, by president) as a collective body and building a portfolio of charity projects Sistema relies on best global and Russian for managing operations to carry out. practices that typically involve intracorporate SCR programmes along with Sistema sees its key charity goals in boosting standalone charitable foundations with a the nation’s intellectual potential through management of their own and advanced the support of learning, science, and talent; Sistema’s social investments expertise in strategically crucial areas. in building a harmonious society by aiding Entrenched at Sistema, the model is also underprivileged demographics and local pursue realistic targets and applied at several S/As that have established communities; and in preservation and contribute to the social their own charity foundations (CF): Detsky promotion of Russian cultural legacy through development of the entire Mir, Mikron (Miloserdiye Foundation), new technology. nation and Segezha Group (Veterans Support Foundation). Charity prinsiples Compliance with Sistema’s Alignment with national Long-term and systematic Social Mission priorities in the social sphere social effects SCF’s projects are in the areas Rather than duplicating publicly As well as reputational, GR and of most relevance for Sistema funded initiatives, SCF develops HR effects on Corporation’s Group’s business and implements effective business mechanisms to address current social needs, including publicprivate partnerships www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 104 CORPORATE PROFILE Financing of social and charity efforts in 2015 To carry out their social programmes, Sistema’s consolidated charity budget Sistema Charitable Foundation (SCF) and Sistema Group businesses use a broad system of both financial (target donations, grants, fund raising) and non-financial 1/3 (volunteering, pro bono(1)) charity tools, delivering highest possible results at Independent charity SCF’s corporation-wide optimum costs. projects of S/As programme Sistema’s Management Board and Board of Directors recommended that Sistema 2/3 Group companies donate up to 0.65% of their previous-year net income to charity, to be distributed between: CorporationTarget wide projects projects • standalone charity projects pursued for S/As by each S/As individually; • SCF’ general corporate programme, In 2015 Sistema Group’s total social In 2015 the aggregate pool of funds including nation-wide projects and target investment (S/As included) reached administered by Russian charities climbed initiatives serving the interests of S/As. roughly RUB 1.35bn, or 0.19% of the entire 39% YoY (from RUB 6.77bn to 9.38bn). revenue, up from 0.14% in 2014. While SCF’s share in the Russian charity sphere the Corporation’s consolidated revenue remains at about 6% of the total monetary climbed 9.7%, its social investment grew by investments made, while that in the 4.1 RUB bn half year-on-year. The dramatic growth in corporate segment is up from 23 to 26%(3). charity donations is in line with global trends: charity donations in 2015 rose by 10% YoY Sistema Group’s total social investment worldwide (2). over the past 3 years Investments made in charity and social programmes, RUB m 2013 2014 2015 SCF 1,400 340.7 542.7 S/As (contributions to SCF excluded) 425 574.7 807.3 Total 1,825 925.2 1,350 (1) Pro bono publico (Latin): professional work done free of charge on a voluntary basis. (2) Source: http://www.charitynavigator.org/. (2) Source: Donors’ Forum 2015 Report on current status & development of Russian charities. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Personnel Management Managing Corporate Social Responsibility 105 Distribution of funding between Total investment in charity and social SCF’s projects in 2015, % programmes broken down by S/As, % 3% 2% 1% 5% 3% 6% 23% 10% 49% 15% 75% 8% Science. Education. Enlightenment MTS Culture & arts Tergin Spiritual legacy RTI Healthcare & social aid Segezha Group Fitness & sports BPGC Corporate volunteering events Other Distribution of charity & CSR funding provided by Sistema’s S/As in 2015, % 39.7% 60.3% External CSR a в charity programmes Internal social programmes www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 106 CORPORATE PROFILE Charity profile of Sistema Charitable Foundation Sistema’s general approach to charity targets the highest possible efficiency of socially oriented and charity investments, including the effects on Sistema’s reputation and business. Sistema Charitable Foundation (SCF) prioritises long-term charity programmes that harmoniously fit the broader CSR strategy. From the end of 2015 on, SCF has been focusing its effort on broad-based projects of utmost relevance to Sistema and the wider economy as a whole: Lift to the Future: teams for knowledgeintensive industries Accumulation a pool of young talents to feed into Sistema’s HR resources and “Although up to 2015 SCF used to promotion of hi-tech industries through pursue a plethora of social and charity support, education, and career guidance of the talented youth, from school students initiatives in diverse spheres, from 2016 to recent graduates. on we aim to maintain just 2 or 3 key projects that will absorb all of our efforts and resources. That’s a crucial change building on the fact that every charity in Russia has had the bitter experience Social projects and volunteering of being swamped with diverse requests Social campaigns to aid veterans and the and calls for aid. To create really efficient underprivileged as part of an agreement and comprehensive social programmes signed between Sistema, Moscow City capable of delivering lasting effects, we Government, and Moscow City Council need to narrow down to a small portfolio of War Veterans with a view to providing social support to Great Patriotic War of projects where we can become leaders veterans and their family members and and nation’s best experts.” promoting patriotism among young people. Development of Sistema CF volunteer Elena Chernyshkova centre as a consolidation centre for the best President of SCF Russian volunteering organisation practices. Development of SCF’s Volunteer Centre as a hub for consolidating Russia’s best practices in volunteering. Culture and art: partonage and new technology Support to best programmes in culture, arts, and education with a focus on new models and state-of-the-art tech solutions. For more detail about SCF’s programmes see SCF’s official website, and Lift to the Future’s official website. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Personnel Management Managing Corporate Social Responsibility 107 Plans for 2016 1. Reorganising the management system at SCF, establishing expert bodies to offer guidance for SCF 5. Introducing unified policies to govern CSR, charity, and environmental protection 10. Launching new social initiatives, including environmental ones. as a whole as well as specific projects. at S/As in compliance with general corporate standards. 11. Improving the transparency of CSR reports: preparation 2. Restructuring the charity programmes portfolio with strategic focus on projects 6. Scaling up the flagship programme Lift to the Future and improving its of GRI sustainability reports for Sistema and key S/As. and campaigns of as high a social efficiency. and reputational impact as possible. 12. Enhancing partnerships with media to publicise CSR projects. 3. Reinforcing complementary interaction with Sistema and its 7. Upscaling the veterans support programme. S/As. 8. Expanding social partnerships into geographies of strategic relevance 4. Designing/updating CSR for the Group. strategies of S/As, including newly acquired ones, in line with the general corporate priorities and realities of specific businesses. 9. Growing the corporate volunteer movement into a national scheme. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 108 CONTENTS Investment in Sustainable Development 2.1. 2.3. Investment Technological in Sustainable Leadership Development 2.2. 2.4. Development Green Economy of Regions and Communities 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com 109 Sistema interprets the concept of “Sustainable Development” as continuing economic and social change where cash investments, sci-tech progress, manpower, and natural resources complement each other in strengthening the existing and future potential for addressing society’s current and anticipated needs. Building on this outlook, Sistema prioritises projects that target: Intellectual development Improvement of standards Better accessibility of the young and promotion of living in specific of education and of continuous life-long learning geographies and support healthcare to local communities and underprivileged demographics Infrastructure improvements Reduction of adverse and industrial modernisation environmental impact of businesses and conservation of the environment Sistema’s subsidiaries heavily promote shared-value CSR projects that aim at both commercial and social results and benefit Sistema and society at once. For more detail see Appendix 3. Shared Value Projects of Sistema Group www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 110 CONTENTS Investments in Human Capital 112 2.1.1. New talents for an innovative economy 121 2.1.2. Developing the Innovative Potential of the Youth “Our flagship programme Lift to the Future is designed to pick out outstanding talents from a motley crowd of high school and college students, identify leaders and acute minds early on, and give them the right training to fit into existing companies and industries.” Vladimir Evtushenkov Chairman of Sistema’s Board of Directors 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Sistema today CEO’s statement Shareholder capital 111 www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 112 INVESTMENTS IN HUMAN CAPITAL 2.1.1. New talents for an innovative economy Innovative economy requires competent workforce with strong professional expertise and an actual track record of carrying through hands-on projects. Investment in human capital is part and parcel of Sistema’s general strategy aiming, among other things, to recruit and retain best professionals, develop talents, and offer incentives to achieve meaningful results. LIFT TO THE FUTURE, A NATIONAL-SCALE EDUCATIONAL PROGRAMME Lift to the Future is a nation-wide educational programme started by Sistema Charitable Foundation (SCF) and Moscow State University in 2011 to find and develop young talents and support creativity of the young in various fields of science, technology, engineering, and research. The programme purports to create a learning infrastructure for proactive beyond-the-classroom training of young specialists for their early integration in innovative industries. Lift to the Future aims to bring new talents to Sistema’s hi-tech companies specifically and to knowledgeintensive enterprises and whole national industries in general. 263.8 RUB m Sistema’s spending on programmes supporting science and education in 2015 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com New talents for an innovative economy Developing the Innovative Potential of the Youth 113 The programme receives support from The programme’s favoured tool is practical the Russian Ministry of Education and projects aiming to develop innovative Science and numerous local administrations industries of most relevance for Sistema and across Russia. Lift to the Future events have specific geographies and knowledge-based been welcomed in the Moscow region, industries involved. Target initiatives prepared Yakutia, Bashkortostan, the Yekaterinburg in concert with Sistema’s portfolio companies region, the Smolensk region, the Krasnodar based on their vast understanding of their region, the Vladimir region, etc. respective industries give a personal touch to projects offered to talented students and The programme extends to high school employ special methodologies rooted in the and college students enthusiastic about cross-disciplinary learning concept. science as well as school teachers and “The way it is arranged now, Lift to the college professors committed to promotion In 2015 alone, applications for the annual Future mostly targets high school students. of the scientific knowledge and yearning idea competition A System of Priorities were for professional fulfilment. reviewed by a panel of 50 industrial experts We intend, however, to gradually expand from Sistema Group. Lift to the Future’s the programme to reach out to other age engineering and design schools and project brackets, enabling the participants to grow evaluations engaged professionals from 14 together with the programme all through businesses, including MTS, RTI, Binnopharm, school and college years. Today we encourage In his State of the Nation Addresses Medsi, Detsky Mir, MTS Bank, Segezha school students to apply for college-level made in 2014 and 2015, Russia’s Group, Kronshtadt Group, Sarov Technopark, contests, and we plan on introducing president Vladimir Putin invariably etc. a whole subprogramme to support young stressed the importance of the scientists and entrepreneurs in hi-tech and National Technical Initiative, a The Expert Board of the national Agency engineering fields. Our unique edge is in the governmental programme targeting for Strategic Initiatives acclaimed Lift understanding of what qualities are sought an internalisation of latest technical to the Future as an efficacious tool for for specifically in each of Sistema businesses, trends and preparedness for identifying true talents, placing them in and in the ingenious learning methodologies challenges that will inevitably face learner-friendly environments, and raising we offer. A broader outreach of the Russia on a 15-20 year horizon. them to become new leaders of hi-tech businesses and the Russian economy programme is in Sistema’s best interest, Launched in 2011, Lift to the Future and society as a whole. The Agency as our mentees make up a potential talent has been consistently addressing the task, striving to raise a new recommends that the programme be rolled pool for our businesses to draw from a few generation of engineering elite out across the Russian Federation. years from now.” for the nation. The efficacy of Lift to the Future’s model Elena Chernyshkova as a talent screening platform to feed the workforce of hi-tech knowledge-based President of SCF industries received recognition of Russia’s federal government, whereby RUB 6m was allocated from public funds in 2015 to finance the travel costs of students of the movable Lift to the Future’s engineering and design schools, events enabling contest winners to vie for learning grants from the Russian President. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 114 INVESTMENTS IN HUMAN CAPITAL Lift to the Future in 2015 Lift to the Future’s cross-regional engineering and design schools in 2015 One of Lift to the Future’s many initiatives carried out in 2015 was A System of Venue Date No. of participants Priorities, a nation-wide contest of student Anapa 19 March-09 April 150 projects designed to engage high-school and early college students in regional Stupino 07-27 August 100 programmes driving innovations. The contest brought applications from roughly 700 high Artek 13 November-03 December 100 school students from 19 regions of Russia. 350 winners from 40 regions received tickets to Lift to the Future’s engineering and design schools, inspiring 3-week events aiming to encourage students and teachers to use their knowledge and creativity to address specific challenges facing particular industries or regions. “I am happy to witness the progress made by our Ministry’s continuing partnership with SCF. Our new achievement is that Lift to the Future’s engineering and design schools Best projects designed by winners: in 2015 gave access not only to 150 winners • a prototype sensory substitution of A System of Priorities, but also to 350 system (supported by the Skolkovo recipients of special quotas from our Ministry.” Foundation and So-Yedineniye Foundation for the Support Veniamin Kaganov of the Deaf-Blind); Deputy Minister of Education and Science • a modular drone for use in hardof the Russian Federation to-reach regions of East Siberia (special acclaim from RTI); • design project to enhance the electrical connectivity of Crimea and an urban redevelopment plan for Sevastopol. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com New talents for an innovative economy Developing the Innovative Potential of the Youth 115 Other events organised in 2015 under the auspices of Lift to the Future include: a contest of original teaching methodologies In 2015 Sarov Technopark Mentor (13 winners); a contest for students, (supported by the education young researchers and post-graduates departments of Sarov and Diveyevo, Intellect1ALL (58 winners); a contest of communities in the Nizhny online start-ups proposed by college students Novgorod region) provided 22 (4 winning projects included in the Plekhanov winners of local and national science University of Economics’s ”Business and robotics contests with tickets to Incubator”); and an internship programme Lift to the Future’s spring& autumnfor young professionals A Step towards break schools that ran in Smena and Success. The winning projects were Artek, two famous summer camps at presented at the Nauka 0+ science festival the Black Sea coast. Inspired by the at Moscow State University and the national good cause, the Technopark is now forum Russia’s Future Intellectual Leaders preparing to offer its own facilities in Yaroslavl. for new learning endeavours. A Step towards Success enabled 46 college students and recent graduates of Russia’s leading universities to find jobs at MTS, MTS Bank, Detsky Mir, Binnopharm, Business Contests, grant-giving campaigns & domestic internship programmes carried out in 2015 Nedvizhimost, BPGC, Medsi, MGTS, Intellect Telecom, Targin, and SG-trading. No. of participants Format No. of events in 2015 in 2015 To prepare competent staff to carry out the diverse knowledge-intensive programmes, Contests 3 770 Lift to the Future launched the so-called Chief Designer Schools, training courses Grant-giving campaigns 1 400 that involved more than 30 teachers and lab Domestic internships 2 185 supervisors in 2015 alone. Progress made since 2011: 200K > 300 > 70 contests high-school & college students representatives of business, science were held for high-school & college took part in a variety of projects and education communities worked students for the programme > 8K 3.2K 500 50 winners of student paper contests completed students became winners/received school students received learning university students received internships with Europe’s largest prizes grants scholarships hi-tech companies 250 academic mentors 400 educators mentors received grants to organise who worked with the winners of the projects for school students in the labs programme’s contests later attended of Russia’s leading universities professional development courses at Moscow State University www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 116 INVESTMENTS IN HUMAN CAPITAL Development plans Lift to the Future is a long-term programme. Its main objective in 2016 will be to establish comprehensive infrastructure to support the development of talented youth, including: •• stronger integration with the National Technical Initiative; •• proactive training of students and Medsi Group: teachers in Lift to the Future’s Sharing Expertise engineering and design schools held at recreational centres across Russia; •• further support in implementation of To shape an attractive employer brand best projects for the benefit of Russia’s and cut recruitment costs in the mid term, specific regions; administration of in 2015 Medsi embarked on a new project projects; practical training and internship titled Sharing Expertise designed to give programmes; inclusion of best talents training to students and graduates of the in Sistema’s ”succession pool”; Healthcare Management and Economics •• grant-giving campaigns to promote Department of the Higher School of engineering knowledge; Economics (HSE) and of Moscow Medical College No.8. •• organisation of out-of-class engineering education projects in various regions HSE students received their first master of Russia to prepare competent staff to class titled Certain Aspects of Remuneration carry out diverse knowledge-intensive of Medical Professionals. Efficiency programmes. Management in the summer of 2015. The trainees learned how to design motivation systems and what tools to use to manage the efficiency of medical staff. In AugustSeptember 2015, three HSE students did 70 internships at Medsi’s clinics pursuing specific business projects under the local management’s guidance. Medsi intends to continue the cooperation with HSE in students 2016 with a series of master classes from the company’s experts and more internships. participated in Medsi Knowledge Day In December 2015, Medsi organised a Knowledge Day, an interactive workshop for 70 students of Moscow Medical College No.8. Encouraged by the positive experience, Medsi plans to repeat the practice in 2016 with a much broader audience. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com New talents for an innovative economy Developing the Innovative Potential of the Youth 117 Segezha Group and Petrozavodsk State University: cooperation agreement “Segezha Group looks forward to cooperating with PSU experts both in innovative spheres On 05 March 2015, Segezha Group signed and in traditional cross-disciplinary applied a cooperation agreement with Petrozavodsk research. We know for a fact that PSU’s team State University (PSU) to run a series of has a track record of transforming latest science & tech campaigns in the following scientific concepts into real business projects, priority areas: many of which are earning profits as we speak.” •• knowledge-intensive and resource-saving technologies in the forest industry, wood Sergey Pomelov processing, and paper production; President of Segezha Group •• innovations in ”green” pre-fab log house production and new materials derivable from wood waste. Once the agreement was signed, the experts from PSU’s IT Park provided Segezha Group with an array of tailored presentations showcasing the team’s latest solutions as well as completed projects already in use. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 118 INVESTMENTS IN HUMAN CAPITAL RTI: preparation RTI pursues a dedicated long-term MIPT, Moscow Aviation Institute, of future programme designed to train highMoscow State Aviation Technological school students as potential future University, Moscow Institute for Radio workforce and RTI experts. The programme is Technology and Electronics, Veliky student training comprised of several inter-related Novgorod Technical University, etc.) projects: establishment of special learning groups in high schools and Qualifying students are invited supervisory support of such groups; to complete on-the-job training preparation of school graduates for and internship programmes at RTI, entry exams of leading technical potentially to be later hired for the colleges; occupational guidance; company’s science & production and arrangement of practical learning departments. On top of that, RTI projects. conducts special learning projects in such areas as “radioelectronic The RTI-sponsored Popovich instruments in IT” or “functional Engineering & Tech School in Moscow nanoelectronics”. gladly provides the company with access to a state-of-the-art radio RTI’s subsidiary Mikron provides laboratory and classrooms to teach regular vocational training to young aspiring pundits physics, math, and people in Zelenograd and elsewhere engineering, for which purpose RTI in Russia. In 2015 alone, the company invites best professors from Moscow conducted 25 educational tours for Institute of Physics and Technology more than 500 young people. (MIPT). MIPT’s Smart Information and Radio Systems Department has been RTI’s long-standing partner in 25 educational matters of research, education, and provision of talents for RTI Group. Aiming to recruit competent tours specialists well-prepared to operate the company’s technologies, RTI conducted for more than 500 young people cooperates with Russia’s leading in 2015 technical universities (Bauman Moscow State Technical University, 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com New talents for an innovative economy Developing the Innovative Potential of the Youth 119 MTS: Investments in technical education MTS is an active partner to several universities that train would-be telecom specialists. The company has been a major sponsor of Innopolis (NTI University) since its establishment in 2012. The Tatarstanbased university educates future experts in IT and robotics and conducts extensive research programmes. In 2015, MTS opened college laboratories at the IT & Applied Math Dept of Plekhanov Bryansk State University, the Computer Science Dept of the Smolensk branch of the National Research University, and the Orel branch of Moscow State University of Railway Transport. The highly equipped laboratories provide technical students with an opportunity to build up technical skills. While working at the laboratories, the students get acquainted with actual data transfer protocols and traffic routing practices “We support Innopolis as one of Russia’s applied by telecom operators. The students hubs of innovation-driving knowledge. Our also have the opportunity to study voice IP cooperation aims to foster education in the technologies widely used by companies of field of innovative technologies, including various scale and specialisation. On top of telecom, by attracting talented students from that, MTS readily shares its expertise and all across country, applying state-of-the-art resources to help students in preparing educational tools and methods, and inviting projects related in the telecom area, carries the best international and Russian teachers.” out master classes, and arranges educational, industrial and pre-graduation internships. Andrey Ushatsky Vice President for Technology and IT at MTS www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 120 INVESTMENTS IN HUMAN CAPITAL On 1 April 2015, the oilfield service company Targin signed a cooperation agreement with Ufa State Petroleum Technological University (USPTU), with BPGC following suit on 25 December. The agreements envisage cooperation in various areas, including Targin and BPGC: cooperation education, research, innovation, professional guidance, and employment of graduates. with Ufa State Petroleum Technological University The university developed working curricula and programmes with consideration to needs and production features of the two “Two years into our scientific and practical companies. With assistance from BPGC, cooperation with USPTU, I am proud to state the University arranges preparatory training courses for aspiring students. Besides, that it is not just bearing fruit, but is becoming USPTU will provide BPGC with scientific visibly stronger and gaining gravitas by the and technical services to address top-ofhour. We still aim to spot tomorrow’s best the-agenda issues facing the power industry, specialists in today’s students and welcome whereas BPGC will review scientific and them as our new employees. We hope that technological solutions proposed by the the conference will unravel talents and give university and test them at its grid premises young minds confidence about themselves via as necessary. thorough feedback from highly experienced specialists in the oil-and-gas area.” The University will cooperate with Targin in formulating topics for term & graduation theses and in holding lectures, seminars and Kamil Zakirov workshops involving practical experts. The CEO of Targin parties are also keen to perform joint R&D projects, co-write learning guides, and test new ideas using Targin’s facilities. Among specific cooperation projects is a science & tech conference titled Oilfield Services, first held in 2014 and repeated in 2015. The conference aims to develop professional knowledge and engage best professional minds in solving pressing engineering problems. The 2015 conference attracted 253 visitors, gave floor to more than 60 speakers, and released 114 articles. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com New talents for an innovative economy Developing the Innovative Potential of the Youth 121 2.1.2. Developing the Innovative Potential of the Youth MTS: OPEN INNOVATIONS “Over the past five years, Telecom Idea has proven its efficacy as an open-access launching pad for promising ideas of young minds, many of whom have built their own businesses and become successful entrepreneurs by now. This is the true proof of the project’s relevance in our eyes. Transcending its initial geographic and industrial boundaries, Telecom Idea has become a global presence capable of attracting serious partners from various spheres liable to benefit from breakthroughs in the telecom industry. I’m happy to say that MTS and other Sistema Group companies are already using practical solutions that started as Telecom Idea projects.” Andrey Terebenin 900 Senior Managing Partner of Sistema Asia Telecom Idea is an open cross-functional Fund innovation platform set up by MTS in cooperation with Russia’s Communications Ministry, the Higher School of Economics, teams Sistema, and several other partners involved in Telecom Idea since 2011 (including Sistema Group companies) to identify young talents enthusiastic about IT and telecom technologies and provide them with support in developing projects of potential relevance for commercial, social, and public applications. Telecom Idea is also the name of an annual contest of innovative projects of the young conducted since 2011, an initiative that has involved roughly 900 teams since its establishment. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 122 INVESTMENTS IN HUMAN CAPITAL Opportunities for Telecom Idea contestants: The International Youth Innovation infrastructure on a per capita basis, a Summit device improving the security of online payments, a mobile health diagnosing opportunity to present start-ups On 27 March 2015 Sistema, its device, an application for audio/video to expert councils of MTS and subsidiaries MTS and SSTL, the Higher voice recognition, a smart-home cloud other S/As of Sistema School of Economics, and the Skolkovo system for controlling household School of Management joined efforts appliances, a system for remote to conduct an international innovation storage of dash camera records, etc. summit for the young in Moscow. free participation in the mentoring and acceleration programme The event’s primary purpose was to develop international cooperation in the innovation and telecom spheres and support social entrepreneurship education and project across Russia. The summit was development grants from attended by the winners and partners shortlisters of Telecom Idea, college students and teachers, young authors of breakthrough technologies, and entrepreneurs of the two countries. participation in the cross-border Telecom Tour The summit discussed 11 projects “Telecom Idea celebrates its fifth (5 from India and 6 from Russia) judged to have the best scientific, anniversary in 2015, which is quite a life economic, and financial parameters, in for a project like this. We are happy The winners of Telecom Idea go to four categories: innovations in software, to start the anniversary year with an foreign countries on annual educational innovative solutions for telecom international educational endeavour tours to look into the activities of leading systems, innovations in involving our Indian colleagues. telecommunications operators, research service applications and content, Innovations become increasingly global, centres, and IT clusters. During the last and management innovations. and it’s vital for us to have a chance four years winners of Telecom Idea visited to learn from each other, share ideas, Switzerland and Germany (2011), UAE The winning projects from India or even criticise each other’s viewpoints, (2012), Estonia and Sweden (2013), and included a service application for as thought always thrives in conflict. India (2014). In 2015, nine of best project growing plants in urban conditions, an teams went to Israel, where they visited ECI, The young scientists of today have access automatic power meter reading system, SimilarWeb, Jerusalem Venture Partners, to vast knowledge in all spheres of science a telecom platform for the job market, Simgo, Altair, Viber, Golan Telecom, Fone Do, and numerous open-access programme and MASH. The business programme was a smart device for video surveillance platforms, which is a powerful launching crowned with an investors’ session at Tel and intruder detection, etc. pad for bold ideas.” Aviv University. The winning projects from Russia Andrey Dubovskov comprised a service application to analyse penetration of socially critical President of MTS 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com New talents for an innovative economy Developing the Innovative Potential of the Youth 123 Telecom Idea in 2015: timeline Short list Acceleration of winners Starting programme Mentoring Starting to accept applications via telecomideas.com Awards Telecom Tour Project presentations Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Belarus Centre North-West Povolzhye Siberia Ural Far East South Telecom Idea in various macro regions and business units In 2015, Telecom Idea comprised three Telecom Idea 2015 was themed on Special prizes in specific industrial categories stages: ”green” and ”smart” solutions for business were provided by MTS Bank, Medsi Group development, municipal services, and and Stream. 1. Qualification round (collection of improvement of general standards of living. electronic applications on the website Pre-qualification for the contest was The participants of the contest presented the contest and assessment voting organised in the Central, Northwestern, projects contributing to the development by experts). Urals, Siberian, and Volga federal districts, of environmentally friendly, comfortable 2. Educational programme (winners and affordable urban environments with as well as in Belarus, aiming to provide of the qualification round participated the use of innovative IT solutions based support for young professionals and their in workshops and webinars by experts on high-speed mobile and fixed data teams in the development of projects and in innovative entrepreneurship). networks. Project bids were invited in the the search for innovative ideas for the 3. Mentoring programme (mentors following key areas: academic solutions for telecom and IT industries. For the first time from the Higher School of Marketing communications, telemedical healthcare in the contest’s history, Telecom Idea and Business Development, National services, environmental projects, educational employed novel cooperation formats like Research University Higher School projects, finance and banking services, hackathons. of Economics helped semifinalists utilities, creativity and advertising projects, to refine and customize projects with and solutions for retailers. consideration to market demands). www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 124 INVESTMENTS IN HUMAN CAPITAL Telecom Idea BY MTS 2015 to the participants. The winners received tickets to Telecom Idea’s semiIn 2015, MTS jointly with the finals. Other participants of the coding Innovations Commercialization Centre fest were provided with opportunity replicated Telecom Idea in the Republic to work out the projects with leading of Belarus. Telecom Idea BY MTS 2015 industry experts, demonstrate the Hackathon was held in Minsk for the developments of potential customers, first time. The purpose of the event was partners and the media, to attract to help young Belarusian specialists new members to the team, and also and student teams in the development to receive prizes and gifts from the of IT and telecom projects. During the organizers and the event partners. Hackathon, MTS experts described current trends and market needs MTS: corporate accelerator The acceleration programme was Telecom Idea JUNIOR developed in 2014 to follow up on projects proposed by Telecom Idea contestants with expertise of mentors and specialists in telecoms and other fields. The scope of the project provides for the best experts of MTS, partners and representatives of S/As of Sistema to assist young entrepreneurs to learn the ins and outs of technological business, to dive into the markets and trends, to develop roadmaps, to learn to simulate business processes and to plan cash flows. In just 2 years the acceleration programme processed In 2015, MTS held its second “corporate more than 30 projects. In 2015, MTS held Telecom accelerator”, a week-long follow-up Idea JUNIOR, a contest among programme for Telecom Idea winners. schoolchildren of grades 7-11 for In 2015, the corporate accelerator the second time. Participants reviewed 28 best projects in the IT The partners to the programme from Moscow, the Moscow and and telecom spheres and selected included the Russian Ministry of Samara regions, Chita, Nizhny five innovative ideas. The winners Communications, Moscow City High Novgorod, Barnaul, Taganrog, of the programme were promoted Technology Department, Russian Pyatigorsk and Obninsk were to the finals of GenerationS, a tech Venture Company (RVC), the Higher tasked with modelling a city of the start-up accelerator organised by the School of Marketing and Business future using modern information RVC, received an intensive business Development, Sistema, Medsi, Stream, and communication technologies development training programme, Kondratyev Centre of Managerial making urban environment more and became contenders for a total Innovations, Business Incubator, comfortable, convenient, safe of RUB 6bn in grand-finals prizes. the Higher School of Marketing and and environmentally friendly. The Business Development, Nokia, Google authors of the best ideas received Russia, and others. tickets to Lift to the Future’s engineering and design schools to finish their projects with the help of experienced mentors. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com New talents for an innovative economy Developing the Innovative Potential of the Youth 125 PLANS FOR 2016 Educational initiatives of Sarov Technopark 1. Eestablishment of regional and international Telecom Idea offshoots, including those in the In a bid to develop the nation’s Far-Eastern and Southern Federal innovation potential, Sarov Technopark District. pursues an educational programme for innovative companies and young talents. In 2015, the programme comprised over 50 events, including 15 trainings for ST residents and 2. Use of novel interaction models, such as meetups(1), harvests(2). 12 trainings for high-school & college students and young professionals. In particular, in cooperation with Sarov Nuclear Physics and Technology Institute, Nizhny Novgorod State > 900 Technological University, and ST residents such as the Education people Laboratory and the computer science participated in Sarov Technopark’s events school Vector ++, the following events were arranged: • Winter-break Physics and • Sarov Open Autumn School, Mathematics festival for students a Physics & Math event visited and a qualification round of the by more than 50 talented students national Engineering Contest, which from schools in Moscow, Nizhny engaged over 100 high school Novgorod, and Sarov. students from Moscow, Kovrov (the Vladimir region), Nizhny Novgorod, For the residents of the Technopark, and Sarov; three workshops were arranged to discuss the professional training of • Sarov Open Spring School, a management. The total outreach of all Physics & Math event visited by of Sarov Technopark’s events organised more than 50 talented students in 2015 exceeds 900 people. from schools from across Russia; • 2nd open robotics championship for 60 school students from Nizhny Novgorod and Sarov; (1) Meetups a meeting of experts in an informal setting for the discussion of any topic or range of topics. (2) Harvests– “working weekends” concept, a programme for the rapid creation of innovative business projects from scratch. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 126 CONTENTS Development of Regions and Communities 129 2.2.1. Social & Economic Partnerships 135 2.2.2. Improving Standards of Living 146 2.2.3. Supporting Healthcare “Sistema’s consistent effort to improve economic efficiency not only makes for stronger financial performance and business results, but also creates a broad range of economic benefits for all parties concerned. Seeing its future as inextricably entwined with Russia’s prosperity and achievements, Sistema works hard to develop the infrastructure of Russia and local communities.” Mikhail Shamolin President of Sistema PJSFC 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com 127 www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 128 DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONS AND COMMUNITIES 2.2. Development of Regions and Communities Sistema’s subsidiaries service roughly 150 million consumers in Russia, the CIS, Europe, and Asia. A systemically important > 150 m consumers company influencing the economic and social well-being of use products, services and doing business the geographies it operates in, Sistema looks beyond financial with Sistema’s S/As investments in infrastructure and industrial production and keeps sustainable development in mind when carrying out projects in the following key areas. social & economic social investments partnerships and charity improvement of standards support of living for healthcare 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Social & Economic Partnerships Improving Standards of Living 129 2.2.1. Social & Economic Partnerships In 2015 Sistema signed new master create state-of-the-art manpower training cooperation agreements with the systems to fuel modernisation of the forest administrations of the Arkhangelsk, Vologda, & wood processing industries and boost Irkutsk, and Kirov regions, geographies of the competitive power of national players particularly high relevance for Sistema’s in these segments; create jobs; and expand businesses. The agreements envisage joint Sistema’s footprint in local markets and initiatives to carry out through publicbeyond. Priority areas for cooperation with private partnerships, aiming to create the regions include modernisation of the favourable economic, investment, and forest & wood processing industries along social environments in particular regions; with a number of infrastructure enhancement attract investors; bring in technologies; projects and socially oriented initiatives. “I am positive that Sistema’s unique experience as a player active in 13 industries will be of benefit to the regions we deem of crucial importance for our business. The new Regions having cooperation agreement with Sistema in force as of 2015 agreements signed will enable us to expand our footprint via existing businesses and 1. Republic of Karelia potential new investments.” For details see Sistema’s 2014 Sustainability Vladimir Evtushenkov Report , p. 65 Chairman of Sistema’s Board of Directors Regions that entered into cooperation agreements with Sistema in 2015 Plans for 2016 Promising areas of cooperation 1. Expansion of agreements with the development of Kipelovo wood processing complex, Sokol Republic of Karelia and the Kirov region wood processing complex and Sokol pulp and paper mills, as to address the needs of the timber 1. Vologda Region well as implementation of joint projects in areas such as IT and industry. telecommunications finance, logistics, and the consumer sector 2. Execution of a memorandum on cooperation with the Rostov region development of Vyatka plywood mill and three logging companies, to build modern production facilities. cooperation between Detsky Mir with local players of the 3. Deeper cooperation with the Krasnoyarsk 2. Kirov region childrens’ goods market, establishment of document processing and Krasnodar regions. centres for Sistema Group companies; innovative technologies; telecommunications; finance and trade; Safe City 4. Execution of a social partnership agreement with the Republic of Altay. development of three logging companies and Onega sawmill and woodworking plant; information security systems for critical 3. Arkhangelsk infrastructure facilities of different degrees of complexity; information region security monitoring systems; automated systems to control metering devices (electricity, water, gas) and quality of utility services; energy saving solutions timber, innovative technology, telecommunications, finance, healthcare 4. Irkutsk region and pharmacy www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 130 DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONS AND COMMUNITIES 1. Murmansk region 13 agreements 2. Ryazan region made with regions of Russia 3. Voronezh region Agreements between MTS 4. Yaroslavl region and regional authorities 5. Kursk region 6. 7. Tula region Krasnoyarsk Territory > 16 RUB bn The S/As of Sistema also actively sign invested in the telecommunications infrastructure agreements with regional authorities, making 8. Krasnodar Territory and social development commitments to help the geographies they 9. Nizhny Novgorod region operate in. E.g., under the framework of 10. Kirov region agreements made with 13 regions of Russia as of 2015, MTS plans to invest over RUB 11. Republic of Bashkortostan 16bn in 2015-2017 in the telecommunications 12. Udmurt Republic From 2015 to 2017 infrastructure and social development. 13. Khanty-Mansi Autonomous District investing period Sistema’s investment projects in the timber Besides, the enterprises of Segezha industry are a powerful driver of the socioGroup provide desired help to small town economic development of the regions where communities by arranging transports, Segezha Group operates. E.g., the corporation recreational facilities, healthcare, hospital plans to invest up to RUB 8bn and create supplies, and providing fuel timber to roughly 820 jobs in the Vologda region over those who need it. The company also Segezha Group: 2015-2020 as part of development of its sponsors constructions and renovations local timber business. By 2018, Sistema will of local schools, sports facilities, museums, Contributing to Regional be paying an estimated RUB 900m in taxes and churches, and helps organise festive Development a year, a triple of the current figure. community events. Segezha Group is a responsible citizen of the regions it does business in, including single-industry towns and villages, where the company’s enterprises are major employers and providers of basic utilities 800 RUB m including hot water and heat supply. Segezha company’s investments in utilities in 2015 Group services 40%-100% of total utility needs of Karelia as well as the Arkhangelsk and Vologda regions. In 2015, the company’s investments in utilities amounted to about RUB 800m. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Social & Economic Partnerships Improving Standards of Living 131 RZ Agro: Interaction with local communities (support support for of veterans, young athletes, etc.) is an essential the Stavropol region prerequisite of RZ Agro’s sustainable development, as most of local residents either work for the company or own the land it cultivates. In 2015, RZ Agro Group entered in an agreement on social and economic cooperation with the administration of the Izobilnenski district of the Stavropol region, home to one of RZ Agro’s production clusters. The scope of the agreement provided for the following: • sponsorship of six sports clubs (football, table tennis, and carete), including local championships and participation in international ones; • support of infrastructure projects (road cleaning, repair of sidewalks/playgrounds/rural stadiums, provision of aid to a school and a hospital); • organisation of social and cultural activities and Farmer Day & Victory Day festivals in six RZ Agro subsidiaries. The scope of the agreement implementation for 2016 included construction of three new mini-football fields, participation in the restoration of a church in the village of Markinskaya, and construction of sidewalks in the village of Novotroitskaya. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 132 DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONS AND COMMUNITIES Support for the State Russian Museum: St. Petersburg and Elsewhere in Russia A partner of the State Russian Museum since 2003, in 2013 Sistema extended its cooperation agreement with the museum for another 10 years. The largest-scale project pursued by the partners is the unprecedented ”virtual chain of branches” extending across Russia and beyond. Leveraging the latest information and communication technologies, this unique enlightening project transcends regional and national boundaries and makes the country’s largest collection of Russian arts available to a vast audience far beyond St. Petersburg. Today the museum Drawing help from Sistema, in 2015 the Another event that the museum organised operates more than 180 local branches, museum set up 12 new branches in Russia in 2015 with the help of Sistema Charitable including 140 in Russia, 41 abroad, and and 4 abroad: in Romania, Spain, Chile, Foundation (SCF) and corporate volunteers 5 at Arctic stations and on marine vessels. and Cuba. The project includes museums from MTS and OZON was an educational and educational, cultural and scientific quest game in St. Petersburg dubbed institutions. More than 500,000 people The Summer Garden’s Mystery. attend the virtual museum branches annually. Yet another outstanding joint project of SCF and the Russian Museum is the annual international festival of garden art titled The Imperial Gardens of Russia. The > 500 festival is designed to revive the traditions of the Russian topiary art, exchange ideas K people with international landscape design experts, attend the virtual museum branches annually and raise funds for the preservation of the Summer Garden, Engineering Gardens, Mikhailovsky Garden, and the Russian Museum’s historical premises. In 2015, the festival was themed on the countries of the Great Silk Road. Visitors were invited to tea ceremonies, national cuisine tastings, > 180 local master classes, lectures, sports activities branches for children based on the traditional sports of the countries involved, and motion picture of the museum operates today screenings. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Social & Economic Partnerships Improving Standards of Living 133 Technology of the Future for “Smart Cities” Sistema’s hi-tech arm SITRONICS Today’s information technology An important component of Safe City KASU that specialises in IT and enhances the efficiency of local crisis is the Intellectual Transport Systems, system integration is the provider management efforts in a number a network of automatic systems of comprehensive automated security of ways, such as speeding up response designed specifically to address systems for urban applications and decreasing potential social challenges facing urban transport and intellectual transport systems, and economic damage caused and comprising solutions for video including solutions for Moscow’s by emergencies. surveillance and monitoring of public Traffic Control Centre. transport, traffic light & parking space management, and online traffic status The company’s flagship project Smart updates for road users. City aims to create a single operations control centre to ensure fast response to emergencies and wrongdoings and minimise traffic congestions throughout whole cities. The project Intellectual comprises a system of solutions Transport Systems enabling quick notifications about and response to day-to-day challenges as Increase Decrease well as capacity to simulate all kinds of situations and counter threats. Rather Increase the road capacity by up to 15% Decrease the number of incidents than duplicating the functions of public and accidents at high-speed road emergency agencies, Smart City’s segments by up to 30% single operations control centre serves to coordinate and organise efforts and Increase average driving speed by 15% Reduce the number of traffic accidents resources in the best possible way. resulting in injuries by up to 20%, and fatal casualties by up to 15% Smart City offers off-the-shelf Make public transport more passengerReduce transport delays inside solutions ready for replication across friendly the city by up to 25% and on Russia. SITRONICS is already working highways by up to 10% hard to have the project launched in the Tula, Bryansk, Smolensk, Penza, Help law enforcement track offenders Reduce fuel consumption Nizhny Novgorod, Ivanovo, Kostroma, and terrorists and emissions by up to 25% Yaroslavl, Vologda, Novosibirsk, and Reduce public-transport travelling Rostov regions, as well as in Dagestan, time by up to 25% Bashkortostan, and Karelia. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 134 DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONS AND COMMUNITIES Segezha Group: Sustainable Log NLK Domostroenie, a subsidiary Segezha Group is also a contributor of Segezha Group, is a national leader to a number of annual culture festivals, House Production in environmentally-friendly housing such as Afisha Picnic, Eco_Tektonika, construction. A member of the Wood Archstoyaniye, and Zodchestvo. The and Comfortable Housing Association since 2005, the company teamed up with young Russian Urban company became one of the first fellows architects to create unorthodox street of the Friends of Forests club established furniture and landscape structures for the Environment in 2015 by the Russian branch of architectural festival ReWoodLution and Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). with leading Russian architects to create The products of Sokol Woodworking artwork for Archstoyaniye, Europe’s largest Plant, another subsidiary of Segezha festival of landscape arts. Segezha Group Group, are certified by both FSC and also build an “Olympic Residence” EcoMaterial and make up the only entry for Father Frost, the Russian counterpart in the section Houses and Components of Santa Clause, in the city of Vologda. for Houses with Walls Made from Local Materials of Russia’s first issue of GREEN BOOK, a catalogue of eco-friendly materials. Building on sustainability principles, Segezha Group works hard to promote the wood log home production industry in close cooperation with a variety of partners. In June 2015 Russia’s Chamber of Commerce and Industry conducted a round-table discussion titled Innovations in Log House Construction. Experience and Practices. The recommendations formulated by its participants (including “Sokol WP is an enthusiast of numerous experts from Sokol WP and NLK projects seeking to make urban Domostroenie) were reported to the environment more comfortable. Among Russian Government in a bid to foster other things, our social citizenship is a new approach to oneand two-storey reflected in partnership projects. Artwork log house construction and speed up produced at our premises is already the federal governmental programme Affordable Housing. installed in several eco-friendly parks and promenade areas, such as embankments Another endeavour made in 2015 is in Samara and Yevpatoriya.” TERRITORIUM, an educational event in the areas of urban planning and Yevgeny Batalov architecture designed to provide a Vice President comprehensive showcase of various Head of Wood Processing at Segezha methods of managing public space, including wooden structure solutions. Group A brain child of Segezha Group, TERRITORIUM first ran on 14-15 November 2015 in Kazan, followed up by sessions in the Republic of Altay (at Altay Resort), Nizhny Novgorod, St. Petersburg, and the Moscow region in February 2016. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Social & Economic Partnerships Improving Standards of Living Supporting Healthcare 135 2.2.2. Improving Standards of Living Improvement of the standards of living of communities is one of the crucial areas of focus of Sistema’s CSR effort. Sistema Group companies work hard to create well-paid jobs, make stateof-the-art healthcare more accessible to various demographics including the underprivileged, conduct educational and cultural events, and give financial aid to those who need it. Many of Sistema’s socially oriented projects are carried out in partnership with various non-commercial organisations and public agencies. TAKING CARE OF VETERANS The master agreement spans a five-year term (liable to be further extended) and The large-scale social initiative Taking Care welcomes potential new entrants in the of Veterans, a new joint project of Sistema, future. It envisages joint projects to provide Moscow City Government, and local veteran social support to the veterans of Great support organisations, is a vivid example Patriotic War of 1941-1945 (GPW) and other of efficient partnerships between businesses, wars, other military & public service veterans, non-profits, and the government. labour veterans, and retirees (as well as families of such veterans and retirees). In February 2015 Sistema’s executives had The initiative also seeks to conduct volunteer their first meeting with activists of war campaigns and organise special events veteran support organisations (an event to promote patriotism. “We have always prioritised support made possible thanks to PR Committee of veterans and military professionals. In 2015, of Moscow City Government), which resulted Key areas of cooperation between Sistema, the year when the whole nation celebrates in a task group being made to prepare Moscow City Government, and MVC: the 70th anniversary of the victory in the specific cooperation projects based on actual •• improvement of the standards of living Great Patriotic War, it is especially critical needs of war and home front veterans. of the elderly by means of high-quality to do our best to create adequate standards The task group comprised members of Moscow Veterans Council (MVC) healthcare services, consultations, of living for those who sacrificed their health and Sistema Charitable Foundation (SCF). and entertainment events; and well-being for the fatherland’s sake. We The programme prepared by the group first •• optimisation of forms and methods intend to make our veteran-oriented efforts translated into an agreement closed between of social support, including targeted a regular practice, always ready to give help Sistema and Moscow Veterans Council charity initiatives such as volunteer to those who need it.” on 25 March 2016 and then into a tripartite campaigns at hospitals and care homes; agreement signed by Moscow’s mayor Vladimir Evtushenkov •• promotion of patriotism among children, Sergey Sobyanin, MVC’s President Vladimir Chairman of Sistema’s Board of Directors including special programmes at war & Dolgikh, and Sistema’s CEO Mikhail Shamolin history museums and schools. in early May 2016. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 136 DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONS AND COMMUNITIES The agreement primarily targets cooperation in providing outpatient and hospital care to war veterans in need of therapy and rehabilitation. Back in 2012, Medsi acquired a chain of once state-run clinics and hospitals that had used to provide free medical care to combat and home-front veterans. As a responsible corporate citizen, the company made it a priority to continue servicing these demographics free of charge. The patients get high-quality care services at the clinics “I’m happy to see such inspiring initiatives they are used to, consulting the same in Moscow. Our agreement with Sistema doctors they trust. Today Medsi’s clinics will serve as a template document for other and hospitals in Moscow are lifetime businesses to use if they wish to help veterans providers of free healthcare to roughly Along with veterans from the and the elderly. I hope to see many more 300 veterans of different categories. Moscow region, the programme was extended to GPW veterans from signatures under the agreement down the line. In 2015 SCF in partnership with Medsi, other cities. In October 2015 Medsi It will give a good start to new partnerships Otradnoye Sanatorium welcomed the Social Security Department of Moscow, with veteran support organisations for and MVC launched Taking Care of Veterans, a group of veterans from Karelia, the benefit of ex-servicemen and the elderly.” a programme to provide free spa treatment sponsored by Segezha Group’s to veterans at Medsi Otradnoye Sanatorium, corporate Charitable Foundation one of the few health institutions in Russia for the Support of Veterans. Sergey Sobyanin with expertise in medical rehabilitation Mayor of Moscow of the elderly. Inspired by the good cause, the sanatorium prepared special rehabilitation programmes factoring in each 60 RUB m beneficiary’s health status and organised full board, luxe-class accommodation, and a rich entertainment programme involving volunteers from Sistema Group. 260 veterans was invested by SCF in the veterans support received the free spa treatment in 2015, with programme in 2015 alone (donations from other another 450 to get sanatorium vouchers Sistema Group companies excluded) in 2016. The programmes heavily involves volunteers from Sistema and its portfolio companies. In celebration of the 2015 Victory Day, Sistema organised Aid to Veterans, a volunteering campaign whereby more than 60 volunteers from among Sistema employees visited over 100 veterans in and around Moscow to deliver special food baskets, help around the house and write down personal war stories for future generations. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Social & Economic Partnerships Improving Standards of Living Supporting Healthcare 137 Another initiative launched to celebrate the Victory Day is a series of volunteer tours organised by SCF. This included Volunteer Sistema became an official partner Victory Garden, a project where Sistema’s of Wings of Victory, a programme staff teamed up to clean up and landscape to greet air and space veterans during the premises of four orphanages and care the official opening ceremony of the homes for children (Bereg Nadezhdy, International Aviation and Space Salon Ilyinskaya and Emmausskaya boarding MAKS-2015. The greeting ceremony schools, and Zhuravushka) and organised co-organised with the non-profit celebratory events bringing together children Moscow Club for Heroes of the and GPW veterans, who received V-Day Soviet Union, Heroes of the Russian greetings and presents. SCF provided Federation, and Full Cavaliers of the 3 thousand plants, 120 kg of paint, and Order of Labour Glory addressed GPW 60 garden tools to landscape the childcare veterans, Heroes of the Soviet Union premises and organised a ”field kitchen” & the Russian Federation, and combat for the volunteers. pilots: all those who made personal Comfortably seated in a VIP terrace, contributions to the great victory and the veterans were able to enjoy a Among SCF’s traditions are the annual later evolution of the national aviation. breathtaking air show, an experience festive receptions for ”corporate veterans”. Students of Moscow Cadet Corps well complemented by a rich exhibition On 28 April 2016, the Scientists’ Palace prepared a special concert for the of the latest aviation products. at Prechistenka St. in Moscow received honourable guests. 120 Great Patriotic War veterans and home front workers who had been previously employed at Sistema’s companies. On top of the concert programme, the guests received personal certificates for muchneeded household appliances of their choice. Moscow regions took part in free historicalpatriotic tours organised by the Sistema On May 16, MVC with the support of Charity Foundation with aid of volunteers Sistema and MTS arranged Salute to Victory, of the Corporation in the Central Museum a charitable gala concert in the Museum of the Great Patriotic War of 1941-1945, of the Great Patriotic War on Poklonnaya in the central Museum of the Armed Forces Gora for 250 veterans from 12 administrative of the Russian Federation and the State municipal districts, and on May 24, MTS Central Museum of Contemporary History organised Tango of Victory, dance master of Russia. Over 30 tours were arranged and classes for veterans in the style of 40-50s over 100 volunteers from Sistema, Medsi accompanied by wind orchestra. Group, MTS, MTS Bank, RTI, SG-trans, MGTS, Binnopharm took part in the project. Key element to the programme is to preserve Besides, the project office the School of New the historical memory on the war years Technologies under Department of Education and to strengthen ties between generations. and Information Technologies of Moscow Thus, as part of socio-educational campaign jointly of Sistema CF and Canon arranged Living History over 1,000 schoolchildren from photographic contest for the Moscow orphanages of Moscow, Vladimir, Tver and schoolchildren and pupils of orphanages. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 138 DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONS AND COMMUNITIES Sistema has provided support to creation of a new exhibition of armored vehicles in The volunteers of the Corporation the Prokhorovskoye Field State Memorial contributed to the perpetuation Estate in the Belgorod region, which was of the memory of the heroes of inaugurated on 16 May 2015 by the Deputy the Great Patriotic War to celebrate Prime Minister of the Russian Federation the 70-th anniversary of the Great Dmitry Rogozin in the presence of veterans Victory. The employees of MTS of Prokhorovka village, the village of the Group created a unique memory main battle of the Kursk Salient of 1943. book Life During War. 1941Work on the museum construction were 1945. The book is an assembly included in the plan of the main activities of photographs and 327 stories of the Victory Organizing Committee of soldiers provided by their engaged in preparation and celebration relatives. Copies of the book of the 70-th anniversary of Victory in were given to MGSV Library and the Great Patriotic War. State Historical Museum, and its electronic version is available on Since 23 April to 6 July 2015, the State the project website http://vov.mts. Russian Museum hosted with the support ru/ and is supplemented continually. of Sistema CF the exhibition ”National War. The Art of 1941-1945”, which comprised BPGC also published ”Memorial works of Soviet artists during the war Book” dedicated to the Bashkir (paintings, sculptures, posters), and unique power engineers. The Memorial historical documents. The first visitors edition included the names of of the exhibition were the guests from members of war and labour fronts Saint-Petersburg State Stationary Institution of the Great Patriotic War, who of Social Service Home of War Veterans worked in electrical grids of No. 2 and the Home of Veterans of Scene Bashkirenergo, provided with named after Savina. On the day of the illustrations by drawings of children official opening of the exhibition Sistema sent to the company within the with assistance of volunteers from MTS framework of the republican contest and Stream has arranged ceremonial In honour of 70-th anniversary of of children’s drawings Our Victory. reception for veterans of war and home the Great Victory, MGTS provided The first copies of the book were front workers and residents of Blockaded the war veterans with a fortnight presented to veterans on April 28 Leningrad. They were provided with private of free calls to any phone number at the gala of power engineers in tour and gifts for the Victory Day. After the across the country and the world. held Ufa. tour, MTS provided an opportunity for each Besides, on 1-14 May 2015 all veteran to make free call to any corner of veterans of the Great Patriotic the world and Russia and congratulate their War and persons of preferential family and friends with a holiday. categories equated to them and residing in Moscow, were provided > 400 The future plans of the Corporation assume with free and unlimited in terms development of cooperation with the Mayor’s of call duration right to call from Office and the veteran organizations of their home phones to landlines employees Moscow and scaling the programme to other and mobile numbers in the Moscow regions of the country with the involvement region. In 2015, MGTS continued its of 22 companies part of Sistema participated programme of free telephones for of new social partners from the public, as volunteers in the greeting and providing targeted aid to veterans, conducting tours in the museums non-profit and business organizations. veterans residing in Moscow. During of military history for children from orphanages, five years of the programme, the arranged historical quizzes on the Great Patriotic operator has installed over 1,000 War in Moscow schools and other activities landlines. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Social & Economic Partnerships Improving Standards of Living Supporting Healthcare 139 SOCIAL PROJECTS MTS: Secure, MTS attaches much significant to improvement of the digital literacy The project activities take place in schools in over 50 cities of Russia among Convenient of Russians and to children protection schoolchildren of 7-10 grades. In 2015, against harmful content, and implements over 300 schoolchildren from across and Affordable a set of federal education programmes the country gave their video lessons Internet for all ages. for the seniors. In Moscow, the project is implemented jointly with the Government for Everyone The Children in the Internet programme of Moscow and will cover 200 schools in was launched in 2011 to promote the the city. During the 2015-2016 academic useful and secure use of the Internet year it will be attended by about 6.000 for children, parents and teachers. As of students. part of the programme, the company arranges interactive exhibitions on Another educational project the Network the basis of museums and libraries, for All Ages is implemented by MTS hosts Internet literacy lessons for Group since 2012 with support of the younger pupils, seminars for teachers Internet Development Fund, the Health and parents. In 2015, the project was of Nation League and other partners. successful in Novosibirsk, Tomsk, The project is aimed at increasing Internet Syktyvkar, Kaliningrad and Penza. literacy, promotion of modern information The interactive exhibition was opened technologies and useful on-line services on the basis of the Saratov Regional among seniors, provision of assistance Universal Scientific Library. During the in acquiring practical skills of Internet year of the programme implementation, user for everyday tasks. In 2015, the 12 educational events (open classes, company started a free Mobile Academy parent meetings, webinars, etc...) were course, which was aimed at people carried out and attended by over 1,700 in their 50-s and older becoming persons including 1,230 the parents the users of smartphones and tablets. of underage children and 360 education Free classes of Mobile Academy are professionals. As of today, the project opened in Moscow, Kazan, and Obninsk. participants comprised over 300,000 Graduates from the Network for All people. The exhibitions and lessons on Ages presented the MTS team at the V useful and secure Internet were hosted All-Russian Championship on Computer in over 30 regions of Russia. Decathlon Among Seniors in Kazan, organised by the Russian Pensioners Besides, in 2013 MTS started Union with the support of the Federation implementation of social and Council Committee on Social Policy, educational project Children Teach the Ministry of Communications and Adults aimed at closing the digital gap Mass Communications, the Ministry between generations through teenagers of Education and Science and the Pension training their parents on useful features Fund of the Russian Federation. Over of mobile Internet. 15,000 persons vend through training under the programme over the four years. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 140 DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONS AND COMMUNITIES MGTS: The Good Cause 300 devices In 2015 MGTS (a subsidiary of MTS) in association with Moscow Department of Information Technologies, the Social received the beneficiaries by the end of the year Security Department of Moscow, and the online community DaruDar became partners of The Good Cause, a socially oriented project designed to provide underprivileged Muscovites (the disabled, retirees, and large families) with modern digital devices (laptops, tablets, smartphones, and feature phones). “Our joint initiative brought together those Second-hand devices in good operating having good devices they don’t actually use condition were handed over to new owners using a special exchange platform on with those desiring to possess but unable DaruDar’s portal. Those wishing to donate to afford the latest technologies much their old devices were invited to use a hotline needed in everyday life for a slew of purposes, and specifically organised collection points. including access to electronic public services. MGTS advertised the campaign on phone The project showcases efficient interaction bills and at its broad sales chain. between private businesses, executive authorities, and common city residents. By the end of the year, the beneficiaries The project enabled still more Moscovites received about 300 devices, with the project to use modern means of communication getting the CSR award from The Moscow to exchange information and impressions Times Awards 2015. MGTS intends to remain and take care of their near and dear ones.” the project’s partner in 2016, ready to make available its communication channels and Andrey Ershov encourage its staff and customers to make donations. CEO of MGTS 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Social & Economic Partnerships Improving Standards of Living Supporting Healthcare 141 BPGC: Safe Childhood One of the key social projects Bashkir Power Grid Company is the prevention of accompanied by appearance of BPGCman, who is performed by electric injuries of children in the region. professional actors or volunteers BPGC. In August 2015, the Company entered Besides, the animated series were in the new agreement on cooperation broadcasted by national, municipal and with the Ministry of Education of the regional TV channels. In 2015, BPGC Republic of Bashkortostan in the 2015also has continued its annual tradition 2016 academic year, and continued of theatrical performances for children implementation of a comprehensive dedicated to the electrical safety. The programme on electrical safety performances went off in 8 cities of the training for schoolchildren. In 2015, republic for over 800 children. The plans the engineers of BPGC carried out over for 2016 assume continuation to this 350 extracurricular activities aimed practice. at prevention of electrical injuries of children in schools of the republic. In Due to the active implementation of Safe total, the programme comprised over Childhood project, no electric injuries of 5,250 children. children was registered in 2015 at BPGC electric power transmission lines. The company also released the animated series The Adventures of BPGCmen reminding children about electrical safety rules. Presentations and showing of the cartoon are carried out 5,250 children in preschool institutions, orphanages, participated in 350 extracurricular activities schools and at various children’s events aimed at prevention of electrical injuries of children in schools in 2015 organised in the cities and districts of Bashkortostan. The presentations is www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 142 DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONS AND COMMUNITIES Everyone could have a medical examination at the sports testing station, and the best doctors delivered lectures to the children’s parents in the GalaMAMA hall. On this day, more than 5000 people visited the festival in the Hermitage Garden in Moscow, Medsi: Social Inclusion resulting in almost RUB 2.5m raised. All of the raised funds were used to finance of Children with Special the rehabilitation of Galchonok’s wards. Needs In May 2015, Medsi Group took part in holding the charity race ”Running Hearts”, Medsi Group actively supports projects the slogan of which was #meaningfulrunning, aiming to help children with disabilities, by providing medical support to the promote the topic of social inclusion, and participants of the race. During the 5 and 10 km marathon races, which took place in A total of RUB 1.1m were raised during the culture of philanthropy and volunteering. Gorky Park of Culture, several ambulance the event, of which RUB 550,200 were The company provides systemic support crews were on duty, ready to provide personal donations. This initiative became to Galchonok Charitable Foundation, the emergency medical help at any moment. a powerful unifying factor, the next step in the mission of which is to help children with The event was organised by Natalia development of corporate volunteering and organic neurological disorders, and their Vodianova, the founder of the Naked Heart personal donation-making practices of Medsi families. In 2015 the company was a partner Foundation, and Polina Kitsenko, Creative and Sistema employees. The collected funds of several major events in Moscow organised Director of Podium Market. Famous people were used for the benefit of the children by the Foundation, including Galafest — — representatives of sports, culture and that the charitable foundations take care of. Russia’s only inclusive children’s festival, arts — participated in the race. For beginning Another memorable event was the benefit and the charity race ”Patriki begut” (Patricks sportsmen, Medsi experts prepared special performance ”Dr. Powderpill”, shown at the are running). memo booklets ”From Heart to Heart” Moscow International House of Music, which with useful information on how to properly was attended by more than 300 children As a partner of Galafest, the company prepare for jogging and where to go in case with special needs. The students of the provided medical support to the participants of health problems. All funds raised at the theatrical and ballet studios at the Olympic of the event, arranging for the availability event were used to organise summer training Star Child Development Centre made a of ambulance crews during the festival, integrative recreation for children and creative gift for young viewers — they staged and organised the team ”Be Healthy!”. adolescents with developmental disabilities, a play titled ”Children for Children”. As part More than 300 children — with and who are the recipients of special assistance of this event, Medsi presented the wards of without disabilities — visited the Medsi from Natalia Vodianova’s Naked Heart Galchonok Foundation with two certificates: team during one day. The children actively Foundation. one for the purchase of a specialised PLIKO participated in the ”Obnimashki” (Hugs) and pram, and another for taking a rehabilitation ”Modular Origami” workshops, conducted In June 2015, Medsi Group, together with course in Medsi’s Otradnoye resort. by the volunteers from Medsi Management MTS, Sistema and Detsky Mir charitable Company and Olympic Star Fitness Centre. foundations, initiated a charity event In December 2015, Medsi took part in dedicated to International Children’s Day. the biggest charity event of the country — The campaign was supported by Galchonok the New Year’s Fair ”Soulful Bazar”. It was and Gift of Life, the well-known charitable the first time the company participated 1.1 RUB m foundations. Donations cubes were placed in this Fair. The event brought together in the offices of Medsi, Sistema, and the at Expocentre Fairgrounds 74 charitable subsidiaries of the Corporation. Employees foundations, dozens of large business were raised during the charity event dedicated could also transfer donations for the wards organizations, and more than 10,000 to International Children’s Day of the charitable foundations via SMS residents of the city. messages. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Social & Economic Partnerships Improving Standards of Living Supporting Healthcare 143 Acting as a ”soulful partner”, Medsi Altay Resort: ensured medical support to the participants Jobs for The Altay Resort, a five-star modern of the event by providing ambulance crews. natural recreation complex under Throughout the event, the doctors of residents the management of VAO Intourist, where Russian athletes regularly Medsi Clinic — cardiologists, neurologists, mammologists, gastroenterologists, of the Altay undergo rehabilitation, is located psychologists, children’s ophthalmologists Mountains in Maiminsky District of the Altay and physiotherapy pediatricians — provided Republic. There are no industrial free consultation and made medical enterprises in the area, and the main examinations (Doppler sonography, tourist spots of the Altay Mountains ultrasound breast examination, and express are also located far away; therefore, diagnostics) for all comers. Company the eco-resort and Sistema-owned volunteers conducted fascinating workshops Biryulinskoye Agricultural Enterprise, ”Obnimashki” (Hugs) and ”Snezhinka” supplying environmentally friendly (Snowflake) for anyone wishing to learn farm products to the resort and the how to make beautiful Christmas cards and local market, are virtually the only Christmas decorations. At the sports testing employers for the residents of the station, any of the participants could have surrounding villages Urlu-Aspak, their health checked under the supervision Biryulya, and Aleksandrovka. of the instructors from the Olympic Star MEDSI Fitness Centre. During the day, more At the end of 2015, the Altay than 200 adults and children attended the Resort offered 100 jobs for local workshops and the Medsi sports testing people, including representatives station, and more than 260 participants of indigenous peoples of Altai. The of the fair received consultation and Complex provides wages, which are underwent medical examinations. higher than the average for the region, The company also supported and the and renders financial assistance to crowdfunding project of the ”Soulful Bazar” its employees, as well as carries out on planeta.ru, during which more than regular charity support of the UrluRUB 7.5m were raised for the implementation Aspak Secondary School, the Centre of charitable projects and programmes of Culture of Maiminsky District, the of the participating organizations. The children’s Greco-Roman wrestling participation of medical specialists and sports club in Urlu-Aspak, and other volunteers from Medsi in the ”Soulful Bazar” educational and cultural institutions marked the beginning of the next stage in the area. in the development of corporate social responsibility, and is a successful example of synergy of social partnership and volunteer initiatives in the framework of a large-scale charity event. 200 adults and children attended the workshops and the Medsi sports testing station www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 144 DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONS AND COMMUNITIES RZ Agro: Providing Food to Low-Income Families Detsky Mir: Supporting Underprivileged Children Children’s World Foundation provides support to 450 social institutions in more than 150 cities of Russia and Kazakhstan. The cost of the gifts collected For over 10 years, the company has regularly through Participate!, RUB m conducted a large-scale charity campaign Together with the Russian Grain dubbed Participate! Union, the Union of Sugar Producers +24% Customers of the chain’s numerous stores of Russia, and the Russian Meat are invited to help children from social 2015 140.0 Union, RZ Agro Group is involved in the provision of charitable institutions, orphans, the disabled, and assistance to the movement children from large families. The campaign 2014 130.0 Orthodox Russia in support of runs three times a year: before International Children’s Day, the Knowledge Day, and New 2013 112.8 the programme Save a Life of the volunteer movement For Life! Year. During the campaign, anyone can leave goods, purchased in the Detsky Mir stores, As part of the programme, food in special pens located near cash desks. 1 m of customers packages are sent to low-income families with children, single In 2015, one million customers participated mothers, including those with in the collection of gifts dedicated to the children suffering from cerebral beginning of the school year. More than 2.6m participated in the collection of gifts dedicated palsy, refugee families, and families gifts were collected during the campaign, to the beginning of the school year from remote villages. E.g., in in particular clothes, shoes, stationery, November 2015, the enterprises notebooks, toys, construction sets, and more. of RZ Agro Group sent one tonne Over 120,000 children received parcels with of sugar, 200 tonnes of flour presents from the customers. and 7 tonnes of various grains for 125 women with pregnancy In 2015, the charity campaign was held complications, low-income families in 140 cities of Russia and Kazakhstan, with children, families with disabled and the collected gifts were given to children, and families with many 450 social institutions. The total cost children in Rostov-on-Don and of the gifts amounted to about RUB 140m. nearby settlements. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Social & Economic Partnerships Improving Standards of Living Supporting Healthcare 145 SSTL: Assistance MTS Bank: Online Donations In the course of its operations, to Residents SSTL, a mobile operator providing of India telecommunications services in India under the MTS brand, takes into account the needs of local communities in the regions of its operations. In December 2015, the company provided assistance to the residents of Tamil Nadu, a state in India, where normal activities of many cities were interrupted due to heavy rains and flooding for more than 10 days. To support reconstructions in the disaster zone, SSTL launched a charity fund-raising campaign (each employee donating their one In 2015, as part of a programme day’s salaries), and provided all of its to improve its remote banking customers in Tamil Nadu with 1 GB services, MTS Bank implemented of free traffic for 3 days enabling them commission-free online donation to maintain communications with collections for SCF’s projects, the residents of the affected areas. accessible both through online banking and mobile banking systems. Also in 2015 the company took part The two primary objectives of the in the campaign launched by Goonj, project are to support the social an Indian non-profit organization for initiatives of Sistema Charitable processing clothes, and held a week Foundation, and to simplify the of winter clothing donations in the transactions carried out by the bank’s company’s offices in Delhi. As part clients, including the Corporation’s of the programme, employees employees, for the benefit of collected, on a voluntary basis, more the Foundation. Now the Bank’s than 250 kg of winter clothing, which customers have a convenient way was subsequently given to the people to transfer charitable contributions. in need. MTS Bank also plans to implement similar projects in collaboration with the other subsidiaries of the Corporation. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 146 DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONS AND COMMUNITIES 2.2.3. Supporting Healthcare Healthcare is one of the important areas of the international efforts in the social sphere. Sistema has been actively investing in the development of healthcare in Russia, creation of up-to-date medical centres, procurement of new equipment for medical facilities, and promotion of healthy lifestyles. The multi-specialty health centre is home to numerous centres of excellence specialising in family health, outpatient surgery, ENT diseases in children and adults, male and female health, endoscopy and gastroenterology, radiology, oral and Medsi: CDC Krasnaya maxillofacial surgeries, dermatology and medical cosmetics, pain, rheumatology, Presnya: New Quality and arthroscopy. In the Personalised of Modern Medicine Healthcare Centre, patients are offered a wide range of tests, screenings and consultations applying the latest diagnostic “Practical application of modern technologies The construction of the state-of-the-art and treatment methods with due and methods of treatment and responsibility Clinical and Diagnostic Centre (CDC) consideration for genetic characteristics for our patients’ health at all stages at Krasnaya Presnya in Moscow is the of each patient, resulting in individual of therapy are part and parcel of our work. largest-ever investment project implemented treatment plans and prescriptions. An by Medsi Group. The total investment in in-house laboratory, advanced technological For the past few years we have been focused the project is roughly RUB 4.5bn. The Centre equipment, and cutting-edge treatment on integrating diverse medical institutions into received its first patients in December. methods make it possible to detect diseases a single network. CDC Krasnaya Presnya is The CDC uses a total floorspace of 22,800 early on and promptly begin therapy. a large-scale, socially significant project m2, including 11,119 m2 .of medical areas, aiming to develop an integrated healthcare prepared to receive 1,250 visits per shift. Another socially significant event system to service not just Moscow and was the opening of a multi-specialty the Moscow Region, but also the Central CDC is a medical institution of a format new pediatric department at the Medsi Clinic Federal District as a whole. State-of-the-art for the Russian market, and the most efficient in Krasnogorsk, Moscow Region, in equipment and profound expertise of our socio-economic model used in Europe and 2015, in celebration of the International medical staff translate into high quality America. The project allowed the company Children’s Day. Conveniently located in of medical care on a par with the world’s to make a wide range of quality health a large residential area of the city, the best clinics.” services, including high-tech medical care clinic embodies the very concept of family meeting best international standards, more medicine, giving adults and children full Elena Brusilova accessible to patients of all ages in Moscow. access to quality health services just around the corner. Convenient working hours, President of Medsi The CDC uses modern equipment meeting individual approach to each patient, highly European quality standards applying to coompetent and mindful medical staff, layouts, technology and operations of modern equipment, and the highest medical medical organisations. The eight-storey standards all add up to showcase why whole building was designed in a way that makes families in Krasnogorsk entrust the clinic with all of its facilities accessible to the disabled. their health. For the convenience of visitors, the clinic has a baby care room equipped in accordance with European standards. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Improving Standards of Living Supporting Healthcare 147 Be Healthy with MEDSI! ”Be Healthy with MEDSI!” is the company’s major socially significant For the partner companies, participation in this project is a manifestation of social project with free options for corporate activity and an opportunity to join the customers and partners. The key team of responsible employers who care objectives of the project include the about the health of their employees. promotion of healthy lifestyles and broad In addition, the programme is an effective education about ways to preserve their social marketing tool, positioning health. The project Be Healthy with Medsi as a socially responsible medical MEDSI! reflects the company’s core company that unites a wide range of values in the field of corporate social competences in various medical fields. responsibility, namely the formation of The implementation of measures in a fundamentally new approach to patient the framework of the project contributes care and a culture of responsibility for to raising the population’s awareness one’s own health. of the commercial healthcare market, increasing the flow of patients due to The project is an integrated a larger number of individuals in the communication programme, under network of clinics, and enhancing the which Medsi’s best doctors and fitness loyalty of corporate customers, which are instructors deliver lectures and provide served at Medsi clinics under voluntary consultations on various top-of-themedical insurance programmes, including agenda subjects in the offices of the employees of Sistema’s subsidiaries. companies participating in the project, including those held in the Health Days format. Relevant information from Medsi experts is also proposed in the form of articles, corporate blogs on the company’s website, and weekly newsletters. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 148 DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONS AND COMMUNITIES One of the key features of the project Be Healthy with MEDSI! lies in the specialized training courses (Schools) in several medical fields, organised and held at the clinics. In April 2015, the MEDSI School of Mothers, a socially significant project that aims to support the health of children from the first days of life and provide advice to parents on how to take care of a baby, began its work at the Medsi Children’s Hospital in Blagoveschensky Lane. Sessions for parents in the MEDSI School of Mothers are conducted by qualified pediatricians and medical specialists with extensive experience in neonatal care free of charge. During the workshops, experts cover various aspects of child care, regimen, nutrition, preventive vaccination, tell parents about the specific features of children’s nervous system, and skin problems that can occur in children under the age of 18 months. In 2015, 30 sessions were held within the framework of the School of Mothers. In the Medsi’s CDC Belarusskaya training 28 ducational sessions are regularly held addressing the following medical areas: cardiology, sessions neurology, dermatology, psychology, etc. were conducted, during which the participants In 2015, 28 sessions were conducted there, got consultations from leading experts of Medsi during which the participants were able on the prevention of disease and promotion of health to get consultations from leading experts of Medsi on the prevention of disease and promotion of health. In May 2015, the clinics together with La Roche-Posay held a campaign, dedicated to the World Day of Melanoma Diagnostics, in which everyone could undergo free screening for cancer diseases of the skin, •• 2 workshops as part of the partnership According to the results of the Corporate and consult a dermatologist. programme Health Classes from MEDSI, Social Responsibility audit of Sistema Group, in cooperation with Detsky Mir; Be Healthy with MEDSI! Was acclaimed In the framework of the integrated project •• a lecture delivered by a physician as one of the best practices used by the to promote a healthy lifestyle ”Be Healthy from Medsi CDC Belarusskaya on HIV company and recommended for joint with MEDSI!”, the following activities were prevention, dedicated to the World AIDS development with other subsidiaries implemented for corporate clients: Day; of the Corporation. •• 14 lectures with the participation of •• non-Smoking Days in MTS offices, with Medsi doctors in the National Insurance a webinar and speeches made by doctors Group, KPMG, Philips, Ernst & Young, on the MTS radio; Siemens, Nestle, and PJSOC Bashneft. •• medical consultation in MGTS offices, MTS retail network, and SG-trans; 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Improving Standards of Living Supporting Healthcare 149 Detsky Mir: Opening Playrooms in Hospitals “Our social project is greatly welcomed Since 2013, Detsky Mir Charitable In 2015, the company opened 58 playrooms all across the country. A playroom is a Foundation has been implementing a project in 20 medical and social establishments wonderful gift to little patients, a cozy place dubbed Operation Toys organising children’s all over Russia. New playrooms have where they can come any time to relax and playrooms in hospitals. The project aims been arranged in 12 cities: St. Petersburg, get a break from tiresome therapy. This is to help children feel comfortable while Kaliningrad, Kazan, Smolensk, Tula, Rostovespecially important for kids who have to stay in hospital. The rooms offer dolls, prams, on-Don, Perm, Ivanovo, Nalchik, Pskov, construction sets, toy cars, educational Yaroslavl, and Tomsk. In previous years, hospitalised for a long time. All in all, we have games, kits for role-playing games, and many playrooms had been arranged in children’s opened about 130 playrooms by now, enabling other toys; various aids for the development hospitals in Moscow, Bryansk, Kurgan, tens of thousands of children to spend time of speech, memory, thinking, and attention; Petrozavodsk, Ryazan, the Vladimir region, in a comfortable homelike environment with and musical instruments. Each child will find Tver, and Dzerzhinsk. toys and educational games.” something to his/her liking. Not confining its effort to supplying toys and decorating Elmira Morozova Executive Director of Detsky Mir Charitable playrooms, Detsky Mir also sponsors hospital renovations and procurement of new furniture and even medical equipment where 58 playrooms Foundation were opened in 20 medical and social necessary. establishments all over Russia in 2015 www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 150 DEVELOPMENT OF REGIONS AND COMMUNITIES MTS: “Generation M”: The priority area of MTS charity activity young actors played together with the is gratuitous assistance to children with well-known Russian artists, were held in Creative Work serious illnesses whose families cannot Moscow, St. Petersburg, and Novosibirsk, afford the expensive treatment they and raised almost RUB 2.8m. The Sistema to Save Lives need. The aim of the All-Russian charity Charitable Foundation bought 500 tickets project “Generation M”, organised by worth over RUB 700,000 for children from the Company in cooperation with the the children’s establishments of Moscow Konstantin Khabensky Foundation, is and Moscow Region it sponsors to visit to contribute to the solution of this one of the performances in the State social problem. The large-scale initiative Kremlin Palace, and volunteers of held under the motto “Creative Work the Corporation accompanied young to Save Life” combines two aims — to guests. help seriously ill children and to develop the creative abilities of young people in At the end of 2015, the Internet audience Russia’s regions. of the project exceeded 8.5 million people, and more than 400,000 participants The project “Generation M” includes were involved in the creative activities a virtual creative platform — an Internet under the project. More than 250 creative portal and a group in VKontakte social laboratories were organised across the network, where children can show their country. National film, theater and music talents by participating in contests and stars, famous artists, photographers, interactive workshops. Users earn points and cartoonists act as the masters in for all the online activities, and thus top up the project. Since its inception, the project the general charity account of the project. has helped save the lives of 21 children At the end of the year, MTS turns the with cancer by raising almost RUB 14m points earned by users into real money, for their treatment. which is then used for the treatment of children through partnership charitable foundations. All proceeds from the sale of tickets for the children’s benefit musical 43 RUB m performances “Generation Mowgli” are raised for the treatment of children since used for the same purpose. In 2015, the the project started unique theater performances, in which 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Improving Standards of Living Supporting Healthcare 151 Like in many years before, in 2015 MTS to more than 60 children from the supported the international charity campaign Krasnoyarsk Territory and Khakassia free Operation ‘Smile’. of charge. In addition, MTS equipped local pediatric hospitals with special playrooms for Using raised sponsorship funds, MTS’s young patients who had arrived for scheduled non-profit subsidiary organises one-week operations from different regions of the MTS: partner trips of teams of Russian and foreign medical Transbaikal, Bashkiria, and Siberia. volunteers to different regions of the country, of Operation ‘Smile’ where they provide medical assistance to 26 leading experts arrived at the Ivanovo20–40 children with congenital maxillofacial Matrenenskuyu Children’s Clinical hospital defects. The medical help is especially in Irkutsk to perform surgeries and provide needed by children from orphanages, consultations. During the week, they shelters, and low-income families. examined more than 120 children and adolescents with congenital maxillofacial MTS provides phone and online defects, and performed more than 60 free communications to the volunteers and surgeries, to correct congenital lip and palate coordinators of Operation ‘Smile’ as well defects. as the parents of young patients. In 2015, in a filed trip to Krasnoyarsk, volunteer doctors performed more than 40 operations and provided consultations 247 projects from all across Russia were an effective mechanism for interaction admitted to the contest. Medsi experts between the professional medical focused on innovative projects in the area community, innovators, and investors in of medicine, digital health, and rehabilitation order to address existing problems. The three treatment, as well as current trends in the Digital Health meetings held in 2015 raised development of socially-minded medical numerous subjects of utmost relevance Medsi: Supporting startups in Russia. The two healthcare to the current healthcare market, such as start-ups judged to be of most potential the role of information technology in the Innovations in Healthcare received extensive support from Medsi. development of commercial healthcare Especially worthy of mention is Motorika, and new services to meet specific needs a project aiming to produce inexpensive of patients. Medsi Group actively supports initiatives functional prosthetic hands and forearms aimed at creating favourable environments to significantly improve the quality of life for the development of social projects of people with disabilities. and promising healthcare endeavours. In 2015, Medsi provided expert support for Another innovation-promoting project 3 digital health the contest of social startups dubbed UP. backed by Medsi Group is Digital Health, a discussion platform organised in cooperation meetings Glad to accept the invitation of the multiwith the Higher School of Marketing and held in 2015 raised numerous subjects of utmost national corporate software provider SAP SE, Business Development and the digital health relevance to the current healthcare market representatives of Medsi Group sat on the company Medme. The project transcends contest’s jury tasked with choosing the best national boundaries and aims to share socially relevant market-ready start-ups, in practical experience in digital medicine, order to further support their authors through find and accumulate new ideas, and create educational practices and grant systems. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 152 CONTENTS Technological Leadership 155 2.3.1. Innovation and Modernisation of Manufacturing 163 2.3.2. Development of Science-Driven Industries 166 2.3.3. Improving Infrastructure 168 2.3.4. Promoting Import Substitution Innovation cluster Sarov Technopark Microchips for Russian Processors and Payment Cards R&D centres in high-tech, oilfield technologies and pharmaceuticals Smart Grid Modernisation of the Timber Industry and agriculture 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com 153 www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 154 TECHNOLOGICAL LEADERSHIP 2.3. Technological Leadership Technology, in particular the promotion of innovation and industrialization, and the creation of reliable infrastructure, occupies a special place in the international agenda for sustainable development. In addition, the Russian government has set a strategic goal of making an innovative breakthrough to transition to a new type of economy, based on the development of new technologies and competitive in the global market. Sistema’s operations are inextricably connected with innovative development. Over the years, the Corporation has regularly invested in science, education, infrastructure and the introduction of advanced technologies, paying special attention to the domestic market. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Innovation and Modernisation of Manufacturing Development of Science-Driven Industries 155 2.3.1. Innovation and Modernisation of Manufacturing Sistema has made a concerted effort to increase its economic productivity through diversification, technological modernisation, innovation and efficient use of resources. DEVELOPMENT OF THE Sarov Technopark is seen by its shareholders INNOVATION CLUSTER IN THE as a tool for commercialisation of breakthrough technologies. The key role NIZHNY NOVGOROD REGION in its development strategy belongs to Sarov Technopark is a joint project of implementation of major national innovative Sistema, Rosatom Group and the RUSNANO projects in a few selected areas: Fund for Infrastructure and Educational Programmes, established to implement innovative projects promoting Russia’s economic development. It is located in the Nizhny Novgorod region, and is a key information segment of the Sarov Innovation Cluster. technology Sarov Technopark has been member of the International Association of Science Parks and Areas of Innovation (IASP) since 2009. In 2015, it was accredited, on a voluntary basis, in accordance with the system of the laser technology Association of Clusters and Technology Parks, and received the status of a technology park in the area of innovation (one of the seven technoparks in Russia). energy-efficient technology The choice of the areas was based primarily on the competencies of Sarov’s key partner sensors — the Russian Federal Nuclear Centre — Alland automation Russian Research Institute of Experimental Physics (RFNC-VNIIEF). The general strategic management of the technopark is carried out by RTI Group, whose representatives are included in the Scientific and Technical new materials Council and are directly involved in the and coatings examination of projects proposed for implementation. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 156 TECHNOLOGICAL LEADERSHIP SAROV TECHNOPARK’S PERFORMANCE RESULTS FOR 2015 The technopark is the platform of a unique public-private programme for financing innovative projects — the Rosatom–Sistema Science and Production Cluster Programme, which has no analogs in Russia. The programme makes it possible to use public funds for capital expenses on condition that the resident company co-finances the operating costs. In early 2015, with the support of RUSNANO, the technopark launched a venture division to source innovative projects, select and support them at an early stage. At the end of 2015, 10 projects were approved for financing. Sarov Technopark became a member of nine startup companies. As many as 13 new small businesses were given the status of a Business Incubator resident and received discounts for the rental of premises. In 2015, the production of a new generation of multi-component materials was launched in the technopark, and a startup was created to develop and implement At the end of 2015, Sarov Technopark included: the technology of applying ultra-thin zinc coating with anti-corrosion properties. A shop for manufacturing products using injection impregnation-based know-how was also opened in the technopark. It will > 60 730 produce sheet piles, rods for the oil industry, resident companies jobs were created and window frames and fittings for the construction sector. Some of the startups of Sarov Technopark, such as Ultramer, > 30 1.2 RUB bn Synthezin, and Plazmoran, won the Startup Tour 2015 and became finalists of the Startup Village 2015, competitions organised by the Skolkovo Foundation. medium-sized companies, including R&D departments the revenue of the resident companies of large corporations for the year 20 > 160 RUB m start-ups tax deductions 10 venture capital firms 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Innovation and Modernisation of Manufacturing Development of Science-Driven Industries 157 Programmes to finance innovative projects in Sarov Technopark Rosatom-Sistema science and production cluster programme Venture financing (Founded in 2008) (Started in 2015) Financing of capital expenses of projects Financing of startups at the stages at the stage of mass production, using the of launching, growth and expansion The biggest project of 2016, with an principle of public-private partnership investment of RUB 1.2bn, will be production of powder high-speed steels (that have higher wear resistance and strength compared to ordinary steel) and highperformance cutting tools. Today, there is virtually no production of such powders in Russia, so it will be an import-substitution project. 16 > 60 The Sistema-Sarov Innovative Technology innovative projects are already being implemented applications have been reviewed Centre (Sistema–Sarov ITC) — an R&D Department of Sistema and RTI Group – has been operating in the technopark since 1.6 RUB bn 10 2010. It develops solutions for Russian and international high-tech companies, designed to tackle security problems in big cities, at industrial plants and public utilities, and financing amounted startup companies have been created to provide analytical support to decisionmakers at law-enforcement structures. operates in various fields: new materials, security technology, information technology, etc. Our main strategic goal is to ensure its integrated development, notably, to increase the number of resident companies and jobs, to develop infrastructure, to build a chain of business incubation and technology transfer, and to raise financing for projects. The main condition for achieving these objectives is to create a comfortable environment for the development of innovative companies.” “All projects of our technopark are aimed at forward-looking import substitution and Yury Sumin the development of new technologies for the core industries. Today, the technopark CEO of Sarov Technopark www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 158 TECHNOLOGICAL LEADERSHIP Key projects of Sistema–Sarov ITC In June 2015, Sistema Sarov performed a trial run of an audio surveillance system installed at the heart of Kostroma (a city east of Moscow) as part of Safe City, a project designed to improve law enforcement and crime prevention 1 2 in urban environments. Inspired by the successful first run, Kostroma’s administration decided to launch the system as a pilot project to be further rolled out across the city. The smart audio system combined with video cameras enables easy identification of specific acoustic alarms, such as screams, explosions, claps, car alarm signals, shots, System of measuring water flow Multichannel distribution system and sirens. The video cameras in HPP turbine channels for remote electronic voting automatically turn towards the source of such sounds and make immediate video records. The system is based on continuous The system offers a safe and easy tool direct measurements of water velocity for online voting, taking into account the in supply channels. It helps to make flow requirements of the Russian legislation. measurements with an error of not more than 0.5%, which makes it possible to optimally manage HPP work with maximum efficiency. 3 4 Programme for the development Setting up a Simulation Centre of security technologies for big cities for Railway Technology These technologies help to prevent crises The programme will help to address in cities by monitoring the current situation traffic safety problems more effectively, and providing timely information for to optimise the development and authorities to take required action. implementation costs, as well as to facilitate the use of modern innovative methods in dealing with current issues. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Innovation and Modernisation of Manufacturing Development of Science-Driven Industries 159 Innovative product development cycle at Intellect Telecom Identification of problem areas and search for solutions Analysis of market trends and demands of potential consumers; development of case studies Intellect Telecom: and learning to efficiently use them; construction of road maps of technologies and products; Transformation into preparation of forecasts and foresights; evaluation of barriers and risks. a Full Cycle R&D Company Creation and substantiation of the product characteristics In October 2015, Intellect Telecom approved its development strategy for 2016–2020, Systemic design; creation of the product structure and architecture; definition of main interfaces which envisages transformation of Sistema’s and function algorithms; choice of the element base. telecom research centre into a full-cycle R&D company, and the creation of an innovative product line for the fastest growing and most promising segments of the market of communications network equipment. The Verification of the concept technologies developed by Intellect Telecom Creation of product prototypes, which go through field testing, and, if necessary, further can be used, for example, to provide mobile simulation and model testing. communications services in rural areas and organise continuous radio coverage along railways and highways. Intellect Telecom has developed a series Designing and construction of the product of cost-effective solutions for areas with low Designing work and preparation of documents necessary to start serial production. population density, where the construction Development and maintenance of operation, including modernisation and adaptation of the of base stations is not economically feasible. product; addressing complex maintenance tasks; development of usage recommendations. The lack of coverage in these areas, as well as in areas along railways and motorways leads to the ”digital divide” and prevents the implementation of the government projects ”ERA-GLONASS” and ”System 112”. To address this socially important issue, Intellect Telecom offers communications service providers a system based on a set of retransmission equipment with capacity transfer, which ensures radio coverage in GSM networks without the use of base stations, microwave or fiber optic lines. The advantages of the system include lower capital and operational costs, a significant decrease of energy consumption, and support of shared use by two telecom operators. (1) RA-GLONASS is a Russian state system of emergency response in case of accidents. (2) System 112 is a system that supports calls to emergency services in Russia using a single number (112). www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 160 TECHNOLOGICAL LEADERSHIP Segezha Group: Modernisation In 2015, Segezha Group started reconfiguration of equipment will allow meeting the needs of a growing number implementing a three-year investment of the Timber programme to modernise the Segezha of customers with small orders, who need to have photographic images Industry in Karelia Pulp and Paper Mill, which is expected to improve its performance efficiency printed on bags. The new machine can and increase the sack paper output. be reconfigured almost 5.5 times faster Allocations in the reconstruction of than the old one — in 7–8 minutes. It one of the republic’s core enterprises, is now possible to begin fulfilling a new amounted to RUB 0.7bn in the reporting order while the previous one is being period. produced. One of the key events in the reporting period was signing of an EUR 80m contract for the supply, construction and installation of a paper machine with Voith, a German engineering corporation. The new machine will increase the mill’s sack paper capacity by 40%, to 110,000 tonnes per year. The machine will go into operation in 2017. Its installation will create 120 new skilled jobs in Segezha. In 2015, Segezha Group launched a new line manufacturing paper bags for dry mixes at the plant in Segezha, which “From the very start, we intended greatly increased its production capacity. to use the best available technology Previously, the mill produced more in this project; we engaged top-notch than 400m bags a year. Now, the use professionals. In the long run, it is not of eight-color printing will add another only about increasing capacity. Over the 90m units per year to the existing next three years, we will invest more than output, and will further increase the RUB 13bn in modernisation of the timber performance of the existing machines, industry of Karelia, a republic with plentiful which, all in all, will allow the company to produce 540m bags per year. resources and a huge human potential.” The new machine is capable of printing Sergey Pomelov small lots of products (bags for dry President of Segezha Group mixes and consumer packaging) with high colour value, and quick 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Innovation and Modernisation of Manufacturing Development of Science-Driven Industries 161 RZ Agro Group: Technical Overhaul of Agriculture RZ Agro Group has developed a programme of technical overhaul of its subsidiary agricultural enterprises for the period of 2015–2019. The programme, which, will be carried out at the former state-owned companies Donskoye and the First Cavalry Army Horse Farm (with 47,000 ha of cultivated land), among others, envisages replacement of obsolete agricultural > 30 units equipment with modern high-performance units, upgrade of machinery, and modernisation of the enterprise management system and employee retraining. One of the of modern agricultural equipment were purchased main selection criteria for the new machinery by the company in 2015 is its compatibility with chosen technology aimed at improving soil fertility and water retention. In 2014–2015, the company purchased modern tillage machinery and invested in the installation of monitoring and security systems, such as fuel consumption “Our goal is to gradually transform RZ monitoring, video surveillance, fencing, Agro into a state-of-the-art integrated and automated accounting of products in international agricultural company. To do this, the barnyards. In addition, RZ Agro intends we need to achieve not only maximum yields to invest in early-stage startups that develop per hectare, but also the projected margins modern agricultural technologies, which for each crop. RZ Agro’s produce is both could allow the company to optimise costs exported and sold domestically. We intend in agriculture and improve the crop yields. to significantly expand our business and increase sales abroad.” Stephane Mac Farlane CEO of RZ Agro Group www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 162 TECHNOLOGICAL LEADERSHIP Targin: Building a State-of-the-Art Oilfield Services Company The amount of easily recoverable oil and gas reserves is decreasing steadily, and the oil industry is shifting its attention to hardto-extract reserves in hard rock formations, where new drilling and well completion technologies are actively used. In view of this, in 2015, Targin launched a multi-stage hydraulic fracturing project, which can significantly increase the share of oil recovery by reducing the well development time by 40% and improving formation productivity. In the reporting period, the company hired specialists with “Today, traditional oilfield services, even work experience at the world’s largest oil performed well, are not enough to carry out companies and with profound knowledge such tasks as construction and maintenance of technology; contracts for the purchase of complex wells. Our company is actively of necessary equipment were signed with Russian suppliers; the Precision Engineering Centre was established at the production developing and expanding its presence in the market — in terms of geography, customers, and technological solutions. Thanks to the use 40% site in Ufa, where the first pilot models of the multi-stage hydraulic fracturing methreduction of the well development time will be assembled. In 2016, Targin plans to od, Targin expects to become a leader in well manufacture two prototypes using the new completion and in creating technologies for technology, and get the product certified. development of hard-to-extract oil reserves In addition, within the framework of its not only in Russia and the CIS, but also in technological development programme, the international market.” which, among other things, provides for expansion of the fleet of drilling rigs, the Kamil Zakirov company started to design and manufacture CEO of Targin its own drill bits. The Targin Tarbit Polycrystalline Diamond Bit (PCD) is the main part of the drilling tool used to break rock during oil well drilling. These drill bits differ from the conventional ones in that they contain plates with a diamond layer. In the course of design, a three-dimensional simulation of the interaction between the drill bit cutters and rock was used to identify possibilities for increasing the efficiency of the tool. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Innovation and Modernisation of Manufacturing Development of Science-Driven Industries Improving Infrastructure 163 2.3.2. Development of Science-Driven Industries Sistema has always paid special attention to the development of high-tech industries, setting up R&D centres on the basis of its subsidiaries engaged in the commercialisation of innovative technologies and manufacturing of high-tech products. RTI Group’s R&D Structures Having own R&D(1) facilities is integral to the business model of RTI, a highlaunched to develop vertically emitting lasers for use in radiophoton devices; tech holding company, since this and cooperation was organised with model implies continuous research and the Northwest Scientific Centre for Radio development work aimed at obtaining Photonics. The achieved progress in new knowledge and its practical radio photon technologies is essential application for the development of new for the development of land-based technologies and innovative products and mobile radar stations, signaling based on them. channels, and heating systems. In 2015, significant results were RTI Group participated in major obtained in key R&D projects launched international exhibitions, such as MAKS in 2013–2014, such as the development 2015 (Moscow Aviation and Space of terahertz, radiophoton, and aerospace Salon) and RAE 2015 (Russian Arms technologies. Notably, terahertz Expo), where it demonstrated unique radiation emitters can be used as “flying” laboratories to be installed scanners to control product quality, for on board aircraft to monitor engine security screening of people and luggage, parameters during a flight, display and in medicine. Also, R&D experts and record information on board and designed the model of a transceiver transmit it to the flight experiment module for a 3-mm range radar used in control point on the ground in real time. smaller radar stations, and developed The company also completed testing a technology for manufacturing radar of the automatic control system for absorbing coatings. optionally manned(2) or unmanned airplanes, and developed and tested Also in 2015, a measurement system various types of advanced unmanned for testing radiophotons devices was aerial vehicles. created; an investment project was (1) R&D — Research and development. (2) Optionally manned aircraft — the class of aircraft that can fly with or without a pilot. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 164 TECHNOLOGICAL LEADERSHIP Kronshtadt Group is implementing a number of infrastructure projects of national importance that will promote the development of strategic industries. One such area is the creation of the first common navigation database for electronic Kronshtadt Group: maps of Russia’s inland waterways using the GLONASS satellite system. The project Electronic Cartography includes the development of new and for Safe Navigation adjustment of existing electronic maps of Russian waterways to ensure the safety of river navigation. “The main task set before us was to build a unified electronic database for all navigable During 2015, company specialists developed rivers and channels of Russia. We have done a database for compiling and updating electronic navigation charts for 14,477 km a great amount of exploration, topographic of waterways (including new charts for and space surveying, built a digital database 5,234 km and updated ones for 9,243 km). and are constantly updating it. The company’s The collection of satellite photos work is of strategic importance for the of waterways was supplemented with development of inland navigation. I am pictures of 20,425 km of waterways taken confident that the implementation of the from air. “Map-River” project will significantly increase the efficiency and safety of navigation By the end of 2015, nearly 53,000 km out in our country.” of the 60,000 km of navigable areas was digitalised. All river navigation charts are Armen Isaakyan expected to become electronic by 2020. 53 th km To make using navigation charts easier, Kronshtadt Group built a dedicated national CEO of Kronshtadt Group automated system for propagation of digital of the 60,000 km of navigable areas was digitalised cartographic data of the European part of Russia, Siberia and the Far East. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Innovation and Modernisation of Manufacturing Development of Science-Driven Industries Improving Infrastructure 165 Targin: Establishment of an R&D Centre at SKOLKOVO In accordance with the agreement between Targin and the SKOLKOVO Foundation “We are happy to have the opportunity to signed in April 2015, the company’s new R&D cooperate with the SKOLKOVO Foundation, centre will be established at the SKOLKOVO and are optimistic about the prospects In November 2015, Targin’s R&D Centre Innovation Centre to conduct large-scale of our cooperation. Ongoing development presented its project of creating test sites for comprehensive research in the area of oilfield of new technologies, new products, and oil and gas companies as part of the panel technologies. new materials is one of the key factors discussion ”Prospects for Creating Test Sites at Existing Fields” at the SKOLKOVO of competitiveness and success in any By creating its own R&D centre, Targin industry. In the segment of oilfield services Petroleum Conference 2015. The company’s expects to get a number of additional and equipment for oil and gas production, approach is to create test sites outside technological and competitive advantages: this factor is of vital importance in the long the field, using test benches and specially constructed test wells. The construction term. Targin is focused on technological •• an opportunity to effectively test new of test sites has a number of significant development, and is confident that this ideas and transform them into original laboratory technological solutions, which advantages over using existing wells in collaboration will be a success.” can be scaled and implemented on large the field, in particular: it is possible to industrial sites in the near future; ensure the integrity of testing; there are no Kamil Zakirov environmental hazards; environmental and CEO of Targin •• more commercialisation opportunities technological risks are significantly reduced. for the results of ongoing R&D in construction and related fields; In 2016, Targin’s R&D Centre in SKOLKOVO will employ at least 10 people, and the •• an opportunity to attract new partners headcount it expected to reach 20 by 2018. from among SKOLKOVO residents Investment in the project will amount to existing and new projects. to RUB 110m in the next three years. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 166 TECHNOLOGICAL LEADERSHIP 2.3.3. Improving Infrastructure For many years, Sistema has been investing in telecommunications infrastructure, which is of critical importance for the country, as well as actively modernizing power grids at the regional level. The number of connections of automatic devices to mobile networks grew by 20% in 2015, to 6.6 million SIM cards, out of which MTS accounts for about 3.6 million. The mobile operator connected about 0.5 million new devices last year, and the MTS: Developing overall M2M traffic in its network doubled compared to 2014. M2M Services In 2015, MTS implemented a number of socially significant M2M projects, notably: MTS is Russia’s leader in implementation of cutting-edge technological solutions in •• launched the sales of Smart Home “Innovative services that allow devices the field of Machine-to-Machine (M2M) household appliances controlled to communicate with each other via communications, and has been consistently remotely (by mobile phone), together communications networks have a great involved in the formation of the Internet of with the international company potential for the development of many sectors Things ecosystem since 2010, when, jointly REDMOND; of the economy. The increasing consumption with NVision Group, it launched the Nika of M2M services is due to their high efficiency. technological platform for telematic services. •• installed several thousand telematic SIM cards to record utilities meter readings We estimate that a company can save up in the Saratov and Samara regions and to 40% of its operating expenses on average The new infrastructure, which is based in the Far East; by introducing M2M. In the future, we expect on advanced mobile data network, makes this segment to grow even faster both through it possible to manage the equipment more •• launched an M2M project for emergency effectively, to ensure the security monitoring at residential buildings in the existing projects and the emergence of operations, to pinpoint the location and Tyumen together with LLC Safe City, of new ones, including development of monitor the movement of vehicles, etc. providing SIM cards to be installed in the “smart home” concept and integrated At present, M2M services in Russia are most the intercom systems in order to warn industrial solutions.” widely used in the transport sector: in taxis, citizens in case of an emergency; for information boards at bus stops, and for •• launched a major regional M2M project Vasil Latsanich traffic speed measurement. They are also — public transportation monitoring Vice President for Marketing, MTS used in ATMs and vending machines, utilities in the Rostov region (more than 900 and the energy sector, and in the consumer public service vehicles in the region were segment — in trackers, navigation devices, equipped with telematic MTS cards); etc. The demand for M2M solutions comes from the anticipated explosive growth in the number of devices that can exchange •• installed SIM cards for telematic services in the fire protection systems of the Fire Monitoring Service in the Republic 0.5 m information without human intervention. of Tatarstan; new devices in 2015 In the next few years, it is projected that M2M traffic in LTE networks will grow •• installed SIM cards and secure 2-3-fold due to the spread of video communication channels in more than surveillance, emergency monitoring, 2,000 payment terminals of Sberbank and urban infrastructure automation. in the Samara region, which increased the availability and reliability of banking services. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Development of Science-Driven Industries Improving Infrastructure Promoting Import Substitution 167 Bashkir Power Grid Company: Introduction of Smart Grid in Ufa In the reporting period, Bashkir Power Grid Company completed the upgrade of the power grids in a residential area with a population of 25,000 people as part of the programme for comprehensive modernisation of grid infrastructure in Ufa based on the innovative Smart Grid concept, which was launched in 2014. The results of the introduction of the new technology in the pilot district have proven the effectiveness of the applied solutions, In addition, the company commissioned as commercial power losses have decreased three state-of-the-art power substations by 70%, and technical losses by 30%. during the reporting period, to meet the growing energy demand of its consumers An stage in the implementation of the in the region. It was for the first time in the power grid modernisation project was past 7–10 years that such facilities were put the opening of the new Grid Control Centre into operation in the region. The work to (GCC) in August 2015 in Ufa. It collects all modernize existing substations and build information from distribution and transformer new ones will continue. substations, and has no analogues in Russia. Special equipment installed at the GCC, The Republic of Bashkiria was the first in makes it possible to perform an entire range Russia to launch a comprehensive upgrade “Many grid companies have thought of of operations with the Smart Grid, monitoring of power grids. Following the success of introducing smart technology; yet we are the workload and modes of electric the project in the pilot district, the company the only company today that has managed equipment, and controlling it in real time. plans to re-equip 512 observed and 157 controlled transformer stations in Ufa in to put this concept into practice. Having 2016. By early 2020, the Bashkir capital is assessed the wear of existing equipment as expected to fully transition to the Smart up to 60%, we made it our priority to update Grid system, which will ensure a new quality the fixed assets using only “smart” solutions, to electricity supply to consumers and and we are confidently implementing the +10% sustainability of the regional energy system. The maintenance and repair costs of the updated equipment will be reduced by 20%, adopted investment programme. Advanced technologies and cutting-edge equipment will help us to reduce the number of breakdowns will be prolonged the service life of existing the time for troubleshooting and switching in the grids, to minimize power losses, and equipment due to the implementation of the project will decrease by 70%, and the service life to ensure uninterrupted power supply to of existing equipment will be prolonged consumers. If the project in Bashkiria is by 10%. After transition to the Smart Grid, successful, can be later replicated in other commercial and technical power losses regions of Russia.” in Ufa will drop from 16% to 8%, and overall power losses across the republic will be Dmitry Sharovatov lowered from 8.5 to 7%. CEO of BPGC www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 168 TECHNOLOGICAL LEADERSHIP 2.3.4. Promoting Import Substitution By investing in high-tech industries, Sistema contributes to faster technological development of domestic manufacturing through improvement of its efficiency and development of new competitive products with high added value to promote import substitution in a number of strategically important industries. Priority areas The company’s focuses on development of original combined drugs, biosimilars, original and biotechnological drugs in various Binnopharm: therapeutic areas. Establishing an R&D Centre Cardiology “In 2016, we plan to launch all R&D In 2015, Binnopharm, one of Russia’s largest laboratories at the company’s existing biopharmaceutical full-cycle companies production facilities in Zelenograd to continue that develops and produces genetically Pulmonology work on registration of new drugs, as well engineered biotechnological drugs (including as carry out further work under the project a hepatitis B vaccine fully compliant with for manufacturing of monoclonal antibodies international GMP standards)(1), began and dry powder inhalers. I am sure that if construction of its own R&D Centre. Neurology Russian producers take advantage of the The main objective of the Centre is to opportunities offered by the market today create its own product line, to develop and and the government supports them, we will register new drugs. The Centre is located have a competitive industry that will be in the Zelenograd special economic zone, able to provide the country with domestic Oncology medications.” occupies 400 m2 and has state-of-the-art equipment for product development and testing manufactured in Russia, Germany, Aleksey Chupin Switzerland and the UK. It has 11 employees CEO of Binnopharm with degrees from the leading Moscow Endocrinology chemical universities: the Lomonosov State University, the Dmitry Mendeleev University of Chemical Technology, the Peoples’ Friendship University, and the Moscow State University of Food Production. The Centre’s Gastroenterology capacity will be three drugs per quarter. In 2015, five new drugs were registered. The official opening of the R&D Centre is scheduled for 2016. (1) The GMP (Good Manufacturing Practice) standard is a system of rules, regulations and guidelines for the production of pharmaceuticals, medical devices, diagnostic products, food, food additives and active ingredients. This standard reflects the holistic approach to product quality control, and regulates and evaluates the actual parameters of production and laboratory testing. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Improving Infrastructure Promoting Import Substitution 169 Mikron Group: Microchips At the end of 2014, the factory of NIIME and Mikron (part of the high-tech for Russian RTI Group) in Zelenograd produced the first pilot lot of Elbrus-2GM Processors high-performance general-purpose microprocessors, manufactured using the 90nm technology. MCST plans to use these processors as the basis for serial production of compact motherboards. It is an advanced dual-core processor “Microelectronics is not only about with low power consumption, which engineering design of unique products, but is fully made in Russia. Elbrus-2GM also about their serial production, which processors can be used in mass market requires an appropriate technological computers, but their main use is base. Given that Mikron is currently the industrial: industrial and transportation only domestic manufacturer of 90nm systems, telecom equipment, servers, microchips, our main task is to support and databases with enhanced Russian R&D centres working to localise information security. To organise manufacturing of import-substituting manufacturing of new processors products.” at a Russian factory, MCST experts revised the project using the libraries Gennady Krasnikov of Mikron’s standard elements, while engineers of the Zelenograd factory Member of the Russian Academy developed physical layer IP interface of Sciences, Chairman of the Board and a technological production chain. of Directors of Mikron, Chief Designer of Mikron, CEO of JSC NIIME, PhD Previously, Elbrus processors were (Engineering Science), Professor manufactured in South-East Asia. The first attempt at producing a complex chip at a domestic factory was an important step towards import substitution and the country’s technological independence. The partnership between Mikron and MCST will help to localise manufacturing of higher-performance processors developed in Russia after the factory introduces the required technological standards. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 170 TECHNOLOGICAL LEADERSHIP Mikron Group: Manufacturing Microchips for Russian Payment Cards In 2015, Mikron Group developed a microchip for the Mir National Payment Card System and manufactured Russia’s first payment cards with Russian-made chips. The new chip, which successfully passed functionality and security tests of the MasterCard International Payment System, offers a high level of protection of user data and a memory capacity sufficient to record and use all necessary applications. Mass production of MCU and chip modules, as well “The microchip manufactured by Mikron is as bank cards for Mir was organised at the a completely domestic product, and its serial Mikron factory in Zelenograd. The pilot issue production will ensure ready availability of of Mir cards using Mirkon’s microchips took place at the end of the year. chips for the Russian banking system. The chip will be used by the National Payment In 2016, Mikron plans to launch production Card System, which intends to take up half of a new version of the chip, to have it of the Russian plastic cards market by 2018. certified with Mir and international payment The Russian chip can be used not only in the systems, and expand the supply of chips domestic, but also in international payment to Russian manufacturers of bank cards. systems. Our chips are quite competitive: they Notably, MTS Bank intends to team up with comply with the same standards, and have Mir to issue Mir-Maestro cards on the basis passed the same certification as their foreign of the Russian-made microchips. analogs.” Gulnara Khasyanova CEO of Mikron 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Improving Infrastructure Promoting Import Substitution 171 Bashkir Power Grid Company: Localisation of Smart Grid Equipment Manufacturing In February 2015, BPGC and Germany’s Siemens, one of the world’s leading technology corporations, signed an agreement on localisation of manufacturing of innovative electrical equipment for the Smart Grid in the Republic of Bashkiria. Under the agreement, BPGC received access to the manufacturer’s know-how, while the setup of a state-of-the-art enterprise in Ufa created new jobs for its population. The first manufactured pieces of equipment have already been installed at the Ufa Power Grid facilities. Some components (power units and vacuum tanks) are still supplied from Germany, but relay protection and automation are assembled by BPGC Engineering from domestic components. Localisation is expected to reach up to 50% in the future. “In the past year, we built a new shop and got our personnel to complete a Siemens training programme in Dubna. All suppliers of components, without exception, are selected through tenders. Localisation of manufacturing in Bashkiria will reduce the cost of modernisation of the city power grid infrastructure, create new jobs, and encourage development of similar projects in other regions, beyond Ufa and the Republic of Bashkiria. For example, a Smart Grid project is now being developed for the city of Kumertau.” Ilnur Gazizov CEO of BPGC Engineering www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 172 CONTENTS Green Economy 177 2.4.1. Greening of Business 180 2.4.2. Sustainable Consumption of Resources 184 2.4.3. Preservation of Biological Diversity 1.6 539 822 RUB bn K kWh Gcal total environmental protection expenses in 2015 reduction of the energy consumption in 2015 increase of the heat power consumption in 2015 1,580,807 3,556 3,465.44 1,428,764 3,114.36 3,223 1,256,096 2,643.23 2,684 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com 173 www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 174 GREEN ECONOMY 2.4. Green Economy While increasing its production capacity, the Corporation also takes care of the environment by ensuring environmental to 1.6 sustainability, preservation and rational use of resources, and RUB bn Sistema Group’s growth of investment introduction of rational production models and consumption in environmental protection in the course of three years patterns. Fuel and energy consumption Being an investment company, Sistema This year, Sistema has for the first time by the Corporate Centre, has no significant direct impact on the organised centralised collection of data environment. The responsibility of the on the environmental impact of the 2013–2015 Corporate Centre includes identifying Corporation’s enterprises, and intends environmental management priorities for to continue work to consolidate and analyse the subsidiaries, as well as monitoring their environmental data in order to effectively activities in the area. All companies of the manage environmental impacts. Group must strictly adhere to environmental 3,556 Sistema Group companies actively invest 3,465.44 standards and participate in environmental 3,223 programmes, as stipulated by Sistema’s Code in environmental protection, increasing 3,114.36 of Ethics. allocations every year. 2,684 In 2015, the largest amounts for 2,643.23 G4-14 environmental protection were allocated by MTS, RTI, Segezha Group, and Targin. Guided by the precautionary 2013 2014 2015 principle, Sistema strives to avoid any G4-EN31 potential harm to the environment, even if there is no definite scientific Total environmental protection Heat power, Gcal Electricity, K kWh evidence about an activity being expenses in 2015, broken down harmful, and to preserve natural by S/As, % resources. The Corporation assesses 2.6% environmental risks and takes steps 8.0% to prevent and reduce the negative Water consumption by the Corporate impact on the environment. 9.9% Centre, 2013–2015, cubic meters Direct management of the environmental 13.2% impact is carried out at the subsidiary level 35,187 and depends on their sector. In general, most 66.3% environmental efforts are aimed at increasing 22,126 energy efficiency, saving resources, managing waste, and protecting air, water, 10,504 and land resources. Special attention is MTS paid to environmental responsibility of RTI the subsidiaries that, due to the nature Segezha Group of their business, have a significant impact Targin on the environment: Segezha Group, Targin, Other SG-trans, SG-trading, BPGC, and others. 2013 2014 2015 Теплоэнергия, Гкал Электроэнергия, тыс. кВт. ч. (1) The consolidated environmental profile for 2015 is incomplete, and each indicator is shown separately. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Green Economy Greening of Business 175 G4-EN31 Structure of environmental protection The increase in greenhouse gas emissions Water consumption in 2015 by S/A, expenses in 2013–2015, %(1) by 10% over the last two years was due % to the acquisition of new assets, primarily in agriculture, and the expansion of production 1,580,807 by the subsidiaries. 1.8% 0.8% 1,428,764 9.1% 1,256,096 G4-EN15 47% 55% 53% Direct greenhouse gas emissions 46.8% in 2013–2015, tonnes(3) 53% 47% 45% 2015 183,302 41.4% 2014 169,823 2013 166,069 2013 2014 2015 RTI Agro Holding Segezha Group Others Costs of preventing environmental impact The same factors were behind the two-fold and of the environmental management system Targin increase in water consumption in 2013-2015. Costs of waste management, emissions purification, RTI, Segezha Group, Targin, and Steppe Agro and environmental damage elimination Holding are the biggest water consumers. Total environmental protection expenses in 2013–2015, RUB K From 56% to 98% of the water is taken from The bulk of water is treated by specialised water treatment plants. companies, and approximately 6% is purified using own resources. The overall amount of fines imposed on G4-EN22 Sistema Group companies decreased more than 1.7-fold in 2013-2015 to RUB 4.2m, Water consumption in 2013–2015, G4-EN22 while the number of non-monetary sanctions % (4) Total volume of waste water fell by almost 14%. discharges in 2013–2015, %(5) 208,155 195,990 G4-EN29 103,880 94.2% 94.4% Fines imposed for non-compliance 96.1% with environmental laws and 0.065% 22.16% 21.05% regulations in 2013–2015, RUB K(2) 97.48% 55.65% 57.66% 2015 4,214 2.46% 2014 12,623 22.18% 21.30% 3.9% 5.8% 5.6% 2013 7,305 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN29 Recycled water Transferred to other organisation for treatment Non-monetary sanctions imposed Water from water treatment plants (sewage) for non-compliance with environmental Water from natural sources Purified water laws and regulations in 2013–2015, Water consumption in 2013–2015, K cubic meters items (3) The consolidated profile includes: SG-trading, Detsky Mir Group, Cosmos Group, MTS Bank, MTS, SG-trans, Steppe Group, Targin, 2015 19 Intourist, and RZ Agro Holding. (4) The consolidated profile includes: RTI, SG-trading, BPGC, Detsky Mir Group, Cosmos Group, Segezha Group (since 2014), Kronstadt Group, MGTS, MTS, SG-trans, Steppe Group, Targin, Intourist, Leader Invest, Binnopharm, and RZ Agro Holding. 2014 15 (5) The consolidated profile includes: RTI, SG-trading, BPGC, Detsky Mir Group, Cosmos Group, Segezha Group (since 2014), Kronstadt Group, MGTS, MTS Bank, MTS, SG-trans, Steppe Group, Targin, Intourist, Leader Invest, Binnopharm, and RZ Agro Holding. 2013 22 (1) The consolidated profile includes: RTI, SG-trading, BPGC, Detsky Mir Group, Cosmos Group, Segezha Group (since 2014), MGTS, MTS Bank, MTS, SG-trans, Steppe Group, Targin, Intourist, Leader Invest, Binnopharm, and RZ Agro Holding. (2) The consolidated profile includes: RTI, SG-trading, BPGC, Detsky Mir Group, Cosmos Group, Segezha Group (since 2014), MGTS, MTS Bank, MTS, SG-trans, Steppe Group, Targin, Intourist, Medsi Group, and Leader Invest. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 176 GREEN ECONOMY G4-EN3 In 2013-2015, consumption of electricity and Fuel and energy consumption in 2013-2015(2) thermal energy increased by 83% and 18%, respectively, while fuel oil consumption fell by 5%. Motor fuel consumption in the same Change Indicators 2013 2014 2015 period almost doubled, reaching 106m litres in 2 years due to the expansion of the subsidiaries’ machinery fleets. At the same time, diesel power consumption, million kWh 71,394,066 92,473,285 130,671,871 +83% steadily accounts for the bulk of fuel heat consumption, Gcal 944,890 1,035,682 1,114,930 +18% consumed. boiler and furnace fuel, tonnes 2,134,741 2,184,475 2,021,017 -5% Motor fuel consumption in 2013–2015, %(1) G4-EN23 106,025,721 Total weight of waste by hazard class in 2015(3) 67,831,389 64,554,941 Hazard Class Waste, tonnes Waste,% 7% 9% 6% I 42 0.002 56% 68% II 101 0.01 52% III 4,858 0.27 37% 39% IV 1,192,466 66.25 26% V 602,497 33.47 Total 1,799,965 100.00 2013 2014 2015 LNG G4-EN23 Diesel fuel Total weight of waste by treatment method,%(4) Petrol Motor fuel consumption in 2013–2015, ltr Waste management methods 2013 2014 2015 In 2015, the total weight of waste generated Re-use 2.,84 0.93 0.54 by Sistema Group companies amounted to Multiple use 0.03 0.001 0.01 1.8m tonnes. The companies mainly generate waste of hazard class IV (66%) and V Composting 57.11 40.39 29.75 (33.5%). This is low-hazard and essentially non-hazardous waste, after the emission of Extraction of valuable which the environmental system can recover components, including 0.03 0.01 0.01 in about 3 years, or from which there is the release of energy absolutely no damage to the environment. Bulk combustion 0.04 0.01 0.01 Disposal in a landfill 19.42 46.03 60.07 Storage on a company site 0.06 0.18 0.11 Another way of disposal 20.47 12.44 9.51 (1) The consolidated profile includes: RTI, SG-trading, BPGC, Detsky Mir Group, Cosmos Group, Segezha Group (since 2014), Kronstadt Group, MGTS, MTS, SG-trans, Steppe Group, Targin, Intourist, Leader Invest, Binnopharm, and RZ Agro Holding. (2) The consolidated profile includes: RTI, SG-trading, BPGC, Cosmos Group, Kronstadt Group, MGTS, MTS, SG-trans, Steppe Group, Targin, Intourist, Medsi, and RZ Agro Holding. (3) The consolidated profile includes: RTI, SG-trading, BPGC, Detsky Mir Group, Cosmos Group, Segezha Group (since 2014), Kronstadt Group, MGTS, MTS Bank, MTS, SG-trans, Steppe Group, Targin, Intourist, Leader Invest, Binnopharm, and RZ Agro Holding. (4) The consolidated profile includes: RTI, SG-trading, BPGC, Detsky Mir Group, Cosmos Group, Segezha Group (since 2014), Kronstadt Group, MGTS, MTS Bank, MTS, SG-trans, Steppe Group, Targin, Intourist, Leader Invest, and RZ Agro Holding. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Green Economy Greening of Business Sustainable Consumption of Resources 177 2.4.1. Greening of Business The Corporation strongly supports projects that make the business more environmentally friendly, thereby minimising the environmental risks of the assets and potential negative consequences. Following international environmental trends, Sistema’s portfolio companies actively implement projects aimed at: developing reducing discharges preserving natural ensuring power sustainable methods and waste resources supply of production MTS Group has carried out a number of internal and external activities aimed at achieving one of the goals of the global environmental agenda, namely, transition to rational management of chemicals and waste, as well as minimised emissions MTS: An Ecotelecom of hazardous substances. As part of its environmental efforts, In doing business, MTS adheres to MTS assesses the environmental impact the principle of nature preservation. of production of plastic and packaging The company strives to minimise its (including SIM cards). Based on the impact on the environment. Guided assessment results, the company decided by the recommendations of ISO 26000, to introduce ecofriendly cardboard packaging it is implementing a set of environmental in 2016. measures. MTS’s procurement procedures envisage mandatory testing of all smartphones and accessories, making sure that products of 15.5 dubious quality are not admitted to tenders. m SIM-cards In some cases, smartphones were excluded were sold in the framework of the project Ecotelecom because of a strong chemical odor or fragility of the materials used. All customised equipment (smartphones, USB modems, routers, TV tuners) have EAC certificates. In addition, the packaging and accessories are marked with ”Do not dispose of with household waste”. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 178 GREEN ECONOMY In 2015, the online megastore OZON.RU launched a special section, OZON Green, on its website, which attracted more than 6,000 new customers in just one year. The section offers goods that save energy and preserve nature, and also gives useful OZON Green: Green Goods everyday tips on the green lifestyle. for a Green Lifestyle The OZON Green programme involves the company’s employees, too. As part of the project, volunteers planted trees, conducted workshops for colleagues and “In the past, OZON.RU organised only their children, learned about sorting waste, one-time campaigns involving employees, > 6,000 toured the Moscow Water Utility Plant, collected used batteries, and tried to assess without evaluating the results and their connection to the business. OZON Green customers their personal impact on the environment. is not just a project, but part of the strategy to develop internal communications in the Activists engaged third-party environmental were attracted by the ecofriendly goods’ section experts for conducting workshops and company, and the strategy of our business on OZON.RU training sessions, and each event was as a whole.” attented by an of 40 participants. Danny Perekalsky CEO of OZON.RU natural moisture content. When burned, fuel briquettes leave less than 1% in ash, compared to 20% and 40% for black and brown coal, respectively. The density of such briquettes is two times higher than that of ordinary firewood, while their price is lower. Segezha Group: Production Such briquettes are often referred to as “European firewood” by shop assistants. and Consumption of Ecofuel On 25 August 2015, a test batch of fuel briquettes was produced at Sokolsky Segezha Group strives to use and produce WWP. At present, assembly of equipment “Segezha Group adheres to common global inexpensive, reliable and modern energy for fuel briquettes production is nearing environmental policies aimed at reducing sources, increasing the share of energy completion. The company has held talks with the negative impact on the environment. from renewable sources in its overall energy the administrations of municipalities in the When implementing new projects — building balance. Sokolsky district, where many boiler houses new facilities and upgrading the existing ones use coal. Now many of them will be able we only use cutting-edge clean technologies, In 2015, the Sokol Wordworking Plant in to use fuel briquettes. increasing the share of energy produced from the Vologda region began manufacturing renewable sources.” a cutting-edge bioenergy fuel — pressed In 2016, Sokol WWP intends to build a boiler sawdust briquettes. They do not contain any running on bark waste in order to meet its Sergey Pondar harmful substances and are absolutely safe own energy needs. The company’s further and environmentally friendly. The calorific plans include an energy-efficient project for Vice-President for Production, value of fuel briquettes is close to that of production of fuel pellets, which will allow Segezha Group black bituminous coal, surpasses that of the plant to fully transition to an automated, brown coal by 25%, is twice as much as robot-aided and environmentally friendly the calorific value of dry wood, and three process of heat energy production. times as much as that of firewood with 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Green Economy Greening of Business Sustainable Consumption of Resources 179 of environmental initiatives of the largest chain of children’s goods, aimed at reducing the harmful impact on the environment. Segezha Group, which supplies ecofriendly paper bags and sacks certified according Detsky Mir Chooses to the FSC standards to major retailers Eco Packaging and manufacturers, became a partner of the project. In 2015, the project was launched in the pilot mode in Moscow and the Moscow region. The first lot Detsky Mir Group is committed to consisted of 385,000 bags. The retail price environment protection, preservation of is RUB 15 per bag, which can hold up of natural resources, and recycling of to 7 kg. Part of the proceeds goes to charity packaging. Launch of brown kraft paper programmes of Detsky Mir Charitable bags was a logical next step in the series Foundation. One of the focus areas in Segezha’s environmental efforts is the modernisation of wastewater treatment control systems. In 2015, Karelia Woodworking Plant commissioned the second part of the stormwater treatment facility, Segezha Group: the construction of which was completed in 2014. This drastically reduced the amount Modernisation of Wastewater of formaldehyde and iron in wastewater, Treatment Control Systems 35and 20-fold respectively. The Federal Service for the Supervision of Natural Resources (Rosprirodnadzor) in the Republic of Karelia confirmed the efficiency of the new facilitiy based on the results of test sampling. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 180 GREEN ECONOMY 2.4.2. Sustainable Consumption of Resources As global consumption grows, the world will soon face an acute deficit of natural resources for power generation and production of goods and other conveniences. Because of this, Sistema and its subsidiaries are making concerted efforts to reduce the energy intensity of manufacturing and introduce sustainable consumption practices, including recycling and switching to alternative energy sources, taking into account environmental and economic efficiency. On 25 September 2015, FSC Friday — an annual international campaign devoted to forest care — was held in Russia. The campaign aims at attracting the attention of the public and businesses to environmental issues and the importance Sistema Group was of using certified products in their work. The campaign is organised by the Forest the leader for waste paper Stewardship Council (FSC). collection among businesses As part of FSC Friday, Sistema, MTS and RTI which made it possible to save 28 trees, participating in FSC Friday joined the Collect Waste Paper — Help the 11,550 litres of water, 6,600 kWh of campaign Forest campaign for the first time. Together they demonstrated the best results among electricity, and to prevent the discharge of 2,805 kg of CO2 into the atmosphere. business participants, having collected In the individual ranking of companies, MTS 1,650 kg of waste paper in their offices, landed the first place, and RTI the third. MGTS, a member of MTS Group, has been developing remote customer service channels and simultaneously trying to reduce paper consumption by suggesting that its subscribers switch to electronic bills since 2015. MGTS: Saving Paper Abandoning paper bills the company will with WWF Russia not only contribute to preservation of natural resources, but will also cut its production costs by several million roubles a year. >3,000 trees Moreover, MGTS donates 1% of the funds saved on paper bills to World Wildlife Fund. will be saved from being cut down A total of 200,000 MGTS subscribers have by abandoning paper bills already switched to e-bills, which will save 3,000 trees from being cut down. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Greening of Business Sustainable Consumption of Resources Preservation of Biological Diversity 181 In 2016, it plans to introduce electronic document flow with its business travel agency (organising employees’ business trips), which will significantly cut costs of paper and courier services used. MTS: Eco Office and Waste MTS also recycles telecom equipment and re-uses materials. Since 2012, it has been Management organising the Give Up Batteries campaign at its offices to collect used batteries. Since 2012, MTS has been implementing In 2014, the campaign went beyond the the Eco Office project, which tries to involve company offices: stations for collectiing the company’s employees in environment used batteries opened at some leading protection through such initiaties as waste universities and MTS outlets. Since 22 April sorting, ecofriendly waste management, 2015, MTS retail stores have been accepting and rational use of electricity and paper. small batteries and batteries of phones, The project aims at spreading environmental tablets and other devices for safe storage, knowledge and raising employees’ transportation, and ecofriendly disposal environmental awareness. at LLC Megapolisresurs. The campaign has grown into a large network of battery In 2015, MTS’s Corporate Centre switched collection stations, which are now present to a new document registration system of in 230 cities of Russia, from Kaliningrad based on the modified web version of the to Yuzhno-Sakhalinsk. Boss-Referent Document Management System. The company also updated posters A total of 350 kg of batteries were collected promoting environmentally responsible and sent for disposal in 2015, while the behavior. aggregate result of the four years of the campaign exceeds 1,500 kg of batteries. In 2016, MTS plans to start collecting used batteries at its outlets across Russia. Mikron: Energy Mikron, part of RTI Group, was one In the course of four years, the energy Management of the first Russian high-tech companies management system allowed the Mikron to implement a comprehensive energy to reduce electricity consumption by management system that meets the 27.2%, heat energy consumption — requirements of ISO 50001:2011 in by 15.5%, and power consumption — the area of energy management. by 27.3%. In 2015, Mikron successfully passed As part of energy management the second compliance certification development and R&D work, the audit and obtained an endorsement from company is working on new products Bureau Veritas Certification. The audit with improved energy saving confirmed that the company’s energy characteristics for the markets of Russia, management system meets Korea, and China, notably, LED drivers, the requirements of ISO 50001:2011. controllers, and converters meeting the modern requirements for energy efficiency. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 182 GREEN ECONOMY As a result, the company achieved a decrease 30,000 smart meters on the borders with of the following indicators compared to 2014: consumers and at main substations. The move put the company ahead of schedule in • technological power losses in distribution the State Programme for Energy Efficiency grids — down by 28m kWh, and in and Energy Development, which was by the transmission grids — by 11m kWh; Russian government in 2014. Bashkir Power Grid Company: • consumption of heat and electrical Energy Saving and Energy energy by buildings and facilities owned Efficiency by the company — down by 0.9% and 2.5%, respectively; Indicator Programme 2014 2015 • consumption of fuel and lubricants by In the reporting year, BPGC continued BPGC for electric power transmission Modernisation Targets set by the 8.5 11.1 to implement its Energy Saving and Energy of the commercial State Programme — down by 1.8% (including a 8.9% Efficiency Programme for 2014–2023. electric power for Energy Efficiency reduction in fuel consumption). metering system and Energy (introduction of Development,% The programme also provides for introduction smart meters) of an automatic power consumption BPGC’s 11 16 performance,% metering system , and BPGC installed Leader Invest: Leader Invest consistently introduces Energy Saving new technologies in real estate Technologies construction, including installation of energy saving equipment, such in Construction as LED lighting, light control based on light and motion sensors, and fan engines, which reduce energy consumption. The aim of these innovations is to ensure sustainable use of natural resources. Pumping stations with smooth-start systems, used for hot and cold water supply, “In construction projects, we widely use allow avoiding surge of loads during technologies that help to save resources a start, and saving energy. The company necessary for the operation of apartment installs meters with pulse output, buildings, and cut living expenses. One encouraging water saving behaviour. of the company’s objectives is to minimise the negative impact on the environment, In 2015, three residential houses and that is why every year we develop new with a total area of 39,000 sq m anti-pollution technologies.” and a 31, 000 sq m office building were built using these technologies Evgeny Rubtsov in Moscow. President and Chairman of the Board of Directors, Leader Invest 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Greening of Business Sustainable Consumption of Resources Preservation of Biological Diversity 183 MTS is actively introducing alternative energy The unit turns on automatically in case sources, such as solar panels and wind of power decrease or outage. The system turbines, in its telecommunications network. is environmentally friendly and has a 5 times These sources provide power supply to base longer service life than electrochemical stations in some areas in the Far East, the batteries (15 years). Caucasus, and on the shore of the Barents MTS: Using Alternative Sea. MTS plans to continue replacing energy sources for its stations. Energy Sources In December 2015, MTS launched Russia’s only LTE base station with a backup power unit using hydrogen-air fuel. In 2015, Segezha Group participated in a number of pilot projects to address the problems of transition to intensive forest management within the framework of a government programme developed by the Russian Ministry of Natural Resources Segezha: Transition and the Federal Forestry Agency. Intensive forest management is the preferred forestry to Intensive Forest development model in the Republic of Management Karelia, since it can ensure proper treatment of forests and meet the demand for raw materials from the region’s manufacturers. 1.6 m cu m Segezha Group is a stakeholder and investor of the project, since it will significantly increase availability of wood resources for area of the leased forest fund Segezha PPM without increasing the leased Segezha Group, covered by Intensive Forest area of forest plots. The project currently Management covers 1.6m cu m, and the figure is expected to grow to 2m cu m. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 184 GREEN ECONOMY 2.4.3. Preservation of Biological Diversity Some of the Group companies’ production facilities are situated near the habitats of rare animals and plants. Sistema is aware of the need to reduce the worldwide loss of biodiversity, and not only encourages its portfolio companies to demonstrate a responsible attitude to preservation of biodiversity in the areas where they operate, but also invests in projects to protect rare species in Russia. Saving the Far Eastern Leopard Since 2012, Sistema has supported the autonomous non-profit organisation Centre for the Preservation of Leopards, annually allocating funds for environmental initiatives aimed and preservation and recovery of the population of this rare species of wild cats in the Primorye region. The donations are also used to finance biotechnical work, and to upgrade the facilities and improve the territory of “Thanks mainly to our joint efforts, the Land of the Leopard National Park. the number of leopards has increased Sistema’s contribution to the project to 85, and their habitat has expanded totals RUB 3m annually. considerably. This is a commendable In 2016, the Centre plans to carry out result!” numerous research and educational Sergey Ivanov programmes, to upgrade the security Head of the Russian Presidential system and to build a specialised Administration, Chairman of the laboratory to biomaterials. Supervisory Board of the Far Eastern Leopards non-profit 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Sustainable Consumption of Resources Preservation of Biological Diversity 185 COOPERATION WITH THE RUSSIAN For the past five years, Sistema has been GEOGRAPHICAL SOCIETY cooperating with the Russian Geographical Society (RGS), one of the oldest nongovernmental organisations in Russia, studies and preserves the country’s natural wealth. In 2015, Sistema donated RUB 10m the RGS. The money was used to finance a number 10 RUB m of studies, including integrated environmental assessment of Russian cities and regions, and of the ecological and geochemical state Sistema donated to support the RGS in 2015 of the mouth of the Don River, and to develop the first electronic atlas of Karelia. Segezha Group: The companies of Segezha Group are This land is kept intact during subsequent Protection of Rare committed to preservation of biological logging. Segezha Group pays special Species diversity, including at the local level attention to the preservation of lungwort (the level of forest plots), and they (Lobaria pulmonaria), a red-listed lichen. conduct their business in accordance with the recommendations of the In December 2015, Segezha Group was regional forest management and named the most responsible forest user environmental authorities. in the Woodland Tenants Rating compiled by the Northern Environmental Coalition, At the end of 2015, high conservation a Karelian NGO. value forests accounted for for 21% of Segezha’s total leased forest area. Protected natural areas, where no production activities are allowed, totaled over 900 ha, and another 338 ha are >900 ha classified as area of concentration of rare protected natural areas, where no production and endangered species. When marking activities are allowed cutting areas, elements of biodiversity and biotopes are marked with tape and shown in operating charts as non-commercial land. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 186 GREEN ECONOMY MTS Armenia: The Caucasus is one of the world’s high-speed Internet for online monitoring Preserving biologically richest areas, and has the of the area through IP and GPS Biological greatest biodiversity among the forest cameras, as well as for fast and efficient regions of temperate latitudes. There communication between the Reserve’s Diversity are 6,500 vascular plant species, 25% employees. In 2015, the operator helped in the Caucasus of which are unique to the region, as well as some endemic animals, to launch air drones equipped with cameras for monitoring the territory. including the East and West Caucasian turs, the Armenian mouflon, and the Caucasian salamander. In addition, the large differences in altitude, the varied climate, soils and vegetative conditions form a wide range of landscapes, from semideserts to alpine tundra. Since 2010, the Foundation for the Preservation of Wildlife and Cultural Assets of Armenia (FPWC) with the support of VivaCell-MTS, a member of MTS Group, has been protecting natural areas in the South Caucasus, by renting or buying them. “The Research Centre of the Reserve plays an important part in the By the end of 2015, the area of the monitoring and protection of biodiversity Caucasian Nature Reserve exceeded in the region. We were happy to provided 4,000 ha. In addition to preservation state-of-the-art monitoring equipment of natural areas, the Reserve is used for the Reserve, and are looking forward as a territory for research, educational to hearing about new discoveries that activities, and ecotourism. VivaCell-MTS will be made using this equipment.” uses available technology to improve control over the preservation of the pristine natural environment of the Ralph Yirikyan Reserve. In 2014, the company provided CEO of VivaCell-MTS 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com 187 Appendices 188 Appendix 1. About this Report and Determining Materiality 195 Appendix 2. Implementation of Sustainable Development Plans in 2015 199 Appendix 3. Shared Value Projects of Sistema Group 201 Appendix 4. Table of Compliance with GRI G4 Guidelines and the UN Global Compact Principles 206 Appendix 5. Certificate of Public endorsement of a Corporate Non-Financial Report by the RSPP Council 207 Glossary and Abbreviations 209 Contacts www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 188 APPENDICES Appendix 1. About this Report and Determining Materiality G4–30 Sistema continues the practice of preparing PRIORITY ASPECTS OF THE REPORT IDENTIFYING MATERIAL ASPECTS annual non-financial reports, and is hereby FOR 2015 FOR DISCLOSURE IN THE REPORT presenting its third Sustainability Report (hereinafter — the Report). Previously, the 1. Responsible investment in the national The materiality assessment procedure in Corporation published several social reports economy accordance with the requirements of the GRI (since 2006) (1). The previous Sustainability 2. Improving the quality of life in Russian G4 Guidelines was for the first time followed Report for 2014 was published in the fourth regions when preparing the 2014 Sustainability quarter of 2015. Report. 3. Ensuring technological leadership G4–28 G4–29 For details on the defining materiality, see Sistema’s 2014 Sustainability Report, Some of Sistema Group companies prepare LEVEL OF APPLICATION OF THE GRI p.p. 16–17 their own public non-financial reports, GUIDELINES detailing their approaches to sustainable In the preparation of this Report, the development, social projects, and interaction This Report has been prepared on the basis Corporation updated the materiality of with stakeholders. They are MTS (since of recommendations of the Sustainability the disclosed aspects. This year’s list of 2009), Detsky Mir (first report for 2013– Reporting Guidelines (G4 version) of Global important topics was formed based on last 2014), and Segezha Group (first report Reporting Initiative (GRI), in accordance with year’s material aspects, supplemented with for 2014–2015). the core disclosure level. specific topics related to the Corporation’s The purpose of this Report is to inform activities in 2015, and aligned with the GRI G4-32 a wide range of stakeholders (the public) aspects. about the principles, goals, practical results, The place of standard disclosures and prospects of Sistema’s activities in and performance indicators is shown the field of sustainable development and in Appendix 4. corporate social responsibility. The Report represents a comprehensive picture of The Report also takes into account: Sistema’s efforts in the above areas in 2015. •• The principles of the UN Global Compact; •• The provisions of the Social Charter of Russian Business; •• The basic performance indicators developed by RSPP; •• The Responsibility and Transparency Index and the Sustainable Development Vector Index (developed by RSPP and the European University in St Petersburg). (1) For more information: http://www.sistema.ru/ustoichivoe-razvitie/socialnye-otchety/ 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Appendix 1 Appendix 2 189 G4–18 Stages of Defining Materiality(1) Stage 1. Identifying Stage 2. Evaluation Stage 3. Identifying Stage 4. Building significant topics of topics’ materiality the Company’s impact the materiality matrix (aspects) by stakeholders on the aspects • Compiling a list • Surveying 48 • Surveying 6 members • 7 aspects are of 25 aspects based representatives of the work group(2) recognised as material on the 2015 list of stakeholders Number of questionnaires received In the course of the survey, stakeholders from the Corporation's internal assessed the materiality of each of the topics and external stakeholders, items proposed for disclosure in the Report on a 5-grade scale. They were also asked to elaborate the wording of important topics and propose additional ones. Members of the working group, which comprised Sistema 17 employees involved in the preparation of the Report, assessed the impact of the Corporation on each of the 25 material aspects, also on a 5-grade scale. 31 Internal External (1) Internal: personnel and management (20 representatives), subsidiaries and affiliates (11 representatives). External: shareholders (an independent member of Sistema’s Board of Directors), investment community (Russian-Chinese Investment Fund), innovative development institutions (RUSNANO), government authorities (the Russia Ministry of Economic Development, the Karelian Ministry of Economic Development and Industry) and public supervision bodies (the Public Chamber of the City of Moscow), professional bodies (including the Association of Managers, the Industrialists’ Roundtable on Cooperation with the European Union) and expert organizations (the Russian Government’s Analytical Centre), social and charity organizations (the Russian National Council of Corporate Volunteering, the Donors Forum, the Charities Aid Foundation (CAF)) and environmental organisations (World Wide Fund for Nature Russia, the Forest Stewardship Council Russia), educational institutions and scientific community (the CSR Centre at the Moscow International Higher Business School MIRBIS, the Research Centre for Civic Institutions Economics, and the High School of Management and Innovation of the Lomonosov Moscow State University, the European University of St Petersburg). (2) D. Kolchugin – Corporate Communications Manager; S. Kopytov – Managing PR Director; Y. Krebs – IR Director; A. Menshikova – Director for Methodology, the Internal Control and Audit Department; I. Petrov – Corporate Secretary, Head of the Secretariat of the Board of Directors; S. Syomkin – Executive Vice President for GR. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 190 APPENDICES Materiality Matrix Compared to the previous year, stakeholders’ involvement in the 5 preparation of the Report has grown considerably: the number of questionnaires received grew 15 almost by 50%, and of those received from external stakeholders 1 — by 20%. 18 9 12 The results of the survey of 4.5 19 10 13 stakeholders and the working group was used to built a materiality matrix, which offers a visual representation of sustainable development topics that are material 22 11 for Sistema. The horizontal axis shows the Corporation’s impact on material aspects, while materiality 4 17 of the aspects for stakeholders is 4 4.5 5 shown on the vertical axis. The 7 topics that ended up at the top of the materiality matrix were deemed as priority and mandatory for disclosure in the Report. 5 15 1 18 9 12 4.5 16 19 10 13 2 22 11 4 24 17 20 5 21 14 Aspect materiality for stakeholders 3.5 25 23 6 3 7 8 3 4 2.5 2 1.5 1 0.5 The significance of Corporation impact on the aspect 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5 4 4.5 5 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Appendix 1 Appendix 2 191 G4–19 Complete List of Significant Topics(1) Item Aspect № Economy 1. Economic performance of Sistema and its subsidiaries Activities of Sistema and its subsidiaries to ensure the country’s technological leadership: projects for implementation of innovation 2. and modernisation of manufacturing, development of high-tech industries, and investment in infrastructure Environment Activities aimed at the development of a green (environmentally responsible) economy: projects for greening of businesses 3. in Russia, promotion of ecofriendly products 4. Programmes of Sistema and its subsidiaries aimed at preservation of biological diversity in the regions of their operation 5. Compliance of Sistema and its subsidiaries with legal requirements in the field of environmental protection 6. Total investments of Sistema and its subsidiaries in environmental protection 7. Data on emissions by Sistema’s subsidiaries (volume and intensity of emissions, reduction of emissions) Data on discharges and waste generation by Sistema’s subsidiaries (volume and intensity of discharges and waste generation, their 8. reduction) Human Resources Sistema and its subsidiaries as attractive employers: the level of wages paid to employees in the regions of operations, the share of 9. executive positions held by local candidates 10. The main characteristics of personnel of Sistema and its subsidiaries (headcount, turnover, employee benefits) 11. Employee health and safety in the workplace at Sistema and its subsidiaries 12. Employee training and education at Sistema and its subsidiaries (training programmes, duration of training) Ongoing training programmes implemented by Sistema and its subsidiaries to train specialists for innovative sectors of the Russian 13. economy 14. Openness and quality of communication between employees and the management of Sistema and its subsidiaries 15. Business ethics and anti-corruption practices at Sistema and its subsidiaries Human rights 16. Non-discrimination at Sistema and its subsidiaries (by gender, ethnicity, religion) 17. Data on training programmes for employees of security units of Sistema and its subsidiaries on the observance of human rights Regions of presence and communities 18. Charitable activities and social investment of Sistema and its subsidiaries Contributions made by Sistema and its subsidiaries to the development of the regions of their operations and local communities 19. (support of healthcare, development of domestic tourism, integrated development of territories, enhancement of the country's food security) Participation of Sistema and its subsidiaries in the development of government policies (development of federal and/or regional 20. legislation, political contributions) 21. Compliance of Sistema and its subsidiaries with antitrust laws 22. Social partnership and interaction of Sistema and its subsidiaries with local communities, regional and local authorities 23. Data on fines and non-financial penalties or sanctions for noncompliance with laws, imposed on Sistema and its subsidiaries (1) Topics highlighted in bold were deemed material. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 192 APPENDICES Item Aspect № Product responsibility Ways to ensure health and safety of consumers of products and services of Sistema’s subsidiaries (assessment of the impact 24. of products and services on consumers’ health, steps taken to minimise harmful effects) Data on fines and non-financial penalties or sanctions for non-compliance with laws in the field of product liability, imposed 25. on Sistema’s subsidiaries G4–20 G4–23 REPORT BOUNDARIES Boundaries of GRI Indicators Disclosure in the Report(1) Sistema’s Subsidiaries Aspect GRI Indicator No. Corporate Centre and affiliates G4-EC1 ✓ ✓ Economic performance of Sistema and its subsidiaries in 2015 G4-EC4 ✓ G4-EC5 ✓ Sistema and its subsidiaries as attractive employers G4-EC6 ✓ G4-LA1 ✓ ✓ Main characteristics of employees of Sistema and its subsidiaries in 2015 G4-LA2 ✓ ✓ G4-LA3 ✓ Employee training and education at Sistema and its subsidiaries in 2015 G4-LA9 ✓ ✓ Ongoing training programmes implemented by Sistema and its subsidiaries to train –​ ✓ ✓ specialists for innovative sectors of the Russian economy G4–56 ✓ ✓ Business ethics and anti-corruption practices at Sistema and its subsidiaries in 2015 G4-SO4 ✓ G4-SO5 ✓ ✓ Charitable activities and social investment of Sistema and its subsidiaries in 2015 –​ ✓ ✓ G4–17 G4–22 The results of production, financial and The list of legal entities whose reports The Report does not contain restatements economic activities of Sistema included in were included in the consolidated financial of indicators given in the previous reports the Report are presented on a consolidated statements is published on the Corporation’s of the Corporation. basis for the Corporation as a whole (unless website(2). otherwise stated) and are based on the audited financial statements prepared in accordance with the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). G4–21 (1) Aspects were deemed immaterial outside the Corporation. (2) The consolidated financial statements of Sistema and its subsidiaries for 2015. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Appendix 1 Appendix 2 193 DISCLAIMER The unaudited non-financial report for 2015 contains assessments and forward-looking statements with respect to industrial, financial, economic, social, and other indicators describing the development of the Corporation. For various reasons, actual events or results in future reports may differ materially from those contained in projections or forecasts, due to the rapidly changing situation on the markets, as well as many other factors and risks related to the activities of Sistema and its subsidiaries. PUBLIC (EXTERNAL) ASSURANCE OF THE REPORT Sistema’s 2015 Sustainability Report has passed the external assurance procedure, which was performed by the RSPP Council for Non-Financial Reporting. For the Opinion on Public endorsement, see Appendix 5. Recommendations and comments received in the process will be taken into account as far as possible during future reporting cycles. G4–33 Taking into account recommendations of the RSPP Council for non-financial reporting, given based on Sistema’s 2014 Sustainability Report Recommendation of the RSPP Council for non-financial reporting Consideration and implementation of the recommendations (excerpt(1)) in the 2015 Report Done; see: 1.2. Corporate Governance; 1. Provide more information on how the values and principles 1.4. Procurement Activities; communicated by the Corporate Centre are introduced 1.5. Risk Management; in the decision-making process and management systems of the subsidiaries. 1.6. Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Activities; 1.7. Personnel Management; 1.9. Managing Corporate Social Responsibility. 2. Increase the number of indicators, aggregated for the Group, The Group’s consolidated figures are given for all all major areas and show their development for at least three years of the Corporation’s activities. In future, we plan to consolidate these indicators on an annual basis to show the dynamics for three years. 3. Include more indicators in the Corporation’s consolidated report; show the key performance results against the triple bottom line for Done; see: the whole Group and for its key assets. Section 1. Profile of the Corporation. Done; see: 4. Provide more information on how the principles of responsible Sustainable Development Agenda; investing are applied to Sistema’s business strategy and its policy 1.1. Investment Strategy; in this area. 1.9. Managing Corporate Social Responsibility. 5. Show the approaches used to measure the impact Done; see: of the Corporation’s social projects on target audiences. 1.9. Managing Corporate Social Responsibility. Done. 6. Include information on specific measures and expected results, both The description of the Corporation’s impact on the external environment, qualitative and quantitative indicators, in line with the best practices and the results of CSR management have been supplemented with of non-financial reporting. quantitative indicators. 7. Decide on the list of environmental indicators to be consolidated Done; see: at the Corporation’s level and disclosed in reports; provide more Sustainable Development Agenda. information on Sistema’s position with regard to the environmental aspects of sustainable development and management in this area. 2.4. Green Economy. (1) The full version of the RSPP’s opinion on external assurance. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 194 APPENDICES Done; see: 8. Expand the interpretation of corporate social responsibility Sustainable Development Agenda; to consider all of the Corporation’s activities in this context. 1.9. Managing Corporate Social Responsibility The reach of stakeholders’ survey held to identify material topics 9. Make maximum use of the opportunities provided by interaction for disclosure has been expanded. with stakeholders in the course of preparation and presentation of the Report, including dialogues and public hearings. We plan to organise a public presentation of the 2015 Report for stakeholders. G4–31 For any information regarding this Report and its contents, please contact Dmitry Kolchugin, Corporate Communications Manager at the Corporate Communications Function of Sistema, by phone: +7 (495) 737–01–01, +7 (495) 692–10–88 or by e-mail: kolchugin@sistema.ru 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Appendix 1 Appendix 2 Appendix 3 195 Appendix 2. Implementation of Sustainable Development Plans in 2015 Item Plan Status No. Corporate Governance 1. Implement the dividend policy Done(1) Improve the procedures of Board meetings; increase Board members’ involvement in the development of the 2. Corporation's strategy and its specific projects; develop communications between Board members and the management Done Maintain the high level of the corporate governance system; align its elements with the new listing requirements 3. of the Moscow Stock Exchange Done 4. Carry out corporate governance audits at S/As Done Carry out an external evaluation of the work of Sistema's Board of Directors for compliance with the new Corporate 5. Governance Code, as recommended by the Russian Central Bank in 2014 Done Interaction with Shareholders and Investors Increase the amount and quality of information disclosure at the majority of key assets, including disclosure of Segezha 6. Group’s results together with the release of information on Sistema's performance Done 7. Get S/As ready for independent disclosure of financial information in accordance with IFRS In progress(2) 8. Organise regular meetings between the Corporation’s top managers and investors Done 9. Overhaul Sistema’s website, providing more information about its assets and CSR activities 10. Update one of the key regulations, the Tender Procedures and Procurement Code Done 11. Analyse the Corporation's needs for certain categories of goods for consolidated procurement Done 12. Reform procurement processes at Targin and Segezha Group in order to enhance the effect on performance indicators Done 13. Increase the share of purchases made using electronic trading platforms Done 14. Organise a series of workshops on procurement to exchange best practices and provide methodological support to S/As In progress(3) Risk Management Improve the existing risk management mechanisms and procedures both at the Corporate Centre and at S/As, 15. with a focus on financial risk management Done 16. Implement the ERM process at the new assets in accordance with corporate standards Done Business Ethics 17. Update Sistema’s Code of Ethics Done Organise distance and in-person training of employees on compliance with the legislation and internal procedures 18. of the Corporation related to the requirements of the Code of Ethics and insider information Done 19. Modernise the personal data protection system due to changes in legislation Done 20. Introduce a mechanism for resolving conflicts of interest Done Anticorruption Efforts Improve the anti-corruption system at Sistema, including investment and procurement processes and contractual 21. activities, as part of implementation of the HR policy Done 22. Introduce common anti-corruption procedures for all S/As of the Corporation Done 23. Monitor the relevance of and compliance with regulations on implementation of Sistema's Anticorruption Policy Done 24. Use information resources to carry out anticorruption activities Done 25. Organise distance training for employees on compliance with Sistema’s Anticorruption Policy Done (1) In 2016, Sistema plans to adopt a new progressive dividend policy to offer attractive returns for shareholders. (2) Sistema began disclosing financial information in accordance with IFRS in 2015. (3) In 2016, it plans to establish a procurement centre of excellence within the Corporation (to organise workshops, and share knowledge and best practices among S/As). www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 196 APPENDICES Item Plan Status No. Prevent and/or stop legal entities and individuals committing corrupt acts that cause physical and/or reputational 26. damage to the Corporation Done Compensate for the damage caused by corrupt activities, minimise and/or eliminate the consequences of corruption27. related offenses Done 28. Inform the Corporation’s management corruption-related incidents and economic damage caused Done 29. Perform financial and economic audits of S/As Done Personnel Management Introduce tools to improve the performance efficiency of senior executives: •• improve the procedure for recruiting executives; 30. •• develop and implement performance assessment of the Corporation’s executives; Done •• introduce flexible mechanisms of cooperation with portfolio managers using the best practices of the Private Equity sector, including project contracts; •• develop common criteria for measuring success of S/As’ CEOs and approaches to their professional development Create a system of continuity and a succession pool at the Corporation: 31. •• develop a continuity programme for senior executive positions; Done •• develop the Talent Pool project Create opportunities for retention and development of efficient employees: •• update the system of bonuses for project execution for the Corporation’s employees; 32. •• develop the principles of project motivation for S/As; Done •• create an environment for continuous professional development; •• shape the Corporation’s HR community Improve the corporate culture: •• improve the quality of corporate events; Being 33. •• develop loyalty programmes for employees; implemented(1) •• build the image of an attractive employer; •• improve the quality of internal communications; •• assess the level of employee engagement Corporate Social Responsibility Management Improve the CSR management system within the Group: •• update corporate policies on CSR and philanthropic activities; Being 34. •• focus the CSR and philanthropy strategy on priority and promising areas; restructure the social investment portfolio; implemented(2) •• improve the performance efficiency of Sistema Charitable Foundation by making the Supervisory Board more active and involving independent expertise in the development and implementation of the social investment strategy and the programme of charitable activities. Increase the transparency of CSR activities; introduce unified principles and standards of non-financial reporting: 35. •• organise training for employees of Sistema and S/As responsible CSR on corporate non-financial reporting; Done •• introduce annual social reports at Sistema; •• increase the number of S/As that prepare social reporting in accordance with the GRI standards; (1) The next cycle of the employee engagement survey is scheduled for 2016. (2) The composition of the corporate governance bodies of SCF will be updated in 2016, along with development of a new strategy. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Appendix 1 Appendix 2 Appendix 3 197 Item Plan Status No. Being 36. Standardise the CSR function at S/As; implemented Develop CSR integration within Sistema Group: 37. •• replicate best CSR practices among S/As; Done •• define and distribute S/A’s areas of responsibility for priority social projects, develop joint initiatives; Improve the efficiency of social projects while keeping social investment reasonable: 38. •• increase the number of joint CSR projects with S/As, and shared value projects; Done •• develop social and economic partnerships with authorities in the regions where the Group operates. Develop volunteering: 39. •• further promote volunteering, increase the involvement of Sistema’s S/As in the movement and the share Done of the Corporation’s employees involved; •• upscale projects by involving social partners GR, Contribution to the Development of Regions where the Corporation Operates 40. Update the policy Sistema’s Interaction with Government Authorities and Public Officials Done Analyse anti-crisis measures in the sectors where the Corporation operates; prepare proposals with regard to the key 41. industry initiatives and government programmes and communicate them to the Russian government Done Develop comprehensive cooperation with the government of the Republic of Karelia to modernise the region's timber 42. industry and launch new joint projects Done Conclude cooperation agreements with regions that have good prospects of the timber industry: the Arkhangelsk, 43. Vologda, Kirov, and Irkutsk regions Done 44. Organize regular communication the administration of the Krasnoyarsk region Done Develop contacts with other countries, such as India, Saudi Arabia, and China; ensure participation of representatives 45. of Sistema and/or S/As in the meetings of intergovernmental commissions and their specialised committees devoted to Done international economic issues that are of interest to the Corporation Implementation of the Lift to the Future National Scientific and Educational Programme Organise and support regional stages of the System of Priorities competition, aimed at involving students of secondary 46. and vocational schools in regional innovative development programmes Done Implement programmes of advanced training for school and university students and teachers on the basis of the Lift 47. to the Future regional science schools Done Participate in the development of additional education programmes for school and university students and teachers Being 48. in the field of innovative engineering design, with view to staff the Lift to the Future programme implemented Charity and Social Investment 49. Carry out key long-term projects in the focus areas of Sistema Charitable Foundation Done Redistribute resources in favor of implementation of the most efficient and promising projects with higher social 50. importance Done 51. Strengthen the role of private and public partnerships in the implementation of social and charity projects. Done 52. Expand the range of partners involved in the implementation of the Corporation’s social and charity projects Done 53. Expand programmes targeting local communities in the key regions of the Corporation's operations Done 54. Create a single mechanism for receiving charitable donations on the basis of MTS Bank’s online payment services Done www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 198 APPENDICES Item Plan Status No. Increase public awareness of the Corporation’s social and charitable activities, including launch of the updated website 55. of Sistema Charitable Foundation; expand cooperation with mass media Done Ecology and Environment Protection 56. Continue cooperation with the Russian Geographical Society and the Centre for the Preservation Leopards Done Expand cooperation with regional authorities and environmental NGOs in implementation of forest management 57. projects Done Implement the programme for preservation of red deer as part of development of the Republic of Altay’s tourist 58. and recreational potential Done Interaction with the Academic Community and Educational Institutions Continue cooperation with the Moscow Lomonosov State University to develop the joint department, the High School 59. of Management and Innovation (HSMI) Done Develop and expand cooperation between the HSMI and Sistema Group companies; develop a curriculum for the 60. bachelor degree programme in Innovation Done Hold the International Youth Innovation Summit together with the Higher School of Economics and the SKOLKOVO 61. Moscow School of Management Done Continue cooperation with the Russian Federal Nuclear Centre All-Russian Research Institute of Experimental Physics 62. for the development of Sarov Technopark Done 63. Expand cooperation with Russian universities under the Lift to the Future programme Done 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Appendix 2 Appendix 3 Appendix 4 199 Appendix 3. Shared Value Projects of Sistema Group Partners / No. Initiators Project Value for the business Value for the community participants Vocational guidance in the sphere Lift to the Future —support to Building a succession pool Sistema of high technologies; training 1. and SCF talented youth; promotion of for Sistema and S/As in the of a new generation of personnel 13 S/As natural and technical sciences long term for science-driven industries Increased engagement Sistema Expanding the scope of non11 S/As 2. and SCF Corporate Volunteer Centre and non-financial motivation financial charity 16 social partners of personnel (HR) FSC Friday — collection of waste Reducing the costs of waste Reducing the harmful impact 3. Sistema paper in offices for processing paper disposal on the environment MTS, RTI Medsi, Stream, Search for advanced Support, development, and Telecom Idea — sourcing MTS Bank, solutions and new market promotion of projects and 4. MTS and launching innovative youth niches for telecom and other inventions of young scientists SITRONICS, projects in the field of ICT NVision Group, industries and entrepreneurs RVC, HSE, etc Reduction in the rate of child Safe Childhood — prevention Increasing the loyalty The Bashkirian injuries at power facilities, raising 6. BPGC of child electricity-caused of customers and local electrical safety awareness of Ministry of injuries authorities Education children, parents and teachers Participate! campaign — Promotion of philanthropy collecting goods for Increasing customer loyalty 7. Detsky Mir underprivileged children and store revenue and volunteering; assistance MTS to orphanages and social services at Detsky Mir stores Increasing brand awareness Operation 'Toys’ — opening Contribution to the development among the target audience, 8. Detsky Mir playrooms in hospitals in the increasing its value of local communities and regions of operations children’s healthcare for customers Sistema, MTS, MGTS, RTC, MTS Attracting new customers and Be Healthy with MEDSI! – Promoting public awareness Bank, SG-trans, 9. Medsi promotion of a healthy lifestyle corporate partners, increasing about health care activities Detsky Mir, loyalty of existing ones Stream, OZON, NVision Group MTS Bank (financial Increasing the number Adaptation and socialisation Internet for All Ages and Mobile literacy) of users and brand awareness of older people in today's Academy — teaching older The Russian 10. MTS people to use the Internet and in the age group with the digital society; expansion of Union of lowest level of Internet the database of public e-services mobile services Pensioners, penetration users 50 Plus project, and others Children Online, Children The Foundation Teach Adults — training for for Internet schoolchildren, parents, Promotion of data services; Promotion of Internet safety 11. MTS and teachers on how to use growth of mobile Internet use for children and adults Development, IT Department the Internet safely and benefit of Moscow from it www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 200 APPENDICES Partners / No. Initiators Project Value for the business Value for the community participants Promotion of online banking Creating an online service services, expansion of the Involving the bank's clients in 12. MTS Bank for receiving donations customer base, customer social and charitable projects SCF loyalty Promotion of sustainable lifestyle Ecofriendly paper bags Expansion of the sales market and consumption patterns, 13. Detsky Mir at the chain’s stores for packaging products reduction of the impact on the Segezha Group environment Encouraging the development Small Businesses of small and medium-sized Support programme for small Expansion of the base of Moscow 14. MGTS and medium-sized businesses of corporate customers businesses in Moscow; state-financed contribution to the development organisation of local communities. Preservation of natural resources Reduction of production 15. MGTS Transition to electronic bills costs through reduced paper WWF Russia consumption Reducing the impact on the Segezha Line for production of sawdust More efficient use of raw 16. Group fuel briquettes materials (waste) environment through use of ecofriendly fuel 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Appendix 3 Appendix 4 Glossary and Abbreviations 201 Appendix 4. Table of Compliance with GRI G4 Guidelines and the UN Global Compact Principles Index Location in No. of the Indicator Disclosure the Report, indicator page Strategy and Analysis A statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organisation about the relevance 1. G4-1 of sustainability to the organisation and the organisation’s strategy for addressing Full 17 sustainability Organizational Profile 2. G4-3 The name of the company Full 26 3. G4-4 The primary brands, products and/or services Full 34 4. G4-5 Location of the organisation's headquarters Full 26 Number of countries where the organisation operates, and names of countries with either 5. G4-6 major operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered Full 34 in the report 6. G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Full 26 Markets served, including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers 7. G4-8 and beneficiaries Full 34 Scale of the organisation, including: •• number of employees; •• net sales (for private sector organisations) or net revenues (for public sector 8. G4–9 organisations); Full 34 •• total capitalisation, broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organisations); •• quantity of products or services provided •• Total number of employees by employment contract and gender; •• total number of permanent employees by type of employment and gender; •• total workforce broken down by employees and supervised workers and by gender; 34 9. G4–10 •• total workforce by region and gender; Full 66 •• portion of work performed by employees that are legally recognis ed as self-employed 67 or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors •• seasonal variations in employment. 10. G4–11 Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining agreement Full 72 11. G4–12 Description of the organisation’s supply chain Full 29 Significant changes regarding the organisation’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain in the reporting period, including: •• changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions; 32 12. G4–13 Full 34 •• changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private sector organisations); •• changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection and termination 13. G4–14 Use of the precautionary principle Full 174 Externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other 14. G4–15 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses Full 27 www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 202 APPENDICES Index Location in No. of the Indicator Disclosure the Report, indicator page Memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organisations in which the organisation: •• holds a position on the governance body; 15. G4–16 Full 27 •• participates in projects or committees; •• provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues; •• views membership as strategic Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries 16. G4–17 List of entities included in the organisation’s consolidated financial statements Full 192 •• The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries; 17. G4–18 •• explanation of how the organisation has implemented the Reporting Principles Full 189 for Defining Report Content 18. G4–19 List of all the material Aspects identified in the process of defining report content Full 191 19. G4–20 Description of each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundary within the organisation Full 192 20. G4–21 Description of each material Aspect, the Aspect Boundary outside the organisation Full 192 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons 21. G4–22 for such restatements Full 192 22. G4–23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries Full 192 Stakeholder Engagement 23. G4–24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation Full 90 24. G4–25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage Full 90 •• The organisation’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group; 90 25. G4–26 Full 91 •• indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how 26. G4–27 the organisation has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its Full 91 reporting Report Profile 27. G4–28 Reporting period for information provided Full 188 28. G4–29 Date of most recent previous report Full 188 29. G4–30 Reporting cycle Full 188 30. G4–31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents Full 194 The ‘in accordance’ option the organisation has chosen. The GRI Content Index 31. G4–32 for the chosen option. Reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report Full 188 has been externally assured. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Appendix 3 Appendix 4 Glossary and Abbreviations 203 Index Location in No. of the Indicator Disclosure the Report, indicator page The organisation’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report; 32. G4–33 •• Scope and basis of any external assurance provided; Full 193 •• relationship between the organisation and the assurance providers; •• whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the organisation’s sustainability report Corporate Governance Governance structure of the organisation, including committees of the highest governance 33. G4-34 body. Any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and Full 43 social impacts Ethics and Integrity The organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of 34. G4-56 conduct and codes of ethics Full 57 Category: Economic Aspect: Economic performance(1) 35. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Full In accordance with the financial information 36. G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Full standards of Sistema’s 2015 Annual Report, 38 37. G4-ЕС4 Financial assistance received from government Full 39 Aspect: Market Presence(2) 38. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Full Ratio of the entry level wage by gender at significant locations of operation 39. G4-EC5 to the minimum wage Full 69 Percentage of senior management at significant locations of operation that are hired 40. G4-EC6 from the local community Full 67 Category: Environmental Aspect: Energy 41. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Full 42. G4-EN3 Total fuel consumption within the organisation Full 176 Aspect: Emissions 43. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Full 44. G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions Full 175 (1) Corresponds to the aspect No. 1 in the Materiality Matrix. (2) Сcorresponds to the aspect No. 9 in the Materiality Matrix www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 204 APPENDICES Index Location in No. of the Indicator Disclosure the Report, indicator page Aspect: Effluents and Waste 45. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Full 46. G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Full 175 47. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Full 176 Compliance 48. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Full Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions 49. G4-EN29 for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations Full 175 Aspect: Overall 50. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Full 174 51. G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type Full 175 Category: Social, Sub-Category: Labour Practices and Decent Work Aspect: Employment(1) 52. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Full Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, 53. G4-LA1 gender and region Full 67 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not providedto temporary or parttime 54. G4-LA2 employees, by significant locations of operation Full 70 55. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Full 72 Aspect: Training and Education (2) 56. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Full 57. G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category Full 79 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued 58. G4-LA10 employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings Full 79 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, 59. G4-LA11 by gender and by employee category Full 76 Category: Social, Sub-Category: Human Rights Aspect: Non-discrimination 60. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Full 61. G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Full 58 Aspect: Child Labour 62. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Full Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labour, 63. G4-HR5 and measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labour Full 58 (1) Corresponds to the aspect No. 10 in the Materiality Matrix. (2) Corresponds to the aspect No. 12 in the Materiality Matrix. 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Appendix 3 Appendix 4 Appendix 5 205 Index Location in No. of the Indicator Disclosure the Report, indicator page Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labour 64. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Full Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced 65. G4-HR6 or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced Full 58 or compulsory labour Category: Social, Sub-Category: Society Aspect: Anti-corruption (1) 66. G4-DMA Disclosure on Management Approach Full 67. G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures Full 62 68. G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Full 62 IMPLEMENTATION OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Classification Principles GRI G4 Indicators Location in the Report Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 1.6. Business Ethics proclaimed human rights. G4-HR1, G4-HR3, and Anti-Corruption Human Rights Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human G4-HR7 See 2014 Sustainability rights abuses. Report Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective G4-11 1.7. Personnel Management recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced G4-HR6 1.6. Business Ethics and compulsory labour. Labour/ and Anti-Corruption Management Businesses should uphold effective abolition of child labour. G4-HR5 Relations 1.6. Business Ethics and Anti-Corruption Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect G4-HR1, G4-HR3, of employment and occupation. G4-HR7 See 2014 Sustainability Report Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental G4-14 challenges. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment G4-EN3, G4-EN15, 2.4. Green Economy environmental responsibility. G4-EN22, G4-EN23, Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion G4-EN29, G4-EN31 of environmentally friendly technologies. AntiBusinesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 1.6. Business Ethics G4-SO4, G4-SO5 Corruption extortion and bribery. and Anti-Corruption (1) Corresponds to the aspect No. 15 in the Materiality Matrix. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 206 APPENDICES Appendix 5. Certificate of Public endorsement of a Corporate Non-Financial Report by the RSPP Council 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Appendix 4 Appendix 5 Glossary and Abbreviations 207 Glossary and Abbreviations GLOSSARY Acceleration programme a programme of intensive development of companies through mentoring, training, financial and expert support in exchange for a stake in the company’s equity Corporate social responsibility the responsibility of a company for the impact of its decisions and activities on the society and the (CSR) environment through transparent and ethical behaviour that contributes to sustainable development, takes into account the expectations of the stakeholders, complies with the applicable legislation and conforms to international rules of conduct; a set of obligations voluntarily and consensually undertaken with the involvement of key stakeholders, including implementing internal and external social and environmental programmes, which is regularly revised and complies with the company’s unique features and development level Creating shared value a business concept that identifies the link between competitive advantages and CSR, and envisages implementation of projects that have a positive impact both on the company and the stakeholders Disclosure on Management a description of the way the organisation identifies and analyses its actual or potential economic, Approach (DMA) environmental and social impacts, and how it deals with such impacts Hackathon a forum of software developers where experts from different fields work together to solve a particular issue Harvest the ”working weekends” concept, a programme for accelerated development of innovative business projects from scratch Key Performance Indicator (KPI) an integrated performance indicator of a business unit or an official that shows the achievement of the goals within a certain period of time LED driver a device stabilising the current flowing through LEDs Meet-up a meeting of experts in an informal setting to discuss any topic or a range of topics Mentoring teaching by providing the learner with different types of action models and their adjustment through feedback Protected areas (PAs) land, water and corresponding air space, with natural complexes and objects of special conservational, scientific, cultural, aesthetic, recreational and health-promoting value, which are withdrawn from economic use in full or in part and for which a special protection regime is established Roadshow a series of meetings with potential investors and analysts in key cities around the world Russian Union of Industrialists a national Russian public organisation representing the interests of the business community and Entrepreneurs (RSPP) Smart Grid an upgraded electricity grid that uses information and communication technologies for accounting and control of energy transmission and consumption, which improves the efficiency, reliability, economic benefits and sustainability of power distribution Social Charter of Russian fundamental principles of responsible business practices developed by RSPP, which includes a company’s Business relations with its employees, civil society institutions, public authorities, local communities and the environment Stakeholder individuals and legal entities interested in the Corporation’s activities and capable of influencing such activities Sustainable development development (of a society, a business) during which the living conditions improve, the impact on the environment remains within the biosphere’s capacity, and current needs are met without incurring damage on future generations Ticker a shortened company name used in stock exchange quotation instruments (stocks, shares, indices) UN Global Compact the United Nations’ biggest initiative in the area of corporate social responsibility and sustainable development, bringing together 13,000 companies and organizations from 170 countries and 88 national networks that share and put into practice the 10 principles of human rights, labour practices, environment and anti-corruption for the purpose of sustainable and fair socio-economic development Inclusive environment an environment that allows fully integrating people with disabilities into society www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC 208 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION LIST OF ABBREVIATIONS ACMR Russian Association of Communication Directors PJSFC Public Joint Stock Financial Corporation and Corporate Media PPM Pulp and Paper Mill ASI Agency for Strategic Initiatives R&D Research and Development BPF Big Pension Fund RAS Russian Academy of Sciences CC Corporate Centre RFID Radio Frequency Identification, a method for CF Charitable Foundation automatically identifying objects where the data stored in transponders or RFID tags is read and CSR Corporate Social Responsibility recorded by means of radio frequency signals DLS distance learning system RGS Russian Geographical Society EBITDA Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation RVC Russian Venture Company and amortisation S/As Subsidiaries and Associates ECSS European Cooperation for Space Standardisation TDI top-down indicators (input parameters to ERM Enterprise Risk Management define the objectives and budgeting at Sistema), ETP Electronic Trading Platform developed to meet shareholders’ expectations, ESG risks Environmental, Social and Corporate governance portfolio strategies, etc. risks UHL Universal Hotline FSC Forest Stewardship Council, international nonWWF World Wide Fund for Nature profit non-governmental organization, which WWP Woodworking Plant promotes responsible forest management worldwide 4G (fourth the fourth generation of mobile communication generation) GDP Gross Domestic Product GDR Global Depositary Receipt GPON Gigabit-capable Passive Optical Network GR Government Relations GRI Global Reporting Initiative, an organisation developoing and promoting non-financial reporting standards HR Human Resources HSMI High School of Management and Innovation IFRS International Financial Reporting Standard ISO Guidance on Social Responsibility international 26000:2010 standard IT Information Technologies KPI Key Performance Indicators M&A Mergers and Acquisitions MBA Master of business administration MLW Minimum legal wage NEC Northern Environmental Coalition NGPP Non-Government Pension Plans NGPF Non-Government Pension Fund NPO Non-Profit Organisation NPP Non-Profit Partnership NRU National Research University NTC National Timber Company OIBDA Operating Income Before Depreciation And Amortisation 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC www.sistema.com Glossary and Abbreviations Contacts 209 Contacts SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SISTEMA CHARITABLE FOUNDATION AND REPORTING +7 495 737-44-19 +7 495 692-10-88 info@bf.sistema.ru kolchugin@sistema.ru press@bf.sistema.ru bf.sistema.ru INVESTOR RELATIONS +7 495 730-66-00 VOLUNTEER CENTRE OF SISTEMA +7 495 692-22-88 CHARITABLE FOUNDATION ir@sistema.ru +7 495 737-44-02 iberezhnova@bf.sistema.ru PRESS SERVICE +7 495 730-71-88 +7 495 228-15-32 kopytov@sistema.ru HELPDESK +7 495 737-01-01 Sistema is a participant of the UN Global Compact in Russia. www.sistema.com 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT | SISTEMA PJSFC
