UN Global Compact Communication on Progress, April 2016 ’Since April 2013 we have been a member of the UN Global Compact. During 2015 Kvadrat have continued with the high focus on CSR and as part of this the principles in the UN Global Compact, especially the environmental area. We apply strict standards to our suppliers which are focused on demands, for high quality products, the environmental impact of their products and services and we also require that they offer a healthy work environment. On top of this they must commit to and sign our Company Social Responsibility. As a member of UN Global Compact we believe that our business incorporate and support the 10 principles from the UN Global Compact, through our Company Social Responsibility and our work on environmental topics. Through our support to the UN Global Compact we aim to move the agenda forward on performance related to human rights, labour rights, the environment and the fight against corruption. In our annual report we have summarized the progress we have made in the areas of the 10 principles. We will continue our work in these areas and will report on the progress in our future reports.’ Anders Byriel, CEO Kvadrat 1 Policy We aim to maintain a good balance between our strict quality standards, environmental concerns, social responsibility and our economy. We focus on ensuring that all our products and processes live up to these standards. In a number of areas, we go beyond existing legislation while respecting necessary functional requirements. We also ensure that a number of our products comply with the relevant EU Ecolabel criteria. We apply strict standards to our suppliers, which are focused on our demands, for doing a high quality production of our exclusive products, the environmental impact of production and services and we also require that they offer a healthy working environment. All suppliers must commit to and sign our Company Social Responsibility. Furthermore, we expect them to regularly document how they are meeting our requirements. The standards we adhere to provide us with a framework for continually reducing the environmental impact of our production and internal processes, minimizing the unnecessary use of raw materials, and creating a secure and healthy environment for employees. We aim, in all matters within our control, to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and labour rights. We are strongly opposed to any kind of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Finally, we ensure that our management systems are efficiently implemented and are capable of supporting our organisation. 2 Introduction Kvadrat was established in Denmark in 1968. Kvadrat A/S, the head quarter is located in Ebeltoft. The company is owned and managed by the Rasmussen and Byriel families. The second generation of both families took over in July 2000. At Kvadrat we continuously seek to push the aesthetic, artistic and technological boundaries of textile design. We create high quality products that help architects to shape architectural spaces, designers and furniture manufacturers to produce and craft furniture, and consumers to bring tactility and colour in their private homes. This is our way to contribute to contemporary design culture. The Kvadrat collection is comprised of upholstery, curtains, acoustic panels, rugs and textile tiles. It includes: Over 150 designs and 3,500 colours. Numerous materials, such as wool, silk, linen, Trevira CS and cotton. A very wide choice of styles and constructions. Our products reflect our commitment to colour, pioneering, technological innovation and experimentation in design. Respect for both environment and people have been a key value for Kvadrat from the very beginning. Health certified since 2008. Environmentally certified ISO14001 since 1997, we evaluate the environmental impact of all our products. We use the latest technology to enhance the quality of our products and reduce their impact on the environment. Many of our textiles are awarded according to the EU Ecolabel. Products are only awarded after the product’s complete life cycle has been evaluated and confirmed to be among the best on the market in its category. EU Ecolabel is the European Eco-label system. We work with the Greenguard certification for many of our textiles. Greenguard certification is focused on improving indoor air quality using products in the building with low emission to air. We are working with the GaBi database for Life Cycle Assessment on our textiles. Both as an internal tool and also providing data for our customers. Kvadrat uses specialised textile mills and print-works in Western Europe, one in Japan and one in China. Networking and specialisation ensure that Kvadrat helps to set standards for the industry. 3 Below, in table A, you find our focus areas in accordance with the 10 principles in the UN Global Compact and also the outcomes for the last two years: Focus Outcomes 2013 Outcomes 2014 Outcomes 2015 People We must collect ideas and We visited both NOVO Nordic Implemented in some of our Implementation continued and inspiration as to how to and Nordea Liv og Pension health work in our subsidiaries during 2015 and will also health extend our health work to to learn from them and to continue in 2016 our subsidiaries be inspired with new ideas Focus on health and food for We arranged an event for all All employees in our head We continue our work and our employees employees about fish and quarter was offered a health serve as much organic food food and how this will impact check. It is a voluntary offer, as possible. Reduce the positively on your health not all employees participated amount of served meat We will educate our First aid course for employees in how to employees based in react if an incident occurs our headquarters Environment We require that our suppliOur biggest supplier have Continue to challenge and Our largest supplier have and ers continuously focus on installed solar cells to cover support our suppliers in their made a building extension to climate reducing their impact on the a small percentage of their effort to reduce their footprint. existing factory and have environment and delivering energy consumption Mapping of substances in texmade this extension as envirhealthy working conditions tiles to create transparency onmental correct as possible with known technology We aim to reduce our CO2 We have reduced our energy We reduced our energy We reduced our energy conemissions consumption with 6,3% comconsumption with 6% sumption with 3% compared pared to 2011 compared to 2013 to 2014 We have reduced our heat We reduced our heat We reduced our heat conconsumption with 21% consumption with 11% sumption with 27% compared compared to 2011 compared to 2013 to 2014 We reduced our water consumption with 8% compared to 2014 We aim to increase 3 wool textiles certified with Our supplier of Trevira Our supplier of Trevira CS the number of our the EU Ecolabel CS textiles received EU textiles expects that our textiles certified with Ecolabel certification – textiles will have the EU the EU Ecolabel we now have applied for our Ecolabel certification own license based fulfilling the new criteria on their certification before July 2016 Our most selling wool textiles Our most selling wool textiles are certified with the EU now fulfil the new criteria of Ecolabel the EU Ecolabel. We shall implement life-cycle We now have, in corporation LCA database has been LCA are being used by our assessment (LCA) on our with FORCE, prepared a updated with new data, such customers – architects. To textiles in 2013 database on the platform GaBi, as new materials and new calculate environmental which gives us the opportunity data for existing materials impact when they work to create LCA data for each on building projects textile design, if requested Recycling of textiles We are part in a project using production waste textiles to manufacture other products. We expect to be able to launch products end of 2016 Substances in textiles Mapping of the substances used in our textiles, to be more knowledgeable in the substitution process Table A: Focus areas and achievements 2013 to 2015 4 Human rights, labour and anti-corruption We work actively with sustaining and improving our performance in relation t o the seven principles for human rights, labour rights and anti-corruption: Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery 5 Progress The majority of our suppliers are located in Western Europe, with the largest supplier in England, one in Japan and one supplier located in China. We conclude that we in majority operate in low risk countries and as a result, human rights, labour rights and the fight against corruption are covered by local laws and regulations. We follow our supplier in China very closely and have a close relationship with this supplier to make sure that they fulfil all the demands we have for quality, environment and CSR. To make sure that all suppliers show responsibility and for intent to become action, we have developed a set of guidelines, our Company Social Responsibility including our attitude against corruption. Our Company Social Responsibility is based on internationally recognized principles. All suppliers must accept, comply and sign up to this. We always, as a minimum, fulfil Danish legislation concerning human and labour rights. The guidelines in our Company Social Responsibility are not least about human rights. We oppose the violation of internationally proclaimed human rights and we will oblige both ourselves and our suppliers, to comply with local laws and standards. Furthermore the guidelines include numerous requirements for workers rights. Our Company Social Responsibility must also ensure that both we and our suppliers act responsibly in relation to the work environment. Finally the guidelines commit the suppliers to discourage all forms of corruption. 6 Further actions We always support our customers and share experiences concerning social responsibility, to ensure that we are looking into all the elements in the supply chain. We work with students from different educational institutions and offer them the possibility to write their final projects using Kvadrat as the case. We are supporting the initiative against cancer – ‘Stafet for livet’. Once a year in Denmark it is arranged that people support this initiative. ‘Stafet for Livet’ is a day (24 hours) where we focus on the fight against cancer, fight together and celebrating life. It is an occasion to remember those who lost the battle against cancer and give hope to those who are struggling. ‘Stafet for Livet’ is community awareness and fundraising in the fight against cancer. We support, with our textiles, the socio-economic project – Place de Bleu. Place de Bleu is a social-economic enterprise that produces and sells exclusive design products, while offers continuing and employs women with different ethic background than Danish. The vision is to create jobs in alternative conditions of marginalized groups contribute to a more inclusive labour market and test business models for social economy enterprises. Every day we serve lunch for our employees. As much as possible of our daily lunch are organic produce. Our employees are offered free fruit every day. Our employees are offered massage for a low fee given financial support of the arrangement by Kvadrat to reduce physical health problems. Our employees and their families are free to use our well-equipped fitness facilities whenever they feel like. Besides the national health insurance, Kvadrat are financing a private health insurance for our employees which cover further types of illness. 7 Environment We work actively to improve our environmental performance in relation to the 3 principles in the UN Global Compact. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 8 Progress We are focusing on different environmental topics. We have for many years been focusing on both internal projects, external projects involving our suppliers, and projects concerning reduction of the environmental impacts from our textiles. 1. Our suppliers are obliged to comply with local laws and standards related to environmental issues 2. Our suppliers must commit to proactively take necessary precautions and take necessary initiatives to reduce the environmental impacts of their activities. 3. We are working with our suppliers to make our processes transparent to make it easier for customers to find product details. 4. We aim for more textiles to be certified according to demands in the EU Ecolabel. 5. We have established a project working to Close the Loop for textile manufacturing. We are developing products using textile production waste from suppliers and customers. We expect to launch these products by the end of 2016. 9 Prioritisation of effort Working towards sustainability targets, a self-assessment was performed in 2013according to the 10 principles in the UN Global Compact. All areas within the ‘Human rights’, ‘Labour rights’ and ‘ Anti-corruption’ were assessed as ‘good performance’. They are all covered by our Company Social Responsibility and by legislation. We work in ‘low risk countries’ and both we and our suppliers all have to fulfil the same laws for areas mentioned above, therefore we have not issued further targets for these areas. Topic Risk level Comments Human rights Health and safety low Covered by legislation and our Hours, wages and leave low Company Social Responsibility Fair treatment low Community Impact low Country risk low Suppliers low Labour Trade Unions low Covered by legislation and our Forced labour low Company Social Responsibility Child labour low Non-dicrimination low Suppliers low Environment Compliance and medium Focus through our Company Social Management Responsibility and our goals for Precautions medium this area Responsibility and medium Performance Product stewartship medium Suppliers Anti-corruption Anti-corruption low Covered by legislation and our Policy and procedures low Company Social Responsibility Tabel B: Prioritisation of effort 10 Further actions In the following we will account for the actions taken in 2015 to achieve and sustain our environmental targets. It is a natural part of our business to incorporate environmental topics in our daily life. Environmental concerns are part of all our processes from developing a new textile until it is not usable anymore. As a result we always set up environmental demands that our suppliers must fulfil. We have, for many years now, been focusing on the EU Ecolabel certification for our textiles. Fulfilment of the demands in the EU Ecolabel is a natural part of our business and all our bestselling textiles are awarded with the EU Ecolabel. We always aim to have more textiles certified. In 2015 the new set of EU Ecolabel criterias were implemented and our already certified textiles now fulfil the new criterias. New developed textiles have also been certified. We have now been working with Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) for 2-3 years and in 2014 we updated our LCA database with data for new materials and already excisting materials were updated if new data was available. Our customers use our LCA for further calculation of environmental impact f.x. when they work with building projects. Together with our suppliers we are working on mapping our textiles for all substances used for production. This will help to make the processes transparent for Kvadrat and our customers. It will also help us to substitute . LAUNCH Nordic is still part of our focus area. This initiative look into subjects both locally and globally and is an opportunity to collaborate with global partners on global topics also of importance for our organisation. We are buying only green energy for our house in Ebeltoft, electricity from new Danish windmills less than 2 yeas old. The heating comes from the local heating plant using wood bricks as fuel. Both sources considered as CO2 neutral. At the same time we have reduced our consumption. 11 Summary We continue working to improve our work around the 10 principles in the UN Global Compact. We set new targets every year for the focus areas and work closely with our partners to reach our goals. We have, in 2015 reached our goals and will continue to work on important focus areas. 12
