70 Years Young Integrated Annual Report 2015 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 1 Table of contents 2 70 years young 3 Highlights from the year 5 Grupo Bimbo today 7 Letter from the Chairman & CEO 10 Industry overview 13 Building on our key capabilities 14 Risk Management 15 Creating sustainable long-term value and a responsible value chain 21 Sustainability at Grupo Bimbo 23 Materiality 27 Wellbeing Pillar 45 Planet Pillar About Grupo Bimbo 58 Community Pillar G4-3 G4-4, G4-6, G4-8 66 Value Chain Grupo Bimbo is the largest baking company in the world, with US$13.8 billion* of sales in 2015. Our operations span 22 countries throughout 77 Associates Pillar the Americas, Europe and Asia. Every day, millions of people enjoy our 89 Corporate Governance breads, buns, cookies, snack cakes, english muffins, bagels, pre-packaged foods, tortillas, salty snacks and confectionary prod­ucts, among 96 About this report others. Our shares trade on the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV), under 97 Summary financial performance the ticker symbol BIMBO, and we are included in its Sustainability Index as well since its creation in 2011. 102 GRI content Index 109 Consolidated Financial Statements 166 Contact *US$1 = Ps. 15.85, 2015 average exchange rate Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 2 70 years young Our Mission Delicious and nutritious baked goods and snacks in the hands of all. Our vision In 2020 we transform the baking industry and expand our global leadership to better serve more consumers. Our Beliefs G4-6, G4-8, G4-4 We celebrated our 70th anniversary in 2015, embracing the entrepreneurial spirit of our founders that continues to drive our dynamism and momentum today. We Value the Person What’s next? It’s a fast-paced world, and Grupo Bimbo is on We are One We Get the move with it. With investment and innovation in our most Community Results cherished brands, new products for new tastes and prefer­ ences, responsible production practices that are increas­ We are ingly efficient and low-cost, and a world-class distribution We Compete Sharp network that aims to reach consumers everywhere, we are and Win Operators creating sustainable, long-term value for generations to come, keeping true to our founding purpose. We continue We Act We Transcend to build a highly productive and deeply humane company. and Endure with Integrity Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 3 Highlights from the year Double-digit growth in: net sales, Net reduction operating income, in CO2e emissions, adjusted EBITDA Celebrated our despite higher production 70th and net income and sales volumes anniversary 16 plants worldwide achieved zero waste to landfill objective; two in the UK received Gold Zero Waste Award* Significant Successful productivity large-scale launches such as Healthfull, and efficiency Villaggio and Artesano brands, gains across our operations among others *Award given by Letsrecycle, a division of Enviromental Media Group, LTD. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 4 G4-9, G4-10, G4-LA6, G4-EC1 2015 2014 VAR % Economic and financial (millions of pesos except eps) Consolidated net sales 219,186 187,053 17.2 Organized the first ever Operating income 14,121 10,312 36.9 Global Energy race, Net majority income 5,171 3,518 47.0 Earnings per share (pesos) 1.10 0.75 46.7 with 70,000+ participants Adjusted EBITDA 23,369 18,418 26.9 in 22 cities Market capitalization at December 31st 216,112 191,420 12.9 Social Total associates worldwide 127,152 125,719 1.1 Lost time injuries index* 68.62 77.94 — Donations (millions of pesos) 90 86 4.7 Environmental Total emissions (Scope 1,2,3; tons CO2e) 1,550,395 1,361,102 -12.2 Total waste disposal, 279,142 257,800 7.7 including recycling (tons) Pilot projects underway Wind energy generated (total GJ)** 1,188,000 1,094,400 8.6 for select inputs, *A lost time injury (LTI) is an injury sustained by an employee that will ultimately lead to the loss of productive first time directly work time in the form of delays or absenteeism. ** The data on emissions and waste from 2014 was calculated based on 10 months of measurements and 2 supporting farmers months of estimations. in our supply chain Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 5 Grupo Bimbo today G4-9 52,000+ Distribution routes 163 10,000+ Plants Products 127,000+ 100+ Associates Brands 790,000+ 2.5+ GJ of wind energy million points consumed by of sale Grupo Bimbo Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 6 North America Latin America Asia 86 plants 30 plants 1 plant Mexico Europa 37 plants 9 plants Packed bread: traditional sliced bread, premium, buns & rolls, breakfast (english muffins & bagels) and frozen bread Sweet baked goods: cakes and pastries Key categories Key brands Cookies: sweet cookies and crackers Salty snacks Solutions: tortillas, pitas, wraps, pizza base, tostadas and totopos Prepackaged foods Confectionary Other Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 7 Letter from the Chairman & Ceo G4-1, G4-2 G4-DMA ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE I am pleased to report a good year for Grupo Bimbo. We celebrated our 70th anniversary in 2015, an opportunity to embrace the entrepreneurial spirit of our founders that remains as vital today as ever. Our founders’ values shaped our aspirations, and even with the extraordinary changes to our business over the decades, I believe we have held true to our purpose of being a highly productive and deeply humane company. In 2015 we generated strong financial performance and solid productivity gains, extended our long track record of growth, deepened our bonds with consumers through the strength of our brands, and advanced our strategic priorities, all in the context of macroeconomic and currency volatility, changing consumer preferences, competitive pressure and an evolving framework of corporate responsibility. I want to start by highlighting our focus on innovation, with a growing emphasis on R&D and marketing. We launched new products, formats, line extensions, seasonal specialties and packaging in every market and category. Healthy and better-for-you products were relevant, and we reformulated recipes to anticipate and accommodate such demand accordingly. Yet equally successful were new snack concepts, indulgent treats, and artisanal-style products. Of particular note in 2015 were the brands and products we introduced that leverage our cross-border capabilities, such as Artesano, Villaggio and Nature’s Harvest breads, among others. We continued to advance our goal of being a highly productive and low-cost company. We generated approxiIntegrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 8 mately US$200 million in savings in the year through I would like to share with you the company’s overall our lean supply chain initiative, closed eight plants in performance. Consolidated net sales in 2015 rose the period, and a further US$90 was saved through glomore than 17%, reflecting FX rate benefit, acquisitions bal procurement aimed at centralizing our processes. made in prior periods and organic growth in Mexico and Latin America. Consolidated gross margin expanded 50 We are working to develop our suppliers’ capabilities basis points, driven by lower raw material costs in most and improve the transparency and sustainability of our regions. Operating income increased almost 37% to Ps. supply chain, for example collaborating with grain far14,121 million while adjusted EBITDA rose 26.9% to Ps. mers in Mexico on crop management and quality prac23,369 million, resulting in a 10.7% margin compared tices, transitioning to cage-free eggs, issuing our new to 9.8% in the prior year, driven by a 210 basis point global policy to build a fully traceable and responsiexpansion in North America and a record margin in ble palm oil supply chain and pilot testing sustainable Mexico. Net majority income rose 47.0% and the marfarming options. Separately, we began the multi-year gin expanded by 50 basis points to 2.4%. rollout of zero-base budgeting. The balance sheet remains solid and flexible. Total debt Sustainability efforts have an important role to play in at December 31, 2015 was Ps. 67.8 billion, compared to our continuous quest for increased productivity. We Ps. 62.2 billion in December 2014. The increase was prihave facilities today that already recycle 100% of their marily due to a 17% US dollar revaluation that increawater and waste, have perfect multi-year safety records, sed the Mexican peso value of US dollar-denominated and meet the global industry’s highest quality certificadebt, although we have continued to pay down debt. As tion standards; zero-emissions vehicles are a growing a result, the total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio declipart of our fleet; and wind power is an important part ned from 3.2 times at December 2014 to 2.9 times at of our total energy portfolio. These are the standards December 2015. we have set for ourselves, and we aim to lead the food industry accordingly. I would like to add that we also report on a number of non-financial metrics each year regarding our social As part of our multi-year asset transformation proand environmental performance. Highlights in 2015 cess, a new state-of-the-art plant started up operations include a reduction in CO2e emissions despite the in Spain in 2015, with the fastest and most efficient increases in production and distribution and a higher baking lines in the European industry and two bolt-on volume of water reused. As part of our commitment acquisitions were completed during the year that strento health and wellbeing, we organized the first Glogthen our presence in North America. Not only are we bal Energy race, a same-day race in 22 cities with over optimizing our footprint, but also how we run our bake70,000 participants. This event will serve as our marries: empowering our people and creating a modern quis global corporate branding effort to promote physiand flexible production platform. cal activity going forward. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 9 Acquisition driven growth in recent years has required ment to invest approximately US$650 million in capital significant focus on integration and restructuring. With expenditures in the year to be allocated across all regions those large-scale processes essentially completed, we to advance our low cost production targets. are turning our attention to the opportunities ahead in order to become a more profitable baking and snacks We see Grupo Bimbo as a young and thriving company on company that effectively competes in the markets where the move with consumers and society, but with a 70-year we operate. We have set our sights on the next set of old soul. milestones with our recently announced 2020 Vision: In 2020 we transform the baking industry and expand our We remain strongly committed to the 10 Principles of the global leadership to better serve more consumers. UN Global Compact, a set of core values in the areas of human rights, labor standards, the environment, and To do so, we must build on five core capabilities: the engaanti-corruption. gement of our associates and their commitment to our Vision; enduring, meaningful brands; universal presence Finally, I would like to acknowledge another profitable with superior execution; winning innovation in products year working together with our Board, directors, and the and processes; and our culture of continuous improvement. more than 127,000 associates throughout the world, whose efforts and dedication keep us looking forward. I will share that our priorities for 2016 are productivity, growth and organizational effectiveness. Along with our I reaffirm my gratitude for your confidence in Grupo Bimbo. ongoing commitment to low-cost production, we will focus on our strategic brands and the connections forged with our consumers; serving more customers through market penetration and route efficiency; ongoing supply chain and asset transformation and R&D and cross-market innovation. In addition, we expect to see the benefit Sincerely, of IT integration in key markets, as well as the continued Daniel Servitje rollout of zero-base budgeting. We have made a commitChairman and Chief Executive Officer Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 10 Industry overview We participate in the global baking indus­try, which according to IBISWorld* gener­ated an estimated US$406 billion in sales in 2015 in the core categories of fresh and frozen bread and rolls; cookies, crackers and pretzels; fresh and frozen cakes, pies and other pastries; and tortillas. Grupo Bimbo also participates in the salty snacks, prepackaged foods and confectionary cate­gories, among others. The industry has benefited from growing consumption of a variety of baked goods around the world. Consumers in coun­tries that have not traditionally consumed bread regularly have begun incorporating more into their regular diets, and although demand for white bread in North America and Western Europe has stag­nated, consumption of packaged goods, including cookies and crackers, has increased, driven by brand extensions with different options. Moreover, the grow­ing importance of premium goods in developed mar­kets, has helped maintain the leading manufacturers’ performance in saturated markets. * Global Bakery Goods Manufacturing, December 2015 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 11 Competitive environment and the growth opportunity NThe industry is highly fragmented, with the four leading global companies, of which Grupo Bimbo is the largest, accounting for less than 10% of global market share even after several years of mergers and acquisitions. Companies with local production and robust distribution have a competitive advantage given the perish­able nature of the products. Demand for bakery products in more mature markets is relatively stable, thus quality, brand equity, innovation and differentiation are some of the main growth drivers. In less developed bakery mar­kets sales are rising at a faster rate; this is due to lower penetration rates, changing consumer diets, and rising disposable incomes that allow consumers to purchase a greater variety of discretion­ary goods. Marketing and distribution are key growth drivers in these markets. IBISWorld forecasts that growth in the bakery goods industry will be higher in the coming five years than it was in the previous five-year period. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 12 Key trends G4-14 We believe the following trends, and the ability to anticipate and adapt to them, are likely to shape our industry in the coming years along with the aforementioned growth drivers: Premium Indulgence on one hand value-added brands and health & wellness on the other Snackification: on-the-go packaging Specialty formulations and portion sizes (low sugar, high fiber, whole grains) Responsible production, verifiable supply chain, Clean labels sustainably sourced ingredients Local, fresh, Speed of authentic, artisanal; technological advances at the same time, longer shelf life Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 13 Building on our key capabilities G4-DMA ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Our global profile offers a balance between mature and high-growth markets and different demographic trends, while the scale of our operations provides multiple benefits in sourcing, production, sales and distribution. Furthermore, we are building on the strength of our billion-dollar brands and powerful national and regional brands to leverage cross-market opportunities as we continue to invest in innovation, category development and operational excellence. We have outlined the following key capabilities as essential to our vision of transforming the baking industry and expanding our global leadership to better serve more consumers: Our associates’ engagement 1 and commitment to our Vision 2 Enduring meaningful brands 3 Universal presence with superior execution 4 Winning innovation in products and processes Our culture of continuous 5 improvement Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 14 Risk management G4-14, G4-EC2 Our global profile offers a balance between mature and high-growth mar­kets and different demographic trends, while the scale of our operations provides multiple benefits in sourcing, production, sales and distribution. Furthermore, we are building on the strength of our billion-dollar brands and powerful national and regional brands to leverage cross-market oppor­tunities as we continue to invest in innovation, category development and operational excellence. Operational and execution risks Mitigation Competitive environment, changing consumer prefeMarket and consumer research; product innovation and rences, our reputation, talent and labor management, development; advertising, marketing and sales; quality potential business interruptions and compromised and safety controls; talent development, retention and trade relationships, among others. succession; fair labor practices; redundancies, etc. Legal, political and regulatory risks Mitigation Health and product liability, contingent and civil liabiControles de calidad y de seguridad, requerimientos lities, potential changes to laws and regulations regarde conducta y ética, cumplimiento y experiencia en ding health, environment, disclosure and accounting asuntos de gobierno, etc. standards, and securities matters, as well as political events and governmental controls, among others. Economic and financial risks Mitigation Commodity and raw material costs, supply chain disEstrategia de compras, iniciativas de productividad y ruptions, labor costs, foreign exchange and interest eficiencia, coberturas de riesgos sobre las diferentes rates, debt and currency exposure, asset and brand variables y una administración financiera responsable, impairments, access to financing and economic presentre otros. sure on consumers, among others. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 15 Creating sustainable long-term value and a responsible value chain G4-17, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27 We seek to create long-term and sustainable value for all our stakeholders through an integrated approach that considers their contributions and require­ments. To do so, we must ensure that our actions across the entire value chain are responsible, sustainable and geared towards value creation. Definition of our External stakeholders stakeholders Clients Government Providing an exemplary service and seeking to We abide by all existing legislation in the countries support them in their growth and development where we operate, promote close and respectful through the value of our brands. relations and communication, and collaborate in projects According to the policy GB.SUS.PO01AN01 “Definiand initiatives that benefit the community. tion of Stakeholders”, at Grupo Bimbo we have idenSuppliers tified a set of related groups that are closest to our We maintain cordial relationships, promote their Business and/or International Organizations company’s operations. development and cover the cost of their services We share experiences and best practices in a in accordance with the terms of the contracts climate of cordiality and respect. we have signed with them. These groups are classified into internal and exterCommunications Media nal, as follows: Distributors We provide accurate, clear, and prompt information. We establish working procedures that meet the objectives of the business and are beneficial to both parties. Social Organizations Internal stakeholders we contribute to the advancement and development of Competitors the communities where we operate, by working together Shareholders/Partners We compete vigorously and fairly, based on legal with nonprofit social organizations. we seek to provide a reasonable and consistent return. trade practices. Educational Institutions Associates Consumers We share good practices and build a close we guarantee respect for their dignity and individuality We offer healthy food and variety in our products, communication seeking to contribute to continuous and promote a climate that supports their wellness and through ongoing improvement. improvement of education in the world. development. Labor Representation Society We support authentic representation of our workers, We promote universal ethical values and support with full respect for their freedom of association and a economic and social growth in the communities continuing relationship of collaboration and mutual trust. where we are located. * Para mayor información, consultar la política en: www.grupobimbo.com/rse Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 16 The Company must accept its responsibility with the stakeholders and promote its development as possible, in compliance with their expectations and needs. Through the year we maintain a constant dialogue with them, seeking for alternatives to integrate them into our business management. Some of the communication channels for dialogue were: G4-26 Stakeholder Communication channels Stakeholder Communication channels Internal stakeholders External stakeholders Shareholders/ ✱✱ Meetings and direct interviews with Investor Relations. ✱✱ Relations with government entities through the Corporate Government Partners ✱✱ Shareholder annual meeting Affairs department Business and/or ✱✱ Intranet: shares news from around the Group, sections to International ✱✱ Through the Corporate Affairs department comment and talk about, blog Organizations Associates ✱✱ Labor Environment Survey ✱✱ Internal Communication Communications ✱✱ Speak Up Line ✱✱ Through the Corporate Affairs department media Labor ✱✱ Through Institutional Relations department: ✱✱ Through the relations management Social ✱✱ Requests and requirements attention, (by telephone or email) Representation Organizations ✱✱ General Annual Meeting with Civil Associations External Stakeholders ✱✱ Activity Evaluation Form ✱✱ Through the Sales VP Educational Clients ✱✱ Plant visit ✱✱ SATECC (Client and Consumers attention line) Institutions College and ✱✱ Suppliers website Research ✱✱ Trade Fairs and student congresses Suppliers ✱✱ Suppliers’ annual meeting. Educational ✱✱ Chats with students in educational institutions ✱✱ Speak Up Line Institutions ✱✱ Satisfaction survey Consumers ✱✱ SATECC (Client and Consumers attention line) ✱✱ Sports events: Circuito Bimbo, Futbolito Bimbo Society ✱✱ Volunteering y Good Neighbor program (For more information about our stakeholders please visit: http://www.grupobimbo.com/informe/grupos✱✱ Product Promotion Activities de-interes/) Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 17 Creating Long-term value for our stakeholders For associates who provide us with their time, talent and commitment, we create value in an equitable workplace with a culture of safety and health where the golden rule applies: Respect, Trust, Fairness and Care. We believe knowledge is transmitted, shared and extended through traiShareholders/ ning, and provide our associates with personal and professional developdebtholders ment opportunities. Communities & society G4-LA1 Consumers 16,396 new associates Customers Supply chain More than 1 million Associates hours of training G4-DMA-B SPECIFIC PROCUREMENT PRACTICES For the supply chain that provides us with inputs and raw materials, we create value through fair payment and supplemental business improvement services, favoring sustainable, scalable, transparent and ethical sources. See Value Chain for more details. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 18 For customers who sell our products, we create value by ensuring the availability, quality and freshness of products that consumers desire, with outstanding point of sale execution and supplemental business improvement services. See Value Chain for more details. 88 products with less sugar 27 products with less sodium 72 products with less saturated fats G4-DMA-B SPECIFIC PROCUREMENT PRACTICES For consumers who choose our products, we create a wide range of delicious and nutritious baked goods and snacks available anytime and everywhere, providing brand experiences they cherish and trust, and supporting their active and healthy lifestyles with responsible labeling and marketing. See Value Chain for more details. 2002-2004 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 19 For the communities and society where we operate, we create value for 134 local economies through job creation and contributions to quality of life. Our approach relies on direct and local actions, with our “Good Neighbor” Good Neighbor program as the cen­tral pillar whereby our facilities invest in their neighprojects completed borhoods. Our sponsorships and contributions areprimarily in the areas of Education, athletics, health & wellbeing and reforestation, with direct service and support in areas such as urban infrastructure, restoration of recreational facilities and green areas, school improvement and natural disaster relief. In 2015, 2.6% of the 2014 Our investments across the value chain, such as in sustainable farming, packaging innovation, renewable energy, water conservation and waste Grupo Bimbo’s and emissions reduction generate social returns as well as operational net income was donated improvements and financial gains. to non-profit entities Ps. 90 million 128 plants in in contributions 14 countries participated in the Good Neighbor program in 2015 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 20 For shareholders and debtholders who entrust us with their capital, we create value through dividends, interest payments and capital gains that accrue through continuous growth and productivity improvements that support sustained profitability. G4-9 Sales Adjusted EBITDA Total Assests 5yr. CAGR 13.3% 5yr. CAGR 8.6% 5yr. CAGR 15.3% 219,186 199,633 187,053 23,369 177,761 176,041 173,139 18,420 143,235 17,326 137,140 133,496 15,468 14,076 134,727 117,163 14,719 97,968 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1 Compounded average growth rate Share price performance % G4-16 We participate in Chambers and Business Organizations seeking for improvements, to identifymatches and explore alternative proposals 2015 5 yr. and solutions to problems related to the industry. Similarily, we recognize the work of Chambers and Business Organizations that promote consensus building and act in an interactive and BIMBO + 12.9 + 74.3 dynamic proactive cooperation with all authorities and different levels, promoting a sense of mutual responsibility. IPC2 0.4 + 11.5 Índice de Precios y Cotizaciones, Mexican Stock Exchange 2 For more information visit: http://www.grupobimbo.com/informe/grupos-de-interes/ Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 21 Sustainability at Grupo Bimbo G4-1 Our commitment to maintain a balance on our productive activities that include specific actions that benefit communities, the environment, and the economic aspects, has been immerse in our philosophy since Grupo Bimbo’s foundation. Through the past 70 years we have firmly kept this conviction and today, we reaffirm our commitment to continue our contribution on these three aspects. Our Sembrando Juntos sustainability platform, conformed by its four pillar structure (Wellbeing, Planet, Community and Associates) is still valid. Until 2015, we used the phrase “We are socially responsible to be sustainable”. After many years of using the term Social Responsibility to name our social, environmental and economic activities, Grupo Bimbo aligns its terminology to the international tendency, and adopts the term Sustainability. Eventhough this change, our program, activities and pillars remain the same. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 22 Specialized on the responsible marketing communications, the transparency on nutrimental content on our products, the healthy lifestyles promotion that include physical activity and correct diet habits, as well as the innovation, improvements on products’ profiles through the reduction of sodium, fat and sugar, among other aspects. Our Sembrando Juntos pillars Defines the activities and evaluations of our operation activities to measure, control and reduce our environmental footprint. This strategy is divided into four strategic action lines: carbon footprint, water footprint, waste management and environmental care. We work every day to be an agent of change that contributes to the wellbeing of the different communities where we operate. With programs such as our volunteering, donations and Good Neighbor, in Grupo Bimbo we provide our grain of wheat to benefit those who need it the most. Sustainability is effective when it starts with a strategy that improves the internal conditions of the Company. Through this pillar, we promote actions that strengthen and work in favor of a good working environment, human rights, personal and professional development, health and safety, and a good relationship between associate and leaders. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 23 Materiality G4-18 During the year, we approached our stakeholders to updated our materiality Methodology test, looking forward to get to know those aspects that are relevant for our stakeholders, approaching the following results: ✱✱ Through internal and external interviews with stakeholders, and a review of existing research documenting stakeholder expectations, GlobeScan In 2015, Grupo Bimbo hired GlobeScan’s services, an independent consultant identified a comprehensive list of environmental, economic and social Company, to help us to identify the stakeholder’s perceptions in social and issues (29 total issues). environmental key topics. ✱✱ Through a quantitative stakeholder survey, these issues were then vetted A main goal from this research consisted on identifying the Sustainability across three dimensions to help prioritize which ones are most material relevant topics, which are important to consider on our strategy for the for Grupo Bimbo: following years. ✱✱ the degree of importance stakeholders and enterprise customers place The results are a consequence of an on-line survey, coordinated by GlobeScan on each issue; between July and August 2015. Associates and clients from Grupo Bimbo ✱✱ the level of impact these issues may have on the company’s reputation; and participated on the questionnaire, as well as external stakeholders (inclu✱✱ the ability of Grupo Bimbo to make a positive difference on these issues. ding experts on Sustainability from other companies, NGO’s, academics, and specialized research centers). ✱✱ Based on this rigorous and quantitative assessment of each issue, the following Materiality Matrix illustrates how each of the 29 issues are prioritized: This summary contains relevant data and highlights from the complete study that Grupo Bimbo is willing to share with its stakeholder, with the partici✱✱ the x-axis represents importance to stakeholders; pants on the survey and some professionals on Sustainability. ✱✱ the y-axis represents impact of each issue on Grupo Bimbo’s reputation; ✱✱ the z-axis (bubble color) represents the degree of influence Grupo Bimbo managers and executives feel the company has to make a positive difference on an issue. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 24 Grupo bimbo materiality matrix G4-19 Stakeholders, Enterprise, Customers, Managers and Executives Grupo Bimbo Material Issues Tier 1 issues are highestpriority Issue Importance,* 2015 to addres, many of wich Grupo Bimbo feels it can act on. Seguridad en alimentos Highest priority Impact on Grupo Bimbo´s reputation Ethical / Safeguarding Sustainable issues human rights raw materials Health/safety in supply chain Tier 2 issues are areas where Voluntary reduction of sugar/fat/salt Responsible Grupo Bimbo is expected to act, practices across Avoiding value chain but are perceived as less urgent. corruption Reducing Supply chain Transparency working Reducing water use waste conditions Reusing water Health/nutrition product innovation Minimizing Tier 3 issues are perceived as least Reducing operational Product labeling packaging impacts Workforce urgent for Grupo Bimbo to address, but emissions diversity/ Reducing Promoting inclusivity climate are still importad drivers of its overall impacts Preparing for healthy eating Reforestation / supply risk business and reputation. land rehabilitation Improving lives Investing in Supporting in local alternative local agriculture/ communities Talent energy farmers attraction / retention Affordable Supporting products enterpreneurs/ Responding to GMO small business expectation Adapting to local policies. Importance to stakeholders Low influence over issue Moderate influence over issue High influence over issue “Importance to steakholders”: based on responses from steakholders and customers; “Impact on reputación”: based on responses from all three audiences; “Influence”: rankings based on responses from managers and executives at Grupo Bimbo. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 25 Stakeholder views on what issues are currently facing Grupo Bimbo G4-27 Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 Maintaining Safety and Integrity of Grupo Bimbo Ensuring Ethical Operatioms Operating Environmental Stewardship Products ✱✱ Transparency ✱✱ Reducing operational emissions ✱✱ Food safety ✱✱ Avoiding corruptions ✱✱ Reusing water ✱✱ Sugar/fat/salt content ✱✱ Investing in alternative energy sources ✱✱ Promoting healthy eating ✱✱ Land reforestation and rehabilitation Mitigating and Adressing Climate Change Impacts ✱✱ Reducing climate impacts Working to reduce waste ✱✱ Preparing for supply risk due to climate change Talent Management ✱✱ Reducing overall waste ✱✱ Talent retention and attraction ✱✱ Minimizing packaging impacts Communicating Product Innovations ✱✱ Workforce diversity ✱✱ Innovating healthy , nutritious products Supply Chain Stewardship and Engagement Affordable and Accessible Products ✱✱ Responsible practices across the value chain Supporting Local Economies, Communities and ✱✱ Sustainable sourcing ✱✱ Affordable products Infraestructure ✱✱ Healthy and safety in supply chain ✱✱ Supply chain working conditions ✱✱ Supporting local agriculture and farmers GMO Content in Products ✱✱ Safeguarding human rights ✱✱ Supporting entrepreneurs and small business ✱✱ Responding to GMO expectations ✱✱ Improving lives in local communities ✱✱ Adapting to local policies Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 26 Materiality key findings Tier 1 Tier 2 Tier 3 The ten most material issues for Grupo Bimbo Issues in the second tier of materiality bear The third tier of issues, of moderate imporare those with the highest importance to moderate importance to stakeholders and tance to stakeholders and with potential stakeholders and the highest impact to Grupo have a moderate impact on the company’s impact to reputation, consists largely of opeBimbo’s reputation. Broadly speaking, these reputation. rational issues such as talent retention and issues deal with product integrity, waste and operational environmental stewardship. ✱✱ Among this group of issues, innovating for supply chain. healthy products and communicating this ✱✱ Within these areas, Grupo Bimbo feels via product labeling are both areas where empowered to make a difference on food executives feel the company has a high safety, reducing overall waste, and health degree of influence to foster positive change. and safety in the supply chain. ✱✱ Other issues in this second tier where ✱✱ Similarly, issues of supply chain and proGrupo Bimbo feels it has a moderate ability duct nutrition are important to stakeholto influence include transparency, avoiding ders, including voluntarily reducing sugar/ corruption in countries where they opefat/salt in products, promoting healthy rate, and reducing water use. eating, minimizing packaging impacts, sustainable sourcing, safeguarding human ✱✱ Climate change and support for local ecorights, ensuring responsible practices in nomies, communities and infrastructure the value chain, and supply chain working also fall into this tier of importance; howeconditions. ver, these are areas where Grupo Bimbo feels it has limited power to act on its own. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 27 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 28 G4-DMA CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY At Grupo Bimbo, we study the trends, tastes and needs of every one of our Around the world, the issues of health and wellness have become a megaconsumers around the world , in order to meet the requirements of healthy trend, which is why –as leaders in the global bakery industry– it is imperaeating and create products that not only meet but exceed these needs, and tive that we work every day to take advantage of all factors that positively we comply with legal regulations and voluntary standards in every country impact the health and wellness of those who consume our products, and where we are present. continue research and development efforts to learn what ingredients should be replaced so that the product contributes more to what the body needs. Global trends guide our consumers toward correct habits and prompt them to seek out products that complement healthy lifestyles and diets, and to As good corporate citizens operating across the globe, we are responsible gather more information about the options available on the market. This is for building a world in which all present and future generations enjoy the our challenge, and we are determined to meet it. benefits of healthy eating, good habits and physical activity, and with this to cultivate the loyalty of our consumers and clients. At the same time, growing concerns over obesity and its consequences, aggravated in some countries by problems of malnutrition, present Grupo Bimbo with the challenge of developing alternatives for serving a market increasingly interested in finding solutions to these issues. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 29 Our strategy for the Wellness Pillar is based on two main axes: Governance The vision of our 2020 strategy is to be a global benchmark for healthy and General Commitments. bakery products and in turn is based on four fundamental pillars that serve as a global initiative: Governance Innovation 1. Our Global Health and Wellness Model, with a business vision, helps us Research and to define the strategies applicable to all our brands and product categodevelopment of healthy ries in countries where we are present. This model is sustained by four products (GFY and lines of action through which the strategy is managed: Functional) G4-DMA CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY Education Product Portfolio. Improving the nutritional quality of our product portfoPromote a culture of health lio through reformations and developing packages with clear, easy-to-acand wellness through cess nutritional information for our customers. educational programs aimed at consumers Brands and categories. Developing healthy brands and product categories, as well as measurable actions to promote physical activity associated Activation with brand strategies. Promote health and Communication. Strategies for communicating and interacting with key wellness programs stakeholders (consumers, governments, opinion leaders) and alliances involving physical activity with research institutions. inside and outside of the company Social responsibility. Continually interacting with other Social ResponsibiCommunication lity pillars at Grupo Bimbo that are affected by health and wellness actions (Community and Associates). Target key messages to all relevant audiences 2. Executive Health and Wellness Committee. Our health and wellness strategy is managed jointly between our Innovation and Corporate Marketing areas. 3. Information quality. The company’s annual results are validated by the Internal Auditing Area, prior to publication in our external reports. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 30 Management model Clients and consumers: We thoroughly understand or consumers, and this enables us to work toward the sustainable development of products and services through leading brands that generate emotional bonds. We create G4-DMA CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY win-win relationships with our clients, providing them the best service and At Grupo Bimbo, we have developed a management model in order to have excellent execution, ensuring the availability of our products anytime and specific mechanisms for keeping processes up to date over time and contianywhere the craving strikes. Includes the processes of category managenuously improving them. The model translates our way of being and generament, time and place assurance, trade marketing, point-of-sale execution ting value, and is consistent with Grupo Bimbo’s philosophy: “to be a highly excellence, client and consumer relations. productive, fully human company.” Our people: Building an extraordinary place to work, with exemplary leaThe Grupo Bimbo model establishes 10 systems and processes, which proders that act in keeping with our values, and associates committed to and vide for a mapping of general and combined activities. For each of these, we identifying with the Grupo Bimbo philosophy, promoting health and safety, define standards, methodologies, business rules and general procedures. human capital development and our golden rule (respect, fairness, trust The following is an overview of the different steps of this model: and affection). Planning: Establishing general strategies and guidelines for Grupo Bimbo Sustainability: Promoting well-being, economic and social development, and and our Organizations to generate business plans and track how well they are caring for the environment through projects and programs, while providing being followed to achieve the Group’s strategic planning mission and vision. a benefit for all our stakeholders. Defines the processes of corporate social responsibility strategy planning, execution, impact measurement and exterProduct innovation: Understanding, translating and anticipating the needs nal relationship management. of consumers to ensure their satisfaction and wellness, through products that add value, differentiation and relevance, enabling us to remain at the Information systems: Providing and efficiently administering the informaforefront of the food industry. This in turn involves the following processes: tion technology solutions that permit Grupo Bimbo to be an innovative, cominception, concept organization, feasibility, development, scaling, implepetitive company. mentation, and performance evaluation. Knowledge management: Capitalizing on information, knowledge, learning Products and services: Meeting the demand for products and services requiand experience by making them the basis for growth at Grupo Bimbo. red by clients and consumers, with the highest quality and the lowest unit cost in the industry. Aligned with Grupo Bimbo’s strategies. Includes the Administration and finance: Efficiently administering financial resources to processes of supply chain planning, negotiation and supply, manufactukeep this company solid, preparing financial information to facilitate deciring, dispatch-factory-sales agency, primary and secondary transportation. sion-making on Group’s strategies and objectives, and promoting a process control through risk management and legal and regulatory compliance. New businesses: Detect, propose and seal business opportunities that bring us closer to the goal of being one of the greatest food companies in the world, integrating them effectively and generating value. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 31 Systems and process performance is measured through a manual of indicators. We then analyze the data obtained and generate a ranking by organization. We also conduct a systematic supervision where we evaluate compliance with the established processes. The methodologies employed for process improvement are: Grupo Bimbo Lean System. This is a way of thinking and working to be competitive and versatile, transforming what we do every day into value generation. Focused on eliminating excess weight and waste and reducing variability. G4-2 Risk management. This is the process by which, In an orderly fashion, we establish compliance with controls that mitigate risk. Products and services G4-FP5 At Grupo Bimbo, our vision is to be a company with leading and reliable brands for our consumers. We take a number of actions in pursuit of this vision. One of them is plant certification, which ensures that our processes are carried out correctly and meet the highest international standards. To this end, 117 of our plants have been certified under some system that meets GSFI standards (BRC, SQF, FSSC, and others), representing 72% of our total plants in Mexico, Spain, Guatemala, Honduras, Colombia, El Salvador, USA, the and Canada. Our plants in Uruguay, Rio de Janeiro, China, Santiago de Chile and our two plants in Argentina, were all certified in HACCP by independent companies. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 32 Innovation and reformulation G4-PR1, G4-PR2 process and in 2016 we are migrating to a new methodology in which we Among other actions, we are continually reviewing and reformulating the establish maximum limits of fat, sugar and sodium content for each catenutritional profiles of our products and constantly working on innovation. gory. We hope this new methodology will enable us to improve the profile of all our products. Our strategy of reducing negative-impact nutrients in 2015 focused on sugars, saturated fats and sodium. In 2015 we completed this reduction Our progress from January to December 2015 is summed up below. Annual improvements on sugar G4-FP6, G4-PR1 Region Bread Rolls Pastries Cakes Cookies Total SKU Metric tons Mexico — — 22 — — 22 71,747 Latin America 27 15 11 8 4 65 23,545 87 products reduced in sugar Annual improvements on saturated fats Region PaBread Rolls Pastries Cakes Cookies Bagels Total SKU Metric tons Mexico 19 9 — — — — 28 18,802 99 products with improvements Latin America Europe 39 — 12 — 12 — 3 — 1 — — 1 67 1 102,169 143 on saturated fats Asia 3 — — — — — 3 939 24 products reduced in sodium 24 products reduced in sodium Region Bread Rolls Cookies Wrap* Total SKU Metric tons Latin America 14 4 4 1 23 9,240 Asia 1 — — — 1 206 * Wrap refers to wheat tortillas. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 33 IIn 2015, we fulfilled our pledge of working continuously on reformulating 5. For special diets: products developed and aimed at population groups and innovating our portfolio, developing new products more in keeping that have some sort of food intolerance or health problem relating to with our customers’ needs, to offer viable complements to their healthy some type of nutrient (gluten, lactose, sugar, etc.). lifestyles by including health-beneficial ingredients like whole grains, fiber, vitamins and minerals, among others. We also developed new categories in 6. Pledge: products that meet a certain nutritional profile established by some products that we already know to be healthy and which the consumer Grupo Bimbo. These are eligible for advertising to children under 12, unhas accepted, as well as a greater number or products of organic origin. der local regulations. Corporate Research and Development must certify In 2015, we completed the process of reducing sugars, saturated fats and that the products meet these guidelines. sodium, and began migrating to a new methodology in which we set limits on the amount of fats, sugar and sodium permitted for each category. StarBased on this classification, we will evaluate the portfolio and validate the ting in 2015, we developed a six-category product classification, based on criteria of our organizations in Canada, BBU, OB, LAC, LAS, Brazil and Ibethe nutritional profile and ingredients of each product, while remaining in ria. The rest of the organizations will join the initiative in 2016. The orgastep with local regulations: nizations that will be analyzing their product portfolio account for 86% of the group’s sales. 1. Functional: products that have been fortified, enriched, improved or supplemented and which provide health benefits in addition to their tradiOur goal is to have a 30% of our product portfolio considered healthy accortional contribution of nutrients (vitamins and minerals) when they are ding to this classification by the year 2020. consumed in sufficient levels and as part of a healthy diet. In 2015, we launched and reformulated more than 30 of our leading brands, 2. Good for you: products that have a healthy nutritional profile, with less but we will not cease in our efforts to continue our mission of putting delithan the limit amount of fat, saturated fat, sodium and sugars. They must cious, nutritious food on every table. also contain at least two health-positive ingredients (proteins, fiber, whole grains, vitamins and minerals, functional ingredients); must not contain additives perceived as negative; must have a clean label (maximum of 10 ingredients); and finally, the corporate Research and Development Area must certify that the products meet these guidelines. 3. Better for you: significantly reduced (at least 25% less) calories, fat, saturated fat, sugar or sodium; controlled-portion or fortified products, enriched or improved for a better nutritional profile than a comparable product, and which enables us to add a claim (good source or excellent source of…) in keeping with local regulations. 4. Organic: products that have been certified and whose ingredients were produced by certified organic methods. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 34 Regulation and legislation In 2016, a new Health and Wellness (H&W) manual will take effect at Grupo Bimbo, establishing a new policy on reformulating products on two basic G4-15 principles: Our work with institutions, physicians and experts in the field of diet and health, as well as regulatory authorities, has been vitally important in this 1. Eliminating ingredients that are negatively perceived by the public: ongoing improvement in the nutritional profiles of our products, and with this in mind we successfully continued our alliance with the Whole Grains ✱✱ Fats and partially hydrogenated oils, lard, HFCS, ADA, caramel coloring Council and the International Food and Beverage Alliance in 2015. We contype III and type IV, Tartrazine (E102), quinoline yellow (E104), sunset tinue to act in alignment with the bylaws of the World Health Organization yellow (E110), Azorubine (E122), Red 6, Red Allura AC (E129), artificial flain order to adopt internationally recognized strategies and best practices. vors (cookie). G4-PR6 ✱✱ Specifically in bread: Caramel colorants in whole-grain products, and artiGrupo Bimbo only sells products that are permitted under local regulation, ficial colorant in general. and we comply fully with all the requirements of the law. We offer our customers a wide variety of products that are part of a healthy diet. With this in 2. Establishing maximum limits on critical ingredients in each category. mind, we drafted an internal policy to regulate the content of trans fat, which reads “All Grupo Bimbo products must state on the label that they contain 0g ✱✱ Bread: sodium and sugars. of trans fats,” respecting the existing legislation of every country as regards that statement. 99% of our portfolio of products meets the stipulations of ✱✱ Cookies: saturated fats and sugars. this policy. ✱✱ Pastries: saturated fats and sugar. ✱✱ Snacks: total fat, saturated fat, sodium. In 206 we developed a work plan that covers the next few years to make sure all our organizations are aligned with the new reformulation requirements. At the El Globo organization, all flour used is ADA-free and ADA is not used in the baking process. 0% Saturated fats Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 35 Understanding our customers We also conducted ethnographic research in order to understand consumption habits more fully, by being present in the environment where conAt Grupo Bimbo, we conduct market studies and analyze information in sumers decide what products to acquire every day. In this effort we have order to gain an “In-Depth Customer Understanding” (IDCU), which we reinidentified key aspects of what we offer in terms of our packaging, product force with a focus on understanding clients in the various channels. This types and prices. focus enables us to understand how are markets are evolving on various levels and gives us information we can use to respond more precisely to our We also keep monitoring and communication channels open by phone and clients’ and customers’ needs and motivations. on the social networks so we can complement the information we obtain directly from what consumers and clients are telling us. In 2015, we conducted a global study of consumer trends for deciding when to buy and consume different products. Through this study we identified In Mexico, specifically, we continued a four-year study of perceptions about several key elements: health and wellness, in which we have identified findings such as: ✱✱ Consumers are focusing on health and wellness and require an increasing G4-PR5 amount of information on ingredients and how natural they are. For the consumer, a healthy product is one that contains natural ingredients and has very clear functional benefits. Wellness means using products that ✱✱ Consumers expect to simplify their lives through product proposals that help us to feel good and that are good for sharing with others. This means enable them to pursue a more dynamic lifestyle, delegating tasks or reduproper evaluation of health encourages proper evaluation of wellness. cing food preparation times. Our day-to-day work is consistent with the laws and standards of every place ✱✱ Globalization and the ability to learn about other product alternatives we operate, and we guarantee compliance with local regulations and with through social networks makes them more curious about products with a our internal policies on labeling, as well as the origins of the product comtouch of other cultures. ponents and the permitted ingredients and additives, in the formulation of the products we make and sell. ✱✱ Consumers seek out products that serve as an antidote to the pressures of modern life, either through shared experiences or based on pleasant memories. ✱✱ Consumers are clear about the transparency they expect from the makers of all kinds of products. We conducted client satisfaction surveys in various markets, so we could establish points of reference for improving our distribution and customer service systems using a standard evaluation methodology. With this, we can identify the elements clients consider priorities in order to recognize us as their preferred supplier. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 36 In all of our pre-packaged products that reach the consumer directly, Our commitments: where space permits, we include a list of ingredients and additives present; as well as warning labels about allergens that may be present ✱✱ Ensure that all our products are labeled with at least information per portion because the products are processed on lines containing them. on nutrients that affect public health (energy content, total carbohydrates, sugars, proteins, fats, saturated fats, sodium and any other nutrient about G4-20, G4-PR3 which some property is claimed). If this is not possible due to space limitaWe also include nutritional information even where inclusion is not mantions, we make sure this information reaches our consumers through other datory. We make sure that products contain, space permitting, front-lachannels. bel information on energy content and nutrients that affect public health (fats, saturated fats, proteins, carbohydrates, sugars, dietary fiber and ✱✱ Continue to comply fully with all labeling laws and regulations in every counsodium). This policy is applied in all of the organizations of Grupo Bimbo, try where our products are sold. except for Canada (Canada Bread and Frozen) and the UK, because they were only acquired recently and not yet reached this level of maturity. ✱✱ Where there are no regulations on a certain aspect, we will abide by international regulations (Codex) or best practices in the various countries where we operate. Labeling G4-FP8 G4-DMA PRODUCTS AND SERVICES LABELING ✱✱ Label every product, in addition to basic nutritional information, with a G4-PR3, G4-PR4, G4FP4, G4-FP6 readable and easily understood front label (GDAs) We continue to apply an internal labeling policy. No new legislation was detected on a global level last year, although the authorities of many coun✱✱ Promote the habit of engaging in at least 30 minutes of physical activity tries where the group is present are showing an increasing interest in a day as part of the information included on our packaging to promote reviewing the laws on this matter. healthy lifestyles. We at Grupo Bimbo are convinced that educating our customers is key to bringing about a change in their lifestyles. Labeling, and specifically nutritional information on our products, plays an important role in the dissemination of essential information on their nutritional value and composition. We are committed to making an increasing effort to provide easy-to-access and understandable nutritional information to our consumers, in order to help them make healthier decisions when buying and consuming food. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 37 Org GDA % Data Privacy México 100 G4-DMA CUSTOMER PRIVACY BBU 97 G4-PR8 OB* 100 OBL* 92 At Grupo Bimbo we are concerned about the privacy of personal and senLAC 88 sitive information about our clients, suppliers, associates, applicants and BB 100 consumers. We abide by the Federal Law for the Protection of Personal Data BI 100 Owned by Private Parties, its regulations, and our own internal policies and OA 100 procedures on this matter. ELG 95 Our data privacy policy for Mexico is also available in a notice posted on *In organizations in Mexico, front labeling must be re-introduced because new official provisions took effect in 2015. the Grupo Bimbo web page at: http://www.grupobimbo.com/assets/pdf/ Not implemented in recent acquisitions (Canada, UK, Frozen) AVISODEPRIVACIDADgrupobimbocom.pdf. On a global level we have the internal Grupo Bimbo policies that reaffirm our ethical handling of this data everywhere in the world. In 2016 we will be working on aligning organizations where the policy has not yet been introduced (Vero, Canada Bread (Canada, Frozen and UK). The Compliance Department is in the process of unifying all its policies and procedures and standardizing them into a single webpage where the PriAll of our products are marked with an expiration date and we also have intervacy Notice of each country where Grupo Bimbo operates can be consulted. nal nomenclature that enables our sales team to withdraw the product from In 2015, the Compliance Department received an injunction from the Fedethe shelf before expiration and dispose of it correctly. Additionally, on some ral Institute for Information Access and Protection of Personal Data, but it of our packaging in Mexico, Brazil, Colombia, Ecuador, Venezuela, Costa Rica, was dismissed by a subsequent court order. Guatemala, El Salvador, Panama, Chile, Paraguay, Uruguay, Peru, and Argentina we use an oxo-biodegradable additive. We received no claims or complaints from clients regarding privacy violations in 2015. We have adopted voluntary regulations as well, such as the Consumer Goods Forum, IFBA accreditation, Government Health Organizations, and the legal framework in Mexico, which contains some of the strictest regulations in the market. In August 2014 we began a project called Global Graphic Chain, whose goal is to provide comprehensive global service in the print material production process and thus preserve our brand identity across all packages, for all our brands around the world. In 2015, our organizations in the United States and Canada updated the tool and in month they launched Graphic Chain Live. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 38 Education We must always bear in mind the importance of education in promoting healWe are convinced that the correct execution of the Wellness initiative will thy lifestyles both within the company and among consumers and clients. have the following benefits: Creating communication programs that encourage healthy lifestyles is also fundamental to achieving our goals and targets. We must continue the work of internal and external education, which incor✱✱ Reduced absenteeism porates a balanced approach to two aspects: Greater ✱✱ Better work performance 1. Advice About proper diet and eating balanced amounts. This must take into producivity ✱✱ Increased concentration during working hours account foods from all groups and appropriate to each person’s lifestyle. ✱✱ Better labor relations 2. Engaging in regular physical activity and incorporating other elements of a healthy lifestyle. ✱✱ Reduced insurance premiums ✱✱ Lower risk of illness Lower ✱✱ Lower disability costs Costs Associates’ Wellness Program ✱✱ Lower health costs and investment (business and individual) G4-FP4 GR-DMA OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY According to the World Health Organization (WHO), Wellness is “the active process of becoming aware and making choices toward a more balanced ✱✱ Greater confidence, pride and and healthy lifestyle.” commitment on the part of the associate Improved ✱✱ Talent attraction and retention To contribute to this WHO declaration, we have an initiative called Wellness, image ✱✱ Better perception of the institution which we are extending to our operations around the world, and which is ✱✱ Opportunity to transmit learning to the made up of programs designed to inform and guide associates and their family and others (social responsibility) families on the adoption and maintenance of behavior that reduces health risks and improves quality of life and personal yield. As part of Grupo Bimbo’s Health and Wellness initiative, in 2015 we began Phase 1 of a program called “Cuidando mi Salud” (Caring for my Health), the goal of which is to conduct anthropomorphic measurements of all of our associates in Mexico and obtain glucose levels to detect health risks. In 2016 we will carry out phase 2 of the program, which will involve basic strategies focused on groups detected as having some specific needs in terms of diet, physical activity and habits. We will be monitoring the program closely to check on its progress. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 39 “Cuidando mi salud” (Caring for my Health) program The purpose of this program is to conduct anthropomorphic measurements of all of Grupo Bimbo’s associates in Mexico and obtain blood sugar measurement (fingertip prick test) to detect their main health problems. The first of the program’s two phases was carried out in 2015, and included the following: Detect of main health risks by measuring: ✱✱ Weight Evaluation ✱✱ Size ✱✱ Abdominal circumference 41,924 ✱✱ Body Mass Index (BMI) ✱✱ Resting blood pressure Associates in Mexico benefited ✱✱ Resting respiratory rate from the first phase of the Phase 1 ✱✱ Resting heart rate ✱✱ Blood sugar “Cuidando mi Salud” program Based on measurements and indictors: ✱✱ Segmentation of population by risk group ✱✱ Determine needs of risk groups to plan risk Diagnosis interventions according to specific health risks among associates (strategies) The most noteworthy results obtained from this program were: ✱✱ Most associates have satisfactory blood sugar levels, but an average of around 20% of them are at risks of hyperglycemia, which is rather high, and must be addressed. The second phase, which begins in 2016, includes the following components: ✱✱ In terms of muscle mass and weight, we found that around 40% of our ✱✱ Focused strategies by risk groups: diet, physical associates are overweight, with an average of 20% showing level 1 obeImplementation exercise, habits sity and 8% level 2 obesity. 35% of our associates are of normal weight. ✱✱ Education Focused ✱✱ As regards blood pressure, 90% of our associates were found to have normal Phase 2 Strategies ✱✱ Rewards/Incentives and follow-up to the levels, around 4% had low blood pressure and 6% had high blood pressure. program Statistics like these enable us to take more precisely focused and appro✱✱ Follow-up and tracking of indicators priate actions for addressing the specific health problems of our internal Monitoring ✱✱ Final Grupo Bimbo Report communities. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 40 Nutritional consultation “Healthy Dining Room” program Concerned about the health and wellness of all our associates, in 2015 we This strategic Health and Wellness initiative developed by Grupo Bimbo, provided personalized nutritional consultation in various work centers in together with our Safety Model, is aimed at making us an even more extraorMexico City and Toluca, Mexico State, in order to track nutritional behavior dinary place to work. We want to build more awareness and get our assoand reduce health problems relating to excess weight, improving our associates and their families more involved in adopting healthy practices; and ciates’ diet and their quality of life along with it. we want to have better-informed, healthier and better-rounded associates. As part of the improvement in various parts of our work centers, in 2009 we created a program called “Healthy Dining Rooms,” geared primarily to making associates more aware about health and nutrition matters, proPatients seen viding healthy eating choices for them to choose from, considered as a benefit and an added value for their health. 327 Under this program, every Grupo Bimbo dining room offers attractive, Number of consultations healthy menus, low in sodium and sugars, using low-fat cooking methods to prepare food and a choice of lighter, lower-fat dishes or substitutes that 1,355 reduce fat content. Numbers of kg lost The opening, certification and recertification of healthy dining rooms in Mexico had the following results: 291.9 Waist reduction in cm 34 10 445.5 healthy dining dining rooms rooms recertified Out of the total number of patients who attended nutritional consultations in 2015, 41% were able to lose weight (224 out of 327). Around 7% of these patients lost more than 5% of their weight. 15 21 dining rooms with dining rooms a 5-peso subsidy on According to health statistics, patients who lost more than 5% of their body certified the healthy menu weight were also able to reduce their risk of chronic degenerative disease, improving their blood pressure, cholesterol and blood sugar levels. http://www.cdc.gov/healthyweight/spanish/losingweight/ Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 41 Communication Visitor traffic grew by 225% between Nutrition website 2014 and 2015. G4-FP4 In 2015, our special nutrition website at www.nutriciongrupobimbo.com, received an average of 61,190 visits a month. The purpose of this site is to provide accurate, up-to-date information on Health and Wellness for our various stakeholders. The page contains dietary guidance for users and information about the nutritional benefits of our various brands and categories, as well as about how to maintain a healthy lifestyle. Through various “Con M de mamá” sections, including articles about health and wellness, personalized diet plans, online nutritionists who answer questions, recipes for different times This program aims to create and disseminate health and nutrition content of the day with caloric values, and others, we present options where our for mothers and their children. On our website and in social media, we brands complement the healthy lifestyle of their choice. publish notes, recipes, tips, activities and information on appropriate nutrition and healthy lifestyles. In 2015, we received a total of Responsible advertising 734,290 visits to www.nutriciongrupobimbo.com G4-DMA MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS In keeping with the requirements of the International Food and Beverage Alliance (IFBA), we make sure that our advertising is comprehensive and We also have 282,973 followers in Facebook, an increase of 75.51% over effective, that it reaches every corner of the countries where we are pre2015, and 6,242 in Twitter, 14.9% more than in 2014. sent and that any advertising prepared for and aimed at children under 12 compiles with the highest international standards of socially responsible marketing, promotes healthy lifestyles and contains message about adopting healthy eating habits among our consumers. This commitment is consistent with the recommendations of the World Health Organization and extends to 17 of the 22 countries where we operate. Besides the website, Facebook and Twitter, Nutrición Grupo Bimbo is present in other social networks like Pinterest, YouTube and Instagram. G4-PR7 Our commitment to self-regulation in advertising is monitored annually by an independent party determined by the IFBA--of which we are a member-which in 2015 was Accenture, continuing the monitoring effort in Brazil and Colombia and assigning a compliance level of 95.2% to the Group in television and 100% to Internet and the print media. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 42 Activation G4-SO1, G4-FP4 70,000+ people from around the world ran in the Global Energy Race Global Energy Race This is a global movement that motivates all families in the world to become more physically active. In 2015 the first global race was held, encouraging families from 19 countries and 22 cities around the world to run circuits of 10km, 5km and 3km. Programs were also developed to accompany runners during their training, Futbolito Bimbo including physical preparation, advice about healthy habits and motivational talks. Grupo Bimbo has been organizing the “Futbolito Bimbo” soccer tournament for boys and girls since 1959. In Mexico, the tournament celebrated its 56th At Grupo Bimbo, we called upon all of the group’s associates and their famianniversary in 2015, and it was attended by some 90,000 boys and girls from lies to take part in the race, through a program of discounts and promotions. five countries –Chile, Peru, Argentina, United States, and Mexico– with two major regional finals in Chile and the United States. To publicize the event, we used all the digital communication platforms available along with local efforts, achieving 793,000,000 impressions on FaceFutbolito Bimbo continues not only to meet but to exceed its goal of encourabook and Twitter and 3,000,000 engagements in all digital communications. ging physical activity and healthy living among boys and girls. It is also a tool for promoting healthy nutrition through talks and the inculcation of values In 2016 we will repeat the event, and our goal is 120,000 participants and be like teamwork, sportsmanship, fair play and respect, among others. present in 22 countries and 35 cities. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 43 Other global actions Our 2020 Vision Healthy brand communication: We developed individual communication programs highlighting brands with healthy profiles. By 2020, we want to become a global benchmark for healthy, nutritious bakery products, through innovation and development, using various Iberia resources like the adoption of healthy habits--nutritional, physical, mental, emotional and social. We want to be the number one company in the ✱✱ HAVISA Plan. Healthy messages on broadcast TV. promotion of physical activity, both inside and outside of the company, and ✱✱ Training program for health professionals. Visits to health professionals train people in adopting healthy lifestyles that contribute to their wellness and participation in 2 congresses with information about whole grains through what we consider to be the perfect health formula. and our product. ✱✱ Six nutrition chats at gyms and companies. South Latin Healthy habits ✱✱ “How Chile Eats.” An educational program that raises awareness about eating habits in Chile, distributed online. Brazil ✱✱ Internal Olympics. In September and October physical activation days were organized for associates, with 89 people participating at the Raposo plant, and six different sports were practiced. United States ✱✱ National communication campaign with the Whole Grains Council. Creation and distribution of content about whole grain and support for the launch of Healthy Physical Nature’s Harvest. nutrition activity ✱✱ Continuing partnership with specialized committees nationwide. Mexico ✱✱ Plan with Milenio. A program of health-oriented content in various media of the Milenio media platform. TV capsules, content for daily newspapers and digital presence. ✱✱ Radio capsules. Interviews with nutritionists about nutrition, focused on our categories. ✱✱ Sales team training. Delivery of printed material with nutritional information on our categories, for our sales teams. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 44 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 45 G4-DMA PRODUCTS AND SERVICES Grupo Bimbo established environmental goals for the reduction of seveLeadership on Climate Change ral indicators such as greenhouse gas emissions, water consumption and waste compared to a baseline yearof 2009. G4-EC2 Grupo Bimbo has become an emerging leadership voice from the business Improved environmental monitoring systems have allowed the company sector through our CEO Daniel Servitje. In October 2015, Daniel Servitje to make more precise analysis and decision-making throughout our global published an open letter calling the different actors of the COP 21 Paris to operations.1 join forces to encourage governments to establish ambitious, clear, science-based and verifiable goals of carbon emissions reduction. We are broadening our scope of action and working on decreasing the environmental footprint of the company through the value chain and products Grupo Bimbo showed its support to the outcome of the COP 21 by signing with more ecological attributes. the Paris Pledge for Action which was also signed by tenths of non-State actors. The company committed to start actions before the Paris Agreement In 2015, Grupo Bimbo updated its environmental policy in order to ensure takes force in 2020. the journey towards sustainability. We adhered to the We Mean Business Coalition by committing to remove commodity-driven deforestation from our supply chain by 2020. At the same time, several Directors took on the internal communications to inspire action on climate change by the strong workforce of our associates. Grupo Bimbo operation in Central America joined the Business Alliance for Sustainability which groups 17 consumer goods companies committed to improve the conditions of our planet. 1 The reporting period for Planet Pillar runs from November 2014 to October 2015 to allow better analysis and communication of data. In Mexico, Grupo Bimbo participated in several forums and events showcaG4-20, G4-21 sing its progress in environmental sustainability. NOTE This report doesn’t include information from offices, depots, the acquisitions of Wholesome Harvest USA, Lucerna and Vachon. México no reporta Moldex. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 46 Carbon footprint Climate Change and Energy Energy Star We implement different initiatives to reduce our contribution to climate G4-DMA-B ENERGY change and air pollutants through all our value chain; some of them become Energy Star is a voluntary program from the USA Environmental Protection a common and standard practice while others help solve temporary needs Agency created to promote and improve energy efficiency at residential, or are pilot projects. industrial and commercial facilities. Grupo Bimbo signed up as an Energy Star Industrial Partner in 2012 to demonstrate our commitment to energy The following are some of the most representative actions we took during efficiency, prevent pollution, protect the global environment and save money the year in our plants in Energy and Climate Change: on energy bills. G4-EN6, G4-EN27 Grupo Bimbo’s plants are actively engaged in reinforcing energy best mana✱✱ Reducción de equipo inactivo y uso de controladores lógicos programables gement practices and are currently participating in two Energy Star initia(PLCs) por equipo pesado tives: the Challenge for Industry and Energy Performance Indicator for the ✱✱ Utilización de condensadores eléctricos para mejorar el factor de potencia Baking Industry (under development). ✱✱ Sustitución de motores por aquellos de alta eficiencia ✱✱ Reemplazo de compresores centrífugos con compresores de tornillo en el G4-EN6 control de la variación de frecuencia All Grupo Bimbo plants in the USA (59) are participating in the programs. ✱✱ Iluminación: sustitución con luces de LED e inducción magnética To date, Grupo Bimbo has 9 manufacturing plants that have achieved the ✱✱ Colocación de inversores en bandas transportadoras Challenge for Industry goal resulting in an annual reduction of energy usage ✱✱ Reemplazo de paneles eléctricos del aire comprimido con sistemas de and intensity between 10-25% within 2 years of a registered baseline period. flujo de aire This is equivalent to a reduction of 17,976 metric tons of CO2 emissions, the ✱✱ Implementación de controles de iluminación automática equivalent of 3,784 vehicles. Grupo Bimbo’s plants achieving the Energy Star ✱✱ Empleo de iluminación natural Challenge goal of 10% or higher reduction in energy usage / intensity are: ✱✱ Frederick (Maryland) ✱✱ Sioux Falls ✱✱ Houston (Texas) (Dakota del Sur) ✱✱ Topeka (Kansas) ✱✱ Hastings (Nebraska) ✱✱ Placentia (California) ✱✱ Kent (Washington) ✱✱ Greenwich (Connecticut) ✱✱ Atlanta (Georgia) Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 47 Participation with CDP In-house development of Electric Vehicles We collaborate every year with the CDP (previously known as the Carbon G4-EN27 Disclosure Project) answering the information requests for energy, forests, Grupo Bimbo has been developing electric vehicles since 2012 through its water and supply chain. subsidiary company Moldex in Mexico. The electric vehicles are currently in use at two sales centers in Mexico City and Guadalajara in Mexico. In 2015, we By participating with the CDP, we demonstrate leadership in transparency, developed a new distribution vehicle with load capacity of one ton and autounderstanding the risks posed by climate change and implementing actions. nomy for 100 km which will eventually become part of the fleet. LEED Certified Facilities Energy Consumption G4-15 In the last five years, Grupo Bimbo, have experienced an important growth in Our Lehigh Valley plant in Pennsylvania (USA) became LEED Gold certified. sales and quantity of plants derived from the various acquisitions in different Other LEED certified facilities are Trillium plant (Ontario, Canada), Roccountries. However, we have reached a great reduction in the generation of kwall (Texas, USA) and Tenjo Distribution Center (Colombia) under process Greenhouse Gases (GHG) which is presented in the following pages. of certification. G4-23, G4-EN3 Total Energy Consumption (Fuel and Electricity) Grupo Bimbo (GJ) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total Fuel Consumption from 15,062,453 15,068,360 20,413,615 17,346,175 14,287,157 19,754,675 non-renewable Total Fuel Consumption from 0 0 0 0 236 51 renewable sources Electricity Consumption 2,260,513 2,271,171 3,213,065 3,240,572 2,610,985 3,547,071 Total Energy Consumption 17,322,966 17,339,531 23,626,680 20,586,747 16,898,378 23,301,797 * The data shown for 2014 may not be comparable because it only includes the months from January 2014 to October 2014 due to an adjustment period to improve the measuring process. The above figures are absolute numbers; therefore, it is normal to see an increase in the consumption of energy as the company grows. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 48 An update from Piedra Larga Wind Farm G4-EN3 The Piedra Larga Wind Farm in the Mexican region of Oaxaca supplies 90% of the electricity of our plants in Mexico, two distribution centers (Guadalajara and Monterrey) and the corporate offices in Mexico City. We are in the process of adding 181 new facilities in Mexico to the supply of the Wind Farm; these are mainly sales centers and El Globo shops. This process will be completed in early 2016. Electricity consumption G4-23, G4-EN3, G4-EN27 In general, electricity generation has some level of environmental impact depending on the source. At Grupo Bimbo, we understand that by using electricity more efficiently we reduce the amount of pollutants and GHG released into the atmosphere. 1,188,000 GJ generated* (From November 2014 to October 2015) Consumption of electricity from the grid (indirect) and selfgenerated energy from Piedra Larga Windfarm Grupo Bimbo in GJ 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total indirect consumption of 2,260,513 2,271,171 3,072,959 2,473,933 1,932,634 2,747,581 energy from suppliers Wind energy 0 0 140,106 766,639 678,441 799,490 Elimination of Total 2,260,513 2,271,171 3,213,065 3,240,572 2,611,075 3,547,071 * The data shown for 2014 may not be comparable because it only includes the months from January 2014 to October 2014 due to an adjustment period to 139,000 tons improve the measuring process. of CO2e emissions *For Grupo Bimbo and friend companies that receive the supply. *CO2e: to take into account the emission of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases when calculating the level of greenhouse gas emissions, scientists devised an equivalent measure called CO2e (which means carbon dioxide equivalent). This measure allows other greenhouse gas emissions to be expressed in terms of CO2 based on their relative global warming potential (GWP). Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 49 Thermal (fuel) energy consumption G4-23, G4-EN4, G4-EN27 Everyone at Grupo Bimbo is focused in making an efficient use of fuel throughout our operations in plants and the distribution fleet. Consumption by type of fuel Grupo Bimbo in GJ 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Natural gas in plants 6,308,151 6,095,813 8,038,092 8,124,529 6,216,706 8,217,035 LP gas in plants 424,985 465,627 453,960 464,720 419,313 590,921 Diesel in plants 62,086 66,604 24,867 13,827 52,185 60,851 Other fuels in plants (fuel oil) 97,950 74,638 92,567 120,108 110,792 118,370 GJ Sub-total in plants 6,893,173 6,702,682 8,609,486 8,723,184 6,798,995 8,987,177 Natural gas in vehicles — — — 123 2,805 21,204 LP gas in vehicles 89,991 66,080 44,759 25,693 23,022 28,445 Diesel in vehicles 6,145,779 6,315,369 9,650,926 6,461,793 4,548,479 4,680,394 Gasoline in vehicles 1,933,510 1,984,229 2,108,443 2,135,382 2,057,527 2,419,516 Other fuel in vehicles (ethanol) 0 0 0 0 236 51 GJ Sub-total in vehicles 8,169,280 8,365,679 11,804,129 8,622,990 6,632,068 7,149,609 Natural gas in third party vehicles — — — — — 111,140 Diesel in third party vehicles 0 0 0 0 860,009 3,506,800 GJ Sub-total in third party vehicles 0 0 0 0 860,009 3,617,940 Total direct consumption 15,062,453 15,068,360 20,413,615 17,346,175 14,291,073 19,754,726 of fuels (purchased) * The data shown for 2014 may not be comparable because it only includes the months from January 2014 to October 2014 due to an adjustment period to improve the measuring process. Until 2013, the data for third party vehicles was accumulated within the subtotal for vehicles; 2014 was the first year we presented a separate data. The large growth in the consumption of fuel by our third party vehicles for 2015 is due to new estimations of vehicles in Mexico and the USA that had not previously been reported. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 50 Energy Intensity G4-25, G4-EN5 We measure the reductions in energy consumption by Energy Intensity Ratio which is calculated taking into consideration the amount of energy consumed and the total of products produced during the year. The Energy Intensity Ratio (thermal and electricity) for plants was reduced by 6% from a baseline year of 2010. It passed from 3.09 to 2.89. This means that even that our business has grown; we have decreased the amount of energy used. In regards to our distribution fleet, we measure its progress by taking into consideration the amount of kilometers travelled and the consumption of fuel. This is called Energy Intensity Ratio for vehicles. The Energy Intensity Ratio of our owned vehicles (not third party vehicles) was reduced by 43% in 2015 from a baseline year of 2011. It passed from 0.013 to 0.007. This means that even that our fleet is travelling many more kilometers than it did in 2011; we have reduced consumption of fuel in our owned distribution vehicles. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 51 Greenhouse Gases Emissions and Climate Change Emissions intensity ratio G4-23, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN27 G4-EN18 G4-DMA EMISSIONS As a successful growing company, Grupo Bimbo has increased the absolute G4-DMA-B EMISSIONS amount of CO2 emissions. The Emissions Intensity Ratio is an important We established a 2015 goal to reduce 27% of our CO2e emissions (carbon indicator that is comparable through the years and offers transparency. It dioxide equivalent) from plants and the distribution fleet compared to a 2009 is calculated by dividing the amount of CO2e emissions by tons of packaged base year. We have taken actions on energy efficiency and renewable energy product. to accomplish our targets. The emissions reported under Scope 3 correspond to indirect emissions from distribution vehicles not owned by the Company (third party vehicles). In 2015, we improved our estimation of fuel consumption and emissions from the third party vehicles and we are now able to include the vehicles from Mexico and the USA. Absolute Carbon Dioxide (CO2e Ton) emissions per year and by fuel type CO2 emissions (Ton) Grupo Bimbo 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Natural gas in plants 336,211 341,495 451,355 433,960 6,216,706 447,594 LP gas in plants 25,031 29,405 28,669 29,348 419,313 35,099 Diesel in plants 4,494 4,821 5,073 5,114 3,623 4,090 Other fuels in plants (fuel oil) 5,841 4,451 5,520 7,658 7,382 7,763 CO2e Sub-total in Plants 371,577 380,172 490,617 476,080 374,849 494,546 Natural gas in vehicles 0 0 0 7 0 1,159 LP gas in vehicles 5,824 4,276 2,829 1,624 1,486 1,835 Diesel in vehicles 444,012 456,960 714,265 478,237 328,294 337,739 Gasoline in vehicles 128,302 132,840 146,010 147,875 137,397 161,523 Other fuel in vehicles (ethanol) 0 0 0 0 16 4 CO2e Sub-total in Vehicles 578,138 594,076 863,104 627,743 467,193 502,260 CO2e total direct emissions (Scope 1) 949,715 974,248 1,353,721 1,103,823 842,042 996,806 Electricity 287,430 0 0 0 236 51 CO2e total indirect emissions (Scope 2) 0 0 0 0 394,283 3,506,800 Natural gas in third party vehicles — — — — — 6,105 Diesel in third party vehicles 0 0 0 0 62,040 253,177 CO2e total third party vehicles emissions (Scope 3) 0 0 0 0 62,040 259,282 Total GB CO2 emissions 1,237,145 1,260,624 1,778,048 1,404,295 1,134,252 1,550,395 * The data shown for 2014 may not be comparable because it only includes the months from January 2014 to October 2014 due to an adjustment period to improve the measuring process. ** Calculations were based on the GHG Protocol. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 52 Cleaner vehicles for distribution G4-EN30 G4-DMA TRANSPORTE G4-EN19 Grupo Bimbo uses 320 electric vehicles for the distribution of our products in a couple of urban areas like the Historic Center in Mexico City. Goal reached and We increased our CNG fleet with more than 300 new vehicles added in counovercome!!! tries such as Colombia, Mexico and the USA. We also added more than 400 LP Gas vehicles mainly in Mexico, Chile, USA, Peru andGuatemala. We set up the goal to reduce 27% More than 6,500 speed controllers were installed to improve fuel perforof CO2e emissions from our plants. mance. According to different studies, speeds over 110 Km/hr can generate Using 2010 as base year for comparison, up to 15% of over consumption of fuel. we reached a reduction of 29% on Scope 1 In the USA, we increased considerably the efficiency of the fleet by consoliand 10% on Scope 2. dating several distribution routes. Other emissions G4-23, G4-EN21 Air emissions may be created as a by-product from fuel combustion taking place in ovens and emergency/back-up generators. We reached a total reduction of 18% in emissions Intensity Ratio from plants from a 2010 baseline year, including emissions coming from fuel and elecWe have reported the nitrogen oxides (NOx) and sulfur oxides (SOx) emistricity combined. sions since 2013 for our United States of America (USA) operations. We are implementing standardized monitoring systems in the rest of the business The CO2 Emissions Intensity Ratio from fuel consumption in plants (Scope 1) units and will be able to report them in future years. The following table was reduced by 10% from 0.13 to 0.11; while the Ratio from electricity in plants shows the emissions of both pollutants for the plants in the USA. (Scope 2) was reduced by 29% during the period 2010-2015 from 0.096 to 0.07. Therefore, even that Grupo Bimbo has grown its business; we generate fewer USA (Tons) 2013 2014 2015 emissions as we grow. NOx 153.90 112.48 132.58 SOx 0.92 0.67 0.80 In the case of our owned distribution fleet (kilometers travelled against CO2 * The data shown for 2014 may not be comparable because it only emissions; Scope 1), the Emissions Intensity Ratio was reduced 43% from a includes the months from January 2014 to October 2014 due to an baseline year of 2011 passing from 0.93 to 0.52. adjustment period to improve the measuring process. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 53 Waste Management and Packaging G4-DMA EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-EN27 A total of 16 plants reached the goal of zero waste to landfill during 2015. Waste reduction is top of mind in our business. From reducing food waste in Most if not all of the food waste is sent to a third party that converts it into our plants to improving our packaging; we take waste seriously. animal feed and all recyclable materials such as paper, plastic and scrap metal is sent to recycling. Other waste may be sent to a certified Waste to Every year we work towards Zero Waste to Landfill and we are getting close Energy facility. because managing waste correctly makes business sense and is the sustainable way to go. Zero Waste to Landfill G4-23, G4-EN15, G4-EN27, G4-EN23 We aim to increase the amount of waste sent for beneficial uses such as Our two plants in reusing, recycling, composting and recovery. Since 2010, we have reached the United Kingdom received the over 90% of waste diverted from landfill to beneficial uses. Gold Zero Waste Award and also won the Waste (Tons) 2014 2015 Let’s Recycle Platinum Recyclables 192,787 254,689 Award for Excellence, Non-recyclables 11,401 14,260 in 2015 in recognition of their effort Special handling 9,780 8,935 Hazardous waste 866 1,258 to reduce waste at a maximum. Total waste disposal 0.67 279,142 * The data shown for 2014 may not be comparable because it only includes the months from January 2014 to October 2014 due to an adjustment period to improve the measuring process. The percentage of total waste sent to recycling and other beneficial uses is well over 90% and less than 10% of waste is going to landfill. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 54 Packaging Materials G4-DMA MATERIALS G4-EN1 G4-DMA PRODUCTS AND SERVICES The following table shows details of the amount of packaging we bought in G4-DMA MATERIALS total for this period and the share corresponding to renewable materials. It is The packaging guarantees quality to our consumers. We are continually worimportant to note that this is the first year we report publicly these data for king to improve the sustainability credentials of all the packaging globally. transparency purposes as it became clear in our Materiality Analysis that this is a very important issue for our stakeholders. One the most important initiatives we have done through the years is to reduce the amount of packaging used. Every year, we reduce the caliber of our packages as well as optimizing the capacity of our containers. 2015 Total packaging purchased (tons) 208,716 The following table shows the progress we have made thru the past five Renewable materials used (tons) 124,460 years. The highest reduction of caliber was reached in 2013. Share of renewable materials 59.68% A total of 8,722 tons are recycled materials, representing 4% of all the packaPackaging caliber ging sourced by Grupo Bimbo. We are on the process of increasing the share of recycled content and results should show in the near future. Year Kg reduced 2010 394,862 2011 99,804 Ecora, design elements 2012 164,706 2013 963,965 G4-EN2 2014 199,110 In late 2014, through our subsidiary company Moldex, we started the production of an ecological alternative to wood made mainly from plastic 2015 111,718 waste. The raw materials are Grupo Bimbo’s plastic waste from our plants in Mexico. In 2015, we launched our own brand, Ecora, of recycled plastic plaques that Since 2010, we have reduced the caliber of our packages by 1,900 metric tons. can be used in construction, interior and industrial design as flooring, walls. We use other metrics to measure our path to sustainable packaging like the This ecological substitute for wood is not toxic, fire retardant, lasting, impact amount of renewable materials and recycled content. resistant, low maintenance, rot resistant and low water absorption. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 55 Water Footprint G4-EN10 Water Conservation Total water volume by source G4-DMA WATER Global (m3) 2012 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN8, G4-23 Total volume At Grupo Bimbo we take pride of our comprehensive water management sys939,098 2,117,430 720,666 680,089 of water treated tem with practices such as efficient use, treatment and reuse throughout all our operations. Total volume 416,003 1,523,300 369,133 420,744 of water reused % of water treated from the Total Volume of Water Withrawn by Type source in plants 20% 47% 20% 15% Total Consume Volume Global (m3) 2012 2013 2014 2015 * The data shown for 2014 may not be comparable because it only includes the months from January Ground water 1,548,221 1,334,810 983,852 1,191,666 2014 to October 2014 due to an adjustment period to improve the measuring process. *The data for 2012 does not include information from the USA. Rainwater collected 0 3,965 0 0 * In 2013, the percentage of treated water was reported using a new methodology. After an analysis in Municipal water supplies 2014, it was decided the data would be reported in the same format as 2012. 3,264,032 3,160,999 2,642,903 3,497,057 or water utilities Total 4,812,253 4,499,773 3,626,755 4,688,723 * The data shown for 2014 may not be comparable because it only includes the months from January 2014 to October 2014 due to an adjustment period to improve the measuring process. Although we collect thousands of liters of rainwater in our facilities, we are developing new methods for metering the water captured more accurately. We are reducing our ecological impact in water streams by increasing the capacity for treating water and reusing it within our facilities for washing vehicles, services and gardening. We also apply best practices in the use of water in the plants in order to reduce the amount of pollutants to be treated. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 56 Natural Capital In 2014, besides from assuring that Grupo Bimbo’s plants operate in an Animal welfare in egg production environmentally sound way, we started focusing our efforts in understanding the impacts we generate in ecosystems through the raw materials Grupo Bimbo announced in late 2015 its public commitment to gradually supply chain. move its entire egg supply worldwide to battery cage-free egg production systems starting in 2016 and planning to conclude in 2025. This change will take place keeping our food and quality standards, local legal compliance and Supplier Environmental Assessment product offer in the different countries where we operate. G4-DMA-B SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT Grupo Bimbo supports the highest standards of animal welfare practices During 2015, we continued our in-house developed supplier sustainabisuch as freedom from hunger, discomfort, pain and where animals are able to lity survey in Mexico. At the same time, we are partnering with some of our express normal behaviors and to live free from fear. largest clients in the USA to implement an Ethical Sourcing Assessment to understand Grupo Bimbo’s position on the matter and develop an action plan. Currently, we supply 100% free range eggs for our United Kingdom operation and will be incorporating products, brands, regions as soon as our supply base has product available for our consumption. Global Palm Oil Policy Grupo Bimbo is the first Mexican food company incorporating these practices G4-DMA BIODIVERSITY into the business to promote animal welfare. G4-EN13 Grupo Bimbo fulfilled its previous commitment that ensures the sourcing of 100% Certified Sustainable Palm Oil through RSPO* Green Palm Certificates and Mass Balance by 2015. We launched a new Sustainable Palm Oil Policy and action plan that goes beyond RSPO requirements and reinforces our commitment to no deforestation of High Conservation Value (HCV) land and High Carbon Stock (HCS) forest, no peatland development, no social or labor exploitation and ensures traceability to plantation level. Additionally, Grupo Bimbo became a member of TFT who will help implementing the policy with its suppliers on key requirements and progressively reach milestones across its supply base. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 57 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 58 G4-EC1 G4-DMA ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE The rapid and unceasing growth of the world’s population multiplies the challenges we all face, while technology and globalization demand new levels of preparation to remain abreast of changes in the labor markets. We need to support the communities of our planet as they confront a new reality that challenges their dreams and their advancement. Throughout our history, at Grupo Bimbo we have learned that every dream can come true when we share with and live in society, in togetherness, with the collective commitment and passion of each member of our community, joining forces to make it happen. G4-EC7, G4-EC8 Every day we participate in Sustainability actions that help people in the communities where we work to achieve their dreams. We want to be an agent of change, promoting ideas and attitudes that encourage cordiality, affection and caring among people, because we understand that our business goes beyond the food industry. At Grupo Bimbo we understand that in order to become more productive and contribute better with the different projects, we need to work under a simple and fundamental principle: waking up early every morning. By applying this wise advice every day, we try harder to be more dynamic and participate actively to improve every action that helps on the development of the communities where we operate. We want to be that active agent who brings new ideas to the table, who has a fresh attitude and promotes values as a core element for a healthy sharing between the communities, because we understand that our business goes beyond the food industry. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 59 Donations Impact on Donations of Grupo Bimbo through the work of non-profit organizations G4-DMA-B LOCAL COMMUNITIES 14,601,723 In keeping with our philosophy, since 2012, our Sembrando Juntos program Children (which means “planting together”) has worked under the Community pillar to Young people 9,287,613 design a Social Responsibility network that can manage actions and achieve tangible benefits for communities. This network is made up of links that Families 321 support collaborative work, ideas, solutions, resources and time, so that we Indigenous 8,778 can contribute to building a better, gentler, more flavorful world. Elderly 152 G4-16, G4-SO1 Enterpreneurs 5,461 The first link in this network are the non-profit organizations who work day 366,141 Training support in and day out in weaving and strengthening the social fabric. They apply their experience to making a projects a reality through viable, sustainable Reforested hectares 133 implementation. Indirect beneficiaries 3,927,779 Health 11,510 The institutions we work with engage in an ongoing dialogue with communities, so they can understand the unique problems and reality of each of *This impact covers only the actions for Mexico / See case studies and supported associations detailed table them. This level of professionalism and institutional strength contributes at: www.grupobimbo.com/informeanual. tremendous value and transparency to the process of implementing community development solutions. Their enthusiasm and passion is contagious, and Grupo Bimbo today is an enthusiastic partner. G4-EC7, G4-EC8 G4-DMA INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-EC1 We know that a working model of Sustainability is essential in our work We have shared donations to more than 1276 non-profit organizations, with the outside world, but also when actions are applied right here within giving us the opportunity to support them during the year with an equivalent the company. For this reason, the second link in the network is Grupo Bimamount of 2.6% of our net income of 2014 (90 million of Mexican pesos). At bo’s work centers, including our factories and plants. The “Good Neighbor” the same time the non-profit organizations have fulfilled their promises of program is the central axis of these actions, and contributes a budget for supporting hundreds of people on education, health and nutrition, environimprovements in areas surrounding our facilities, which benefit a great mental care and productive projects. many neighboring residents. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 60 “Good Neighbor” Program Total number Completed Projects in Region With this program, our plants and distribution centers have become resof initiatives projects process ponsible cores in their communities, helping to improve infrastructure and United States social benefits that we continue to build upon year after year. 56 45 15 and Canada This year, the “Good Neighbor” program achieved the following results: Mexico 42 42 0 Latin America 36 29 6 Asia 1 1 0 Total 140 116 6 105 plants participated in the 14 countries Good Neighbor contributed actions program by their plants. “Good Neighbor” through the years 2013 2014 77 94 2012 2015 31 118 Total 118 projects In total, 320 were completed since the program began, during the year more than 320 programs have been completed around the world Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 61 Ten of the best projects from around the world, executed during 2015, were rewarded. The winners are mentioned in the table below: Good Neighbor Achievement Organization CEDIS/Plant Activity Personas beneficiadas Outdoor gyms were installed at a public park, to help to promote physical activity. In adition other repairments such as capping holes Bimbo CEDIS Monterrey 5,638 and gardening were conducted. Park equipment such as benches, irrigation systems, garbage cans, was installed. Rehabilitation of school. The roof from the breakfast area was Bimbo Hermosillo Plant restored. Four recycling containers were placed to collect waste. 465 Three palms wers planted near the soccer field area. Park remodeling. Cleaning, painting and maintainance activities for Barcel San Luis Plant the soccer field. Five outdoor gym training machines were installed. 3,000 Some tres were planted as part of a reforestation activity. Five new playground games installed in a park near to the plant. BBU Northumberland Plant All the children in the area This equipment promotes physical activity. Gardening equipment on the facilities of a charity that included: drip irrigation, timer, fertilizer injector, remote for the irrigation, plants, exterior sprayer, Trellis panels for the long bed, shade cloth, BBU Riviera Beach Plant More than 300 families galvanized exterior screw (for wood), insecticide. Provided food to five food Banks in the city and to the elderly programs at the área churches as well as provide growing space for families. Remodeling of the perimeter Wall of a nearby school. Installation of the safety fence and a new access gate, gardening, external and LAC CEDIS Guatemala 1,000 internal painting, some trees were planted, mural painting was developed by our associates’ children. LAC Venezuela Plant Installation of playground games in a nearby park. 600 Bimbo Frozen Roanoke Canada Plant A pedestrian sidewalk was built to access a bus stop through a safer path. 500 Rehabilitation of a public square through reforestation, improvements Brasil Raposo Tavares Plant 1,500 of the área and instalation of an outside gym. Installation of one playground game that promotes physical activity in a LAS Uruguay Plant 700 nearby school. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 62 The Good Neighbor program has been a highly gratifying activity for Grupo “Smiles that help” Bimbo, and we want to share one success story that illustrates how it works and what it achieves. Paleta Payaso, one of Ricolino’s best-known brands, worked tirelessly on this front with its “Smiles that help” campaign. It was carried out between June Initiative’s name: Remodeling of the “El Eucalipto” elementary school and September 2015 in 11 cities of Mexico, where 191 “laugh doctors” helped Development: ✱✱ Refurbishment of the perimeter wall. more than 2,700 people. ✱✱ Instalation of the security fence. ✱✱ Access Gate. ✱✱ Gardening ✱✱ Interior and exterior painting. 191 ✱✱ Tree planting. doctors ✱✱ Mural painting made by our associates’ children. Country where the initiative took place: Guatemala (Distribution Center) Beneficiaries: 1,000 11 2,700 “Clean up Our Mexico” cities patients For the sixth consecutive year we were part of the “Clean up Our Mexico” campaign. The aim is to create awareness of the importance of placing the waste in containers and maintain cleaner and more attractive public places. Various Risaterapia, A.C. (whose name means “laughter therapy”) was the charitable brigades of Grupo Bimbo, gathered in different places in Mexico to clean up organization that contributed its experience and prestige to transmitting the an emblematic area of each city.Other countires like Guatemala and El Salvaimportance of laughter in changing people’s quality of life. Laughing often dor, joined the initiative aiming to reach the same result and raise awareness can make the difference in our lives, and both doctors and Risaterapia volunin the local communities. teers proved this with their efforts at health centers. The participation of our commercial brands in charitable projects does much G4-EC8 to propel Grupo Bimbo’s sustainability. Actions of this kind help build awaAt the close of the campaign, Ricolino donated MXN500,000 to Risaterapia reness among a wider audience, publicize projects important for strengtheA.C. as support for continuing its valuable efforts. This organization works to ning the social fabric of the community, and support specific causes in which bring smiles and joy to those who need it most, through men and women of dozens of people work in charitable organizations. various professions and activities, committed to sharing happiness in their free time. Through this economic support the number of “laughter volunteers” was increased by 15%, benefiting more than 8,000 patients directly, and 24,000 indirectly. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 63 In another effort, and for the third year in a row, Pan Silueta Bimbo partnered with the Mexican Association for the Fight Against Cancer in October to raise awareness about early breast cancer detection. A portion of the sales of this 16 countries with brand during the month were donated for mammograms and treatment assisvolunteer programs tance (the funds will be applied in 2016). With the 2015 donations, some 363 mammograms and 40 breast ultrasounds were provided, and 41 prostheses and 79 lymphedema sleeves were donated, directly benefiting 523 women. These links together make up our model of responsibility and community engagement. Our commitment is to strengthen the model to contribute more and in better ways to development firm, lasting foundations that give communities the tools to face changes in the modern world while always promoting 75,036+ values, caring and brotherhood among all people.. volunteers around the world Volunteering 122 projects carried out Raising awareness is an important way to get more people involved. We have always known that the pleasure of serving others is greatest when accompaaround the world nied by the flavor of gratitude. Our volunteer corps gives us the experience of helping, by donating time or money to a good cause. Those who have participated find their enthusiasm and commitment redoubled, and they’re the first to bring in new participants. This year, 75,036 associates, family members and friends, together took action to put a smile on the face of various projects, Organization some of the most representative of which are shown in the following table: United States and Canada 29 Mexico 24 Latin America 69 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 64 Plant Visits Reading hours reported Grupo Bimbo’s relationship with new generations is primordial. The Bimbo by Grupo Bimbo associates Plant visit program is a link that lets us listen to kids from primary and seconand their families dary schools and share with them how our products are made. 1,625,658 In a space designed especially for kids, students learn about the business, interact with games that teach them to make decisions, and enjoy a time in 1,054,999 the real work of bakery, candies and snacks. Not only do they learn about making Grupo Bimbo products, but they identify the importance of correct 667,677 eating and healthy lifestyles. The experience includes the sharing of ideas about environmental care, preserving nature and valuing everything this planet has to offer. 2013 2014 2015 Our plant tours welcome thousands of visitors every year. We love surprising and inspiring them by sharing some of the experiences and projects we’re working on at Grupo Bimbo. Some additional activities For the third year in a row, our work centers in Mexico took part in the “Read More” campaign promoted by the Communication Council, whose purpose is to encourage people to read. We are proud to announce that our associates report an increase in their reading habits from 2013 to 2015. Our Marinela brand sponsored a cultural tour called “Experience the History of the Palacio Nacional,” which consisted of a tour of the historic building in Mexico City that for centuries was the seat of the Mexican Government. Students from Mexico City primary, middle and high schools attended the tour, thanks to a sponsorship that included both cash and in-kind donations. We also gave talks about nutrition and advice on adopting healthy lifestyles. In 2015 the program involved kids from 796 schools--approximately 70,6000 boys and girls who enjoyed this activity, learning about Mexico’s history through the collections housed in this magnificent building. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 65 Value Chain G4-12 Post consumption Distribution and sales Inputs Production Consumer marketing Inputs G4-DMA PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA B ACQUISITION PRACTICES Throughout our supply chain, we encourage ethical conduct, transparency, sustainable processes, efficient services and best practices, all in order to meet the quality requirements we set for ourselves and to maintain the volume and product consistency that are part of our pledge to consumers. All of our suppliers must abide by our Code of Conduct. We’ve developed a “Green Purchasing” program and we are working together with sustainable farming programs in Mexico. Our goal is to replicate these processes in other regions. The inputs selected for the first phase of the program are potato, stevia, goat’s milk, wheat, corn and palm oil. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 66 Production G4-EN4 Operational efficiency is a permanent focus. The Piedra Larga Wind Farm in the Mexican state of Oaxaca supplies approximately 90% of the electricity of our plants in Mexico, two sales centers (Guada­lajara and Monterrey) and the corporate offices in Mexico City. We are in the process of adding new faciliThe energy produced by ties in Mexico to the Wind Farm’s supply; these are mainly sales centers and the Piedra Larga wind farm El Globo stores. This process is expected to be completed in 2016. avoided the generation of 139,000 tons of CO2e emissions Total volume (Nov 2014-Oct 2015) 680,000+ m3 of water treated 420,000+ m3 Total volume of water reused Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 67 Distribution and Sales G4-EN4 G4-DMA ENERGY We have an extensive direct-distribution network, with one the largest sales fleets in the Americas. Our network allows us to distribute products from our plants, sales centers and warehouses to more than two million points of sale every day to ensure the freshness and quality of our products and to meet the needs of every type of customer from hypermarkets to family-owned businesses. We have also developed strong relationships with our customers in response to their diverse and changing needs, which we believe results in strong customer loyalty. For example, to further grow and improve their retail businesses, we provide various programs and tools such as training and specialized sales, merchandizing and management advisory services, credit facilities through “Pesito”, “Quetzalito” and “Mi Tiendita” programs, and the Qiubo network, together with our partners Blue Label Mexico, which has enabled small businesses in Mexico to grow their sales by 20% on average. We began to develop electric vehicles in 2012 through our subsidiary company Moldex in Mexico. These vehicles are currently in use at two sales centers in Mexico City and Guadalajara, Mexico. In 2015, we developed a new distribution vehicle with one ton load capacity and 100 km autonomy, which will eventually become part of the fleet. 253,177 CO2 emissions reduction, 104,000+ through the use of diesel customers benefited in third party vehicles by “Mi Tiendita” Almost 60% share of renewable 300,000+ materials “Pesito” customers Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 68 Marketing G4-EC8 We want to be an agent of change through our social marketing efforts. The contribution of our commercial brands in charitable projects is a core part of Grupo Bimbo’s social responsibility mission. One example is the “Smiles that Help” campaign developed by Paleta Payaso, one of Ricolino’s best-known products. 2,700+ people benefited from the donation given to Risaterapia, A.C., through Paleta Payaso campaign Post consumption Minimizing our environmental footprint requires a consideration of sustainability criteria for our packaging materials. We continue to increase the amount of recycled content in our packages and to develop other innovations in packaging materials. In 2015, we launched our own brand, Ecora, of recycled plastic plaques that can be used in construction, interior and industrial design as flooring, walls and furniture (More information on Planet pillar). 111,000+ Kg reduced in packaging weight Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 69 Bringing many people and institutions together in the tasks of social responand using resources more efficiently, with the added benefit of optimizing sibility is one way to build a better world, with more opportunities for all and profit margins through more competitive, higher quality products with better conditions for life, both environmentally and socially. We have been working along these lines for some years now, with our value Through our work together with the value chain we have achieved tangible chain. The first thing was did was to identify it, and then seek out actions results in reducing environmental emissions, improving social conditions where we would work together. What How Where we do to create the best flavor bring our brands closer Sembrando Juntos to our consumers create the best flavor Supply Operations Distribution and sales ✱✱ More than 52 thousand distribution routes ✱✱ 163 plantas in 22 countries ✱✱ Support for farmers. ✱✱ 1000 distribution centers ✱✱ 4 distribution centers Pilot Program in Mexico ✱✱ Logistics and technology improvements on ✱✱ improvement in productive processes vehicles Our actions ✱✱ Code of conduct for suppliers ✱✱ Piedra Larga Wind Farm ✱✱ Distribution routes optimization ✱✱ Green Purchasing program. We are ✱✱ Good Neighbor Program ✱✱ Green Fleet conducting projects for potato, corn, ✱✱ Reformulation and devolpment of healthy ✱✱ Ecological sales center wheat, palm oil and goats products We have the best options Why Long term alliances to nourish and delight you we work for a better future Marketing Clients Post-consumption ✱✱ Responsible marketing ✱✱ Technology network to improve ✱✱ Sustainable packaging ✱✱ Promotion of a healthy lifestyle competitiveness ✱✱ Pilot tests with eco woods masde out of ✱✱ Pledge commitments ✱✱ Training and speciallized consultancies products packaging ✱✱ More transparency on nutritional ✱✱ Attention for improvements of the operation information and management of their business ✱✱ Physical activity programs ✱✱ Client development Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 70 G4-DMA-B INVESTMENT 3. Wheat. In an alliance with the National Institute for Forestry, Farming G4-DMA-B ASSESSMENT and Fishing Research, we continued a planting program in viable zones The first steps we took to begin the formal work of Social Responsibility based on the concept of micro-climates. To complement the process, we with our value chain involved working directly with two of the links: brought some of our milled wheat suppliers into the effort, and hope to suppliers and clients. be able to. To start, we outlined a frame of reference, in the form of a Code of Conduct 4. Palm Oil. In 2015 we reached our goal of supplying 100% of our palm for suppliers. We encourage a healthy relationship based on ethics and a shaoil from sustainable sources. Our work earned us the “Green Palm” cerred commitment to improving and defending human rights around the globe, tification from the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil, and now we are because many of our suppliers are global companies that operate in countries committed to further improving our score (for more details, see the Planet far and wide. Pillar section). We are committed to helping them to uphold universal values and rights for 5. Goat’s milk. We continued our free-range goat’s milk project in the state everyone, in all the countries where we operate. of Guanajuato, where our efforts focus on harmonious territorial organization over a surface area of 25 hectares of rain fed pasture in 2016. A second key element for the development of our suppliers is the contractual framework. With this we make sure key sustainability aspects are formally incorporated both in our own value chain and that of our suppliers, which Status 2015 generates a virtuous circle of cooperation that promotes working conditions Product Surface area planted Volume (Tonness) Yield (Ton/Ha) governed by the principles of respect, abiding by the law and personal safey. Potato 3,000 75,000 28 Corn 600 6,000 10 Wheat 1,913 5,525.1 **3.00 Supply Goat’s milk N/A *20,163 2 Lts/Cabra For some years now we have been intensifying our work in the field. In this * Liters x 1000 ** Yield in a range of 1.3 to 6.7 Ton/Ha pilot phase, specific programs have been developed in Mexico to study the viability of initiatives and measure results that can then be replicated in other parts of the world. Projected 2016 The starting group of input products selected for this first phase was as Product Surface area planted Volume (Tonness) Yield (Ton/Ha) follows: Potato 3,200 80,000 28 Corn 1,500 15,000 10 1. Potato. We are working in the states of Sonora, Sinaloa and Chihuahua Wheat 10,000 50,000 **5.00 to provide support for implementing good farming practices in the field, Goat’s milk N/A *25,000 2 Lts/Cabra following the standards of Global Gap, a non-profit organization specializing in the agro-food industry. * Liters x 1000 ** Yield in a range of 1.3 to 6.7 Ton/Ha 2. White corn. We helped set up 1,000 hectares of farmland where this crop is grown, and the first harvest will be ready in 2016. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 71 G4-DMA-B SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOR PRACTICES The following are some of our additional activities with suppliers to promote ethical conduct and responsibility in Mexico, in keeping with our own Code of Conduct: Suppliers’ website We launched and promoted the use of a special website for suppliers in Mexico, which serves as a channel for direct communication on recent news, events, and a series of aspects particularly concerning them. This tool is used, among other things, for informing them about the regulations governing the supplier relationship, for example the Code of Conduct. They can use the website to look up the rules and sign the document electronically to indicate they will abide by and respect its provisions. By the close of 2015, 1,213 suppliers had signed the code. Audits G4-LA14, G4-LA15, G4-HR10 Every new supplier in Mexico must pass a Grupo Bimbo audit, in order to ensure they follow responsible practices and processes. We also check that Training they work in accordance with high quality and safety standards so that our consumers are always satisfied. We provide options for our suppliers to grow and continuously improve their processes. Our Purchasing Department is actively involved in the Mexico A supplier may be exempted from these audits if it has some certification Center for Competitiveness (CCMX), which trains suppliers from various endorsed by the Global Food Safety Initiative, such as the British Retail companies, including Grupo Bimbo, in key issues like organizational culConsortium, the Safe Quality Food Institute, the FSC22000, Global Gap, ture, commercial strategy, streamlined manufacturing and others. The traor others. These certifications are global in scope, and focus on product ining includes spaces for sharing best practices, case studies and examples safety and quality. At the close of last year we had audited and/or certified of value chain improvement for different companies. suppliers responsible for 80% of our spending on raw material and packaging in Mexico. This year the requirement was extended to the indirect input Global GAP category, also in an effort to ensure the quality of the products supplied. We provide training for our leading potato suppliers in Mexico, and also include them in the audit phase. The program covers a review of good field practices using the Global Gap methodology, encompassing areas ranging from food safety to farming sustainability, to name just a couple, in order to strengthen their value chain and improve delivery conditions for products grown by Mexican farmers. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 72 External Business Development program for External Partner Development (DESEO) Goal G4-DMA-B EMPLOYMENT To comply with the minimum guidelines required DESEO is a program developed internally by Grupo Bimbo to promote the by GRUPO BIMBO to be able to provide quality growth and development of small and mid-sized businesses in Mexico. The products and services while ensuring food safety, program has a model of continuing training in various areas that help small social responsibility, sustainability, local legal producers manage their businesses. compliance and other aspects. The program is enriched by the supplier’s direct involvement in identifying, mapping and strengthening processes and meeting basic requirements for Grupo Bimbo. This program is custom-designed for each category of supplier: ✱✱ Raw materials ✱✱ Civil construction ✱✱ Packaging ✱✱ Vehicle maintenance ✱✱ Finished product ✱✱ Visibility ✱✱ Maintenance Services SMEs 448 participating 6 Categories participating Results obtained Benefits obtained + – More orderly companies Growth in 7% requirements met Food safety assurance Reprocessing More training Training Accidents Fewer accidents On-the-job safety Unfair conditions Better environmental care of SMEs with 90% continuous Social responsibility Cross contamination Better service improvement Environmental care Misuse of materials Generation of indirect jobs Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 73 Distribution, Sales and Clients Operations Contributing through more efficient operations is a commitment we have G4-DMA-B INVESTMENT always had, and which we have kept year after year. Currently, our plants in In 2015, we continued our support for developing the retail distribution chanMexico operate with wind energy generated by the Piedra Larga wind farm. nel. Through our Center for Business Development of Small Dry Goods Stores This means that 47 out of 163 plants now operate with clean energy—28% of (known as CEDEPEC), we trained more than 980 clients, an advance of 98.4% our operations. This figure was increased in 2015 thanks to the redesign of 6 against the target of 1,000 clients trained that we set in December 2015. sales centers, transforming them into eco-centers, which means they incorporate technology and adaptations that reduce their environmental footprint The owners of small dry good establishments (sometimes known as mom and pop stores), which support many families in Mexico, were given the We are constantly adopting improvements such as such as heat capture techopportunity to take a Specialization Course in Small Businesses, consisnology, energy-efficient equipment, and process redesign to optimize time ting of 6 modules. A diploma was given for attending 60 hours of classes and resources, using natural sunlight and implementing best practices. spread out over 6 weeks, attending 3 times a week. The coursework covered everything from general business knowledge to reviewing growth strateIn social issues, we commented above on the 100 plants and distributions gies, development, control and introduction of a legal framework in famithat are part of the Good Neighbor program, through which they support spely-owned companies. cific improvements in the communities around them. Working with a new generation of store owners prepared to face new and greater challenges, we invited 31 clients to participate in the educational program at the University of Enterprising Retail in Mexico (UNICEM). All accepted, and took the Specialization Course in Retail Development and Modernization in a 6-month program with mixed format--in other words, one hour a day online and two hours in person per week. Of these 31 associates, 19 graduated successfully. This is a comprehensive program designed to build skills like customer service, increasing sales, understanding and better controlling the business, learning to apply for loans and being a better entrepreneur. The program opens doors and brings entrepreneurs closer to company incubation programs, technology for more effective operations, and financing to leverage the business. As a pilot test, we integrated a Continuing Education and Update Module into the same program at UNICEM. Five students participated with a focus on specific topics like improving purchase and sale dynamics, attracting customers to the point of sale, setting prices, and business skills. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 74 Clients The Qiubo network has also opened opportunities for Grupo Bimbo, enabling it to join and be a part of the “Better than Cash” alliance, an initiative promoCommunication with our clients is fundamental, and a deep-rooted habit. In ted by the United Nations that brings together governments, companies and order to hear what they had to say about their training experiences, we orgainternational organizations to accelerate the transition from cash to digital nized three focus groups. With this information we hope to improve the syspayments in order to promote efficiency, transparency and inclusive growth. tem based on the needs and experiences of each. With the Qiubo network, the micro-business owner receives training on how “Pesito” and “Mi Tiendita” Programs to use the tool in the store. If there are any questions after this training sesWe continue to support our clients through the “Pesito” program we have dession, the business has access to toll-free telephone assistance nationwide. cribed in previous reports, and now have 302,709 clients with financing of up The terminal works through a mobile phone, which means it can be used even to 223 million pesos in the year. in locations without a landline connection. Money can be credited through the terminal to suppliers of Grupo Bimbo, making it easier to reload without The program is complemented by “Mi Tiendita,” an initiative that provides having to leave the business. The Network can increase a business’s potential direct benefits to our clients’ establishments, helping them to improve their sales by up to 20%. store layout and thus boost sales. This year we transformed more than 14,300 establishments. “Qiubo” Small family-owned businesses today have to compete with larger establishments that enjoy advantages such as more shopper traffic, a wider array of merchandise and more services. One of the most ambitious strategies Grupo Bimbo has pursued is to provide new technologies to these small stores so they can accept credit and debit cards. Together with Visa, we developed the “Qiubo” network, which provides the facilities and equipment to expand our clients’ sales possibilities. The Qiubo network seeks to support Mexico’s small businesses through training, technology and bank access, giving them the tools and skills they need to take advantage of market opportunities and attract more clients. A store is connected to the Qiubo network though point-of-sale terminals, using a real time link. The network offers micro-businesses access to various electronic products and services, like acceptance of bank cards and vouchers, receipt of utility payments like telephone, light and cable TV bills, prepayment for toll roads, airtime reloads and access to credit. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 75 Marketing Our commitment with the value chain Information on our promotion and marketing strategies can be found in the WellOur actions with our value chain grow stronger every year. At Grupo Bimbo, ness section, where we discuss aspects such as responsible marketing, physical we know that only by planting together –Sembrando Juntos– can we reach activation, promotion of healthy lifestyles, clean labeling and transparent caloric our optimum capacity. content information. The links in this chain are our strategic allies in generating a positive impact, which means making the difference economically, socially and environmenPost-consumption tally--three areas that over time have proven to be closely connected, and which are in urgent need of tangible results. Continuamos evaluando las mejores estrategias que nos permitan establecer un vínculo con el consumidor y de esta manera recuperar las envolturas de We will continue to work closely with the entire value chain, innovating nuestros productos. through strategies, with technology and with agreements that add up to actions for improvement. Durante 2015 llevamos a cabo diversas pruebas con empaques que nos permiten someterlos a un ciclo de reciclaje, es decir, utilizarlos como materias Our commitment is underscored by our willingness to share best practices primas para generar otros productos. Así nació la marca Ecora. Para mayor and sustainable action to help everyone develop quality processes that offer detalle en el tema, se puede consultar la sección de Empaque en el Pilar Plareturn on investment, contribute to environmental care and generate a posineta, así como las iniciativas de reducciones de calibre que generan una distive social impact. minución de materiales requeridos. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 76 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 77 127,152 Associates Seventy years of experience have told us that the philosophy inculcated in us by our founders, which places people at the heart of our values, is well-aimed, functional, sound and productive. What’s more, it opens doors to us around the world, despite existing cultural differences. Today we bring together 22 countries through flavor, quality and the same spirit of caring as always. People are still the main reason for our operations, our business and our philosophy. Lorenzo Servitje has always inspired his co-workers with the sense that we must all come to work at this company and find motivation to excel both personally and professionally, because “we have the reward of coming here to be happy, not just to work.” This teaching motivates and guides us to build a company around it. A company that, as long as it follows this philosophy, can renew itself to attain new levels of vigor, lay the foundations for managing innovative ideas, and serve as a springboard for its associates’ professional and personal advancement. We have worked hard to create a Personnel area that prepares fertile ground and plants seeds so that all who work at Grupo Bimbo can feel the difference, and know that our central value must be lived to be understood. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 78 G4-LA1 How do we make a difference? Turnover G4-9 Grupo Bimbo works hard every day to remain the world’s leading bakery 32.0% company. We generate direct jobs for 127,152 families in 22 countries. We are a fast-growing firm, and we venture into all corners of the globe of provide jobs to support more families. 14.5% G4-LA1 13.6% 11.9% United States and Canada Total associates Total 6.9% Mexico Producto Total on the payroll workers hired Latin America Mexico 71,403 468 71,871 Europe United States Asia 26,667 584 27,251 and Canada Latin America 22,250 1,878 24,128 Asia 1,198 52 1,250 Europe 2,434 218 2,652 Total in Grupo Bimbo payroll 123,952 3,200 127,152 Average turnover 12% at Grupo Bimbo G4-9 in 2015 Number of associates 127,152 125,719 125,415 125,351 New Number of Percentage of people 124,604 associates associates who who left the company hired left the company in their first year United States 2,560 119 5 and Canada 106,333 G4-11 Mexico 9,073 824 9 68% Latin America Europe 3,784 746 204 118 16 5 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 of the associates Asia 233 15 6 are union members Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 79 We are aware that turnover and changing jobs in the first year of employEmployment ment results from a number of factors, some of them beyond our control. But we also know that with teamwork, ideas and actions in our Personnel G4-DMA-B EMPLOYMENT area, we can help make this company a more attractive place for new assoAccording to our Policy, we have designed a compensation plan for our ciates to begin building their careers. The work we’ve done up until now has associates that remains current and competitive in today’s job market. We earned us recognition as one of the best places to work, but we need to back also make sure that employment and hiring conditions and benefits proviup this perception with facts. ded by our suppliers are similar to those offered in the company. G4-LA2 Full time Part time Temporary Regions where benefit applies Stock options for senior ✱✱ Brazil, Canada, China, Colombia, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Iberia, X — — LAS, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panamá, United Kingdom, USA, Venezuela management and directors Senior management X — — ✱✱ Colombia, Guatemala, Honduras, Iberia, LAS, Mexico, Nicaragua, Panamá, Venezuela and directors ✱✱ Canada, Iberia, LAS, United Kingdom, USA. Maternity or paternity leave X X X ✱✱ Offered to part-time associates only in: Iberia, United Kingdom, USA, Canada. ✱✱ Offered to temporary workers only in: Iberia, United Kingdom. ✱✱ Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, China, Iberia, LAC, Mexico, Peru, United Kingdom, Annual bonus for results X X — Uruguay, USA Medical checkup at least for X — — ✱✱ LAS, Mexico, United Kingdom directors Temporary or permanent ✱✱ Brazil, Canada, Colombia, Iberia, Mexico, Panamá, United Kingdom, USA, Uruguay. X X X disability coverage ✱✱ Offered to temporary workers only in: Iberia, United Kingdom. ✱✱ Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Iberia, LAC, Mexico, Peru, United Kingdom, Uruguay, USA Life insurance X X X ✱✱ Offered to temporary workers only in: El Salvador, Honduras, United Kingdom, Brazil, Canada. ✱✱ Argentina, Brazil, Canada, Chile, Iberia, Mexico, Peru, United Kingdom, USA. Medical insurance X X X ✱✱ Offered to part time and temporary workers only in: United Kingdom. * Shows only benefits offered in more than 40% (9) of the countries where GB operates, and to at least one level of the corporate hierarchy. LAC: Groups together Colombia, Costa Rica, Ecuador, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, and Venezuela. LAS: Groups together Argentina, Chile, Peru, Uruguay, and Paraguay. Iberia: Spain and Portugal Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 80 Remuneration is an essential component of compensation. Our intent is to G4-LA13, G4-EC5 offer competitive and fair salaries to our associates, always above the levels The following section shows the minimum wage as of January 2016 in each required by law, to guarantee a dignified standard of living. This condition is Grupo Bimbo Organization, and the average for each of our countries of regulated and formalized in the Compensation Policy, which applies throuoperation, regardless of gender. ghout Grupo Bimbo. Mexico ✱✱ Minimum wage: MXN73.24/day; MXN2,191.20/month. Grupo Bimbo Compensation Policy ✱✱ Grupo Bimbo´s salary: G4-DMA EQUAL REMUNERATION FOR WOMEN AND MEN ✱✱ Average daily minimum wage (national) for the lowest operating posiG4-DMAMARKET PRESENCE tion in each organization G4-LA13 ✱✱ The specified daily wage was multiplied by 30 to reach the monthly Our Compensation Policy is based on a “Total Rewards” model, which is base wage. based on a comprehensive approach to remuneration, benefits, training, ✱✱ The amounts were converted into dollars at the exchange rate in effect professional advancement and workplace environment. on January 11, 2016. Remuneration and benefits throughout the group are aligned with a standard payment policy and adjusted for practices in each local market. Each Daily Base monthly Value in Exchange associate is paid a salary in keeping with their responsibilities and what Position title average wage dollars rate wage is paid for other positions with similar responsibilities and required experience, education and skills, in the corresponding market. Bimbo Plant worker 243.17 7,295.10 406.63 17.93 The wage information used for these comparisons and for setting the resBasic plant Barcel 208.77 6,263.10 349.11 17.93 pected salary levels if provided by independent consulting firms who are worker widely recognized around the world for their expertise in compensation. El Globo Janitor 133.41 4,002.30 223.09 17.93 At Grupo Bimbo we make sure we pay our associates more than the miniLevel A Corporate 469.37 14,081.00 784.87 17.93 mum wage in every country where we operate. We want to be competitive Administrative and we want to abide by the regulatory guidelines in each of our markets. Moldex General assistant 146.05 4,381.50 244.22 17.93 *Values expressed in Mexican pesos The compensation for each associate also takes into account individual performance evaluations, which assess their capacity to achieve or perform outstandingly against established goals, and the aptitudes he or she demonstrates, as well as the financial results of our company in each country and globally. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 81 United States ✱✱ Monthly minimum wage (40 hour week): USD1,167.10 ✱✱ For GB Salaries: Monthly Payment USD ✱✱ We used the figure reported only by BBU on a monthly base for the lowest plant associate positions. 2,136.41 ✱✱ We calculated the base monthly wage for each state ✱✱ On this basis, we calculated a national average for the US from the states where we operate (this varies by location) Number of associates Average of monthly wage Number of associates Average of monthly wage State Per hour Per hour State Per hour Per hour AL 29 2,164.75 NC 301 2,664.29 AR 2 2,342.00 ND 42 1,243.11 AZ 163 2,559.62 NE 503 2,491.26 CA 3,083 2,968.51 NH 34 1,837.31 CO 643 1,929.01 NJ 400 1,482.10 CT 470 2,637.91 NM 142 2,367.63 DE 47 1,432.79 NV 93 1,984.46 FL 266 2,101.41 NY 1,206 2,223.24 GA 188 2,950.63 OH 198 1,677.98 IA 333 1,889.78 OK 368 2,083.85 ID 5 2,703.22 OR 356 3,183.89 IL 312 1,686.76 PA 1,588 2,561.52 IN 256 2,284.83 RI 3 2,249.91 KS 213 1,935.37 SC 169 2,613.43 KY 404 2,178.34 SD 140 2,165.56 LA 8 2,489.45 TN 112 1,391.67 MA 231 1,665.82 TX 1,133 2,960.72 MD 292 2,204.38 UT 437 2,113.16 ME 19 1,415.06 VA 109 1,513.93 MI 383 1,964.94 VT 23 1,929.51 MN 390 2,085.95 WA 268 1,986.97 MO 314 1,454.19 WI 655 2,237.08 MS 172 2,615.35 WV 301 2,131.98 MT 3 2,529.60 WY 20 1,263.73 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 82 Canada Bread United Kingdom ✱✱ National minimum wage: CAD10.69 per hour; converted to monthly: ✱✱ The minimum monthly wage in the country was GBP1,088.92. This was 10.60 * 40 hours a week * 4.33 weeks (average weeks per month accorconverted to USD at the exchange rate in effect on January 11, 2016, ding to Canadian labor law). The resulting value of CAD1,851.5 was which was 1.45 = USD1,580.3 multiplied by the exchange rate as of January 11, 2016, which was 0.71, ✱✱ For the GB Base Salary, the value in local currency was GBP1,088.92. resulting in a total of USD1,740.07. This was converted to USD at the exchange rate in effect on January 11, ✱✱ For GB Base Salaries: 2016, which was 1.45 = USD1,643.99. ✱✱ We took the starting hourly wage for the lowest plant worker position at CAD from the wage table. Latin America ✱✱ We then calculated the national average for the regions of Canada where we operate (this varies by location). ✱✱ The minimum base wage reported for the country was the average in USD ✱✱ We took the hourly wage * 40 hours a week * 4.33 weeks (average weeks for the countries that make up the region: Guatemala, El Salvador, Honper month according to Canadian labor law). duras, Nicaragua, Costa Rica, Panama, Venezuela, Ecuador and Colom✱✱ The resulting value was multiplied by the exchange rate as of January bia The resulting value was USD321.30. 11, 2016 to convert it to USD. ✱✱ For Grupo Bimbo the calculations were as follows: ✱✱ Average Base Salary for the lowest operating post in each country. ✱✱ For all the countries in LAC, the lowest salary on the wage table is equal Hourly Wage to the real base salary paid. ✱✱ Local currencies were converted into USD at the exchange rate in effect Alberta 17.64 Nova Scotia 11.36 on January 11, 2016. ✱✱ The final value reported is the average in USD of the salaries reported in Ontario 11.85 BC 15.36 each country of the region. Quebec 15.05 New Brunswick 14.10 NL 14.30 Average Base Salary of plant worker in USD GU 327.16 Average monthly age CAD BE 298.52 H 413.79 $2,466.37 NI 209.75 CR 606.60 PA 571.85 VE 82.08 Average Reported salary EC 401.50 Average hourly wage US $1,740.63 CO 231.56 US $349.20 US $14.24 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 83 Brazil ✱✱ The average monthly minimum age for the country was USD217.50. Average LAS ✱✱ For Grupo Bimbo: US$584.9 ✱✱ Average Base Salary for the lowest operating post in each country. ✱✱ This value was converted into USD at the exchange rate in effect on LAS January 11, 2016. ✱✱ The final value reported was USD467.60. ✱✱ The minimum base wage reported for the country was the average in USD for the countries that make up the region: Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, Chile, Peru. The resulting value was USD332.80. Iberia ✱✱ For Grupo Bimbo the calculations were as follows: ✱✱ Average Base Salary for the lowest operating post in each country. ✱✱ The minimum base wage reported for the country was the average in ✱✱ In some countries, fixed monthly amounts paid were added to the Base USD for the two countries that make up the region: Spain and Portugal. Salary. ✱✱ For Grupo Bimbo the calculations were as follows: ✱✱ Local currencies were converted into USD at the exchange rate in effect ✱✱ Average Base Salary for the lowest operating post in each country. on January 11, 2016. ✱✱ The final value reported is the average in USD of the salaries reported ✱✱ The final value reported is the average in USD of the salaries reported in in Spain and Portugal. each country of the region. Country General minimum wage Monthly Salary in USD Spain 764.4 1233.9 Local Remarks (average wage, Portugal 530.0 596.09 Exchange USD currency lowest categories for Bimbo rate Company (Jan. ’16) in that country) Base Salary ARS11,000+ Assist Argentina 6,060 Prem. + Complement + P Daily 13.75 955.2 Average Iberia Benefit+ P Group + Incentive Base Salary UYU15771+ General minimum wagel $592.6 Uruguay 10,000 Attendance 10% + Bakery Ind. 29.76 621.4 Bonus 1145 Monthly Salary in USD $915.0 Paraguay 1,824,055 Total Base salary 5724.10 318.7 Peru 750 Wage $1389 + Assist. Prem. 3.33 425.0 Asia Total Base Salary $250000 ✱✱ Minimum wage reported in the country: USD319 Chile 250,000 + Bonus + Meal allowance + 727.80 604.3 ✱✱ For Grupo Bimbo the calculations were as follows: Mobility + Prod. Bonus. ✱✱ Average Base Salary for the position of Plant Operator in Beijing, in Chinese Renminbi Yuan (CNY), taken from the Oracle System. ✱✱ Reported Base Salary in the company: USD362. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 84 Developing our people’s talent G4-DMA TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-LA9 Training The momentum of our seventy-year history has taught us first hand that the engine of competitiveness is knowledge. Knowledge is transmitted, shared and expanded through training. Diversity and inclusion G4DMA DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION G4-HR2 Our Golden Rule also stresses the importance of fairness, and one of the 1,023,302 34,252 actions that embody this commitment is our strategy of Diversity and Inclusion. For Grupo Bimbo, all human beings are equal without distinction. Through our Hours of training Associates Diversity and Inclusion program we continued training associates and extending borders in 2015 through our global communication campaign, which trained more than 5,000 associates. The main topics covered by our 2015 training programs were: The first action in this program was to train management and high level executives so that we could be sure the issue was understood in the highest ✱✱ Development of managerial skills echelons of the organization. The training was given in 17 countries, inclu✱✱ Strategic planning ding Mexico, the United States, Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua, Costa ✱✱ Courses in handling computer programs and systems Rica, Panama, Colombia, Venezuela, Ecuador, Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, ✱✱ Grupo Bimbo Philosophy Paraguay, Peru, Brazil and Spain. We will continue these efforts until they ✱✱ Specific knowledge or technical skills needed for each area have been extended to every country and region where we operate. 79,989 Hours of training to Directors and high ranks Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 85 Género Consistent with our most important asset, which is the value Person; in 2014 we started the Global Diversity and Inclusion Program (DI). Diversity and Inclusion Committees were formed in 7 of the Group organizations, covered by a Global Committee which has representation of our business units. Through the committees, we have made action plans aligned to the 4 axes of the global business case. 1. Education and awareness 2. Recruitment and selection 3. Talent Management 4. Planning and Indicators In 2015 we focus primarily on the first two axes. Our most important deliverables were: ✱✱ Development and dissemination of the Global Diversity and Inclusion Policy ✱✱ 6,153 leaders trained at the seminar Leading in a Diversity and Inclusion Culture ✱✱ Global communication and culture campaign in Diversity and Inclusion Assessment ✱✱ Delivery of recruitment and selection criteria, aligned to the DI policy G4-LA11 Parallel to the Diversity and Inclusion global plan, our local organizations Every year associates from around the world must set goals in alignment make efforts to advance the issue. For example, in the United States we with Grupo Bimbo’s vision. These goals are reviewed by their immediate launched the Diverse Selection pilot program; in Spain we signed a collasuperior, who gives them the corresponding feedback and finally reports boration agreement with Fundación ONCE; in Brazil, Portugal and Spain we against progress in the year so the associate can be evaluated and rewarheld the first Diversity week, among other local activities. ded for his or her performance. The associate in turn evaluates his or her superior once ahead, along with the area director and the company as a Through this program that connects with our business philosophy, we seek whole, in order to learn about how they perceive the working environment. to address the global challenges of Diversity and Inclusion. Being a cultural change, progress will be progressive so that there will come a moment when we will be able to report more data associated to gender. Regular performance evaluation Women % Men % Administrative and Operating Personnel 67.6 72.0 Supervisors 84.8 93.3 Executives and Directors 91.1 94.0 Global Total by Employment Level 70.4 74.7 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 86 The Tangible Value of the Person Health and Safety For Grupo Bimbo, our Golden Rule is the unwavering principle by which Another factor that is an essential expression of respect is protecting our assointerpersonal relations are governed, both within and outside the organiciates’ physical integrity. Our associates provide support for their families, so zation. This rule establishes that people must always treat each other with their health and safety are basic and indispensable for this Corporation. respect, fairness, trust and affection. Our goal is to strengthen a culture of prevention, closely monitoring the Respect begins with the integrity of the person. That’s why we encourage structural and procedural details that make facilities safe for our people and our associates to remain morally and physically sound and to maintain a our property. But the human factor is just as essential in safety issues. cordial and respectful attitude in dealing with each other, but above all in the associate-superior relationship. That’s why we place a priority on keeping our Health and Safety Model up to date and properly managed. Its purpose is to ensure: To achieve this goal, we embody the company’s philosophy in a series of courses for those who have people reporting to them, seeking a warmer, ✱✱ Safety leadership at the managerial level more high-quality style of leadership. There are two key courses on this ✱✱ Safety in all processes topic: the Leadership Course and the Personal Advancement Course, which ✱✱ A continuous focus on prevention are given to directors and senior management.. G4-DMA-B OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-HR2 This is achieved through efficient, systematic operation of the Health and These programs are designed to build awareness and prepare associates so Safety Committees and Sub-Committees, and a firm commitment to safety at that they never forget that humane, respectful, fair and equitable treatment the managerial level. Our Health and Safety Program includes the following is the basis for productive, long-term operations. The Personal Advancecomponents: ment Course begins by establishing that a person can give the best of themselves when they have gone through a process of personal understanding G4-LA5 and reflection. This enables them to better understand others and support ✱✱ Promoting the importance of Safety, Health and Wellness among our them in their daily performance. The course is also a preparation for a associates and their families. broader awareness of Human Rights. ✱✱ Providing a safe, risk-free workplace. ✱✱ Reducing the rate of workplace accidents ✱✱ Encouraging a work-life balance, which makes for healthier associates and families. ✱✱ Representation of 100% of our associates on the Health and Safety Committees of each work center, in all organizations and in all the countries where we operate. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 87 Some of our most important Health and Safety activities in 2015 were: ✱✱ In our US operations we launched the “Day without Accidents” campaign challenging associates throughout Bimbo Bakery USA (BBU) to avoid acci✱✱ Design and implementation of safety standards for wrapping machines, dents on that day--a challenge that has been met more than 50 times. reducing serious hand accidents throughout Grupo Bimbo to zero. G4DMA OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY ✱✱ Development of multimedia courses on safe motorcycle driving, improving ✱✱ As part of the Occupational Health and Wellness Project, we continued our the road safety practices of associates who use them as a personal means pro-health activities, organizing more than 130 educational, training, conof transportation. sultancy, prevention and risk control events for our associates, their families, or community members. These included: ✱✱ Training courses on highway and industrial safety and health through our sales force, called “Safety Stations”, a program replicated in every Sales ✱✱ Vaccination Campaigns Incident rate (IR) Center in Mexico and Latin America. ✱✱ Health and Quality of Life weeks reduced ✱✱ Talks and conferences ✱✱ “Safe Company” certification from the Ministry of Labor at our Marinela Monterrey and Bimbo Puebla plants. For the second year in a row, our ope✱✱ ✱✱ Maternity support Promotion of physical activity 2.33 vs 2.10 (2014) (2015) rations in Great Britain at Rotherham and Maidstone won the British Safety and sports Council International Safety Award. G4-LA6 Type of injury, rate of accidents resulting in injury, work-related illness index, days lost index, absenteeism rate and fatalities Incidence rate (IR) Days Lost (DL) Absenteeism Rate (AR) Fatalities Occupational disease rate Associates Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men 1.88 0.33 0 1 0 1 Mexico 2.22 66.46 440.54 1 1 1.56 0.25 North America 0 0 1.81 111.09 636.18 1.70 0.35 Europe 0 0 2.06 33.46 183.32 Latin America 1.98 0.28 0 1 0 (LAC, LAS, Brazil) 2.26 48.21 335.97 1 ND ND Asia 0 0 0.48 17.42 119.32 Total GB 2.10 68.62 443.97 2 1 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 88 Respect is combined with justice at Grupo Bimbo, where we work every day For the year 2020, we are committed to establishing controls by which we to build a company that fully respects human rights. can measure and map out the risks in each of our work centers, and take preventive measures to guarantee the welfare of all our associates. Once For this reason we have adopted a series of criteria to protect them. these control mechanisms are established and tested, we will share them with our suppliers, clients and distributors in order to work comprehensively G4-DMA FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR on their wellbeing. G4-HR6 1. We are rigorously opposed to any kind of forced labor, and we monitor G4-LA12 and audit our work centers in order to ensure that every one of them is The next has to do with the composition of our governance bodies. We must free of this type of practice. We also take very seriously any reports made work on improving the structure and assembling a more diverse Board. This to our Whistleblower’s Hotline --our toll-free number for complains and is not yet a reality for Grupo Bimbo, but we are on the way, and we are presuggestions--where callers can report on incidents involving force labor paring to achieve this in the near future. or other violations, and we follow up rigorously on them and take the necessary corrective action. In some countries where we work, trends in freedom and respect include a focus on the confidentiality of certain personal data like age. For this reaG4-DMA CHILD LABOR son, and in line with our respect for the freedom of our associates, we do G4-HR5 not publish this information. 2. We do not accept or support child labor. At Grupo Bimbo we believe childhood is an essential phase for the formation of the individual, and we do We know we have a long road yet to travel, but we are confident that the not employ underage workers. We understand the complexities and rafoundations laid by our founders 70 years ago are solid, universal, and conmifications of this issue, however, so we have added a clause to our consistent with the principles of respect, the law and fairness, and if we follow tracts with suppliers clearly establishing that employing underage wortheir teachings we can always stay on the right path. kers is grounds for termination of the contract. Our Code of Ethics also contains a specific provisions prohibiting the employment of minors. We are strict about complying with the terms and guidelines established by local laws everywhere we operate. G4-DMA FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA-B FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-HR4 3. In our work contracts and Code of Ethics, we explicitly support freedom of association, guaranteeing that all our associates can freely decide to belong to any type of organization. None of our policies, manuals, contracts or labor documents contain any element that violates or restricts our associates’ freedom of choice. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 89 Corporate Governance G4-34, G4-38 Grupo Bimbo and its affiliates follow the best international practices in corBoard of Directors porate governance, including the Code of Professional Ethics of the Mexican Securities Community, the Securities Market Act, the New Securities By statute, the Board of Directors of Grupo Bimbo must be made up of Market Act, the Code of Business Integrity and Ethics, and the Code of Best between five (5) and twenty-one (21) regular members, at least twenCorporate Practices of the Mexican Business Coordinating Council. ty-five percent (25%) of which must be outside members. The Board is the governance body in charge of determining the company’s long-term busiAll of the executives that hold some position in our governance bodies are ness strategy, approving its main business decisions, overseeing manageprofessionals with extensive experience in and knowledge of our industry, ment, managing risks, monitoring regulatory compliance, and choosing, and the support the organization’s strategy in economic, environmental evaluating and dismissing the Chief Executive Officer and other key comand social matters. pany executives. Our highest governing body is the Shareholders’ Meeting, which meets every The Board of Directors, appointed and ratified during the General Extraoryear and has the authority to designate members of the Board of Directors. dinary and Ordinary Shareholders' Meeting held on April 10, 2015, is made up of eighteen (18) regular members, who will remain in their post until the persons appointed to replace them assumes his or her duties. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 90 G4-7 Board of Directors, Grupo Bimbo S.A.B. de C.V. Shareholders’ meeting, April 10, 2015. Daniel Javier Servitje Montull Member María Isabel Mata Torrallardona Member Jaime Chico Pardo Member Raúl Carlos Obregón del Corral Member Henry Robert Davis Signoret* Independent member Nicolás Mariscal Servitje Member Luis Jorba Servitje Member Javier de Pedro Espínola Member Arturo Manuel Fernández Pérez Independent member Ignacio Pérez Lizaur Independent member Ricardo Guajardo Touché Independent member Jorge Pedro Jaime Sendra Mata Member Thomas Stanley Heather Rodríguez Independent member Edmundo Miguel Vallejo Venegas Independent member Agustín Irurita Pérez Independent member Francisco Laresgoiti Servitje Member Mauricio Jorba Servitje Member José Ignacio Mariscal Torroella Member José Ignacio Mariscal Torroella Member Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 91 The Board of Directors is supported by the specialized work of three Evaluation and Results Committee Committees: G4-34,G4-38, G4-39, G4-40 This committee is in charge of: ✱✱ Analyzing and approving the general compensation structure for exeAudit and Corporate Practices Committee cutives of Grupo Bimbo, as well as general compensation policies and The Audit Committee is made up at least 3 Independent (outside) Memguidelines and development programs for executives and associates of bers appointed by the Board of Directors of the shareholders’ Meetings. Grupo Bimbo and its subsidiaries. Its primary duties are: ✱✱ Analyzing the financial results of Grupo Bimbo and their impact on the general compensation structure of the Group. ✱✱ To ensure that Grupo Bimbo operates in accordance with the applicable laws and regulations, with the faculty to evaluate and supervise admiRaúl Carlos Obregón del Corral, President nistrative efforts regarding compliance with accounting policies and Thomas Stanley Heather Rodríguez practices and the performance of Grupo Bimbo's internal and external Luis Jorba Servitje auditor or auditors. Daniel Javier Servitje Montull Edmundo Miguel Vallejo Venegas ✱✱ Review and analyze the company’s financial results and provide an opinion on material modifications. Finance and Planning Committee ✱✱ Evaluate the risk management policies This committee is responsible for: ✱✱ Identify relevant or unusual transactions ✱✱ Analyzing Grupo Bimbo's long-term strategies and its primary invest✱✱ Transactions with related parties, and the appointment, evaluation and ment and financing policies and submitting these evaluations for approremoval of the Chief Executive Officer and other key executives. val by the Board of Directors. ✱✱ The comprehensive compensation packages provide to the Chief Execu✱✱ Identifying the risks entailed in those strategies and evaluate policies for tive Officer and other key executives of Grupo Bimbo. managing them. Henry Robert Davis Signoret, President José Ignacio Mariscal Torroella, President Arturo Manuel Fernández Pérez Javier de Pedro Espínola Thomas Stanley Heather Rodríguez Ricardo Guajardo Touché Agustín Irurita Pérez Luis Jorba Servitje Ignacio Pérez Lizaur Raúl Obregón del Corral Edmundo Miguel Vallejo Venegas Daniel Javier Servitje Montull Guillermo Jorge Quiroz Abed For more information, please visit our Investor Relations site at: http://www.grupobimbo.com/ri/ Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 92 Management Committee Customer Privacy G4-DMA PRIVACIDAD DE LOS CLIENTES Daniel Javier Servitje Montull G4-PR8 Chief Executive Officer of Grupo Bimbo In Grupo Bimbo we care about the privacy of personal and sensitive data of our customers, suppliers, employees, applicants and consumers. TherePablo Elizondo Huerta fore, in Mexico we comply with the Federal Law on Protection of Personal Senior Executive Vice President Data –LFPPPP–, its regulations and the internal policies and procedures of Grupo Bimbo. Javier Augusto González Franco Senior Executive Vice President We also have data privacy notices for all countries where Grupo Bimbo is present, which can be consulted in http://privacy.grupobimbo.com/. In it, the Miguel Ángel Espinoza Ramírez company agrees to make an appropriate and responsible use of consumers President, Bimbo, S.A. de C.V. and clients data. Gabino Gómez Carbajal In 2015, the Compliance Department (DCN) received a request from the FedePresident, Barcel, S.A. de C.V. ral Institute of Access to Information and Data Protection (IFAI), being filed as inadmissible. Alfred Penny President, BBU, Inc. Guillermo Jorge Quiroz Abed Chief Financial Officer Raúl Argüelles Díaz González Chief Human Relations Officer Reynaldo Reyna Rodríguez Chief Global Services Officer Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 93 Grupo Bimbo’s Global Integrity Policies Policy on Public Contributions We are proud to be a company made up of hundreds of businesses that share G4-SO6 a single Vision, working under common processes and systems. With this, Except where otherwise established in the company’s regulations, no assowe can pursue joint projects, generate synergies and enjoy a healthy climate ciate may offer or make political contributions for electoral campaigns or where our associates can perform productively and express themselves freely. other activities of this type on behalf of Grupo Bimbo. The company contributes regularly to business organizations, for example the American Because we are a global company, we also share a series of policies integraBakers Association. ted into a Global Policy Manual, by which our business activities are conducted under the same standards no matter where in the world we work. Lobbying Lobbying activities are strictly regulated around the world. We abide fully by all lobbying laws and regulations, respecting variations from country to Anti-Corruption Policy country. Only authorized associates may participate in lobbying activities. G4-SO3, G4-SO4 Before beginning any type of lobbying activity, authorized associates must G4-DMA ANTI-CORRUPTION approach the Compliance Officer, the Ethics and Compliance Committee and At Grupo Bimbo, we are committed to honest, ethical management, free of the Department of Corporate Affairs to receive the necessary guidance and corruption and bribery, which are strictly prohibited in all our business relainstruction. tions with the public and private sector and by any person acting on our behalf. Code of Conduct for Independent Parties To assist in implementing, monitoring and reinforcing our Anti-Corruption Independent parties involved in Grupo Bimbo activities must also comply Policy, we have appointed a Global Compliance Officer and created a Comfully with the Code of Conduct and the laws, regulations and rules of the pliance and Ethics Committee. If any transaction is detected that violates countries where we operate. We expect them to abide by internationally this policy, the corresponding charges must be reported to these figures or recognized standards and to adopt best practices aimed at taking action in to the Legal Department through our Whistleblower’s Hotline. favor of society, the environment and business ethics. Donations Policy Grupo Bimbo associates can make cash or in-kind donations through the company to entities or civil organizations that promote social welfare and the quality of life of communities in the various countries where we are present. But they are not permitted to grant any type of concession or donation that may be understood as or favors bribery. The Donations Committee (coordinated by Institutional Relations) must sign off on the approval format for the corresponding donation and make sure it is supported by the necessary documentation and orderly follow-up on the receiving institution. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 94 Because we believe in the value and strength of our people G4-42, G4-56 The Grupo Bimbo Code of Ethics sets forth the principles by which assoWith our associates ciates and shareholders must abide anywhere in the world, and which they must espouse in going about their institutional duties. The Code of CorpoG4-41 rate Governance serves as a complement in this regard. Our relationship with our people is guided by our Golden Rule: Respect, Fairness, Trust and Affection. Together with our Code, we have an Ethics Committee that promotes organizational values and reinforces regulatory and voluntary compliance in our G4-HR3 worldwide operations. It also formulates and issues policy recommendaNON-DISCRIMINATION tions to the Board of Directors and CEO. This company recognizes that every associate has unique value and that his her individual contribution is important. That’s why respect is fundamental, and it begins with eliminating any kind of discrimination on the basis of religion, gender, race or sexual preference. We respect any condition that protects local laws in all aspects of employability, from recruitment and promotion to the conclusion of the labor relationship. Our responsibility is to be competitive in attracting high-level talent that meets the necessary qualifications to satisfy the market, and especially our consumers. We consider retaining this talent a priority, along with promoting our associates so that they achieve their maximum potential. G4-41 To avoid conflicts of interest between associates and the company and help resolve any such cases that arise, all our associates are responsible for declaring any financial or other kind of interest they have that may conflict with those of the company. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 95 With our suppliers With our clients and consumers We are committed to conducting ourselves honestly and fairly without disOur clients and consumers are the essence of our existence. Their satiscriminating against or imposing upon our suppliers. Our relationship with faction is very important to the success of our enterprise, and we are conssuppliers, as with our associates, is guided by our Golden Rule: Respect, tantly working to offer them products with better quality, safety and service Fairness, Trust and Affection. excellence. G4-SO7 We follow and apply best market practices. We are convinced that good G4-DMA ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR corporate governance, together with good administration and socially resAll proposals by our suppliers are reviewed painstakingly for price, added ponsible operations, will provide total transparency and confidence to our value, quality and service, and we place a priority on fair competition in the investors. We are committed to supplying our stakeholders and commerevaluation process to ensure we select the best option. cial partners with a reasonable return on their investment and creating value over the long term. We must be careful to avoid involvement with suppliers that violate laws on corruption or money-laundering, or evade the environmental and social G4-57, G4-58 obligations consigned by local laws. Grupo Bimbo will terminate any comCompliance with our Code is strictly mandatory. All levels of the company mercial relationship with suppliers who have been found to engage in such must monitor and ensure compliance with its provisions and distribute it to practices. all associates. Any failure to comply with the Code must be met by disciplinary action. The Audit Department conducts random reviews and reports on the results every quarter to the Ethics Committee and the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee. G4-57 Our associates have the option of anonymously reporting any ethical violation of concern. The mechanisms to do so are available globally, except in places where the law prohibits it. Aspects reported through these mechanisms are evaluated and, when necessary, the case is investigated in order to reach an appropriate solution. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 96 About this report G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31, G4-32, G4-33 The information contained in our Fifth Integrated Annual Report includes the Throughout the document you will find reference to the GRI and the Material global results of our activities in economic, social and environmental terms Aspects identified in our materiality analysis. For more information, we have for the period between January 1 and December 31, 2016, except for the Plaa micro-site at www.grupobimbo.com/rse, where you can find data about the net Pillar results, which are reported from November 2014 to October 2015 company, our financial and sustainability reports and reference documents, and whose scope and coverage is specified in the corresponding section. as well as a feedback section. We await your comments, which we consider highly valuable for helping us make Grupo Bimbo a better company. This document covers activities in the following regions, through qualitative and quantitative information: Mexico, the United States, Latin America, IbeChanges during the reporting period ria, Asia and Canada. Any lack of information with regard to any one of these is clearly indicated in that section of the report. G4-13 The Group's growth in recent years, requires adjustments in roles and funcWe present our report each year. The previous report covered the period from tions at all levels to enable a more efficient and agile management. During January 2013 to December 2014. We have once again followed the Global 2015, the following appointments were made: Reporting Initiative (GRI) Guide, G4 version, according to the “core” in-accordance option, and included indicators from the Food Industry Supplement as ✱✱ Liliana Mejia Chief Global Corporate Affairs Officer well as the information requested to be included in the Mexican Stock Exchan✱✱ Jorge Espuny of Bimbo Iberia Chief Global Sales Officer. ges’ Sustainable IPC Index. This report has not been verified independently. ✱✱ Jose Gabriel Calderon Goyenaga of Central America as Corporate Internal Audit Officer. This year we renewed our materiality analysis based on dialogue with our ✱✱ Ricardo Padilla Anguiano, leaves the General Directorate of Brazil and stakeholders. The effort involved associates and clients of Grupo Bimbo as well incorporates as CEO of Organizacion Barcel, position that was occupied as external stakeholders (sustainability experts from non-government organiby Gabino Gomez, who was appointed Deputy Chief Officer of Grupo zations, colleagues, academics and specialized study enters) for the purpose Bimbo. of reaffirming the material aspects on which we report in this document. ✱✱ Pablo Elizondo Huerta takes on new responsibilities as Chief Officer for Europe, the Middle East and Africa. We also prepared a summary version of the report, and, in respect for the envi✱✱ Gabino Gómez Carbajal, who was CEO for Barcel, is now Chief Officer of ronment, a digital version so we could avoid the unnecessary use of paper in Grupo Bimbo. printing it. Within infrastructure, Bimbo Iberia inaugurates its new plant in GuadalaThe report reflects the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact as part of our jara, Spain, which will have the capacity to produce 15,000 lbreads per hour commitment to respecting these principles in all our operations. This docubecoming the largest industrial project in the country. ment also represents our 2015 Communication on Progress Report for that commitment. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 97 Summary financial performance Net sales Consolidated net sales rose 17.2% year over year, to Ps. 219,186 million, Thomas’ Swirl Breads in the US and Campagnard in Canada, volumes reflecting an FX rate benefit of 8.5%, acquisitions made in prior periods and in the bread category were under pressure due to pricing initiatives solid organic growth in Mexico and Latin America. implemented in the first half of the year. Latin America: The 10.7% rise in net sales reflected positive volume 3% performance in several countries, notably Brazil and most Central American countries, as as well as the benefit of translating certain 10% currencies to Mexican pesos. Sales of premium bread and tortillas continued to rise despite challenging economic conditions in some 34% Mexico countries. North America Net sales Latin America Europe: The UK operation acquired as part of the Canada Bread by region Europe transaction and an FX rate benefit of 2.4% contributed to the 9.6% improvement in annual net sales. In Iberia, sales in the second half of the year were affected by a competitive environment in the bread 53% category due to pricing dynamics among private label players. Mexico: Net sales in Mexico rose 5.8%, primarily driven by higher volumes reflecting a better consumption environment, product innoGross profit vation such as Levissimo snacks and Lime Chip’s and cross-market product launches like Artesano and Nature’s Harvest breads. Although Consolidated gross profit increased 18.2% to Ps. 116,765 million, with a performance in the sweet baked goods and confectionary categories 50 basis point expansion in the margin to 53.3%, driven by lower average was soft, sales rose in every channel and across most categories, with raw material costs in most regions. outperformance in cookies, bread, cakes and salty snacks. North America: Net sales grew 28.8%, largely as the result of an Profit before other income & expenses exchange rate benefit of 17.3%, acquisitions made in previous periods and an additional week of sales during the period. NotwithsProfit before other income & expenses increased 16.2% during the year, to tanding notable growth in the sweet baked goods, snacks and breakPs. 18,222 million, with a slight 10 basis point contraction in the margin fast categories and successful introductions of Sara Lee Artesano and to 8.3%. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 98 Operating income Adjusted EBITDA Operating income rose 36.9% over the prior year to Ps. 14,121 million, Adjusted EBITDA increased 26.9% to Ps. 23,369 million, while the margin with a 90 basis point expansion in the margin to 6.4%. This primarily expanded 90 basis points to 10.7%, resulting in a 210 basis point expanreflected lower restructuring expenses in the US (2015: Ps. 1,007 million; sion in the North American margin and a record annual adjusted EBITDA 2014: Ps. 2,259 million) and distribution efficiencies in Mexico, which margin in Mexico of 17.6%. were somewhat offset by integration-related costs in Canada, Europe and Latin America, specifically the migration to new enterprise software in The Company registered non-cash charges of Ps. 2,196 million in 2015 due Canada, the acquisition of Supan in Ecuador and the construction of a primarily to impairment costs and goodwill charges mainly in Brazil, the new plant in Latin America. US, Argentina and China. 2% -1% Comprehensive financial result Comprehensive financing resulted in a Ps. 4,190 million cost in the year, compared to Ps. 3,265 million in 2014, or Ps. 925 million higher. This reflects México the incremental interest expense related to the Canada Bread acquisition, Adjusted EBITDA Norteamérica as well as a change in the Mexican peso/US dollar FX rate, which increased 41% Latinoamérica the Mexican peso value of US dollar-denominated interest expenses. by region 58% Europa Net majority income Net majority income rose 47.0% to Ps. 5,171 million, with a 50 basis point expansion in the margin to 2.4%, attributable to operating performance and a lower effective tax rate of 40.7% vs. 42.3% in 2014. Financial structure Earnings per share totaled Ps. 1.10, compared to Ps. 0.75 in the prior year. Total debt at December 31, 2015 was Ps. 67.8 billion, compared to Ps. 62.2 billion at December 31, 2014. The increase was primarily due to a 17% US dollar revaluation that increased the Mexican peso value of US dollar-denominated debt, although the Company has continued to pay down debt in line with its commitment to de-lever. Average debt maturity was 8.4 years with an average cost of 4.5%. Longterm debt comprised 88% of the total; 77% of the debt was denominated in US dollars and 23% in Canadian dollars. The total debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 2.9 times compared to 3.2 times pro forma Canada Bread at December 31, 2014. The net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio was 2.7 times Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 99 Reporte del Comité de Auditoría y Prácticas Societarias Mexico City, April 11, 2016 To the Board of Directors of Grupo Bimbo, S.A.B. de C.V. Dear Sirs, In conformity with the provisions of the Securities Market Act, the corpoCode of ethics rate charter of this Company and the Regulations of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee of Grupo Bimbo, S.A.B. de C.V. (the “Group” or the With the support of the Internal Audit Department and other areas of the “Company”), I hereby present to you the report of the activities carried out Company, we verified compliance by the employees of the Company with by the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee (the “Committee”) during the Group’s current Code of Ethics. the year ended December 31, 2015. In carrying out our work, we abided by the recommendations established in the Code of Best Corporate Practices. We learned of the results and central issues identified in maintaining a hotline for Group associates, and management informed us of the actions Based on the previously approved work plan, the Committee met six times taken in those cases. during the year, in which it discussed the issues it is legally obligated to consider and carried out the activities described below: External audit Internal controls The independent auditors that provide these services were the same as in the two preceding years, and a single firm is responsible for auditing the results With the assistance of both Internal and External Auditors, we verified that of all the operations and countries where Grupo Bimbo operates. management had established general guidelines for internal control, as well as the necessary procedures for their application and enforcement. We approved the fees for these auditing services, including additional fees In addition, we followed up on the remarks and observations made by the to account for the growth of the group and other permitted services. We external and internal auditors in performance of their duties. ensured that these payments did not compromise the independence of that firm. The members of Management responsible for such matters presented us with the plans of action corresponding to the observations resulting from The external auditors presented their approach and work program and the internal audit, so our contact with them was frequent and their responareas of interaction with Grupo Bimbo’s Internal Audit department, and the ses satisfactory. Committee approved this presentation. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 100 We maintained direct and close communication with the external auditors, To arrive at an opinion on the financial statements, we verified, with the and they informed us on a quarterly basis of the progress of their work and support of the internal and external auditors, that the criteria, accounting any observations they had; we took note of their comments on the quarterly policies and the information used by management in the preparation of the and annual financial statements. We were promptly informed of their confinancial statements was appropriate and sufficient and had been applied clusions and reports on the annual financial statements. in a manner consistent with the prior year, taking into account the changes in International Financial Reporting Standard effective both in that year Finally, we conducted an evaluation of the services of the external auditing and the preceding year. As a result, the information presented by managefirm for the year 2015 and were promptly informed of the preliminary finanment reasonably reflects the financial position, results of operations, chancial statements. ges in shareholders’ equity and cash flows of the Company. Internal Audit Compliance with regulatory standards and laws; contingencies We reviewed and approved the annual work plan for the year 2016 as well With the support of the internal and external auditors, we confirmed the exisas the budget for carrying out the activities of the area. tence and reliability of the controls established by the Company to assure compliance with the various legal provisions to which it is subject, and assuIn each of this Committee’s meetings, we received and approved regular red that these were appropriately disclosed in the financial information. reports on the progress of the approved work plan. At the close of each quarter, we regularly reviewed the Company’s various We followed up on the comments and suggestions made by the Internal tax, legal and labor contingencies and confirmed that appropriate proceduAudit area, and verified that Management resolved any deviations from the res were in place so that Management could identify and address them in established internal controls, and we therefore consider the status of that an appropriate manner. system to be reasonably correct. The Risk Committee created by the Company’s management informed us of We authorized an annual training plan for personnel of the area and verithe methodology it follows to determine and evaluate the risks the group fied its effectiveness. A number of specialized professional firms participafaces, and we verified that the risks were being monitored and mitigated ted actively in that plan, ensuring that personnel receive up-to-date inforwhere possible, and that they were considered in the work plans of the mation on the appropriate topics. Internal Auditors. We reviewed and followed up on the program to transform the responsibiManagement explained to us the central guidelines that govern the anti-colities of the Internal Audit area, which was implemented for the purpose of rruption policy, as well as planes to publicize it and check that it is complied strengthening it. with, which we found appropriate. Financial information and accounting policies Compliance with other obligations We reviewed the quarterly and annual financial statements of the Company We met with Management executives and officers as considered necestogether with the parties responsible for their preparation, recommended sary to remain abreast of the progress of the Company and any material or their approval by the Board of Directors, and authorized their publication. unusual activities and events. Throughout the process we took into account the opinions and remarks of the external auditors. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 101 We obtained information about significant matters that could involve a posMexico City, April 11, 2016 sible breach of operating policies, the internal control system and policies on accounting records, and we were also informed of corrective measures taken in each case, and found them satisfactory. To the Board of Directors of Grupo Bimbo, S.A.B. de C.V. We did not find it necessary to request the support or opinion of indepenIn my capacity as chairman of the Audit and Corporate Practices Commitdent experts, because the issues raised in each meeting were duly supportee (the “Committee”) of Grupo Bimbo, S.A.B. de C.V. (the “Company”), and ted by the information on hand, and the conclusions reached were satisfacin accordance with point e), section II of Article 42 of the Securities Martory to Committee members. ket Act, I hereby present you the opinion of the Committee regarding the content of the report of the Chief Executive Officer regarding the financial Transactions with related parties situation and results of the Company for the year ended December 31, 2015. We reviewed and recommended for approval by the Board each and every In the opinion of the Committee, the accounting and information policies related party transaction requiring approval by the Board of Directors for and criteria followed by the Company and used to prepare the consolidated fiscal year 2015, as well as for recurring transactions that are expected to financial information are appropriate and sufficient, and consistent with be conducted in fiscal year 2016 that require Board approval. international financial reporting standards. Therefore, the consolidated financial information presented by the Chief Executive Officer reasonably Evaluation of management reflects the financial situation and results of the Company as of December 31, 2015 and for the year ended on that date. We reviewed and recommended for approval by the Board the policies for the designation, evaluation and compensation of the Chief Executive OffiSincerely, cer as well as the members Bimbo’s Executive Committee in 2015. In my capacity as Chairman of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee, I reported regularly to the Board of Directors on the activities conducted within the Committee. Henry Davis Signoret The work that we conducted was duly documented in minutes of each meeting, Chairman of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee which were reviewed and approved at the time by the Committee members. of Grupo Bimbo, S.A.B. de C.V. Sincerely, Henry Davis Signoret Chairman of the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee Grupo Bimbo, S.A.B. de C.V. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 102 GRI content index G4-32 General standard disclosures General Standard Disclosures Page Number (or Link) Strategy and analysis G4-1 7, 21 G4-2 7, 31 Organizational profile G4-3 1 G4-4 1, 2 G4-5 164 G4-6 1, 2 G4-7 90 G4-8 1, 2 G4-9 4, 5, 20, 78 G4-10 4, we only report total of associates ( See page 85) G4-11 78 G4-12 65 G4-13 96 G4-14 12, 14 G4-15 34, 47 G4-16 20, 59 Identified material aspects and boundaries G4-17 15 G4-18 23 G4-19 24 G4-20 36, 45 G4-21 45 We did not detect significant changes that could afect the performance of the Group. However, as a measure for assessing risk and making more objective decisions, we are implementing a management information system that will identify more accurately all the changes that take place G4-22 during the year. This system will be ready and functional during 2016, although it will not have historical data that allow comparability in this first year. G4-23 47, 48, 49, 51, 52, 53, 55 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 103 General standard disclosures General Standard Disclosures Page Number (or Link) Stakeholder engagement G4-24 15 G4-25 15 G4-26 15, 16 G4-27 15, 25 Report profile G4-28 96 G4-29 96 G4-30 96 G4-31 96, 164 G4-32 96, 102 G4-33 96 Governance G4-34 89, 91 G4-38 89 G4-39 91 G4-40 91 G4-41 94 G4-42 94 Ethics and integrity G4-56 94 G4-57 95 G4-58 95 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 104 Specific standard disclosures DMA and Indicators Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Omission(s) Explanation for Omission(s) Category: economic Aspect: economic performance G4-DMA 7, 13, 58 G4-EC1 4, 58, 59 G4-EC2 14, 45 Aspect: market presence G4-DMA 80 G4-EC5 80 Gender Information is not available See page 85 Material aspect: indirect economic impacts G4-DMA 59 G4-EC7 58,59 G4-EC8 58, 59, 62, 68 Material aspect: procurement practices G4-DMA 17, 18, 65 During 2016 we will work G4-EC9 Percentage of expenditure Information is not available on the value chain data measurement. Category: environmental Aspect: materials G4-DMA 54 G4-EN1 54 G4-EN2 54, 68 Aspect: energy G4-DMA 46, 47 G4-EN3 47, 48 G4-EN4 49, 66, 67 G4-EN5 50 G4-EN6 46 Aspect: water G4-DMA 55 G4-EN8 55 G4-EN10 55 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 105 Specific standard disclosures DMA and Indicators Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Omission(s) Explanation for Omission(s) Aspecto: biodiversity G4-DMA 56 G4-EN13 56 Aspect: emissions G4-DMA 51 We are workin n obtaining G4-EN15 53 Waste management method Information is not available the information G4-EN16 51 G4-EN17 51 G4-EN19 52 G4-EN21 52 Aspect: effluents and waste G4-DMA 53 G4-EN23 53 Aspect: products and services G4-DMA 55 G4-EN27 47, 49, 45, 46, 48, 54 Aspect: transport GA-DMA 52 G4-EN30 52 Category: social Sub-category: labor practices and decent work Material aspect: employment GA-DMA 72, 79 G4-LA1 17, 78 Gender Information is not available See page 85 G4-LA2 79 Aspect: occupational health and safety G4-DMA 86, 87 G4-LA5 86 G4-LA6 4 Gender Information is not available See page 85 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 106 Specific standard disclosures DMA and Indicators Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Omission(s) Explanation for Omission(s) Material aspect: training and education GA-DMA 84 G4-LA9 84 Gender Information is not available See page 85 G4-LA11 85 Gender Information is not available See page 85 Material aspect: diversity and equal opportunity G4-DMA 84 G4-LA12 88 Gender Information is not available See page 85 Material aspect: equal remuneration for women and men G4-DMA 80 G4-LA13 80 Gender Information is not available See page 85 Aspect: supplier assessment for labor practices G4-DMA 71 G4-LA14 71 G4-LA15 71 Sub-category: human rights Material aspect: investment G4-DMA 70, 73 G4-HR2 84, 86 Material aspect: non-discrimination G4-DMA 94 G4-HR3 94 Aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-DMA 88 G4-HR4 88 Aspect: freedom of association and collective bargaining G4-DMA 88 G4-HR5 88 Aspect: forced or compulsory labor G4-DMA 88 G4-HR6 88 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 107 Specific standard disclosures DMA and Indicators Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Omission(s) Explanation for Omission(s) Material aspect: security practices During 2015, about 500 guards received a training called Training Course for Security, where safety procedures G4-DMA and mechanisms are reviewed to established the utmost respect for the person´s dignity. During 2015, about 500 guards received a training called Training Course for Security, where safety procedures G4-HR7 and mechanisms are reviewed to established the utmost respect for the person´s dignity. Aspect: assessment G4-DMA 70 In 2015 we conducted environmental assessments for our suppliers and in 2016 we will start preparing social and G4-HR9 human rights evaluation schemes, to achieve the first assessments in 2018. Aspect: supplier human rights assessment In 2016 we will start preparing human rights assesment G4-DMA schemes for our suppliers. G4-HR10 71 Sub-category: society Material aspect: local communities G4-DMA 59 G4-SO1 42, 59 Material aspect: anti-corruption G4-DMA 93 G4-SO3 93 G4-SO4 93 Aspect: anti-competitive behavior G4-DMA 95 G4-SO7 95 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 108 Specific standard disclosures DMA and Indicators Page Number (or Link) Identified Omission(s) Reason(s) for Omission(s) Explanation for Omission(s) Sub-category: product responsibility Material aspect: customer health and safety G4-DMA 28, 30 G4-PR1 32 G4-PR2 32 Material aspect: product and service labeling G4-DMA 36 G4-PR3 36 G4-PR4 36 Food services sector supplement G4-FP4 36, 38, 41, 42 G4-FP5 31 G4-FP6 32, 36 G4-FP8 36 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 109 Grupo Bimbo, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries Contents Consolidated Financial 111 Independent Auditors’ Report 112 Consolidated Statements of Financial Position 114 Consolidated Statements of Income Statements 115 Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 116 Consolidated Statements of Changes for the Years Ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, in Stockholders’ Equity and Independent Auditors’ Report Dated March 30, 2016 117 Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 119 Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 110 Index to the notes to the consolidated financial statements Page 1 Activities and significant events 119 2 Basis of preparation 122 3 Summary of significant accounting policies 123 4 Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty 132 5 Transactions that did not result in cash flows 133 6 Accounts and notes receivables 133 7 Inventories 133 8 Structured entities 133 9 Property, plant and equipment 135 10 Investment in shares of associated companies 137 11 Intangible assets 137 12 Goodwill 140 13 Long term debt 142 14 Financial instruments 143 15 Employee benefits and workers´ compensation 151 16 Stockholders’ equity 155 17 Transactions and balances with related parties 156 18 Income taxes 157 19 Costs and expenses by nature 160 20 Other general expenses 161 21 Commitments 161 22 Contingencies 161 23 Segment information 162 24 Financial statements issuance authorization 163 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 111 Independent Auditors’ Report To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Grupo Bimbo, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Grupo Bimbo, for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Entity’s internal S. A. B. de C .V. and its Subsidiaries (the “Entity”), which comprise the consolidated control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies statements of financial position as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the consolidated used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as statements of income, consolidated statements of comprehensive income, consolidated evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. statement of changes in stockholders’ equity and consolidated statements of cash flows for the years then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to explanatory information. provide a basis for our audit opinion. Management’s responsibility for the consolidated financial statements Opinion Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting respects, the financial position of Grupo Bimbo, S. A. B. de C .V. and its subsidiaries as of Standards, as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board, and for such December 31, 2015 and 2014 and their financial performance and their cash flows for internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of the years then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards, consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether as issued by the International Accounting Standards Board. due to fraud or error. Auditor’s responsibility Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements Galaz, Yamazaki, Ruiz Urquiza, S. C. based on our audits. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards Member of Deloitte Touche Tohmatsu Limited on Auditing. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. C. P. C. Octavio Aguirre Hernández In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to Mexico City, México the Entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements March 30, 2016 in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 112 Grupo Bimbo, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Financial Position As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 (In millions of Mexican pesos) Assets Notes 2015 2014 Current assets: Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,825 $ 2,572 Accounts and notes receivable – net 6 19,047 19,028 Inventories – net 7 5,509 4,978 Prepaid expenses 861 695 Derivative financial instruments 14 885 386 Guarantee deposits for derivative financial instruments 1,501 18 Assets available for sale 9 502 188 Total current assets 32,130 27,865 Non–current assets: Notes receivable from independent operators 950 1,109 Property, plant and equipment– net 9 58,073 52,475 Investment in shares of associated companies 10 2,106 2,031 Derivative financial instruments 14 3,346 1,653 Deferred income taxes 18 10,705 8,709 Intangible assets – net 11 42,535 37,960 Goodwill 12 49,196 45,257 Other assets – net 592 702 Total assets $ 199,633 $ 177,761 (Continue) Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 113 Liabilities and stockholders’ equity Notes 2015 2014 Current liabilities: Current portion of long–term debt 13 $ 8,282 $ 1,789 Trade accounts payable 13,146 11,867 Other accounts payable and accrued liabilities 14,046 12,432 Due to related parties 17 401 789 Income tax 18 2,845 3,232 Statutory employee profit sharing payable 1,110 1,114 Derivative financial instruments 14 3,208 673 Total current liabilities 43,038 31,896 Non–current liabilities: Long–term debt 13 59,479 60,415 Derivative financial instruments 14 1,707 1,540 Employee labor obligations and workers’ compensation 15 25,932 23,292 Deferred income taxes 18 3,359 3,380 Other liabilities 4,259 3,636 Total liabilities 137,774 124,159 Stockholders’ equity: Capital stock 16 4,227 4,227 Reserve for repurchase of shares 770 916 Retained earnings 16 52,146 46,975 Accumulated translation effects of foreign subsidiaries 16 2,107 (1,026) Remeasurement effects of employee benefits 16 669 103 Valuation effects of cash flow hedges 14 (964) (220) Equity attributable to owners of the Entity 58,955 50,975 Non–controlling interests in consolidated subsidiaries 2,904 2,627 Total stockholders’ equity 61,859 53,602 Total liabilities and stockholders’ equity $ 199,633 $ 177,761 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 114 Grupo Bimbo, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Income For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 (In millions of Mexican pesos, except earnings per common share) Notes 2015 2014 Net sales $ 219,186 $ 187,053 Cost of sales 19 102,421 88,298 Gross profit 116,765 98,755 General expenses: Distribution and selling 84,192 71,862 Administrative 14,351 11,215 Integration costs 1,933 2,489 Other general expenses 20 2,168 2,877 19 102,644 88,443 Operating income 14,121 10,312 Interest expense Interest income 4,576 3,692 Exchange gain, net (212) (271) Monetary position gain 18 (90) Net financing costs (192) (66) 4,190 3,265 Equity in loss of associated companies 47 (61) Income before income taxes 9,978 6,986 Income tax expense 18 4,063 2,955 Consolidated net income $ 5,915 $ 4,031 Net income attributable to owners of the Entity $ 5,171 $ 3,518 Net income attributable to non–controlling interests $ 744 $ 513 Basic and diluted earnings per common share $ 1.10 $ 0.75 Weighted average number of shares outstanding (000’s) 4,703,200 4,703,200 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 115 Grupo Bimbo, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 (In millions of Mexican pesos) 2015 2014 Consolidated net income $ 5,915 $ 4,031 Other comprehensive income Items that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Net change in actuarial gain (loss) on defined benefit plans of labor obligations 877 (1,411) Income taxes relating to items that will not be reclassified (315) 430 562 (981) Items that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss: Hedges of net investments in foreign operations, net (7,109) (5,463) Exchange differences on translating foreign operations 8,121 6,974 Net fair value loss on hedging instruments entered into for cash flow hedges (1,105) (19) Income taxes related to items that will be reclassified in the future 2,466 1,682 2,373 3,174 Other comprehensive income for the year 2,935 2,193 Total comprehensive income for the year $ 8,850 $ 6,224 Comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Entity $ 8,126 $ 5,517 Comprehensive income attributable to non–controlling interests $ 724 $ 707 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 116 Grupo Bimbo, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders’ Equity For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 (In millions of Mexican pesos) Reserve Accumulated Equity Non–controlling for other attributable interests in Total Capital repurchase Retained comprehensive to owners consolidated stockholders’ stock of shares earnings income (loss) of the Entity subsidiaries equity Balances as of January 1, 2014 $ 4,227 $ 917 $ 43,617 $ (3,142) $ 45,619 $ 2,164 $ 47,783 Consolidation effect of structured entities – – – – – (244) (244) Loss on investment of associate due to dissolution – – (160) – (160) – (160) Decrease in reserve for repurchase of shares – (1) – – (1) – (1) Balances before comprehensive income 4,227 916 43,457 (3,142) 45,458 1,920 47,378 Consolidated net income for the year – – 3,518 – 3,518 513 4,031 Other comprehensive income – – – 1,999 1,999 194 2,193 Total comprehensive income – – 3,518 1,999 5,517 707 6,224 Balances as of December 31, 2014 4,227 916 46,975 (1,143) 50,975 2,627 53,602 Consolidation effect of structured entities – – – – – (447) (447) Decrease in reserve for repurchase of shares – (146) – – (146) – (146) Balances before comprehensive income 4,227 770 46,975 (1,143) 50,829 2,180 53,009 Consolidated net income for the year – – 5,171 – 5,171 744 5,915 Other comprehensive income – – – 2,955 2,955 (20) 2,935 Total comprehensive income – – 5,171 2,955 8,126 724 8,850 Balances as of December 31, 2015 $ 4,227 $ 770 $ 52,146 $ 1,812 $ 58,955 $ 2,904 $ 61,859 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 117 Grupo Bimbo, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 (In millions of Mexican pesos) 2015 2014 Cash flows from operating activities: Income before income taxes $ 9,978 $ 6,986 Adjustments for: Depreciation and amortization 7,050 5,831 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 132 330 Equity in loss of associated companies (47) 61 Impairment of long–lived assets 1,839 166 Multi–employer pension plan provision 359 1,990 Interest expense 4,576 3,692 Interest income (212) (271) Changes in assets and liabilities: Accounts and notes receivable 1,373 (881) Inventories (297) 630 Prepaid expenses (183) 789 Trade accounts payable 735 84 Other accounts payable and accrued liabilities (317) 2,280 Due to related parties (388) 266 Income tax paid (3,884) (3,921) Derivative financial instruments (2,161) 260 Statutory employee profit sharing (2) 238 Employee labor obligations and workers’ compensation (446) (211) Assets available for sale 11 – Net cash flows generated by operating activities 18,116 18,319 (Continue) Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 118 2015 2014 Investing activities: Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (9,604) (6,829) Acquisition of businesses, net of cash received (1,641) (22,351) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 726 85 Acquisition of trademarks and other assets (1,060) (1,415) Other assets 8 (672) Investments in shares of associated companies (45) (120) Interest collected 212 270 Net cash flows used in investing activities (11,404) (31,032) Financing activities: Proceeds from long–term debt 13,954 46,476 Payment of long–term debt (15,928) (30,231) Interest paid (3,899) (3,128) Payments of interest rate swaps (1,384) (1,277) Interest rate swaps collected 1,623 1,478 Net cash flows (used) obtained from financing activities (5,634) 13,318 Adjustments to cash flows due to exchange rate fluctuations and inflationary effects 175 (537) Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 1,253 68 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 2,572 2,504 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year $ 3,825 $ 2,572 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 119 Grupo Bimbo, S. A. B. de C. V. and Subsidiaries Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 (In millions of Mexican pesos) 1. Activities and significant events includes leading brands such as Vachon®, Jos Louis®, Ah Caramel®, Passion, Flakie® and May West®, among others. The acquisition cost was $1,369. Activities – Grupo Bimbo, S. A. B. de C. V. andSubsidiaries (“Grupo Bimbo” or the “the Entity”) is engaged in the manufacture, distribution and sale of bread, premium bread, Funding sources breakfast bread “muffins and bagels), frozen bread, cakes and smaller cakes, sweet and To finance the transaction, Canada Bread used financing resources available under nonsweet cookies, tortillas, pita bread, pizza bread, tostadas and tortillas, snacks, salads, existing long–term committed credit lines. candies and processed foods, among others. Accounting effects of the acquisition of Vachon The Entity operates in the following geographical areas: Mexico, the United States of The valuation process and the acquisition were performed in accordance with International America (“USA”), Canada, Central and South America, Spain, Portugal, United Kingdom, Financial Reporting Standard (“IFRS”) 3, Business Combinations. The following table and China. Due to its minimal significance, the financial information of China is aggregated presents the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed that were recognized with Mexico in the disclosures that follow. Reporting segments are grouped based on the for the acquisition on February 2, 2015 using the exchange rate as of the date of the geographical areas as follow: Mexico, USA and Canada, referred to as “North America”, transaction: Organization Latinamerica (“OLA”), and Europe. Corporate offices are based in Santa Fe, Mexico City, Mexico, 1000 Prolongación Paseo Consideration transferred $ 1,369 de la Reforma, Colonia Peña Blanca Santa Fe, Álvaro Obregón, Zip code 01210, Distrito Fair value of identifiable assets acquired Federal, Mexico. and assumed liabilities Accounts receivable 84 During 2015 and 2014, net sales of Bimbo S. A. de C. V. and Barcel, S. A. de C. V, classified Inventories 60 in the Mexico segment, represented approximately 32% and 36%, respectively, of Property, plant and equipment 778 consolidated net sales. During 2015 and 2014, net sales of subsidiaries Bimbo Bakeries Intangible assets 431 USA, Inc. (“BBU”), and Canada Bread Company Limited(“Canada Bread” or “CB”), which Other assets 10 are classified in the “North America” segment represented approximately 53% and 48%, respectively, of consolidated net sales. Total identifiable assets 1,363 Goodwill 604 Total acquired assets 1,967 Significant events – Current liabilities 136 2015 acquisitions Deferred tax liability 179 Acquisition of Saputo Long–term liabilities 283 Total assumed liabilities 598  n February 2, 2015, the Entity acquired, through its subsidiary Canada Bread, 100% O of the shares of Saputo Bakery, Inc., which on the same day, changed names to Vachon Acquired investment value $ 1,369 Bakery, Inc. (“Vachon”). Such company is leader in the production and sale of bakery products in Canada and strengthens the Entity’s position in the country. The acquisition Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 120 Goodwill recorded in 2015 as result of this transaction totaled $604, which is representative Accounting effects of the acquisition of Canada Bread and Subsidiaries of the expected synergies from the acquisition. The valuation process and the acquisition were performed in accordance with IFRS 3. The following table presents the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed that Asset acquisition were recognized for the acquisition on May 23, 2014 using the exchange rate as of the date During 2015, the Entity acquired, through its subsidiary Canada Bread, certain assets of of the transaction: Sobey’s West, Inc. and Italian Home Bakery, for a total amount of $272. The acquisitions were comprised mainly of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets. Consideration transferred $ 21,731 2014 Acquisitions Fair value of identifiable assets acquired and assumed liabilities During 2014, the Entity purchased 100% of several businesses in Canada, United States and United Kingdom, referred to as Canada Bread and in Ecuador, referred to as Supan, SA Cash and cash equivalents 200 (“Supan”) as described below: Accounts receivable 1,359 Inventories 719 Transaction Property, plant and equipment 6,334 Entity Country Amount Date Intangible assets 7,746 Other assets 122 Canada Bread Canada,USA and United Kingdom $ 21,731 May 23, 2014 Total identifiable assets 16,480 Supan Ecuador 858 July 15, 2014 Goodwill 10,624 $ 22,589 Total acquired assets 27,104 Current liabilities 2,274 Canada Bread Deferred taxes 1,974 Long–term liabilities 1,125 Canada Bread is one of the leading companies in the production and sale of bakery Total assumed liabilities 5,373 products, including the categories of bread, buns, bagels, english muffins and tortillas in Canada, frozen bread in North America and specialized bakery in the UK. Acquired investment value $ 21,731 This acquisition impulses the global growth strategy of Grupo Bimbo and enables its foray into the attractive Canadian market through recognized brands, such as DEMPSTER'S®, Purchase accounting was concluded in January 2015, within the 12 months subsequent to POM®, VILLAGGIO®, BEN'S®, BON MATIN® and MCGAVIN'S®. Canada Bread has a the acquisition, resulting in an increase of property plant and equipment and deferred tax strong relationship with major supermarkets and institutional channels in Canada and is liability of $303 and $91, respectively, as well as the decrease of goodwill of $212. recognized for its strong market position in all baking categories. Supan Funding sources To finance the transaction, Grupo Bimbo used its own resources as well as financing On July 15, 2014, the Entity acquired 100% of the fresh bakery business in Ecuador resources available under long–term committed credit lines and the issuance of “Supan”. With this purchase, the Entity enters the market in Ecuador and strengthens international bonds. its operation in Latin America with brands such as Supan, Guile, Braun, Dulzones and Rey Pan. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 121 Accounting effects of the acquisition of Supan December 31, 2014 The valuation process and the acquisition were performed in accordance with IFRS 3. The Consolidated Canada Bread Supan January 1st to May 23 to July 15 to following table shows the fair values of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed that December 31, December 31, December 31, were recognized for the acquisition on July 15, 2014 using the exchange rate as of the date 2014 2014 2014 of the transaction. Net sales $ 187,053 $ 10,735 $ 438 Consideration transferred $ 858 Operating income $ 10,312 $ 684 $ 20 Fair value of identifiable assets acquired Net income attributable and assumed liabilities to controlling interest $ 3,518 $ 406 $ 12 Cash and cash equivalents 38 Accounts receivable 27 Inventories 33 As of December 31, 2014 Property, plant and equipment 500 Consolidated Canada Bread Supan Identifiable intangible assets 347 Other assets 10 Total assets $ 177,761 $ 34,873 $ 852 Total identifiable assets 955 Total liabilities $ 124,159 $ 5,925 $ 153 Goodwill 232 Total acquired assets 1,187 Consolidated net sales and consolidated net income, if Canada Bread and Supan had been Current liabilities 174 consolidated from January 1, 2015, would have been $193,821 and $4,293, respectively. Long–term liabilities 58 Deferred tax 97 The contributions of Vachon to total assets and liabilities, net sales, operating and net profit, are not considered material for the consolidated financial statements of the Entity Total assumed liabilities 329 for the year ended December 31, 2015. Acquired investment value $ 858 Goodwill recorded in 2014 as result of these acquisitions totaled $11,409, which is Purchase accounting was concluded during the 12 months following the purchase of representative of the expected synergies in both acquisitions. This amount was adjusted in Supan, resulting in an increase of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and the 2015 to $10,856, once the purchase accounting was concluded. deferred tax liability of $91, $347 and $97 respectively, as well as the decrease of goodwill of $341. In 2015 and 2014, the Entity incurred $19 and $124, respectively, in fess and expenses to carry out these acquisitions, which are included in general expenses. Funding sources To complete the acquisition of Supan in 2014, the Entity obtained funding for an amount Panrico acquisition equivalent to the amount of these transactions. On July 9, 2015, the Entity announced it reached an agreement to acquire, through its subsidiary in Spain, Bakery Iberian Investment, 100% of the shares of Panrico, S.A.U. Consolidated amounts (“Panrico”), excluding the loaf bread segment, for a price of 190 million euros. The following table presents the amounts contributed by CB and Supan to the consolidated figures of Grupo Bimbo for the 222 and 169 days from the date of each acquisition, The acquisition is subject to authorization of the appropriate regulatory authorities and it respectively, through December 31, 2014: is expected to conclude during the second quarter of 2016. To ensure such acquisition, the Consolidado Canada Bread Supan Entity provided an escrow deposit of 15 million euros, equivalent to $281. December 31, 2014 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 122 2. Basis of preparation Amendments to IAS 16 and IAS 38 Clarification of Acceptable Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation1 Application of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards Amendments to IAS 10 and IAS 28 Sale or Contribution of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint Venture1 a.  Amendments of new and revised International Financial Reporting Standards Amendments to IFRSs Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2012–20141 (“IFRSs” or “IAS”) and interpretations that are mandatorily effective for the current year 1 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2016, with earlier In the current year, the Entity had no impact on its financial statements for the application permitted. application of new or amended IFRSs, issued by the International Accounting 2 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018, with earlier Standards Board (“IASB”) that are mandatorily effective on or after January 1, 2015. application permitted. 3 Effective for annual periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019, with earlier Annual Improvements to IFRSs 2010 – 2012 and 2011– 2013 application permitted. The Entity has applied the amendments to the IFRSs included in the Annual Improvements The Entity is in the process of determining the potential impacts on its consolidated to IFRSs 2012–2014 and 2011–2013 for the first time this year. One of the annual financial statements, from the adoption of these new IFRSs and amendments. improvements require the entities to disclose judgments made by management in applying the aggregation criteria set out in paragraph 12 of IFRS 8 Operating Segments. The c. Comprehensive income application of amendments has had no impact on the disclosures or amounts recognized on the consolidated financial statements. The Entity presents comprehensive income in two different statements: (i) a statement of income and (ii) a statement of comprehensive income. The expenses in the statement b. New and revised IFRSs in issue but not yet effective of income are presented according to their function, as this is the common practice in the sector to which the Entity belongs. The nature of these expenses are presented The Entity has not applied the following new and revised IFRSs that have been issued in the notes. Additionally, the Entity presents the subtotal operating income, which, but are not yet effective: although not required by IFRS, is included as it contributes to a better understanding of the economic and financial performance of the Entity. IFRS 9 Financial Instrument2 IFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts1 d. Cash flow statement IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customer3 IFRS 16 Leases3 The Entity presents its cash flow statement using the indirect method. Proceeds Amendments to IFRS 11 Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in from interest and dividends are presented in investing activities, whereas payment of Joint Operations1 interest and dividends are presented as financing activities. Amendments to IAS 1 Disclosure Initiative1 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 123 3. Summary of significant accounting policies c. Basis of consolidation a. Statement of compliance As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Entity and those entities over which it exercise control,  The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with including structured entities (“SE”). Control is achieved when the Entity: International Financial Reporting Standards as issued by the IASB. • Has power over the investee; b. Basis of preparation • Is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee; and The consolidated financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost • Has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. basis except for certain assets and liabilities (derivative financial instruments) that are measured at fair value at the end of each period, as explained in the accounting The Entity reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances policies below. indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above. i. Historical cost An SE is consolidated when the Entity concludes that it controls the SE based on  Historical cost is generally based on the fair value of the consideration given in the evaluation of the substance of the relationship with the Entity and the risks and exchange for goods and services. benefits of the SE. The most significant subsidiaries are shown below: ii. Fair value % of Main Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a Subsidiary ownership Country Segment activity liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date, regardless of whether that price is directly observable or estimated using Bimbo, S. A. de C. V. 97 Mexico Mexico Baking another valuation technique. In estimating the fair value of an asset or a liability, the Entity takes into account the characteristics of the asset or liability if market Barcel, S. A. de C. V. 98 Mexico Mexico Sweets and participants would take those characteristics into account when pricing the asset snacks or liability at the measurement date. Fair value for measurement and/or disclosure Bimbo Bakeries USA, Inc. 100 United North Baking purposes in these consolidated financial statements is determined on such a basis, States America except for measurements that have some similarities to fair value but are not fair value, such as net realizable value in IAS 2 or value in use in IAS 36. Canada Bread 100 Canada North Baking1 Corporation, LLC America  In addition, for financial reporting purposes, fair value measurements are Bimbo do Brasil, Ltda. 100 Brazil OLA Baking categorized into Level 1, 2 or 3 based on the degree to which the inputs to the fair value measurements are observable and the significance of the inputs to the fair Bimbo, S.A.U. 100 Spain and Europe Baking value measurement in its entirety, which are described as follows: Portugal 1 Canada Bread was acquired on May 23, 2014, date in which the Entity took control • Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that the entity can access at the measurement date; over it. • Level 2 inputs are inputs, other than quoted prices included within Level 1, that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly; and • Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs for the asset or liability. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 124  Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date on which control is transferred to the Entity Goodwill is measured as the excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, and are no longer consolidated from the date that control is lost. Gains and losses the amount of any non–controlling interests in the acquiree, and the fair value of subsidiaries acquired during the year are included in the consolidated statements of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any) over the of income and other comprehensive income results from the acquisition date, as net of the acquisition–date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and the applicable. liabilities assumed. If, after reassessment, the net of the acquisition–date amounts of the identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed exceeds the sum of the  Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the consideration transferred, the amount of any non–controlling interests in the acquiree owners of the Entity and to the non–controlling interests. Total comprehensive income and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held interest in the acquiree (if any), the of subsidiaries is attributed to the owners of the Entity and to the non–controlling excess is recognized immediately in profit or loss as a bargain purchase gain. interests even if this results in the non–controlling interests having a deficit balance. Non–controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their  All relevant intragroup assets and liabilities, equity, income, expenses and cash flows holders to a proportionate share of the Entity’s net assets in the event of liquidation relating to transactions between members of the Entity are eliminated on consolidation. may be initially measured either at fair value or at the non–controlling interests’ proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquiree’s identifiable net  Changes in the Entity’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction–by–transaction Entity losing control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. basis. Other types of non–controlling interests are measured at fair value or, when applicable, on the basis specified in another IFRS. d. Business combinations When the consideration transferred by the Entity in a business combination includes  Acquisitions of businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the consideration transferred in a business combination is measured at fair value, which contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition–date fair value and included is calculated as the sum of the acquisition–date fair values of the assets transferred as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination. Changes in by the Entity, liabilities incurred by the Entity to the former owners of the acquiree the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period and the equity interests issued by the Entity in exchange for control of the acquiree. adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against Acquisition–related costs are generally recognized in profit or loss as incurred. goodwill. Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the ‘measurement period’ (which cannot  At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets acquired and the liabilities assumed are exceed one year from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances that recognized at their fair value, except that: existed at the acquisition date. – Deferred tax assets or liabilities, and assets or liabilities related to employee benefit The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent arrangements are recognized and measured in accordance with IAS 12 Income consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends Taxes and IAS 19 Employee Benefits, respectively; on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its – Liabilities or equity instruments related to share–based payment arrangements subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration that of the acquiree or share–based payment arrangements of the Entity entered into is classified as an asset or a liability is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates in to replace share–based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured accordance with IAS 39, or IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent in accordance with IFRS 2 Share based payments at the acquisition date (as of Assets, as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognized in profit December 31, 2015 and 2014 the Entity does not have share–based payments); and or loss. – Assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Entity’s previously held with IFRS 5 Non–current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are equity interest in the acquire is remeasured to its acquisition–date fair value and measured in accordance with that Standard. the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognized in profit or loss. Amounts arising Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 125 from interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been g. Leasing recognized in other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss where such treatment would be appropriate if that interest were disposed of. Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by the end of the classified as operating leases. reporting period in which the combination occurs, the Entity reports provisional amounts for the items for which the accounting is incomplete. Those provisional – The Entity as lessee amounts are adjusted during the measurement period (see above), or additional Assets held under finance leases are initially recognized as assets of the Entity at assets or liabilities are recognized, to reflect new information obtained about facts and their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the circumstances that existed at the acquisition date that, if known, would have affected minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the the amounts recognized at that date. consolidated statement of financial position as a finance lease obligation. e. Assets available for sale Lease payments are apportioned between finance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining Non–current assets and disposal groups are classified as held for sale if their carrying balance of the liability. Finance expenses are recognized immediately in profit or amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through loss, unless they are directly attributable to qualifying assets, in which case they are continuing use. This condition is regarded as met only when the asset (or disposal capitalized. Contingent rentals are recognized as expenses in the periods in which group) is available for immediate sale in its present condition subject only to terms they are incurred. that are usual and customary for sales of such asset (or disposal group) and its sale is highly probable. Management must be committed to the sale, which should be Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense on a straight–line basis expected to qualify for recognition as a completed sale within one year from the date over the lease term. of classification. h. Foreign currency transactions The long–lived asset (and asset disposal groups) classified as held for sale are valued at the lower of their carrying amount and fair value of assets less costs to sell. In preparing the financial statements of each individual group entity, transactions in currencies other than the entity’s functional currency (foreign currencies) are f. Recognition of the effects of inflation recognized at the rates of exchange prevailing at the dates of the transactions. At the end of each reporting period, monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are Inflationary effects are recognized in the financial statements when the economy retranslated at the rates prevailing at that date. Non–monetary items carried at fair of the currency in which the Entity’s transactions are recorded is considered value that are denominated in foreign currencies are retranslated at the rates prevailing hyperinflationary, defined generally as economies in which inflation in the at the date when the fair value was determined. Non–monetary items that are measured preceding three fiscal years equals or exceeds 100%. The Mexican economy ceased in terms of historical cost in a foreign currency are not retranslated. to be hyperinflationary in 1999. Therefore, inflation effects for the Entity’s Mexican operations were recognized through that date, except for certain office equipment, Exchange differences on monetary items are recognized in profit or loss in the period machinery and equipment, for which inflation was recognized through 2007, as in which they arise except for: permitted by Mexican Financial Reporting Standards (“MFRS”), and retained as deemed cost as permitted by the transition rules of IFRS. Inflation continues to –  Exchange differences on foreign currency borrowings relating to assets under be recognized for operations in those countries operating in hyperinflationary construction for future productive use, which are included in the cost of those assets economic environment. In 2015 and 2014, the operation in Venezuela qualified as when they are regarded as an adjustment to interest costs on those foreign currency hyperinflationary in relation to the inflation of the three preceding years and for borrowings. which the effects of inflation were recognized. These effects are not material to the – Exchange differences on transactions entered into in order to hedge certain foreign financial position, performance or cash flows of the entity. currency risks (see Note 14). Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 126 – Exchange differences on monetary items receivable from or payable to a foreign j. Financial assets operation for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur (therefore forming part of the net investment in the foreign operation), which are recognized Financial assets are recognized when the Entity becomes part of the contractual initially in other comprehensive income and reclassified from equity to profit or loss arrangements of the instruments. on repayment of the monetary items. 1. Loans and receivables For the purposes of presenting these consolidated financial statements, the assets and Loans and receivables are non–derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable liabilities of the Entity’s foreign operations are translated into Mexican pesos using payments that are not quoted in an active market. Loans and receivables are measured exchange rates prevailing at the end of each reporting period. Income and expense at amortized cost using the effective interest method, less any impairment. items are translated at the average exchange rates for the period, unless exchange rates fluctuate significantly during that period, in which case the exchange rates at the Interest income is recognized by applying the effective interest rate, except for dates of the transactions are used. Exchange differences arising, if any, are recognized short–term receivables when the effect of discounting is immaterial. in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity (and attributed to non– controlling interests as appropriate). 2. Impairment of financial assets  Financial assets, other than those at FVTPL, are assessed for indicators of On the disposal of a foreign operation (i.e. a disposal of the Entity’s entire interest in a impairment at the end of each reporting period. foreign operation, or a disposal involving loss of control over a subsidiary that includes a foreign operation, or a partial disposal of an interest in a joint arrangement or an For certain categories of financial assets, such as trade receivables, assets are associate that includes a foreign operation of which the retained interest becomes a assessed for impairment on a collective basis even if they were assessed not to be financial asset), all of the exchange differences accumulated in equity in respect of impaired individually. Objective evidence of impairment for a portfolio of receivables that operation attributable to the owners of the Entity are reclassified to profit or loss. could include the Entity’s past experience of collecting payments, an increase in the number of delayed payments in the portfolio past the average credit period, as well Goodwill and fair value adjustments to identifiable assets acquired and liabilities as observable changes in national or local economic conditions that correlate with assumed through acquisition of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities default on receivables. of the foreign operation and translated at the rate of exchange prevailing at the end of each reporting period. Exchange differences arising are recognized in other Regarding trade receivables, the carrying amount is reduced through the use of an comprehensive income. allowance account. When a trade receivable is considered uncollectible, it is written off against the allowance account. Subsequent recoveries of amounts previously i. Cash and cash equivalents written off are credited against the allowance account. Changes in the carrying amount of the allowance account are recognized in profit or loss. Consist mainly of bank deposits in checking accounts and investments in short–term securities, highly liquid, readily convertible into cash, maturing within three months k. Inventories and cost of sales from the date of purchase and are subject to insignificant risk of changes in value. Cash is stated at nominal value and cash equivalents are measured at fair value, fluctuations Inventories are stated at the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is comprised in value are recognized in income (see financial assets below). Cash equivalents consist of acquisition cost, import duties, transport, handling, loading, and storage cost primarily of investments in government debt instruments with daily maturities. at the customs and distribution centers; returns on purchases are deducted from cost. Net realizable value represents the estimated selling price for inventories in the normal course of operations less all estimated costs of completion and costs necessary to make the sale. Cost is determined by using the average cost method. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 127 l. Property, plant and equipment The carrying value of an asset is reduced to its recoverable value, when the carrying amount exceeds its recoverable value. Property, plant and equipment are carried at acquisition cost, net of accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. Balances from certain acquisitions An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognized when sold or when no future made through December 31, 2007 were restated for the effects of inflation by applying economic benefits arising from the continued use of the asset are expected. The gain factors derived from the National Consumer Price Index (“NCPI”) through that date, or loss arising from the sale of assets results from the difference between the sales which became the deemed cost of such assets as of January 1, 2011 upon adoption proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and is recognized in profit or loss in of IFRS. ‘other expenses, net’, in general expenses. Cost include those costs directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location Leasehold improvement and adaptations to buildings and premises in which the Entity and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by is the lessee are recognized at historic cost less the respective depreciation. management. m. Investments in associates Cost for expansion, remodeling or improvements that enhance the capacity and extend the useful life of the asset are also capitalized. The carrying amount of the replaced An associate is an entity over which the Entity has significant influence. Significant asset, if any, is derecognized when replaced, and the effect is recognized in profit and influence is the ability to participate in the financial and operating policy decisions of loss. Repairs and maintenance costs are recognized in profit and loss of the period they the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies. are incurred.  The results and assets and liabilities of associates are incorporated in these Freehold land is not depreciated. Depreciation of other property, plant and equipment consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting, except is determined using the straight–line method to distribute the cost of the asset down when the investment, or a portion thereof, is classified as held for sale, in which case to its residual value during the estimated useful lives are as follows: it is accounted for in accordance with IFRS 5 Non– current assets held for sale and discontinued. Under the equity method, an investment in an associate is initially recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position at cost and adjusted Years thereafter to recognize the Entity’s share of the profit or loss and other comprehensive income of the associate. When the Entity’s share of losses of an associate exceeds Infrastructure 15 the Entity’s interest in that associate (which includes any long–term interests that, Building foundations 45 in substance, form part of the Entity’s net investment in the associate), the Entity Roofs 20 discontinues recognizing its share of further losses. Additional losses are recognized Fixed facilities and accessories 10 only to the extent that the Entity has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made Manufacturing equipment 10 payments on behalf of the associate. Vehicles 13 Office furniture and fixtures 10 An investment in an associate is accounted for using the equity method from the date Computer equipment 3 on which the investee becomes an associate. On acquisition of the investment in an Leasehold improvements Term of the related lease associate, any excess of the cost of the investment over the Entity’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities of the investee is recognized as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment. Any excess of the The Entity allocates the amount initially recognized in respect of an item of buildings Entity’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets and liabilities over the cost and manufacturing equipment to its various significant parts (components) and of the investment, after reassessment, is recognized immediately in profit or loss in the depreciates each of such components separately. period in which the investment is acquired. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 128 The entity discontinues the use of the equity method from the date the investment asset, the Entity estimates the recoverable amount of the cash–generating unit to ceases to be an associate or when the investment is classified as held for sale. which the asset belongs. When a reasonable and consistent basis of allocation can be identified, corporate assets are also allocated to individual cash–generating units, or When the Entity reduces its ownership interest in an associate but the Entity continues otherwise they are allocated to the smallest group of cash–generating units for which to use the equity method, the Entity reclassifies to profit or loss the proportion of a reasonable and consistent allocation basis can be identified. the gain or loss that had previously been recognized in other comprehensive income relating to that reduction in ownership interest if that gain or loss would be reclassified Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives or not yet available for use, are subjected to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities. to tests for effects of impairment at least every year, or more often if there is evidence that such assets could have been impaired. When a group entity transacts with an associate of the Entity, profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the associate are recognized in the Entity’s Recoverable amount is the higher of fair value less costs to sell and value in use. In consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the associate that assessing value in use, the estimated future cash flows are discounted to their present are not related to the Entity. value using a pre–tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money and the risks specific to the asset for which the estimates of future n. Intangible assets cash flows have not been adjusted. Intangible assets are primarily comprised of trademarks and customer relationships If the recoverable amount of an asset (or cash–generating unit) is estimated to be less resulting from the acquisition of businesses in the USA, Canada, Iberia, Compañía than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset (or cash–generating unit) de Alimentos Fargo, S.A. (“Fargo”) and certain trademarks in South America. is reduced to its recoverable amount. An impairment loss is recognized immediately in Intangible assets are recognized at cost. Intangible assets acquired through an profit or loss. acquisition are recognized at fair value as of the acquisition date, separately from goodwill. Subsequent to initial recognition, intangible assets are carried at cost less When an impairment loss subsequently reverses, the carrying amount of the asset (or accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. Internally–generated a cash–generating unit) is increased to the revised estimate of its recoverable amount, intangible assets, except for development costs, are not capitalized and are recognized but so that the increased carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that as expenses in profit and loss in the period in which they are incurred. would have been determined had no impairment loss been recognized for the asset (or cash generating unit) in prior years. A reversal of an impairment loss is recognized Intangible assets are classified as having either finite or indefinite useful lives. immediately in profit or loss. Amortization of intangible assets with finite useful lives is recognized on a straight– line method over their estimated useful lives. Such assets are reviewed for impairment p. Goodwill when there is an indicator of impairment. The amortization methods and useful lives of the assets are reviewed and adjusted, if necessary, annually, at the end of Goodwill arising on acquisition of a business is carried at cost, which is determined as each reporting period. Amortization is recognized in profit and loss, within selling, explained in the business acquisitions policy note above, less accumulated impairment distribution and administrative expenses. Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives losses, if any (see Note 12). are not amortized, but are at least tested annually for impairment. For purposes of impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to each cash–generating unit o. Impairment of tangible and intangible assets, other than goodwill (or group of cash generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the business combination. At the end of each reporting period, the Entity reviews the carrying amounts of its tangible and intangible assets to determine whether there is any indication that those  A cash–generating unit to which goodwill has been allocated is tested for assets have suffered an impairment loss. If any such indication exists, the recoverable impairment annually, or more frequently when there is an indication that the amount of the asset is estimated in order to determine the extent of the impairment unit may be impaired. If the recoverable amount of the cash–generating unit is loss (if any). When it is not possible to estimate the recoverable amount of an individual less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 129 the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other accumulated under “Valuation effects of cash flow hedges”. The gain or loss relating to assets of the unit pro rata based on the carrying amount of each asset in the the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in profit or loss. Amounts previously unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognized directly in profit or loss. An recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. to profit or loss in the periods when the hedged item affects profit or loss, in the same line as the recognized hedged item. On disposal of the relevant cash–generating unit, the attributable amount of goodwill is included in the determination of the profit or loss on disposal. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the Entity revokes the hedging relationship, when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or when The Entity’s policy for goodwill arising on the acquisition of an associate is described it no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. Any gain or loss recognized in other at note 3m. comprehensive income and accumulated in equity at that time remains in equity and is recognized when the forecast transaction is ultimately recognized in profit or q. Financial liabilities loss. When a forecasted transaction is no longer expected to occur, the gain or loss accumulated in equity is recognized immediately in profit or loss. Financial liabilities are initially recognized at fair value. Transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance of financial liabilities (except for those financial Hedges of net investment in foreign operations liabilities classified as at fair value with changes through profit and loss) are deducted Hedges of net investments in foreign operations are accounted for similarly to cash flow from the fair value of the financial liability. Subsequent measurement depends on the hedges. Any gain or loss on the hedging instrument relating to the effective portion of category in which the financial liability is classified. the hedge is recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated under the heading of “Translation effects of foreign subsidiaries”. The gain or loss relating to Financial liabilities are classified as either financial liabilities ‘at FVTPL’ or ‘other the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in profit or loss, and is included in financial liabilities’. Note 14 describes the category of each financial liability of the “Exchange loss (gain), net” line item. Gains and losses on the hedging instrument the Entity. relating to the effective portion of the hedge accumulated other comprehensive income are reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the foreign operation. r. Derivative financial instruments and hedging activities s. Provisions Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value at the date the derivative contracts are entered into and are subsequently remeasured to their fair value at the end of each Provisions are recognized when the Entity has a present obligation (legal or reporting period. Presentation of the related gain or loss from changes in fair value constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the Entity will be of the derivative financial instrument depends on whether they are designated as required to settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the hedging instruments, and if so, the nature of the hedging relationship. The Entity only amount of the obligation. holds derivative financial instruments classified as cash flow hedges and hedges of net investment in foreign operations. The amount recognized as a provision is the best estimate of the needed disbursement to settle the present obligation, keeping in mind risks and uncertainties that surround The Entity documents all hedging relationships at the beginning of the transaction, the obligation. When a provision is valued using estimated cash flows to settle the including their objectives and risk management strategies for undertaking derivative present obligation, its carrying value represents the present value of such cash flows transactions. Periodically, the Entity documents whether the derivative financial (when the effect of money´s value in time is material). instrument is highly effective in offsetting changes in fair values or cash flows of the hedged item attributable to the hedged risk. Contingent liabilities acquired in a business combination are initially measured at fair value at the acquisition date. At the end of subsequent reporting periods, Cash flow hedges such contingent liabilities are measured at the higher of the amount that would The effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives that are designated be recognized in accordance with IAS 37 and the amount initially recognized less and qualify as cash flow hedges is recognized in other comprehensive income and cumulative amortization recognized in accordance with IAS 18 Revenue. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 130 t. Income taxes  Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured at the tax rates that are expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or the asset realized, based on tax Income tax expense comprises current tax and deferred tax. rates (and tax laws) that have been enacted or substantively enacted by the end of the reporting period. 1. Current income taxes  Current income taxes are calculated in accordance with rates that have been enacted  Assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset when a legal right to offset assets or substantively enacted as of the end of the reporting period for the countries in with liabilities exists and when they relate to income taxes relating to the same which the Entity operates and taxable profit is determined, and the related income tax authorities and the Entity intends to liquidate its assets and liabilities on a tax expense is recorded in the results of the year in which it is incurred. In Mexico, net basis. the income tax determined related to the Impuesto sobre la renta (“ISR”). 3. Current and deferred tax for the year 2. Deferred income taxes  Current and deferred tax are recognized in profit or loss, except when they relate  Deferred tax liabilities and assets are measured according to the tax rates and tax to items that are recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity, in laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted as of the date of the report which case, the current and deferred tax are also recognized in other comprehensive and that are expected to be applicable when the temporary differences reverse. income or directly in equity respectively. Where current tax or deferred tax arises from the initial accounting for a business combination, the tax effect is included in  The deferred income tax is recognized on temporary differences between the the accounting for the business combination. financial statement carrying amounts and the corresponding tax bases of assets and liabilities used for determining taxable income by applying the rate corresponding u.  Employee benefits from termination, retirement and statutory employee profit to these differences, including benefits from tax loss carryforwards and certain sharing (“PTU”) tax credits, if applicable. The liability for deferred income taxes are generally recognized for all temporary tax differences. An asset is recognized deferred tax for i. Pensions and seniority premiums all deductible temporary differences to the extent that it is probable that the Entity Defined contribution plans are post–employment benefit plans under which an will have future taxable income against which to apply those deductible temporary entity pays fixed contributions into a separate entity or a fund and will have no differences. legal or constructive obligation to pay further contributions. The obligation is recognized as an expense when employees have rendered service entitling them to  Deferred income tax is not recognized on the following temporary differences: the contributions. i) amounts that arise from the initial recognition of assets or liabilities resulting from transactions other than in a business combination, that affects neither For defined benefit retirement benefit plans, the cost of providing benefits is the accounting profit nor the taxable profit; ii) those related to investments in determined using the projected unit credit method, with actuarial valuations subsidiaries and associates, to the extent that it is not likely they will reverse in the being carried out at the end of each annual reporting period. Remeasurement, foreseeable future and the reversal in within the control of the Entity, and, iii) those comprising actuarial gains and losses, the effect of the changes to the asset that result from the initial recognition of goodwill. The deferred income tax asset ceiling (if applicable) and the return on plan assets (excluding interest), is reflected is recognized only to the extent that it is likely there will be future taxable profits immediately in the statement of financial position with a charge or credit recognized against which it can be used. in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Remeasurement recognized in other comprehensive income is reflected immediately in retained  The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting earnings and will not be reclassified to profit or loss. Past service cost is recognized period and reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable in profit or loss in the period of a plan amendment. Net interest is calculated by profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be recovered. applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 131 The amount recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position as a When sufficient information is not available to use defined benefit accounting for liability or asset for defined benefit plan represents the present value of the net a MEPP, the Entity accounts for such plan as a defined contribution plan. defined benefit obligation (defined benefit obligation minus the fair value of plan assets). The present value of the net defined benefit obligation is determined based Liabilities related to the wind–up or the Entity’s withdrawal from a multi–employer on the discounted value of estimated net cash flows, using interest rates tied to plan is recognized and measured in conformity with IAS 37, Provisions, Contingent government bonds denominated in the same currency in which the benefits are to Liabilities and Contingent Assets. be paid and whose terms are similar to those of the obligation. v. Revenue recognition The Entity provides a bonus in cash to certain executives, which is calculated using performance metrics. The bonus is paid 30 months after being granted. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, taking into account the estimated customer returns, rebates and other allowances. ii. Statutory employee profit sharing In Mexico, Venezuela and Brazil, there is an obligation to recognize a provision for – Sale of products the statutory employee profit sharing when the Entity has a legal or constructive Revenue from the sale of products is recognized when the goods are delivered, at obligation, as a result of past events and the amount can be reliably estimated. PTU which time all the following conditions are satisfied: is recorded in profit or loss of the year in which it is incurred. • The Entity has transferred to the buyer the significant risks and rewards of Short–term employee benefits ownership of the goods. A liability is recognized for benefits accruing to employees in respect of wages and • The Entity retains neither continuing managerial involvement to the degree salaries, annual leave and sick leave in the period the related service is rendered usually associated with ownership nor effective control over the goods sold. at the undiscounted amount of the benefits expected to be paid in exchange for • The amount of revenue can be measured reliably. that service. • It is probable that the economic benefits associated with the transaction will flow to the Entity. Liabilities recognized in respect of short–term employee benefits are measured at • The costs incurred or to be incurred in respect of the transaction can be the undiscounted amount of the benefits expected to be paid in exchange for the measured reliably. related service. – ­Interest income iii. Termination benefits Interest income from a financial asset is recognized when it is probable that The Entity recognizes a liability for termination benefits only when the Entity the economic benefits will flow to the Entity and the amount of income can be is without realistic possibility of withdrawal from an offer to provide termination measured reliably. Interest income is accrued on a time basis, by reference to the benefit to employees, or before, if it complies with the criteria for recognition of a principal outstanding and at the effective interest rate applicable, which is the rate liability related to a restructuring. that exactly discounts estimated future cash receipts through the expected life of the financial asset to that asset’s net carrying amount on initial recognition. iv. Multi–employer pension plans ( MEPP ) The Entity classifies the multi–employer plans as defined contribution plans w. Reclassifications or defined benefit plans in order to determine the accounting for such plans. If the MEPP is classified as a defined benefit plan, the Entity accounts for its Certain amounts within the consolidated financial statements at and for the year proportionate share of the defined benefit obligation, plan assets and costs ended December 31, 2014 have been reclassified for certain accounts to agree with associated with the plan in the same manner as for any other defined benefit plan. the presentation used in 2015. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 132 4. Critical accounting judgments and key sources of estimation uncertainty 3. Goodwill impairment  Determining whether goodwill is impaired involves calculating the greater of In the application of the Entity’s accounting policies, which are described in Note 3, its value in use and fair value of the cash generating unit to which goodwill has management is required to make judgments, estimates and assumptions about the been allocated. The calculation of value in use requires the Entity to determine the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities that are not readily apparent from other expected future cash flows from the cash generating units, using an appropriate sources. The estimates and associated assumptions are based on historical experience discount rate to calculate the present value. Fair value is determined based on and other factors that are considered to be relevant. Actual results may differ from multiples of earnings before interest, depreciation and amortization and other non– these estimates. cash items (“EBITDA”). For the determination of an appropriate multiple, the Entity identifies comparable entities. The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates are recognized in the period in which the estimate is revised if 4. Fair value measurements the revision affects only that period or in the period of the revision and future periods Derivative financial instruments are recognized at fair value as of the date of the if the revision affects both current and future periods. consolidated statement of financial position. Additionally, the fair value of certain financial instruments, mainly with respect to long–term debt, is disclosed in the a) Critical judgment in applying accounting policies accompanying notes, although there is no risk of adjustment to the related carrying amount. A detailed description of the methodologies to determine fair values of Consolidation of structured entities derivative instruments as well as to determine fair value disclosures for long–term debt is included in Note 14. Finally, the Entity has acquired business that require As described in more detail in Note 8, BBU and Sara Lee have entered into agreements fair value to be determined, at the date of acquisition, for consideration paid, with third party contractors ( Independent Operators ), in which they hold no direct or identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed and non–controlling interest, indirect interest but that qualify as structured entities (“SE”). The Entity has concluded as noted in Note 1. that they have control with respect to certain independent operators, primarily with respect to rights or obligations to secure or grant financing, as well as the maintenance The fair values described above are estimated using valuation techniques that may obligation related to distribution routes. In other cases, the Entity has concluded it include inputs that are not based on observable market data. The main assumptions, does not exercise control over such independent operators. used by management are described in the respective notes. Management considers the valuation techniques and selected assumptions appropriate. b) Key sources of estimation uncertainty 5. Employee benefits 1. Useful lives, residual values and depreciation and amortization methods of long– Cost of defined benefit plans and MEPP provided to employees is determined using lived assets actuarial valuations that involve assumptions related to discount rates, future  As described in Note 3, the Entity periodically reviews the estimated useful salary increases, employee turnover rates and mortality rates, among others. Due lives, residual values and depreciation and amortization methods of long–lived to the long–term nature of these plans, such estimates are sensitive to changes in assets, including property, plant and equipment and intangibles. Additionally, assumptions. for intangibles, the Entity determines whether their useful lives are finite or infinite. During the periods presented in the accompanying consolidated financial 6. Determination of income taxes statements, there were no modifications to such estimates. To determine whether a deferred income tax asset related to tax losses carryforwards is impaired, the Entity prepares tax projections to determine its recoverability. 2. Allowance for doubtful accounts  The Entity considers the credit risk of the customer, unguaranteed accounts 7. Employee benefits, insurance and other liabilities and significant delays in collection according to the established credit limits in Insurance risks exists in the USA which respect to the liability for general damages determining the allowance for doubtful accounts. to other parties, car insurance and employee benefits that are self–insured by the Entity with coverage subjected to specific limits agreed in an insurance program. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 133 Provisions for claims are recorded on a claim–incurred basis. Insurable risk liabilities 7. Inventories are determined using historical data of the Entity. The net liabilities at December 31, 2015 and 2014 amounted to $3,288 and $3,204, respectively. 2015 2014 Finished products $ 2,159 $ 1,891 5. Transactions that did not result in cash flows Orders in–process 79 100 Raw materials, containers and wrapping 3,019 2,644  In 2014, the Entity acquired $315 of equipment under financial leases, which Other 317 282 represents a non–cash financing activity and investment that is not reflected in the Allowance for slow–moving inventories (235) (84) consolidated statements of cash flows. In 2015, there were no transactions that did 5,339 4,833 not result in cash flows. Raw materials in–transit 170 145 6. Accounts and notes receivable $ 5,509 $ 4,978 2015 2014 8. Structured entities Trade receivables $ 13,882 $ 13,596 Allowance for doubtful accounts (515) (498) The Entity, through BBU mainly Sara Lee, enters into distribution agreements with 13,367 13,098 independent operators that own distribution rights to sell and distribute the Entity’s products via direct–store–delivery to retail outlets in defined sales territories. The Notes receivable 170 151 Entity does not hold equity interest in any of the independent operator entities. Notes receivable from independent operators 468 468 Independent operators generally finance the purchase of distribution rights through Income, value –added and other recoverable taxes 4,206 4,782 note agreements with the Entity or a financial institution. Note agreements with Other receivables 836 529 a financial institution are, in the aggregate, partially guaranteed by the Entity. To maintain working routes and ensure the delivery of products to customers, the Entity, $ 19,047 $ 19,028 through BBU, assumes explicit and implicit commitments. The Entity has concluded that all the independent operators established as legal entities qualify as structured The average credit terms on sales of goods in Mexico are 30 days, in the USA is 60 entities (“SE”), which in substance are controlled by such subsidiaries, principally days, Canada is 21 days and OLA, which includes the countries of Central and South through their guarantee of or providing actual financing, as well as the obligation that America, is 30 days. Amounts past due but not impaired are not significant as of the such subsidiaries have assumed to keep the routes operating. Based on this conclusion, dates of the consolidated statement of financial position. Amounts due over 90 days SE’s are consolidated by the Entity. are 50% reserved and amount due over 180 days are 100% reserved. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 134 As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the assets and liabilities of independent operators Financing provided by BBU to independent operators that have been classified as included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements are as follows: SE’s and consolidated, are eliminated in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 2015 2014 Lease obligations presented within long–term debt on the consolidated statements of Property – vehicles $ 2,415 $ 1,687 financial position are secured by the vehicles subject to leases and do not represent Intangible distribution rights 5,097 3,767 additional claims on the Entity’s general assets. The Entity’s maximum exposure for loss associated with independent operators entities is limited to $81 of long–term Total assets $ 7,512 $ 5,454 debt of the independent operators as of December 31, 2015. Current maturities of long–term debt: In addition, the Entity has sold certain equipment and distribution rights in the US Obligations under finance leases $ 481 $ 367 to the Entity's former employees and individuals, also considered as independent Independent operator loans 38 32 operators, but have not been classified as consolidated SE’s. Such amount equals in Long–term debt: 2015 and 2014 $1,418 and $1,577, respectively, which are presented in the statement Obligations under finance leases 1,462 965 of financial position as receivables from independent operators. Independent operator loans 43 65 Due to affiliates (net of receivables) 3,905 2,781 BBU funds 90% of the distribution rights sold to certain independent operators at Total liabilities $ 5,929 $ 4,210 rates between 5% and 11%, with 120 months installments. Independent operators make an initial payment to the Entity for the remaining 10% of the purchase price. In Noncontrolling interest $ 1,583 $ 1,244 most cases, an independent third party lender finances the down payment. Both the  Entity and the financing of independent third parties are insured by the distribution rights, equipment, customer lists, and other assets. The independent third party lender has priority over the collateral. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 135 9. Property, plant and equipment Reconciliation of beginning and ending carrying values in 2015 and 2014 is as follows: Balances as of Additions Balance as of January 1, from business Translation Revaluation December 31, 2015 Additions acquisitions(1) Transfers effect Retirements Impairment for inflation 2015 Investment: Building $ 16,971 $ $ 214 $ 1,350 $ 821 $ (326) $ – $ 127 $ 19,157 Industrial machinery and equipment 47,703 – 754 6,062 2,509 (1,784) – 218 55,462 Vehicles 12,582 577 13 783 489 (628) – 52 13,868 Office furniture 662 – 16 35 29 (29) – – 713 Computer equipment 3,267 – 7 409 256 (220) – – 3,719 Total investments 81,185 577 1,004 8,639 4,104 (2,987) – 397 92,919 Depreciation: Building (7,080) (901) – (1) (445) 224 (43) (18) (8,264) Industrial machinery and equipment (24,155) (3,992) – (343) (1,247) 1,361 (335) (89) (28,800) Vehicles (5,691) (1,011) – 65 (168) 542 (1) (31) (6,295) Office furniture (376) (76) – 87 (18) 25 (27) – (385) Computer equipment (2,441) (458) – – (221) 213 (2) – (2,909) Total accumulated depreciation (39,743) (6,438) – (192) (2,099) 2,365 (408) (138) (46,653) 41,442 (5,861) 1,004 8,447 2,005 (622) (408) 259 46,266 Land 6,093 – 272 251 263 (236) (10) 40 6,673 Projects–in–progress and machinery in transit 5,128 9,027 143 (8,698) 47 – – – 5,647 Reclassified as assets available for sale (188) (294) – – (31) – – – (513) Net investment $ 52,475 $ 2,872 $ 1,419 $ – $ 2,284 $ (858) $ (418) $ 299 $ 58,073 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 136 Balances as of Additions Balance as of January 1, from business Translation Revaluation December 31, 2014 Additions acquisitions Transfers effect Retirements for inflation 2014 Investment: Building $ 14,273 $ $ 1,673 $ 704 $ 406 $ (418) $ 333 $ 16,971 Industrial machinery and equipment 39,772 – 3,589 3,543 1,286 (1,225) 738 47,703 Vehicles 11,291 – 60 1,423 136 (416) 88 12,582 Office furniture 544 – 92 269 17 (260) – 662 Computer equipment 3,159 – 25 388 156 (472) 11 3,267 Total investments 69,039 – 5,439 6,327 2,001 (2,791) 1,170 81,185 Depreciation: Building (6,519) (522) (16) – (202) 240 (61) (7,080) Industrial machinery and equipment (21,073) (3,495) (46) – (621) 1,158 (78) (24,155) Vehicles (5,198) (864) (14) – (18) 416 (13) (5,691) Office furniture (456) (41) (5) – (13) 139 – (376) Computer equipment (2,344) (486) (9) – (74) 472 – (2,441) Total accumulated depreciation (35,590) (5,408) (90) – (928) 2,425 (152) (39,743) 33,449 (5,408) 5,349 6,327 1,073 (366) 1,018 41,442 Land 5,280 111 586 – 141 (45) 20 6,093 Projects–in–progress and machinery in transit 4,008 7,033 505 (6,327) (87) (4) – 5,128 Reclassified as assets available for sale (54) (127) – – (7) – – (188) Net investment $ 42,683 $ 1,609 $ 6,440 $ – $ 1,120 $ (415) $ 1,038 $ 52,475 (1) This column includes: i) acquisition of Vachon in 2015, ii) adjustment to purchase price of Canada Bread and Supan recorded in 2015 and, iii) acquisition of assets through Canada Bread. Impairment losses recognized in the year In 2015, the Entity performed a review of unused buildings and industrial machinery and equipment, resulting in an impairment of $418, recorded in profit and loss of the year, within other expenses. Impairment per segment was Mexico $166, North America $33, OLA $175 and Europe $44. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 137 10. Investment in shares of associated companies 11. Intangible assets The investments in associated companies are as follows: Following is an analysis of the balance of intangible assets by segment as of December 31 are: Associated companies % of ownership 2015 2014 2015 2014 Beta San Miguel, S. A. de C. V. 8 $ 570 $ 528 Mundo Dulce, S. A. de C. V. 50 349 271 Mexico $ 1,613 $ 1,654 Fábrica de Galletas North America 36,766 32,488 La Moderna, S. A. de C. V. 50 232 247 Europe 1,871 1,743 Blue Label de México, S. A. de C. V. 46 274 376 OLA 2,285 2,075 Grupo La Moderna, S. A. de C. V. 3 207 156 Congelación y Almacenaje $ 42,535 $ 37,960 del Centro, S. A. de C.V. 15 137 126 Productos Rich, S. A. de C. V. 18 133 118 Fin Común, S. A. de C. V. 36 90 96 As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the detail of intangible assets is as follows: Ovoplus, S. A. de C. V. 25 – 47 Solex Alimentos, S. A. de C. V. 49 25 – Average useful life 2015 2014 B37 Venture, LLC 24 22 – Others Various 67 66 Trademarks Indefinite $ 29,799 $ 27,116 Use and distribution rights Indefinite 5,508 4,061 $ 2,106 $ 2,031 35,307 31,177 All associated companies are incorporated and operate mainly in Mexico and are Trademarks 4 and 9 years 263 35 recognized using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements. Customer relationships 18, 21 and 22 years 9,828 8,650 Equity investments in Beta San Miguel, S.A. de C.V., Grupo La Moderna, S.A. de C.V., Licenses and software 8 and 2 years 1,108 471 Congelación y Almacenaje del Centro, S.A. de C.V. and Rich Products, S.A. de C.V., Non–compete agreements 5 years 111 104 are considered to be associated entities over which the Entity exercises significant Others 38 38 influence, based on its representation in the Board of Directors. In December 2015 the 11,348 9,298 Entity sold its participation in Ovoplus, S.A. de C.V., at which time the Entity ceased to recognize the equity method. Accumulated amortization (4,120) (2,515) In 2015, the Entity recorded an impairment of $50, related to goodwill recorded in the $ 42,535 $ 37,960 investment of associate Blue Label, S.A. de C.V. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 138 The carrying amount of trademarks with indefinite life as of December 31, 2015 and 2015 2014 2014 was $29,072 and $26,910, respectively. The Entity owns intangible assets related to customer relationships, resulting from the acquisition of Weston Foods, Inc. in North America: 2009, Sara Lee Bakery Group, Inc. in 2011 and Canada Bread in 2014. The carrying USA 28,682 25,082 value of the assets related to these acquisitions at December 31, 2015 and remaining Canada 8,084 7,406 useful lives are $3,243, $1,242 and $2,228 and 11, 14 and 20 years, respectively, and at December 31, 2014, $3,029, $1,141 and $2,350, and 12, 15 and 21 years, respectively. Iberia: Spain 1,038 991 The intangible assets by geographical segment correspond to the following: United Kingdom 833 752 2015 2014 OLA: Argentina 975 1,058 Mexico: Brazil 432 540 Barcel $ 930 $ 930 Ecuador 459 – El Globo 357 357 Others 419 477 Bimbo 299 299 Others 27 68 $ 42,535 $ 37,960 (Continue) Cost Use and Licenses distribution Clients and Non–compete Trademarks rights relationships software agreements Others Total Balances at beginning of 2014 $ 20,139 $ 2,514 $ 5,664 $ 336 $ 92 $ 34 $ 28,779 Additions – 6 – – – – 6 Structured entities – 1,226 – – – – 1,226 Acquisitions through business combinations 5,473 – 2,186 87 – – 7,746 Effect of exchange rate differences on foreign currency 1,539 315 800 48 12 4 2,718 Balances as of December 31, 2014 27,151 4,061 8,650 471 104 38 40,475 Additions – – – 360 – – 360 Structured entities – 700 – – – – 700 Acquisitions through business combinations 559 – 219 206 – – 984 Effect of exchange rate differences on foreign currency 2,352 747 959 71 7 – 4,136 Balances as of December 31, 2015 $ 30,062 $ 5,508 $ 9,828 $ 1,108 $ 111 $ 38 $ 46,655 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 139 Accumulated amortization and impairment Use and Licenses distribution Clients and Non–compete Trademarks rights relationships software agreements Others Total Balances at beginning of 2014 $ (118) $ (194) $ (1,267) $ (177) $ (20) $ (26) $ (1,802) Structured entities – 183 – – – – 183 Amortization expenses (4) – (362) (42) (15) – (423) Impairment (69) (97) – – – – (166) Effect of exchange rate differences on foreign currency (19) (38) (222) (28) – – (307) Balances as of December 31, 2014 (210) (146) (1,851) (247) (35) (26) (2,515) Structured entities – 8 – – – – 8 Amortization expenses (17) – (503) (76) (16) – (612) Impairment (356) (74) – – – – (430) Effect of exchange rate differences on foreign currency (165) (35) (315) (51) (5) – (571) Balances as of December 31, 2015 $ (748) $ (247) $ (2,669) $ (374) $ (56) $ (26) $ (4,120) Net balances as of December 31, 2014 $ 26,941 $ 3,915 $ 6,799 $ 224 $ 69 $ 12 $ 37,960 Net balances as of December 31, 2015 $ 29,314 $ 5,261 $ 7,159 $ 734 $ 55 $ 12 $ 42,535 In 2015, the Entity recognized an impairment loss in the value of the trademarks Iron LKids and Beef Steak, in the North America segment for $168, and the trademarks Jinhongwei and Million Land in the Mexico segment for $120 and Fargo, Pasa Bimbo Bere in the OLA segment for $68. In the aforementioned cases, the loss resulted from a decrease in sales of these brands. In 2014, the Entity recognized an impairment loss in the value of the trademarks Earth Grains, Iron Kids and Various Interstate brands, assigned to the USA segment, for $37. In the Mexico segment recognized an impairment related to the trademarks of el Molino, Beijing Jinhongwei, Rutti–Mania and Veggi–Mania for a total of $32. For the purpose of impairment tests, the fair value of trademarks was estimated using the relief from royalty valuation technique, using a range of royalty rates between 2% and 5%, being 3% the rate used for most trademarks. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 140 12. Goodwill Movement in accumulated impairment losses as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 is as Following is an analysis of the balance of goodwill by geographical segment: follows: 2015 2014 2015 2014 Goodwill: Balance as of January 1 $ 5,157 $ 4,671 Mexico $ 1,268 $ 1,264 Impairment 941 – North America 52,093 46,292 Adjustment due to variations in Europe 254 220 exchange rates 755 486 OLA 2,434 2,638 56,049 50,414 Balance as of December 31 $ 6,853 $ 5,157 Accumulated impairment: Allocation of goodwill to cash generating unit Mexico (500) (383) North America (5,321) (4,532) When analyzing impairment, goodwill is allocated to cash–generating units (“CGU”), OLA (1,032) (242) which are represented mainly by Mexico (Bimbo, Barcel and El Globo), USA, Canada, (6,853) (5,157) Brazil, and others (Iberia and Argentina). $ 49,196 $ 45,257 Balances of goodwill assigned to each cash–generating unit, after impairment losses, are as follows: Movements in goodwill during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 were as follows: 2015 2014 2015 2014 USA $ 35,164 $ 30,059 Brazil – 668 Balance as of January 1 $ 45,257 $ 29,822 Argentina 266 541 Acquisitions 336 11,409 China – 103 Impairment (941) – Other CGUs 13,766 13,886 Adjustments due to variations in exchange rates 4,544 4,026 $ 49,196 $ 45,257 Balance as of December 31 $ 49,196 $ 45,257 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 141 USA By applying the aforementioned methodology, the Entity concluded impairment in the value of goodwill of $107 for China and $534 for Brazil, as both operations did not reach The recoverable amount of the UGE in the USA is estimated based on the greater of the budget either in previous years or in the current year. value in use (“VU”) and fair value less cost to sell (“FVLCTS”). The Public Company Guideline Method (“GPC”) was used to estimate the FVLCTS. Argentina To calculate the multiple, the Business Value (“BV”) of each comparable business is In the case of Argentina, the recoverable amount was estimated by VU. The discounted divided by the EBITDA of the last 12 months and estimate for 2015. The BV is determined cash flows methodology was applied to estimate the VU, using the authorized budget for by multiplying the number of outstanding shares by the price of each share, plus net debt, 2016 and the projections estimated by the Entity. preferred stock and non–controlling interest. The median of the resulting multiples of comparable companies was selected, including that of Grupo Bimbo, and was applied to To apply this methodology a discount rate of 33.7% is determined, which reflects the the EBITDA of the last 12 months and the estimate for 2015. Subsequently, net debt is business risk, as well as the time value of money. The calculation method of the discount subtracted and a similar weighting is applied to both values to reach a market value of rate results in a weighted average cost of capital, which weights the cost of stockholders stockholders’ equity. equity with the cost of debt, based on the weighting of such resources on the balance sheet. The method to determine the cost of stockholder’s equity is the cost of capital. Given that such value represents the value of the non–controlling interest because it derives The estimate of the variables for both the cost of capital and for debt is based on market from using the price per share, a control premium of 20% was applied. Finally, net debt is information available at the valuation date. added, together with a deficit adjustment in the working capital (excluding cash in hand), the present value of the accumulated losses and transaction costs, to reach the FVLCTS. With regard to the estimate of projections, those prepared by the Argentina operation were used, and were adjusted based on historical results. Such projections include those By applying the aforementioned methodology, the Entity concluded that there is no projects which are authorized at the valuation date. Finally, in the termination value, the impairment in the goodwill of this UGE. Entity considered a normalized flow perpetuity based on growth in line with long–term inflation for Argentina. Brazil and China By applying the aforementioned methodology, the Entity concluded that there was In the case of Brazil and China, the recoverable amount was also estimated by FVLCTS. impairment in the assets of this UGE of $276, because the operation has not reached The discounted cash flows methodology was applied to estimate the FVLCTS, using the budget in previous years or in the current year. authorized budget for 2016 and the projections estimated by both companies. Rest of operations To apply this methodology, a 12.5% discount rate is determined for Brazil and 10.5% for China, which reflect the business risk, as well as the time value of money. The calculation For the rest of the UGE’s the recoverable amount was determined by VU. The methodology method of the discount rate results in a weighted average cost of capital, which weights the used was the discounted cash flows approach, considering a discount rate and projections cost of stockholders’ equity with the cost of debt, based on the weighting of such resources provided by the same operations. The planning horizon considered was five years, with a on the balance sheet. The method to determine the cost of stockholders’ equity is the cost terminal value based on a normalized flow perpetuity with growth in line with inflation for of capital. The estimate of the variables both for the cost of capital and for debt is based on each of the countries where they operate. market information available at the valuation date. By applying this methodology, the Entity concluded that there are no indications of With regard to the estimate of projections, those provided by both companies were used impairment in the rest of the UGE’s. and were adjusted based on historical results, together with other adjustments to reflect figures from a market participant perspective. Finally, in the terminal value, the Entity considered a normalized flow perpetuity with growth in line with the long–term inflation for Brazil and China. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 142 13. Long–term debt Fair Value 2015 2014 Fair Value 2015 2014 International bonds – Local bonds – On June 30, 2010, the Entity issued a bond As of December 31, 2015, the Entity holds the under U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission following local bonds due as follows: (“SEC”) Rule 144 A Regulation S for US$800 million maturing on January 30, 2020. Such Bimbo 12– Issued on February 10, 2013, maturing bond pays a fixed interest rate of 4.875% with in August 2018, with a fixed interest rate of semiannual payments. The proceeds from this 6.83%. See note 14.2.3 (F) 5,226 5,000 5,000 issuance were used to refinance the Entity’s debt, extending the maturity date. $ 14,620 $ 13,765 $ 11,774 Bimbo 09–2 – Issued June 15, 2009, maturing in June 2016, with a fixed interest rate of On January 25, 2012, the Entity issued a bond 10.60%. See note 14.2.3 (D) 2,057 2,000 2,000 under U.S. SEC Rule 144 A Regulation S for US$800 million maturing on January 25, 2022. Bimbo 09U – Issued June 15, 2009 in the Such bond pays a fixed interest rate of 4.50%, with amount of 706,302,200 UDIs, maturing in June semiannual payments. The proceeds from this 2016, with a fixed interest rate of 6.05%. The issuance were used to refinance the Entity’s debt. 14,220 13,765 11,774 UDI value at December 31, 2015 and 2014 was $5.3812 and $5.2704, Mexican pesos per On June 27, 2014, the Entity issued a bond under UDI, respectively. See note 14.2.3 (A and E) 3,823 3,801 3,722 U. S. SEC Rule 144 A Regulation S for US 800 million maturing on June 27, 2024. Such bonds Commited Revolving Credit Line (Multicurrency)– pay a fixed interest rate of 3.875% with semiannual In December 2013, the Entity renewed and payments. The proceeds from this issuance were amended the terms and conditions of the to refinance the Entity’s debt, extending the committed multicurrency credit line, originally average maturity. See note 14.2.3 (B). 13,396 13,765 11,774 issued on April 26, 2010. On June 27, 2014, the Entity issued a bond under According to the new terms and conditions there U. S. SEC Rule 144 A Regulation S for US 500 are 9 financial institutions engaged in this credit million maturing on June 27, 2044. Such bonds line. The total amount is up to 2,000 million US pay a fixed interest rate of 4.875% with semiandollars, maturing on March 13, 2019 and with nual payments. The proceeds from this issuance an applicable interest rate of London Interbank were to refinance the Entity’s debt, extending Offered Rate (“LIBOR”) plus 1% for the provisions the average maturity. See note 14.2.3 (C). 7,625 8,603 7,359 in US dollars, Canadian Dealer Offered Rate (“CDOR”) plus 1% for provisions in Canadian dollars, and Interbank Equilibrium rate (“TIIE”) plus 0.75% for provisions in Mexican pesos. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 143 Fair Value 2015 2014 14. Financial instruments The credit line has been withdrawn during 2014 1. Categories of financial instruments as of December 31, 2015 and 2014: primarily for the acquisition of Canada Bread and Supan. Withdrawals were made in US dollars, 2015 2014 Canadian dollars and Mexican pesos. 1,854 1,854 6,656 ASSETS Secured working capital loans – Financial assets: The Entity occasionally enters into unsecured Cash and cash equivalents $ 3,825 $ 2,572 short–term loans to cover working capital needs. – – 280 Accounts and note receivables, net 14,841 14,246 Derivative financial instruments 885 386 Others – Certain subsidiaries have entered into Guarantee deposits for derivative other direct loans to meet their working capital financial instruments 1,501 18 needs, maturing from 2015 to 2020. Loans have a weighted interest rate of 7.8%. 5,584 5,585 2,295 Total current assets 21,052 17,222 Non–current assets: Debt issuance cost (377) (377) (430) Notes receivable from independent operators 950 1,109 67,761 62,204 Derivative financial instruments 3,346 1,653 Less – Current portion of long–term debt (8,282) (1,789) Total financial assets $ 25,348 $ 19,984 Long–term debt $ 59,479 $ 60,415 LIABILITIES Financial liabilities: At December 31, 2015, long–term debt matures as follows: Bank loans $ 8,282 $ 1,789 Trade accounts payable 13,146 11,867 Year Amount Other accounts payable 1,401 1,414 Due to related parties 401 789 2017 $ 443 Derivative financial instruments 3,208 673 2018 5,236 2019 2,031 Total current liabilities 26,438 16,532 2020 15,818 2021 and thereafter 35,951 Bank loans 4,958 7,442 Bonds 54,521 52,973 $ 59,479 Derivative financial instruments 1,707 1,540  The committed dual–currency revolving credit facility, local bonds, international Total financial liabilities $ 87,624 $ 78,487 bond and syndicate bank loan 2009 are guaranteed by the principal subsidiaries of Grupo Bimbo. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Entity has complied with all the obligations, including financial ratios established in the loan agreements for the Entity and its subsidiaries. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 144 2. Risk management 2.1 Market risks During the normal course of its operations, the Entity is exposed to risks inherent The Entity is exposed to the financial risks associated with fluctuations in foreign with variables related to financing as well as variations in the prices of some of its currency and interest rates, which are managed by Purchases department. The raw materials that are traded in international markets. The Entity has established an Entity is also exposed to price risk related to certain commodities purchased in its orderly risk management process that relies on internal bodies that assess the nature operation, which is managed by commodities subcommittees. The Entity occasionally and extent of those risks. uses derivative financial instruments to mitigate the potential impact of fluctuations in these variables and prices on its results. The Entity considers that the derivative Main financial risks the Entity is exposed to are: financial instruments it enters into provide flexibility that allows for greater financial stability, better earnings visibility and certainty regarding costs and expenses to be – Market risk paid in the future. – Interest rate risk – Foreign currency risk The Entity determines the amounts and objective parameters of the primary positions – Price risk for which the derivative financial instruments are entered into, with the objective of – Liquidity risk minimizing one or more of the risk exposures in a transaction or group of transactions – Credit risk associated with the primary position. – Capital risk The Entity only enters into derivative financial instrument contracts with recognized The Entity’s Corporate Treasury is responsible for managing the risks associated with financial institutions of well–known solvency and within the limits set for each interest rate, foreign currency, liquidity and credit risk that result from the ordinary course institution. of business. Meanwhile, the purchases department is responsible for risk management of purchase prices of commodities and reviews the consistency of Entity´s open positions The principal types of derivative financial instruments used by the Entity are: in the futures markets with the Entity’s corporate risk strategy. Both departments report their activities to the Risk Management Department. The main objectives of the Risk a) Contracts that establish a mutual obligation to exchange cash flows on specific Management Department are as follows: future dates, at the nominal or reference value (swaps): – Identify, evaluate and monitor external and internal risks that could significantly 1. Interest rate swaps to balance the mix of fixed and variable interest rates used impact the Entity; for financial liabilities. – Prioritize risks; 2. Cross currency swaps, to change the currency in which both the principal and – Secure the assignment and monitoring of risk; interest of a financial liability are expressed. – Validate the functions and/or those responsible for risk management; – Validate the progress in each of the prioritized risks; and b) Foreign currency exchange forwards; – Recommend future action to take. c) Foreign currency exchange calls; d) Commodity futures; Given that the variables the Entity is exposed are dynamic in behavior, hedging e) Options on commodities futures; and strategies are evaluated and monitored formally on an ongoing basis. Additionally, f) Inputs swaps such strategies are reported to the relevant governing body within the Entity. The primary purpose of hedging strategies is to achieve a neutral and balanced position in Market risk exposure is monitored and reported on an ongoing basis to the responsible relation to the exposure created by certain financial variables. governing area within the Entity. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 145 The Entity has established a policy that derivative financial instruments are entered 2015 2014 into exclusively to hedge a risk. Accordingly, in order to enter into a derivative financial instrument contract, it must necessarily be associated with a primary position that Stockholders’ equity: exposes the Entity to a specific risk. Consequently, the notional amounts of the Entity’s Fair value of financial instruments derivative financial instruments will be consistent with the amounts of the primary designated as cash flow hedges, positions that are being hedged. The Entity does not enter into derivative financial net of accrued interest $ (1,411) $ (362) instruments for speculative purposes. If the Entity decides to enter into a hedging Closed contracts for unused futures (73) (17) strategy whereby options are combined, the net premiums paid/collected must (1,484) (379) represent a cash outflow, meaning the Entity should not enter into derivative financial Deferred income tax, net 504 159 instrument transactions for speculative purposes. Accumulated other comprehensive Derivative financial instruments are comprised as follows: income related to derivative financial instruments $ (980) $ (220) 2015 2014 Assets: 2.2 Interest rate risk management Current – Forwards $ 22 $ 16 The Entity is exposed to interest rate risk, mainly with respect to its financial liabilities. Premiums paid on options, net 69 146 The risk is managed through an adequate mix of fixed and variable rates, which on Swaps 794 – occasion, is achieved by entering into derivative financial instruments, such as interest Futures contracts: rate swaps, which are accounted for as hedging instruments when they comply with Fair value of natural gas, diesel and soy oil – 224 the all criteria to be classified as such. Total asset derivatives – current $ 885 $ 386 Management considers that its interest rate risk related to its financial assets is limited as their maturities are generally current. Long–term swaps $ 3,346 $ 1,653 As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Entity held long–term debt that accrues interest at variable rates referenced to the TIIE, UDI, CDOR, LIBOR and EURIBOR respectively, Liabilities: and entered into interest rate swaps to fix such interest rates. The swaps have been Current – designated as cash flow hedges. Swaps $ (1,989) $ – Forwards – (8) Interest rate sensitivity analysis Forwards on raw material – (1) Guarantee deposit – (76) The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on balances exposed to Futures contracts: interest rate risk, considering both derivative and non–derivative instruments at the Fair value of natural gas, diesel and soy oil (1,219) (588) date of the consolidated statement of financial position; therefore, the analyses may not be representative of the interest rate risk during the period due to variances in the Total derivatives liabilities current $ (3,208) $ (673) balances exposed to such risk. For floating rate instruments, for which the Entity has not contracted a hedge to fix the rate, the sensitivity analysis is prepared assuming the Long term swaps $ (1,707) $ (1,540) amount of the liability outstanding at the end of the reporting period was outstanding for the whole year. A change of 20 basis points in the one–month LIBOR and 20 basis points in the one–month CDOR and a change of 100 basis points in the 28 days TIIE Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 146 represents management´s best estimate of a reasonable potential change with respect As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, loans that have been designated as hedges on the to those rates. The Entity has fully mitigated interest rate risks related to fluctuations net investment in foreign subsidiaries amounted to USD 2,876 and USD 2,867 million, in the value of UDI through interest rate swaps. respectively. An increase/decrease of 20 basis points in LIBOR, would result in a decrease/increase As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the amounts that have been designated as hedges in profit or loss of approximately $2.7 and $2.5 for the years ended December 31, 2015 for long–term intercompany loans are $2,017 and $2,811 million, respectively. and 2014, respectively. Such amounts are not deemed significant to the results of the operations of the Entity. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, amounts that have been designated as hedges of intercompany long–term debt are EUR 30 for both years. An increase/decrease of 20 basis points in CDOR would result in a decrease/increase in profit or loss of approximately $6.2 and $7.4 for the years ended December 31, 2015 As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the amounts of loans that have been designated as and 2014, respectively. Such amounts are not deemed significant to the results of the hedges for net investment in foreign subsidiaries totaled CAD 998 and 1,393 million, operations of the Entity. respectively. An increase/decrease of 100 basis points in TIIE, would result in an decrease/increase As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 the amounts that have been designated as a hedge in the Entity’s profit or loss of approximately $0.8 and $9.7, for the years ended for intercompany asset positions are CAD 650 million for both years. December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the amount that has been designated as a hedge 2.3 Foreign currency risk management for intercompany liability positions are USD 8 and USD 24 million, respectively. The Entity undertakes transactions denominated in a variety of foreign currencies Management of foreign currency transactional risk and presents its consolidated financial statements in Mexican pesos; it also has investments in foreign operations whose currencies differ from the Mexican peso.  Risk management policy regarding foreign currency also contemplates hedging Accordingly, it is exposed to foreign currency risk (i.e., the forecasted purchase of expected foreign currency cash flows, mainly related to future purchases of inputs. inputs, contracts and monetary assets and liabilities) and foreign currency translation Such purchases qualify as hedged items, represented by “highly probable” forecasted risk (i.e. net investments is foreign subsidiaries). The main risk is with respect to the transactions for purposes of hedge accounting. At the time the purchase occurs, the parity of Mexican pesos to US dollars, Mexican pesos to Canada dollars, and Canada Entity adjusts the non–financial asset that is considered the hedged item for the gain dollars to US dollars. or loss previously recognized in other comprehensive income. Management of translation of foreign currency risk Foreign currency sensitivity analysis The Entity has investments in foreign subsidiaries whose functional currency is other The sensitivity analyses below have been determined based on the balances exposed to than the Mexican peso, which exposes it to the risk of foreign currency translation. foreign currency exchange rate risk for both derivative and non–derivative instruments Also, the Entity has contracted intercompany financial assets and liabilities with as of the date of the consolidated statement of financial position; therefore, the those foreign subsidiaries, in various currencies, therefore representing a foreign analyses may not be representative of the foreign currency exchange rate risk that currency risk. existed during the year due to variances in the balances exposed to such risk. The risk is mitigated through the issuance of one or more loans denominated in  A depreciation/appreciation of 1 peso per US dollar, represents management´s currencies other than the functional currency to naturally hedge exposure to foreign estimate of a reasonable potential change on the parity of both currencies, and would currency, and presented as a net investment in foreign subsidiaries within other result in an increase/decrease of approximately $54 and $19 in profit or loss for the comprehensive income. years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 147 D  etail of derivative financial instruments that hedge interest rate and foreign currency 2015 2014 risk Swaps that convert the Bimbo 09–2 local bonds Detail of the derivatives utilized to hedge the aforementioned risks and the fair value of from Mexican pesos to US dollars and modify such derivatives as of December 31 are as follows: their interest rates from Mexican pesos fixed to US dollars fixed. (D) $ – $ (257) 2015 2014 Swaps that convert the Bimbo 09U local bonds Swaps that modify the Bimbo 09U local bond from Mexican pesos to US dollars and modify currency and interest rate, current portion. (A) $ 794 $ – their interest rates from Mexican pesos fixed to US dollars fixed. (E) – (663) Swaps that modify the Bimbo 09U local bond currency and interest rate. (A) – 738 Swaps that convert the Bimbo 12 local bonds from Mexican pesos to US dollars and modify Swaps that convert the 2044 144A bond from their interest rates from Mexican pesos fixed to American dollars into Canadian dollars and US dollars fixed. (F) (1,707) (620) change the fixed interest rate in US dollars to fixed interest rates in Canadian dollars. (B) 2,932 794 Total long–term liabilities $ (1,707) $ (1,540) Swaps that convert the 2044 144A bond from (A) In connection with the issuance of the Bimbo 09U local bonds, between June 10 and American dollars into Canadian dollars and 24, 2009, the Entity entered into two foreign currency swaps for $1,000 and $2,000 change the fixed interest rate in US dollars to that together hedge the entire Bimbo 09U issue and converts the debt from 6.05% in fixed interest rates in Canadian dollars. (C) 414 121 UDIs to Mexican pesos at fixed rates of 10.54% and 10.60%, respectively. Total long term assets $ 3,346 $ 1,653 (B) In order to convert the total amount of the 2024 International 144A Bond, in the amount of USD 800 million, from US to Canadian dollars, issued between June 30 and Swaps that convert the Bimbo 09–2 local bonds July 21, 2014, cross currency swaps were contracted for a notional amount of $240, from Mexican pesos to US dollars and modify $290, $110, $10.73, $108.34 and $99.3 Canadian dollars. These instruments receive their interest rates from Mexican pesos fixed to 3.875% interest in USD and pay 4.1175%, 4.1125%, 4.1558%, 4.1498%, 4.1246% US dollars fixed, current portion. (D) $ (677) $ – and 4.0415% interest in Canadian dollars, respectively. Swaps that convert the Bimbo 09U local bonds (C) In order to convert a portion of the 2044 International 144A Bond, that amounts from Mexican pesos to US dollars and modify USD 500 million, from US to Canadian dollars, on July 21, 2014, a cross currency their interest rates from Mexican pesos fixed to swaps was contracted in a notional amount of $107.4 million Canadian dollars. This US dollars fixed. (E) (1,312) – instrument receives 4.875% interest in US dollars and pays 5.0455%. Total current liabilities $ (1,989) $ – (D) In connection with the issuance of the Bimbo 09–2 local bonds, for a notional amount of $2,000 (equivalent to US$155.3 million), in 2010 the Entity entered into a foreign currency swap, which convert the debt from Mexican pesos to US dollars. Maturity is June 6, 2016. The exchange rate was set at $12.88 Mexican pesos per US dollar, and the fixed interest rate to be paid is 6.35%. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 148 (E) In order to convert the liability positions of instruments related to the issuance of the  In 2015 and 2014, the Entity entered into a forward to hedge the exchange risks Bimbo 09–U bonds from Mexican pesos to US dollars, on February 17, 2011, the Entity related to the purchase of commodities in Uruguay. This instrument hedges a notional entered into two foreign currency and interest rate swaps, with a notional amount, amount of $1.9 and $3.9 million USD and fixed the exchange rate at $30.63 and $25.26 one for $1,000 (equivalent to US$83.1 million) and the second for $2,000 (equivalent Uruguayan pesos per USD, respectively. to US$166.3 million), respectively. Maturity date is June 6, 2016. The exchange rates applicable to these instruments were set at $12.03 Mexican pesos per US dollar and  As of December 31, 2015, the Entity had forwards to hedge currency risk of raw interest was fixed at 6.47% and 6.53%, respectively. materials associated with the operation of Chile. These instruments cover a notional amount of US$6 million, fixing the exchange rate for the currency purchase at a price (F) In order to convert all the Bimbo 12 local bonds from Mexican pesos to US dollars, of $609.8 Chilean pesos per USD. between February 14 and 17, 2012 the Entity entered into 6 cross currency swaps for a notional amount of $50, $50, $50, $72.1, $70 and $100 USD respectively. All  As of December 31, 2015, the Entity entered into two forward contracts to hedge the the instruments have a maturity date of August 3, 2018 and earn interest at a rate of risks related to the purchase of commodities in Argentina. Such instruments hedge a 6.83% in Mexican pesos and pay interest at a rate of 3.24%, 3.30%, 3.27%, 3.33%, notional amount of 2.8 million USD, and fixed the exchange rate at 11.98 Argentinan 3.27% and 3.25% respectively. pesos per USD. Foreign Currency Hedge  As of December 31, 2015, the Entity had forward contracts to hedge the risks related to the purchase of commodities in Canada. Such instruments hedge a notional amount of  Based on its projections of expense, Corporate treasury has diverse obligations in USD, 5.8 million USD, and fixed the exchange rate at 1.34 CAD per USD. for which reason, at December 31, 2015 and 2014, it maintains a portfolio of options and forwards that result in a long–term position in forwards with monthly maturities  As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, these operations have a net fair value of $69 and of $35 and $8 million USD, respectively, at an average exchange rate of $16.71 and $146, respectively. $13.9039 Mexican pesos per USD. 2.4 Commodities price risk management  In addition to hedge a portion of the debt in US dollars and convert it into Canadian dollars, the Entity keeps as of December 31, 2015 a portfolio in forwards that result in In accordance with the Entity´s risk management policies, it enters into wheat, a short position for a total of $85 million Canadian dollars at an average exchange rate natural gas, and other commodities futures contracts to minimize the risk of variation of $1.1662 Canadian dollars per USD. in international prices of such inputs.  In order to meet the needs of corporate treasury in euros tied to various forecasted Wheat, the main input used by the Entity, together with natural gas, are some of transactions, the Entity held as of December 31, 2015, a portfolio of options and the commodities hedged. The transactions are carried out in recognized commodity forwards that result in a long position for a total of EUR$9 million, at an exchange rate markets, and through their formal documentation are designated as cash flow of $17.85 pesos per euro. hedges of forecasted transactions. The Entity performs prospective and retrospective effectiveness tests of the instruments to ensure they mitigate the variability of cash  As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, these aforementioned instruments have a net flows from fluctuations in the price of such inputs. market value (asset) of $22 and $(8), respectively. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Entity has recognized, in other comprehensive  As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Entity had forwards to hedge currency risk income, closed contracts that have not yet been transferred to cost of sales due to the of raw materials associated with the operation of Mexico. These instruments hedged fact that the wheat under these contracts has not been used for flour consumption. a notional amount of $131.25 and $137.7 million US dollars, respectively, fixing the exchange rate for the purchase of currency at a price of $16.84 and $13.73 Mexican pesos per US Dollar. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 149 Detail of derivative transactions that hedge commodities price risk As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the contracted futures and their main characteristics were as follows: 2015 2014 Contracts Contracts Number Maturity Fair Value Number Maturity Fair Value Wheat – – – 8,427 Mar–Dec 2015 $ 218 Corn – – – 219 Mar–May 2015 $ 10 Soybean oil – – – 779 Mar–Dec 2015 (4) Total current assets $ – $ 224 Wheat 15,766 Mar–Dec 2016 (594) – – – Corn 308 Mar–Dec 2016 (5) – – – Soybean oil 1,320 Mar–Dec 2016 7 – – – Diesel 1,539 Various (186) 2,486 Various (112) Gasoline 3,347 Various (391) 5,687 Various (421) Natural gas 1,143 Various (39) 1,495 Various (55) Poliethylene 23,700 Jan–Sep 2016 (10) – – – Aluminium 360 Jan–Sep 2016 (1) – – – $ (1,219) $ (588) Embedded derivative instruments – As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Entity has not identified any embedded derivative financial instruments that require bifurcation. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 150 Valuation techniques and assumptions applied for the purposes of measuring fair 2.5 Liquidity risk management value Corporate treasury is responsible for managing liquidity risk. Risk management allows The fair value of financial assets and liabilities is determined as follows: the Entity to determine its short–, medium– and long–term cash flow needs, while seeking financial flexibility. The Entity maintains sufficient liquidity through an orderly The fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities with standard terms and management of its resources and permanently monitoring of cash flows, as well as conditions which are traded on active, liquid markets are determined with reference maintaining a variety of credit lines (some of them committed) with bank institutions to their quoted market prices. Derivative financial instruments fall in this category and proper management of working capital. These actions ensure the payment of Therefore, these instruments are considered as hierarchy level 1 according to the future obligations. The Entity believes that due to the nature of its business, liquidity classification of fair value hierarchy described below. risk is low. The fair value of other financial assets and liabilities carried at fair value are determined  Obligations resulting from accounts payables, financial instruments and debt in accordance with accepted pricing models, generally based on discounted cash flow amortization are as follows: analysis. 1 year <X 3 years<X As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the carrying value of financial assets and liabilities, X<1 year <3 years <5 years X> 5 years does not vary significantly from their fair value. Debt $ 11,230 $ 11,549 $ 20,270 $ 48,360 The fair value of market long–term debt, such as bonds, was determined based on Trade accounts payable 13,146 – – – the prices provided by Valuación Operativa y Referencias de Mercado S. A. de C. V. Derivative instruments 1,987 1,293 – – (“VALMER”) which is an entity supervised by the Mexican National Securities and Banking Commission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de Valores), that provides prices Total $ 26,363 $ 12,842 $ 20,270 $ 48,360 for financial instruments. Such valuation is considered as Level 1, according to the hierarchy described as follows: 2.6 Credit risk management Fair value hierarchy Credit risk arises from the possible loss if a customer is unable to pay its obligations, loss on investments and principally the risk related to derivative financial instruments. The amount of assets and liabilities in the consolidated statements of financial position, measured at fair value, are grouped into one of the following three hierarchy  When accounts receivable to customers is impaired, the Entity recognizes an levels. Categorization within the fair value hierarchy is based upon the lowest level of allowance for doubtful accounts. The allowance is increased for those accounts input that is significant to the fair value measurement. beyond 90 days past due, for fifty percent of the account and for the total when it reaches 100 days past due. The methodology used to determine the allowance has • Level 1 fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) been applied consistently and the allowance has been historically sufficient to cover in active markets for identical assets or liabilities impaired unrecoverable accounts. • Level 2 fair value measurement are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the assets or liability, either With respect to operations with derivative financial instruments related to interest rate directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices); and and exchange rate hedges, and some commodities like natural gas, these instruments • Level 3 fair value measurements are those derived from valuation techniques that are entered into bilaterally (“OTC”), with counterparties of high repute that meet certain include inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data criteria mentioned below, and who maintain a significant and continuous commercial (unobservable inputs). relationship with the Entity. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 151 These counterparties are deemed of high repute, as they are sufficiently solvent –based 2.7 Equity structure management on their “counterparty risk” rating from Standard & Poor´s– for short– and long–term obligations in local and foreign currency. The principal counterparties with whom the The Entity maintains a healthy relation between debt and equity, to maximize the Entity has contracts with respect to derivative financial instruments are: shareholders’ return. Banco Nacional de México, S. A., BBVA Bancomer, S. A., Barclays Bank, PLC W. London, The leverage ratio at the end of each period is as follows: Bank of America México, S. A., Citibank N.A., Merrill Lynch Capital Services, Inc., HSBC Bank, ING. Capital Markets, JP Morgan Chase Bank, N. A., Banco Santander, S. 2015 2014 A., Mizuho Corporate Bank, Ltd, Mizuho Capital Markets Corporation and The Bank of Tokyo Mitsubishi ufj, Ltd. Debt (i) $ 67,761 $ 62,204 Cash and cash equivalents 3,825 2,572 Principal commodities derivatives financial instruments are contracted in the following Net debt 63,936 59,632 recognized markets: Stockholders’ equity 61,859 53,602 a. Minneapolis Grain Exchange (MGE) Net debt to stockholders’ equity 1.03 times 1.11 times b. Kansas City Board of Trade (KCBOT) c. Chicago Board of Trade (CBOT) (i) Debt is comprised of bank loans and short– and long–term bonds, net of issuance d. New York Mercantile Exchange (NYMEX) costs pending amortization. Exposure to each counterparty is monitored on a monthly basis. The Entity is not subject to any externally imposed capital requirements. All derivative financial instrument transactions are performed under a standardized 15. Employee benefits and workers’ compensation contract and duly executed by the legal representatives of the Entity and those of the counterparties. The net liabilities generated by employee benefits and long–term social security benefits by geographical segment, is integrated at December 31, 2015 and 2014 as Appendix and annexes to the contract, establish the settlement and other relevant follows: terms in accordance with the manners and practices of the Mexican market. 2015 2014 Some derivative financial instrument contracts include the establishment of a security deposit or other securities to guarantee payment of obligations arising from such Retirement and post– retirement benefits contracts. Credit limits that the Entity has with its counterparties are large enough Mexico $ 3,466 $ 2,922 to support its current operations; however, the Entity maintains cash deposits as EUA 3,707 4,899 collateral for payment of derivative financial instruments. Canada 758 542 OLA 63 136 For those commodities future contracts executed in recognized, international markets, the Entity is subject to the regulation of those markets. These regulations include, Total retirement and post–retirement benefits 7,994 8,499 among others, establishing an initial margin call for futures contracts and subsequent margin calls required of the Entity. Workers´compensation – USA 2,598 2,104 Multi– Employer Pension Plan – USA 14,851 12,345 Bonuses to employees, long term 489 344 Total net liability $ 25,932 $ 23,292 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 152 a. Mexico c. Canada The Entity has a defined benefit pension and seniority premium plan. The Entity is The Entity has established a defined benefit plan for covering pension payments to also required to pay termination benefit obligations, which do not qualify as post– eligible employees. Some of the benefits of unionized personnel plans were frozen. The retirement benefit plans under IFRS, for which reason a liability for the benefits is not funding policy of the Entity is to make discretionary contributions. The contributions recognized until the obligation occurs, generally upon payment. The Entity´s funding made during 2015 and 2014 amounted to $121 and $43, respectively. policy is to make discretionary contributions. During 2015 and 2014, the Entity has not contributed to the plans. The most recent of the plan assets and the present value of the defined benefit obligation actuarial valuations were performed as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 by Seniority premiums payment consist of a one–time payment of 12 days for each year Mercer (Canada), Inc. The present value of the defined benefit obligation, the labor worked based on the final salary, not exceeding twice the minimum wage, applicable cost of current service and past service cost were calculated using the method of at the payment date, established by law for all its personnel, as stipulated in the projected unit credit. respective employment contracts. Such benefits vest for employees with 15 or more years of service. The company also has established a defined contribution plan in which contributions are paid as incurred. The most recent actuarial valuations of the plan assets and present value of defined benefits obligation were performed as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 by Bufete The principal assumptions used for the purposes of the actuarial valuations were as Matemático Actuarial, S.C., member of Colegio Nacional de Actuarios, A. C. The follows: present value of defined benefits obligation, cost of services of the year, and past service cost were measured using the projected unit credit method. 2015 2014 b. USA Mexico Discount rate 7.50% 7.50%  The Entity has established a defined benefit pension plan that covers eligible Expected rate of salary increase 4.50% 4.50% employees. Some of the benefits of the plan were frozen. The Entity´s funding policy Inflation rate 3.50% 3.50% is to make discretionary contributions. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the Entity Expected weighted return 7.50% 7.50% Real weighted return 1.19% 6.40% contributed to such plan $826 and $641, respectively. EUA The Entity also has established post–retirement employee welfare plans, which covers Discount rate 4.25% 3.80% the medical insurance of certain eligible employees. The Entity has insurance and pays Expected rate of salary increase 3.75% 3.75% these expenses as they occur. Inflation rate 2.75% 2.75% Expected weighted return 4.25% 3.80% The most recent actuarial valuations of the plan assets and present value of defined Real weighted return (2.50%) 15.19% benefits obligation were performed as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 by Mercer Canada (US), Inc., member of the Institute of actuaries in the U.S. The present value of defined Discount rate 3.90% 3.90% benefits obligation, cost of services of the year, and past service cost were measured Expected rate of salary increase 3.00% 3.00% using the projected unit credit method. Inflation rate 2.00% 2.00% Expected weighted return 3.90% 3.90% Real weighted return 3.70% 0.20% Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 153 The amounts recognized in profit or loss with respect to defined benefit pension plans 2015 2014 and post–retirement benefits: Effect of changes in financial assumptions (1,359) 1,846 2015 2014 ABA Plan (1) 809 – Assumed liabilities in business acquisition 2,083 2,194 Current service cost $ 757 $ 523 Adjustment for fluctuation in currency exchange 3,330 1,893 Interest cost 1,565 1,378 Benefits paid (3,950) (1,235) Interest income on plan assets (1,134) (1,048) Present value of the defined benefit $ 1,188 $ 853 obligation as of December 31 $ 32,253 $ 30,086 The net cost of the period was allocated $212 and $216 in 2015 and 2014, respectively, Movements in fair value of plan assets: in the consolidated statements of income as cost of sales and the remainder as general expenses. The interest on the obligation and the expected return on the plan assets are 2015 2014 recognized as finance costs. Plan assets at fair value as of January 1 $ 21,723 $ 16,675 The following table shows the funded status of the pension and seniority premium Interest income, and others 1,134 1,047 obligations as of the date thereon: Actuarial (loss) gain (1,402) 1,316 Employer and employee contributions 947 749 2015 2014 ABA Plan (1) 660 – Assets on business acquisition 1,783 1,570 Present value of defined benefit obligation $ 32,253 $ 30,086 Adjustment for fluctuation in currency exchange 2,520 1,473 Less – Fair value of plan assets 24,149 21,723 Benefits paid (3,216) (1,107) 8,104 8,363 Plan assets at fair value as of December 31 $ 24,149 $ 21,723 Add: Retirement benefit OLA 63 136 Less: Current portion of retirement benefit (173) – (1)  In 2015, the Entity determined that the American Bakers´Association (“ABA Plan”) pension plan, that had been determined to be a multi–employer pension plan, Present value of unfunded defined benefits $ 7,994 $ 8,499 qualified as an other defined benefit plan for retirement. Therefore, in 2015, this plan is presented as such. Movements in the present value of the defined benefit obligation: Categories of plan assets: 2015 2014 Fair Value of plan assets Present value of the defined obligation 2015 2014 as of January 1 $ 30,086 $ 22,425 Service cost 757 523 Equity instruments $ 9,123 $ 12,362 Interest cost 1,565 1,378 Debt instruments 11,384 6,871 Actuarial loss on estimate of obligation 60 735 Others 3,642 2,490 Effect of experience adjustments (453) (236) Effect of changes in demographic assumptions (675) 563 Total $ 24,149 $ 21,723 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 154 Fair value of the assets of the plan are measured using valuation techniques that The technical committee of the Entity has the responsibility to define and monitor include inputs that are not based on observable market data. quarterly, strategy and investment policies in order to optimize the risk / return over the long term. Significant actuarial assumptions for the determination of the defined obligation are the discount rate and expected wage increase. The sensitivity analysis presented below There was no change in the methods and assumptions used in preparing the sensitivity were determined based on reasonably possible changes of the respective assumptions analysis from prior years. Also, there has been no change to the process followed by occurring at the end of the reporting period, while holding all other assumptions the Entity to manage the plan assets compared to previous years constant. In Mexico the average duration of the benefit obligation as of December 31, 2015 is 19 In Mexico, if the discount rate increases/decreases 100 basis points, the expected years. This number can be analyzed as follows: benefit obligation would decrease/increase by $1,183 and $1,711, respectively. • Active members: 20 years (2014: 21 years) and If the expected wage increases/decreases 1%, the defined benefit obligation would • Retired members: 11 years (2014: 12 years). increase/decrease by $1,116 and $849, respectively. In USA the average duration of the benefit obligation as of December 31, 2015 is 13 In USA, if the discount rate increases/decreases 50 basis points, the expected benefit years. This number can be analyzed as follows: obligation would decrease/increase by $(1,296) and $987, respectively. • Active members: 15 years (2014: 16 years); If the expected wage increases/decreases 100 basis points, the defined benefit • Deferred members: 16 years (2014: 18 years), and obligation would increase/decrease by $197. • Retired members: 9 years (2014: 9 years). In Canada, if the discount rate increases/decreases 0.25%, the expected benefit In Canada the average duration of the benefit obligation as of December 31, 2015 is obligation would decrease/increase by $(68) and $71, respectively. 12.6 years. This number can be analyzed as follows: If the expected wage increases/decreases 0.5%, the defined benefit obligation would • Active members: 16.2 years (2014: 16.2 years); increase/decrease by $8. • Deferred members: 18 years (2014: 18.2 years), and • Retired members: 8.7 years (2014: 8.6 years). Furthermore, in presenting the above sensitivity analysis, the present value of the defined benefit obligation has been calculated using the projected unit credit method The amounts of experience adjustments are as follows: at the end of the reporting period, which is the same as that applied in calculating the defined benefit obligation liability recognized in the statement of financial position. 2015 2014 The Entity's technical committee has the responsibility to define and monitor on a Present value of defined benefits obligation $ 32,253 $ 30,086 quarterly basis, the strategy and investment policies in order to optimize the risk / performance at long term. Less – Fair value of plan assets 24,149 21,723 Investment strategies in the actuarial and technical policy document of the Fund are: Underfunded status $ 8,104 $ 8,363 • Asset mix on December 31, 2015 is 33% equity instruments, 54% debt instruments Experience adjustments on plan obligation $ (393) $ 499 and 13% other instruments or alternative. The mix of assets as of December 31, 2014, is 31% equity instruments, 56% debt instruments and 13% other instruments Experience adjustments on plan assets $ (1,402) $ 1,316 or alternative. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 155 Multi–employer pension plans (“MEPP”) The Entity has provisioned $14,581, that represent the withdraw estimation of some plans. The Entity has not provisioned for the MEPPs for which it has no intention to exit. The Entity participates in benefit plans known as MEPPs. A MEPP is a fund in which several unrelated employers, in the same or similar industry, make payments to fund Welfare benefit plans USA retirement benefits for unionized employees enrolled in the plan. Originally, it was set to facilitate the mobility of employees between companies in the same industry preserving The Entity maintains a welfare benefit plan that covers certain eligible employees’ pension benefits. Usually they are managed by a trust that is overseen by representatives postretirement medical expenses. Amounts correspond to expenses that are recorded of all employers and employees. Currently BBU participates in 32 MEPPs. in profit or loss as incurred. These obligations are classified as current or long–term welfare benefit plans and the amounts are included in the income statement. As of Unless the Entity determines that exit of the MEPP is highly probable, they are measured December 31, 2015 and 2014, these liabilities were: as a defined contribution plan, as the Entity does not have sufficient information to calculate the liability, due to the collective nature of the plan, and that the participation 2015 2014 of the Entity is limited. The responsibility of the Entity is to provide contributions as set forth in the collective contracts. Welfare benefit plans Current (a) $ 505 $ 471 Contributions to MEPPs for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 amounted to Long–term 2,598 2,104 $1,663 and $1,640, respectively. The estimated contributions for 2016 are approximately $1,777. Annual contributions are charged to profit or loss of the year. $ 3,103 $ 2,575 In the event that another employer(s) exits the MEPP without satisfying its obligation (a) Included in other accounts payable and accrued expenses. related to its exit, the non–covered amount is distributed to the other active employers. Generally, the distribution of the liability for the exit of the plan is based on the Entity’s contributions to the plan compared to the contributions of the other employers in 16. Stockholders’ equity the plan. At December 31, 2015 and 2014, stockholders’ equity consists of the following: When the exit of a MEPP is highly probable, a provision is recognized for the present value of the estimated future cash outflows, discounted at the accrual rate. The Entity Number of shares Amount recognizes the withdrawal liability related to two MEPPs for which a contract exits. The total liability related to MEPPs is included in the employee labor obligations line. Fixed capital Series A 4,703,200,000 $ 4,227 The provision for the MEPP mainly corresponds to the Entity´s intention of exiting the plan. Total 4,703,200,000 $ 4,227 During 2015 and 2014, the Entity recorded a charge to results with respect to the Capital stock is fully subscribed and paid–in and represents fixed capital. Variable liability for MEPPs of $359 and $2,022, respectively. capital cannot exceed 10 times the amount of minimum fixed capital without right of withdrawal and must be represented by Series “B”, ordinary, nominative, no–par Liabilities recognized with respect to MEPPs are updated each year derived from shares and/or limited voting, nominative, no–par shares of the Series to be named changes in wages, aging and the mix of employees in the plan, which are recorded when they are issued. Limited voting shares cannot represent more than 25% of non– in results of the income year, in addition to amounts that are contributed regularly to voting capital stock. different MEPPs. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 156 i. There were no dividends declared during 2015 and 2014. a. Transactions with related parties, carried out in the ordinary course of business, were as follows: ii. An additional income tax, in Mexico, Income Tax on dividends was enacted in 2015 of 10% when such dividends are distributed to individuals and persons residing 2015 2014 outside the country The income tax is paid via withholding and is considered a final payment by the shareholder. For foreigners, treaties to avoid double taxation may Expenditures for purchases of: apply. This tax will apply to the distribution of profits generated beginning 2015. Raw material Beta San Miguel, S.A. de C.V. $ 1,030 $ 429 iii. Retained earnings include the statutory legal reserve. Mexican General Corporate  Frexport, S.A. de C.V. 661 592 Law requires that at least 5% of net income of the year be transferred to the Industrial Molinera Monserrat, S.A. de C.V. 300 385 legal reserve until the reserve equals 20% of capital stock at par value (historical  Ovoplus del Centro, S.A. de C.V. 26 320 Mexican pesos). The legal reserve may be capitalized but may not be distributed Paniplus, S.A. de C.V. – 57 unless the entity is dissolved. The legal reserve must be replenished if it is reduced for any reason. As of December 31, 2015 and 2014, the legal reserve, in historical Finished inventory Mexican pesos, was $500.  Fábrica de Galletas La Moderna, S.A. de C.V. $ 537 $ 517 Mundo Dulce, S.A. de C.V. 716 624 iv. Stockholders’ equity, except restated paid–in capital and tax–retained earnings, Pan–Glo de México, S. de R.L. de C.V. 48 48 will be subject to income taxes payable by the Entity at the rate in effect upon Stationary, uniforms and others distribution. Any tax paid on such distribution may be credited against annual and Efform, S.A. de C.V. $ 163 $ 156 estimated income taxes of the year in which the tax on dividends is paid and the Galerias Louis C Morton, S.A. de C.V. 8 4 following two fiscal years. Marhnos Inmobiliaria, S.A. – 29 Proarce, S.A. de C.V. 123 123 v. The balances in the stockholders’ equity tax accounts at December 31 are: Uniformes y Equipo Industrial, S.A. de C.V. 103 69 2015 2014 Financial services Fin Común Servicios Financieros, S.A. de C.V. $ 464 $ 456 Paid–in capital $ 29,338 $ 28,464 Net after–tax income 42,372 37,174 Transactions with related parties are carried out at market prices expected between Total $ 71,710 $ 65,638 independent parties. The amounts outstanding are unsecured and will be settled in cash. No guarantees 17. Transactions and balances with related parties have been given or received. No expense has been recognized in the current or prior years for bad or doubtful accounts in respect of the amounts owed by related parties. Balances and transactions between the Grupo Bimbo and its subsidiaries, which are related parties, have been eliminated in consolidation and are not disclosed in this note. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 157 b. Accounts payable to related parties 18. Income taxes As of December 31, 2015 and 2014 the net balances due to related parties are: Income taxes in México – 2015 2014 Mexican entities are subject to income tax (“ISR”) Beta San Miguel, S. A. de C. V. $ 190 $ 326 ISR –The rate was 30% in 2015 and 2014 and as a result of the 2014 ISR law, the rate Efform, S. A. de C. V. 31 41 will continue at 30% in 2016 and thereafter. Fábrica de Galletas La Moderna, S. A. de C. V. 53 65 Frexport, S. A. de C. V. 13 116 Income taxes in other countries – Industrial Molinera Montserrat, S. A. de C. V. 6 34 Makymat, S. A. de C. V. – 4 Subsidiaries established abroad calculate the income tax on the individual results of Mundo Dulce, S.A. de C.V. 48 48 each subsidiary and in accordance with the regulations of each country. USA has an Ovoplus del Centro, S. A. de C. V. – 7 authorization to file a consolidated income tax return. Spain has authorization to file a Pan–Glo de México, S. de R. L. de C. V. 10 14 consolidated income tax beginning from the year 2013. Proarce, S. A. de C. V. 9 47 Fin Común Servicios Financieros, S.A. de C.V. 8 8 Each company calculates and pays under the assumption of individual legal entities. Uniformes y Equipo Industrial, S. A. de C. V. 22 21 The annual tax return is submitted within six months following the end of the fiscal Otros 11 58 year; companies must make monthly payments during the fiscal year.  $ 401 $ 789 The tax rates applicable in other countries where the Entity mainly operates and the period in which tax losses may be applied, are as follows: c. Compensation of key management personnel Legal tax rate (%) Due date tax loss Compensation management and other key members of management during the year 2015 2014 carryforward was as follows: Argentina 35 35 5 (A) 2015 2014 Brazil 34 34 (B) Canada (C) 15 15 20 Short– and long –term direct benefits $ 601 $ 409 Spain (D) 28 (D) 30 (E) Severance benefits 653 576 USA (F) 35 (F) 35 20 Bonus 107 103 Mexico 30 30 10 $ 1,361 $ 1,088 Tax losses caused by the Entity are mainly in the USA, Mexico, Brazil and Spain.  The compensation of management and key executives is determined by the Compensation Committee based on the performance of individuals and market trends. (A) Losses on sales of shares or other equity investments may only be offset against income of the same nature. The same applies to losses on derivatives. Foreign source tax losses may only be amortized with income from foreign sources. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 158 (B) Tax losses may be applied indefinitely, but may only be offset each year up to an b. The reconciliation of the statutory and effective ISR rates expressed as a percentage amount equivalent to 30% of the net taxable profit for each year. of income before taxes on income for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014: (C) The general corporate income tax rate is a combination of the federal corporate 2015 2014 income tax rate, of 15%, and relevant state (provincial) corporate income tax rates, where the Entity has a permanent establishment. State tax rates vary from 10% to Income before taxes $ 9,978 $ 6,986 16%. Therefore the combined tax rate may vary from 25% to 31%. Statutory rate in Mexico 30% 30% (D) The tax rate was reduced to 28% in 2015, and will be 25% for the following years. ISR at statutory tax rate 2,993 2,096 Add (less) tax effects of the following items: (E) Tax losses have no expiration date, however they can only be offset to a portion of the Inflationary effects on the monetary net taxable profit for each year as follows: 50–25% in 2015, 60% in 2016 and 70% financial position 246 524 from 2017 and thereafter. Nondeductible expenses, nontaxable revenues and other 575 390 (F) A state tax in each state must be added to the federal rate. The weighted statutory tax Difference in tax rates and currency of subsidiaries rate for the Entity for the years 2015 and 2014 was 37.75% and 38.8%, respectively. in different tax jurisdictions (106) (286) Effects on the tax base values of property, Operations in the USA, Canada Argentina, Colombia, Guatemala, Panamá, Honduras, plant and equipment (137) (131) Nicaragua and Ecuador are subject to minimum payments of income tax. Participation in the results of associates (14) 18 Change in unrecognized tax benefits 506 344 Details of provisions, effective tax rate and deferred effects Income tax recognized in profit or loss $ 4,063 $ 2,955 a. Income tax in profit and loss: Effective tax rate 40.7% 42.3% 2015 2014 To determine deferred ISR at December 31, 2015 and 2014, entities applied the tax Income tax: rates expected to be in effect to temporary differences, based on the estimated reversal Current $ 3,884 $ 3,921 date of the temporary difference. Deferred 179 (966) Certain companies that have tax losses have not recognized the deferred benefit $ 4,063 $ 2,955 as they do not believe they have projections of sufficient taxable income in order to recover the benefit of such losses. Unrecognized benefits were $3,007 in 2015 and $3,524 in 2014. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 159 The main items originating a deferred income tax asset as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 are: Effects through Effects through December 31, profit comprehensive Translation Business December 31, 2014 or loss income effects combinations 2015 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ (321) $ (14) $ – $ – $ – $ (335) Inventories and payments in advance (12) (21) – – – (33) Property, plant and equipment 4,460 (349) – – 256 4,367 Intangible and other assets 8,317 1,436 – – 175 9,928 Other reserves (12,614) (1,033) 315 – (64) (13,396) Employee profit sharing (318) 5 – – – (313) Tax loss carry forwards (5,444) (2,518) – – – (7,962) Derivative financial instruments – 2,121 (2,121) – – – Other items 603 552 (345) (412) – 398 Total (assets) liability, net $ (5,329) $ 179 $ (2,151) $ (412) $ 367 $ (7,346) Effects through Effects through December 31, profit comprehensive Translation Business December 31, 2013 or loss income effects combinations 2014 Allowance for doubtful accounts $ (317) $ (4) $ – $ – $ – $ (321) Inventories and payments in advance 230 (241) – – (1) (12) Property, plant and equipment 3,627 328 – – 505 4,460 Intangible and other assets 5,493 969 – – 1,855 8,317 Other reserves (9,999) (1,992) (430) – (193) (12,614) Employee profit sharing (246) (72) – – – (318) Tax loss carry forwards (3,152) (2,009) – – (283) (5,444) Derivative financial instruments – 1,649 (1,649) – – – Other items 519 406 (33) (289) – 603 Total (assets) liability, net $ (3,845) $ (966) $ (2,112) $ (289) $ 1,883 $ (5,329) Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 160 The deferred income tax asset and liability have not been offset in the accompanying 19. Costs and expenses by nature consolidated statements of financial position as they result from different taxable entities and tax authorities. Gross amounts are as follows: Cost of sales and distribution, selling, administrative, and other general expenses presented on the consolidated statements of income, are comprised as follows: 2015 2014 2015 2014 Deferred income tax asset $ (10,705) $ (8,709) Deferred income tax liability 3,359 3,380 Cost of sales Raw materials and manufacturing expenses $ 95,008 $ 82,391 Total asset, net $ (7,346) $ (5,329) Freight, fuel and maintenance 3,053 2,527 Depreciation 4,360 3,380 c. As of December 31, 2015, tax loss carry forwards, pending amortization against future income taxes, expire as follows:  $ 102,421 $ 88,298 Years Amount 2015 de 2014 2016 $ 331 2017 314 Distribution, selling, administrative 2018 351 and other expenses 2019 238  Wages and salaries $ 41,229 $ 36,674 2020 459 Depreciation 2,078 2,028 2021 1,851 Freight, fuel and maintenance 5,660 4,415 2022 86 Professional services and consulting 13,358 10,098 2023 1,232 Advertising and promotional expenses 7,935 6,951 2024 5,510 Other 32,384 28,277 2025 9,301 2026 and thereafter 15,591 $ 102,644 $ 88,443 35,264 Unrecognized tax losses (9,782) Total $ 25,482 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 161 20. Other general expenses the term of the contracts. Lease expense was $4,136 and $ 3,485 for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The total amount of future minimum lease a. Other general expenses are comprised as follows: commitments is as follows: 2015 2014 Finance leases Operating Finance Non–controlling Tax incentives $ (78) $ (3) Years leases leases Interest Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 124 330 Impariment of goodwill 991 – 2016 $ 2,299 $ 25 $ 446 Impirement of brand and distribution rights 430 166 2017 1,699 5 362 Impirement fixed assets 418 – 2018 1,231 – 288 Recovery on claims – (8) 2019 915 – 206 Provision for updating MEPPs 359 2,022 2020 2,058 – – Others (76) 370 2021 and thereafter 202 – – Total minimum lease payments 8,404 30 1,302 $ 2,168 $ 2,877 Amounts representing interest – 3 388 Present value of net minimum 21. Commitments lease payments $ 8,404 $ 27 $ 914 Guarantees and/or guarantors 22. Contingencies a. Grupo Bimbo, S.A.B. de C.V. along with certain subsidiary companies have issued letters of credit to guarantee certain commercial obligations and contingent risk related to Certain contingencies exist, of varying nature, that have arisen in the normal course workers’ compensation of certain subsidiaries. The value of such letters of credit at of business of the Entity, for which management has evaluated the likelihood of loss December 31, 2015 and 2014 are US$344 and US$270 million, respectively. as remote, probable or possible. Based on such evaluation, for those contingencies for which the Entity believes it is probable it will be required to use future resources to b. The Entity entered into contracts, which requires it to acquire certain amounts settle its obligation, the Entity has accrued the following amounts: of renewable energy for an 17–year period at a fixed price, that will be updated according to changes in the INPC factors for the first 15 years. Even though the Type Amount contracts have derivative financial instruments characteristics, they fall within the exception of “own–use”; therefore, they are recognized in the financial statements Labor–related $ 201 as the consumption of energy occurs. The estimated commitment to purchase energy Tax–related 56 in 2016 amounts to $254, and is to be updated annually based on inflation, for the Civil–related 24 remaining 13 years of the contract. Other 97 Lease commitments Total $ 378 a. The Entity has long–term commitments under operating leases, related to the facilities Those contingencies for which management does not believe it is probable that it will used to produce, distribute and sell its products. These commitments vary from 3 to be required to use future resources to settle its obligations and that are not expected 14 years, with a renewal option of between one and five years. Certain leases require to have a material adverse effect are not accrued until other information becomes the Entity to pay all related expenses, such as taxes, maintenance and insurance for available to support the recognition of a liability. Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 162 The Entity has restricted cash of $177 and pledged certain assets in Brazil amounting 23. Segment information to an additional $204 million as a guarantee of certain tax contingencies, which are presented in other long–term assets. Information reported to the chief operating decision maker for the purposes of resource allocation and assessment of segment performance focuses on four geographical zones: Derived from the purchase of items of property, plant and equipment and intangible Mexico, North America, OLA and Europe. Segment revenue is comprised of bread (for all assets in Brazil concerning the Firenze brand, made in 2008, the Entity is subject to segments) and confectionery products (Mexico and USA only) tax liens and presumed successor of companies involved in these actions. The court issued an injunction, ordering the restriction of the accounts receivable of the Entity The following presents the condensed financial information by reportable segment based from the sale of branded products Firenze . The Entity continues to defend itself on the geographical areas in which the Entity operates for the years ended December 31, regarding this claim, which is expected to be resolved in the long–term. There is a 2015 and 2014: provision recorded for $21. 2015 Consolidation Mexico North America OLA Europe eliminations Total Net sales $ 76,295 $ 116,399 $ 24,272 $ 7,560 $ (5,340) $ 219,186 Operating income (loss) (*) $ 10,920 $ 5,024 $ (1,310) $ (601) $ 88 $ 14,121 Depreciation, amortization, impairment and other non–cash $ 2,511 $ 4,641 $ 1,829 $ 267 $ – $ 9,248 EBITDA (*)(**) $ 13,431 $ 9,665 $ 519 $ (334) $ 88 $ 23,369 Net income of controlling stockholders $ 5,497 $ 1,462 $ (1,662) $ (892) $ 766 $ 5,171 Interest income $ (372) $ (190) $ (30) $ (181) $ 561 $ (212) Interest expense $ 3,541 $ 1,221 $ 361 $ 1 $ (548) $ 4,576 Total assets $ 43,020 $ 130,148 $ 19,332 $ 8,253 $ (1,120) $ 199,633 Total liabilities $ 82,868 $ 45,890 $ 6,690 $ 2,881 $ (555) $ 137,774 Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 163 2014 Consolidation Mexico North America OLA Europe eliminations Total Net sales $ 72,098 $ 90,375 $ 21,931 $ 6,897 $ (4,248) $ 187,053 Operating income (loss) (*) $ 10,132 $ 392 $ 7 $ (209) $ (10) $ 10,312 Depreciation, amortization, impairment and other non–cash $ 1,917 $ 5,196 $ 849 $ 146 $ – $ 8,108 UAFIDA (*)(**) $ 12,049 $ 5,588 $ 856 $ (63) $ (10) $ 18,420 Net income of controlling stockholders $ 4,977 $ (1,011) $ (492) $ (53) $ 97 $ 3,518 Interest income $ (303) $ (309) $ (34) $ (324) $ 699 $ (271) Interest expense $ 3,007 $ 942 $ 300 $ 29 $ (586) $ 3,692 Total assets $ 36,449 $ 115,427 $ 20,176 $ 6,844 $ (1,135) $ 177,761 Total liabilities $ 78,238 $ 37,935 $ 5,941 $ 2,516 $ (471) $ 124,159 (*) Amount does not include intercompany royalties. (**) The Entity determines EBITDA as operating income plus depreciation, amortization, impairment and other cash items. For the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014 the sales to its largest customer represented 11.8% and 12% respectively of consolidated net sales of the Entity, which corresponds mainly to the regions of Mexico and the US and Canada. There are no other customers whose sales exceed 10% of total consolidated sales. 24. Financial statements issuance authorization On March 30, 2016 the issuance of the accompanying consolidated financial statements was authorized by Lic. Daniel Servitje Montull, Chief Executive Officer, and the Board of Directors of the Entity. Consequently, they do not reflect events occurred after that date. These consolidated financial statements are subject to the Entity stockholders’ approval at the General Stockholders’ meeting, where they may be modified, based on provisions set forth by Mexican General Corporate Law. * * * * * * Integrated Annual Report 2015 / Grupo Bimbo · 164 Stakeholder information Stock exchange: Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV) Ticker symbol: BIMBO G4-5 Corporate headquarters: Corporativo Bimbo, S.A. de C.V. Prolongación Paseo de la Reforma No. 1000 Colonia Peña Blanca Santa Fe Delegación Álvaro Obregón, CP 01210 Mexico City +52 55 5268 6600 Contacts Investor relations contacts: ir@grupobimbo.com G4-31 Design and production: milenio3genera Institutional relations contact: responsabilidadsocial.gpobimbo@grupobimbo.com Online: www.grupobimbo.com twitter.com/Grupo_Bimbo Integrated Annual Report 2015
