Share to Inspire Annual Report 2015 Contents 06 Message from the Board of Directors 08 12 Main performance Organization indicators profile 16 Management 29 Strategy Social and 35 Economic and Financial Analysis 41 Environmental and Stakeholders Management 61 Prêmios e Reconhecimentos 63 Clients of this Publication 64 GRI Summary 70 Credits Annual Report 2015 2 About the Report Brasilprev Seguros e Previdência S.A. used The approach and frequency of engagement herein (in a two-year streak) indicators and of the stakeholders are described throughout guidelines from Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) this report and, more specifically, in the chapon its most recent version, G4, in the criterion of ter Social and Environmental and Stakeholdessential agreement. The purpose is to clearly ers Management, as Brasilprev has specific report its economical, financial, social and enrelationship initiatives with each of its strategic vironmental performances between January 1st publics. GRI G4-26 and December 31st, 2014. The company also follows herein the guidance laid by the BrazilInformation requests and doubt clearance about ian Association of Public Companies (Abrasca) this document may be sent to comunicacao_ and for the purposes of comparability and as corporativa@brasilprev.com.br. GRI G4-31 proof of its development in sustainability criteria, it presents, in some parts, the obtained reMateriality sults since 2011. The published financial stateGRI G4-18 | G4-19 | G4-20 | G4-21 | G4-27 ments address the whole Brasilprev operation. The content preparing of the 2015 Annual ReGRI G4-17 | G4-28 | G4-32 port followed the materiality process developed in 2014, as there were no significant changes in The company discloses annually its results, havBrasilprev’s operating sector, business strategy ing published its last document on April 30th, or relationship with main stakeholders. However, 2015. Information and data compilation was extogether with the search for ongoing improveecuted by means of interviews of key individuals ment, the company reevaluated the indicators of the organization, and the content as approved presented herein to reflect more assertively its and validated by the Sustainability Commission, performance in the period. Changes are shown the Board of Directors, the Consultive Commitbelow. GRI G4-22 tee, and Management Board. This publication does not bring significant scope changes and Brasilprev’s materiality evolution process ocmaterial aspects limits related to the 2014 Ancurred in 2014 in line with the guidance laid by nual Report or from previous years, but contemGRI G4, and in full compliance with four prinplates changes in the reported indicators (find ciples that guide the report content definition: out more at Materiality). Eventual overhauls of insustainability context, inclusion of stakeholders, formation provided in previous years are market materiality and completeness. From the comthroughout the document. There was no exterpany sustainability strategy, materiality building nal verification of this publishing. GRI G4-30 | G4-29 was done by means of analysis of impact versus | G4-22 | G4-23 | G4-33 influence factors. For the impact factor, we have Annual Report 2015 3 considered the interviews with the directors and Banco do Brasil managers, along with represena session held with supervisors and managers tative documents from the industry and from the who report directly to the statutory directors. For organization. the influence factor, along with interviews with specialists in financial literacy, responsible inAs a result of this analysis, 11 essential subvestments, financial market/private pension and jects were marked as of major importance to sustainability, we have also considered the opinBrasilprev’s operation, according to the followion polls with the employees, Brasilprev clients, ing graphic and table: FINANCIAL AND PRIVATE CONSUMER FINANCIAL RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES PENSION LITERACY PROTECTION RISKS AND FINANCIAL AND PRIVATE CONSUMER FINANCIAL PRESENTED BY OPPORTUNITIES CLIMATE CHANGE PENSION LITERACY PROTECTION PRESENTED BY FINANCIAL CLIMATE CHANGE INCLUSION CUSTOMER SATISFACTION RESPONSIBLE AND FINANCIAL FAMILY AND ASSISTANCE IN INVESTMENT INCLUSION INDEBTEDNESS CUSTOMER SATISFACTION RESPONSIBLE AND FAMILY THE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT AND ASSISTANCE IN INVESTMENT INDEBTEDNESS THE RESOURCE MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT SALES FORCE ECONOMIC TRAINING AND FINANCIAL SALES FORCE ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE TRAINING AND FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE TRANSPARENT RELASHIONSHIP COMMUNICATION WITH CUSTOMERS TRANSPARENT RELASHIONSHIP COMMUNICATION WITH CUSTOMERS TECHNOLOGICAL PRACTICES/PEOPLE ETHICS, ANTICORRUPTION INNOVATION AND TECHNOLOGICAL GREEN COMPUTING EFFORTS, MONEY LAUNDERING PREVENTION INNOVATION AND PRACTICES/PEOPLE ETHICS, ANTICORRUPTION EFFORTS, MONEY LAUNDERING PREVENTION GREEN COMPUTING VENDORS ENVIRONMENTAL OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT VENDORS ENVIRONMENTAL OPERATIONS MANAGEMENT RESPECT TO DIVERSITY, MINORITIES AND RELATIONSHIP RESPECTILLICIT FIGHTING TO DIVERSITY, WORK WITH THE EMPLOYEES MINORITIES AND RELATIONSHIP FIGHTING ILLICIT WORK WITH THE EMPLOYEES RELATIONSHIP WITH THE SOCIETY AND THE GOVERNMENT RELATIONSHIP WITH THE SOCIETY AND THE GOVERNMENT Priorities in terms ofPriorities sustainability Issues given priority Important issues included in the report Important Issues Co in terms of sustainability Issues given priority Important issues included in the report Important Issues Co In addition to subjects mentioned, information Also included in the content of this document about financial inclusion, family indebtedness, are some GRI Human Resources indicators to and relationship with society and the governunderstand Brasilprev’s strategy and people ment were included as primary for having been management model. mentioned by experts in the qualitative analysis. Annual Report 2015 4 In this cycle, an internal review of materiali• Indicators eliminated: G4-PR6, DMA (former ty was executed aiming improve information FS3), FS8, G4-HR8, G4-EN34, and G4-EN29 importance and clarity. Hence, there were no changes in essential subjects, but some indi• Indicators included: G4-PR3, G4-PR4, DMA cators and GRI aspects were relocated within (former FS1), DMA (former FS2), DMA (former the corresponding subjects, in order to obtain FS4), FS11, G4-SO5, and G4-LA3 a better adjustment to Brasilprev’s business. At the same time, specific indicator were eliminatSuch changes do not alter the publishing quality ed for its lesser impact to the company, while and were made according to the sustainability others were included to enhance the report. management process of the company. Check the adjustments: The following table summarizes the relation be• Indicators relocated: DMA (former FS15), G4tween relevant subjects and GRI G4 aspects PR7, G4-EC4, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-LA10, considered herein: and G4-LA11 Relevant issues Related GRI G4 Aspects 1. Financial and private pension literacy Labeling of products and services (FS) 2. Sales force training Portfolio of products and services (FS) 3. Customer satisfaction and assistance Labeling of products and services in the resource management 4. Financial inclusion and family indebtedness Local community (FS) Investments Indirect economic impacts 5. Responsible investment management Portfolio of products and services (FS) Audit (FS) Active shareholder control (FS) 6. Economic and financial performance Economic performance 7. Consumer financial protection Labeling of products and services Claims and complaints mechanisms related to human rights Claims and complaints mechanisms related to labor practices 8. Transparent communication Claims and complaints mechanisms related to society impacts Marketing communication Compliance (SO) Compliance (PR) 9. Ethics, anti-corruption efforts, money laundering Unfair competition prevention Anti-corruption efforts 10. Relationship with customer Customer privacy Economic performance 11. Relationship with the society and the government Local communities Public policies FS: Industry indicators GRI G4 Aspects Suggested indicators G4-LA1 Job G4-LA2 G4-LA3 Work health and safety G4-LA6 G4-LA9 Training and education G4-LA10 G4-LA11 Annual Report 2015 5 Message from the Board of Directors GRI G4-1 Having completed 22 years, Brasilprev reached Internally, programs to develop strategic leadan important milestone on its path: in March, erships, to expand activities from Technical 2015, it became leader in the Brazilian private Risk Management Board, and to create Venpension market in assets PGBL and VGBL. The dors Management represented important defirst place in this indicator comes from a victorivelopments in the company operation in terms ous story that has been consolidating throughof continuity. out the years: in 2008, the company became leader in net inflow, and in 2013, it became Brasilprev has lines of work together with reguprotagonist in total deposits. latory bodies and the government. Thus, it tries to create value by helping to define strategies This is the main reason to celebrate that, at that may enhance the pension fund market. the same time, brings an even greater responWith this purpose, through the American stocksibility. Stakeholders expectations grow with holder Principal Financial Group, the company good results and the ongoing search for new brought to Brazil one of the greatest experts in challenges is a fuel that will allow Brasilprev to demography and geopolitics of the 21st centucontinue on its successful path. Thus, in 2015, ry, Richard Jackson. The experts has particiinitiatives to costumers had reception and inpated of an agenda with members from open cluded studies, workshops and Semana do and closed private pension sectors, the reguCliente (Costumer’s Week), aiming to map and lator and the government to present the study evaluate their experience from plan contracting Global Ageing and Pension Fund in Emergent to concession period. Markets: Reevaluating Pension Funds. In the business segment, products were added As for market discussions, Resolution CMN to portfolio and a support sales tool began to 4,444 was approved, which expands possibe used to expedite the plan contracting probilities of funds investments, allowing compacess to companies. The intention is to provide nies to have more options in resources manconsulting and customize plan with greater asagement, as well as in expanding products sertiveness, flexibility, and simultaneously, colportfolio. There were important progresses on laborate with financial literacy, building a condealings related to the product Prev Saúde, science about the importance of a long-term which expands benefits to customers and to savings account aiming economic indepencorporations that offer the product as a benefit dence and the achievement of life plans. to their employees. Annual Report 2015 6 Brasilprev reached an important milestone on its path: in March, 2015, it became leader in the Brazilian private pension market in assets PGBL and VGBL (...). This is the main reason to celebrate that, at the same time, brings an even greater responsibility With business dedicated exclusively to private tal plans deposits reached R$37.2 billion, 19% pension fund, the company is assisted by two more than 2014, what made the company strong and solid stockholders: while Principal reach first place in this indicator, with a market Financial Group brings international expertise share of 37.7%. in creating innovative products and services, Banco do Brasil has the largest distribution Such results are proofs of the company’s efforts network in the country. in enhancing services, products, risk management, investments management and quality. However, there is no use in having good prodThey reflect the objective of sustainable growth, ucts if there is no counseling to costumers supported by three main bases: the setting up about what would be the most proper plan of a private pension culture, responsible investaccording to their profiles and expectations. ments and responsible management, aiming to Therefore, each year Brasilprev invests in traincreate value to all stakeholders. ing BB managers, providing tools and support for consultive sales, one of the main competiWe would like to thank the former CEO, Miguel tive differentials of the organization. Cícero Terra Lima, for his commitment throughout the years in the position, considering that At the end of 2015, Brasilprev reached 1.89 he contributed to the consolidation of the commillion costumers and R$149.7 billion in total pany as a protagonist in the private pension assets under management – an increase of plan market in the country. 32.1% compared to the end of 2014, reaching a market share of 27.9%. Net inflow in the period was R$22.7 billion, 10.4% higher than The Board of Directors 2014, resulting in a market share of 48.8%. ToAnnual Report 2015 7 Main Performance Indicators Net Profit (R$ million) Assets under Management (R$ million) 1,155 149,741 987 113,314 84,556 582 67,574 484 386 49,163 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015* 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 *Net Profit adjusted by the reversion of the Supplementary Provision of Contribution (PCC) of an amount of R$514 million executed in June 15, due to the company’s decision of using the expected prerogative contained in paragraphs 2 and 3 of article 52 of SUSEP Circular Letter 517 of 2015, which determine the possibility of any compensation of Net Raising (R$ million) detected deficits in the execution of the Test of Adequacy of Liability (TAP), with unrealized gains from assets classified as Held to Maturity and used in the hedging of the same liabilities used in the TAP. The effect in the net result of this reversal was about R$295 million and refers to an adaptation to new solvency rules and should not be repeated on the next financial statements. 22,712 20,519 13,069 13,751 Total Raising (R$ million) 8,144 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 37,162 Fonte: Quantum Axis 31,227 23,177 18,244 11,719 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Annual Report 2015 8 Contracts per Product Management Expenses (%) 0.58 2,360,511 2,752,790 3,280,318 3,649,520 4,097,292 0.49 0.43 8% 7% 5% 4% 4% 0.36 0.32 0.33 39% 37% 35% 33% 31% 0.26 0.21 0.18 0.15 54% 57% 60% 63% 65% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 VGBL PGBL Traditional Controllables Total PGBL and VGBL Assets Increase Brasilprev (%) Market (%) CAGR 35% – 2011-2015 CAGR 21% – 2011-2015 43 26 38 24 24 37 21 35 26 13 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fonte: FenaPrevi PGBL and VGBL Net Raising Growth Brasilprev (%) Market (%) CAGR 34% – 2011-2015 CAGR 17% – 2011-2015 58 33 36 19 28 17 14 21 20 4 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fonte: FenaPrevi Annual Report 2015 9 PGBL and VGBL Net Inflow Growth Brasilprev (%) – CAGR 29% – 2011-2015 Market (%) – CAGR 15% – 2011-2015 61 49 30 31 21 14 8 10 7 -16 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Fonte: Quantum Axis PGBL and VGBL Withdrawals Index – The lower, the better Brasilprev (%) Market (%) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 8.6 8.7 9.3 10.4 9.4 11.1 10.6 11.1 11.2 12.9 Fonte: FenaPrevi Total Added-Value Distribution (R$ million) Since 4,389 6,218 3,615 10,139 16,069 2008 Brasilprev is the leader of net deposits 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Annual Report 2015 10 Added-Value Distribution (DVA) 5% 4% 5% 6% 2% 5% 4% 1% 4% 11% 1% 4% 1% 7% 2% 6% 2% 7% 6% 13% 82% 85% 69% 82% 86% 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Clients Government Employees Sharehoders (Dividends) Withheld Profits Employees per Type of Contract 1 11 4 4 16 4 14 22 4 12 11 10 13 11 5 457 499 519 557 550 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Full-time Employees Part-Time Workers (Jovem Cidadão) Interns Apprentices 58.38% Social and Environmental Investment Distribution (%) 0.09 0.07 13.39 Culture Sports 13.49 58.38 Education of the investments destined Quality of life to socio-environmental issues Other social projects during the year have given Environment priority to cultural initiatives 14.59 Annual Report 2015 11 Organization Profile Company Profile GRI G4-8 | G4-9 Specialized in private pension fund and dedicated Brasilprev to be a reference on its segment, reexclusively to this business, Brasilprev Seguros e cording results above the market average. GRI G4-7 Previdência S.A. keeps a consistent path and an ongoing growth through 22 years of story. GRI G4-3 The company has the mission of providing financial security solutions and high-quality services The company is a closely held corporation. Its to enable life plans. Hence, it offers PGBL and shareholders include PFG do Brasil Ltda., an asVGBL private pension plans to individuals and sociation that belongs to the Principal Financial companies. Monthly contributions, affordable to Group, and BB Seguros Participações S.A., a full many publics, can be done from R$25.00, the subsidiary of BB Seguridade, set up in December lowest pension plan value offered in national 2012 as a branch of the insurance, capitalization market. Resources are applied for investment and private pension operations of Banco do Brasil. funds with strategy options in fixed income, balTogether, the two companies have more than 300 anced with variable income, or even the innoyears of experience and contribute daily to allow vative concept target-date. The company operates all over the country through 5.4 thousand Banco do Brasil agencies. GRI G4-6 ‘Before retiring as a civil servant, I already believed in private pension funds as an investment that could change people’s future, even more nowadays, when retired people has a younger spirit and a structure. With this thought in mind, in 2000, I decided do contract a plan to my son, Bruno. The idea is that he will be able to use the money to study a graduation course related to the health sector, which he got interested after he left the army, and if he doesn’t need to use the plan, he can save to his retirement from now on.’ CLAUDIO GERMANO, sportsman and retired. He is Bruno’s father, a boy who just left the army. Claudio is 51 years old and Bruno, Brasilprev client for 16 years, is 19 years old. Annual Report 2015 12 At the end of 2015, Brasilprev had a customer At the end of 2015, credit portfolio was exportfolio of more than 1.89 million – 87% of inpanded to R$814.7 billion, and total assets dividual plans (34% to children and teenagers) amounted to R$1.5 trillion. Present in 99.7% and 13% business plans – and kept 1.4 million of Brazilian municipalities, BB has an own netVGBL plan, 683 thousand PGBL plans, and work of 17,614 points: 5,429 agencies (the 149 thousand classic plans – not commerciallargest network in Brazil), 1,799 banking offices ized anymore. GRI G4-FS6 and 10,386 customer service units with 43,054 ATM’s – the largest ATM network. At the end of the year, the company reached the first place of the market in total deposits, with a At the end of the year, BB had 37.8 million market share of 37.7%; in net inflow, a 48.8% checking accounts, 39.2 million savings acshare. Also, it achieved leadership in PGBL and counts, and more than 62.5 million customers, VGBL assets in 2015, having 28.7% of market served by 113 thousand collaborators. Since share in this indicator. Also, it accounted for December 2012, the Bank keeps a new subR$149.7 billions assets under management – sidiary, BB Seguridade, a publicly-held compa32.1% more than 2014. Net income amounted ny with listed securities, aiming at gathering into R$ .2 billion, an annual increase of 17%, and surance operations, capitalization, open private the adjusted outcome – which ignores extraorpension and related activities. Organized as a dinary effects – was R$ 85.1 million, 21.8% holding company, BB Seguridade stands in a higher than the previous year. highlight position in each one of its operation segments thanks to the quality and trustworHeadquarters are located in São Paulo, and at thiness of products and to the commercializathe end of 2014, there were 544 effective coltion exclusivity on Banco do Brasil distribution laborators, 4 trainees, 11 interns and 22 young channels. citizens distributed in two buildings in the city. Among official employees, 127 are specialized Principal Financial Group business consultants that operate all over the Founded 137 years ago, Principal Financial country. GRI G4-5 Group is a global leader in investment management and offers a wide products and services Ownership structure of Brasilprev portfolio. Located at Des Moines, Iowa, the company is specialized on pension funds and on December 31, 2015 long-term funds, with US$527.4 billion under management and a customer portfolio of 19.1 million customers worldwide. It is located over 18 countries in America, Asia, Oceania and Europe. Besides, it has strengthen its operations in 25.005% 50.01% Latin America, with good performances in Chile, 100% Mexico, and Brazil. 49.99% 74.995% Listed on New York Stock Exchange with the PFG ticker, it is a member of Fortune 500, a list Ordinary Preferential Total Stock made by the Fortune magazine that highlights Stock Stock the largest 500 North-American companies. In BB Seguros Participações S.A. PFG do Brasil Ltda. 2015, the company won the best ranking on Pensions & Investments category in the research Best Places To Work in Money Management for Stockholders Profile the fourth time. With 14,900 collaborators, it is one of the largest financial solution companies Banco do Brasil in the USA, and it offers pension plans, resource Banco do Brasil S.A. (BB) is the greatest finanmanagement, health and life insurances to indicial institution in Latin America and it is a highviduals, companies and institutions. Principal is light and many segments. Leader of the National included in Brasilprev share capital since 1999 Financial System, it operates in other 23 counand it is well rated by risk-rating agencies: A+ tries and has the mission of being a market bank (superior) in A.M. Best Company; AA(very with a public, competitive, and profitable spirit, strong) in Fitch; A1 (good) in Moody’s; e A+ pressing forward sustainable development of (strong), in Standard & Poor’s. the national economy and promoting actions for the benefit of society. Annual Report 2015 13 Claudio (on the left) e Bruno (on the right) Germano, Brasilprev clients Mission Vision Values To provide to the To be a leader and a The values set up an clients financial reference in private pension organization’s culture, security solutions plans in Brazil, recognized and, at Brasilprev, they are and high quality by its contribution to the divided into two groups, services to enable sustainable development of guiding the employees life projects. people and the country. towards enabling the company’s Mission and Vision. Our pledges Our identity These are the obligations and promises These are attitudes and behaviors the company assumes with its strategic that guide the personality of the audience. employees. Client dedication Engaged Development Entrepreneurial Integrity Innovative Quality Accessories Sustainable results Positive 14 Sustainability To Brasilprev, the sustainability commitment is inThe structured incorporation of issues concernherent to its operation. After all, its business moding social responsibility and sustainability on the el has customers that look for a pension fund as daily routine of Brasilprev happens since 2004, a way to enable long-term life plans and, thereand in 2014, the subject started to be part of its fore, believe in the continuity of the company. On management model with a strategic, clear, and the other hand, there is the financial and capital aligned approach. The subject is formalized in the market, where the company make investments, Sustainability Guidance Letter, aiming to spread complying with its institutional investor role and guiding principles of this approach, and in the moving the country economy. Thus, Brasilprev policy approved by the Management Board as a contributes to create a virtuous cycle of sustainway to support decision making. GRI G4-EC8 able development of all people and the country. This positioning is revealed by its corporate vision Therefore, 2015 was highlighted by the mobiand guides the meaning of sustainability to the lization of many areas of the company to take organization: working on setting up of a private advantage of opportunities of improvement pension culture and fostering the establishment identified through external diagnosis. Thus, of a virtuous cycle of economic, environmental there were improvements in many subjects: reand social development by means of the responlationship with vendor, risk management, human sible business management and the investments resources practices, and investments allocation made by the company. are some examples. Annual Report 2015 15 Management Corporate Governance GRI G4-34 | G4-DMA (Labor practices grievance mechanisms) | G4-DMA (Human rights grievance mechanisms) Brasilprev relations with internal and external A set of advisory statutory committees, along publics have as premises respect, ethics and with management support commissions supequity, always based on the mission, vision, and ports Brasilprev management, making the corporate values of the company. Procedures decision making process faster and more effollow the guidance of the Brazilian Institute of fective. In 2015, there were position changes: Corporate Governance (IBGC) and the best marLeonardo Giuberti Mattedi joined the Executive ket practices, driving business with accountability Finance Office, Sergio Peres took office of the and rendering accounts with clarity and integrity Executive Commercial and Marketing Office. to stakeholders. With a proactive approach, it Miguel Cícero Terra Lima left the CEO position tries to foresee segment rules, enhancing goverand Paulo Fontoura Valle joined it, indicated by nance constantly and making punctual changes the Management Board. that allow to keep a sustainable growth cycle. ‘In my life, I value physical, emotional, and inner balance. To reach that harmony I practice Pilates, I eat healthy foods, I always trip with my friends when possible, I love theater and cinema, and I practice my mind in the seniors’ university, which proves that there is no age to learn. I’m retired, and to keep my projects going, I receive my income through Brasilprev. That’s the security that will always give me new opportunities!’ LUIZA AQUINO FERREIRA is a retired teacher, plays the keyboard, an university student and a cultural events fan. She is 76 years old and receives an income through Brasilprev for 3 years. Annual Report 2015 16 Governance Structure Statutory Bodies Non-statutory Bodies General Meeting Supervisory Board Board of Directors Advisory Audit Financial Committee Committee Committee Risk Products and Pricing Technology Committee Committee Committee CEO Risk Management Management Specialist Director Ethics Strategic Analysis Clients People and Internal Product and Risk Committee and Projects Committee Committee Communication Committee Pricing Committee Committee Money Laundry Sponsoring Benefit Analysis Continuity Prevention Forum Assessment Forum Forum Management Forum General Meeting •Management Board (CA) | Higher supervising It is the main decisive company body, composed body responsible for the general business by a representative of every shareholder and is management, policies, general actions guidegenerally held once a year and extraordinarily as lines and corporate strategies, as well as folneeded. Its main assignments are to examine, lowing the company’s performance indicators. discuss and vote financial statements; debate It is composed by eight full-time members and the allocation of net incomes and the distribution eight alternate members for the three-year of dividends; elect the members of the Superviterms, entitled to reelection, who gather regusory Board and approve the price-level restatelarly every three months and extraordinarily as ment of the capital stock. needed. The chairman of the Board of Directors does not perform executive assignments Boards at the company, in line with good corporate • Supervisory Board | It is composed by four fullgovernance practices. time members and four alternate members, appointed by the shareholders for one-year terms. Permanently, the Board is responsible for supervising the actions and accounts of the managers and assessing relevant matters to be debated at the Meetings. Meetings are quarterly. Annual Report 2015 17 Committees • Advisory Committee | It is comprised of the man• Audit Committee | Of permanent nature and valaging director two members appointed by idated by Resolution 321/2015 of the National the shareholders. They are indicated by the Council of Private Insurance (CNSP), it is commembers of the Board of Directors, with term prised of three members, elected for one year that coincides with their roles performed at the (for a term renewable for up to five years) by the Board of Directors and at the Management Board of Directors. Two of them are appointed Board. Its role is to investigate and assess the by the shareholders and one is appointed by matters that are interesting to the company the shareholders in joint agreement. In addition and help the Board of Directors conduct the to the purposes provided for in the regulation, business. The other three subordinated comthe body aids the Board of Directors in the audit mittees support the Advisory Committee: assignments, supervises the activities and assesses the Independent Audit and the Internal Risk Committee | The group is responsible Audit works. for following and assessing risks related to finances, credit, image, liquidity, subscripBrasilprev has audits performed that follow their tion, operations, strategies and legal affairs own methodology, endorsed by higher levels of auin matters related to the risk management thority. All business cycles are analyzed, including policies and guidelines. It is comprised of six risk assessment procedures and social and envimembers: managing director, chief financial ronmental practices. Audits happen within up to officer, Products and Operations director, three years, except if there are reasonable grounds Planning and Control director (with a manfor the non-performance, followed by endorsement date equal to his/her post in the Board of Diby competent bodies. GRI G4-DMA (former FS9) rectors), two appointed by the shareholders, and one permanent visitant member – Tech• Financial Committee | Advisory body of the Board nical Risk Management Director. of Directors, responsible for creating general investment policies and guidelines, among other Products and Pricing Committee | It is comassignments. It is composed by five members: prised of seven members: managing dimanaging director, chief financial officer and rector, Products and Operations director, Planning and Control director, with terms coinPlanning and Control director, chief financial ciding with their roles in the Board of Directors; officer, Commercial Director and Marketing two full members and two alternate members director (with term that coincides with their appointed by the shareholders, both with tworoles performed at the Board of Directors), year terms, who can be reelected, and finally, and two full members and two alternate the technical risk management director as a members appointed by the shareholders. It guest. The members gather on a monthly basis supports the Advisory Committee within the to assess the performance of the company’s scope of general policies and guidelines that investment portfolios and the stocks in the risk define the products and pricing implementmanagement area, in addition to creating new ed by the company, aiming to enhance the investment policies to be later endorsed by the portfolio and investment strategies, as well members of the Management Board. as evaluate industry trends. Technology Committee | It is comprised of four members: managing director, Technology director (with term that coincides with his role performed at the Board of Directors) and two full members and two alternate members appointed by the shareholders. It supports the Advisory Committee within the scope of genBrasilprev relations with eral policies and guidelines of IT. internal and external publics have as premises respect, ethics and equity Annual Report 2015 18 Luiza Aquino Ferreira, Brasilprev client Statutory Committee It is responsible for the executive area and guidstrategy, so that the company is an accesance of strategic management, in line with the sory, promoting appropriate and timely soluguidelines defined by the Management Board. tions, easily and conveniently for the clients. It is composed by six members with three-year The Committee also has members from the term (managing director and Commercial and administrations of High Yield Businesses; LeMarketing directors, Chief Financial Officer, gal Affairs; Technical and Actuarial Services; Technology Director, Planning and Control diProcesses and People; Strategic Managerector and Products and Operation Director), it ment; Products and Operations, and the is supported by the following committees in the Investments Information and Control, Inteldecision-making process: ligence and Clients Management and Ombudsman. • Strategic Analysis and Project Committee (CAEP) | With monthly meetings, it is composed by six • People and Internal Communication Committee | members, being one supervisor from every The committee is composed by seven memBoard of Directors, with one-year term, under bers appointed by the Board of Directors, so the leadership of the Strategic Management. It that they represent all Boards of Directors of is responsible for supporting the decision-makBrasilprev, with at least one member each, ing process, working on the definition of the with one year term, coordinated by the Proportfolio of company projects in issues related cesses and People administration. It is reto strategic goals, targets and initiatives, Balsponsible for assisting the Board of Directors anced Scorecard (BSC) indicators, budget and in matters related to the Management of Peoprocesses. ple, actions aiming at improving the management of people and attracting and retaining • Clients Committee | The committee is supertalent; Internal Communication, actions revised by the Marketing administration and lated to the communication and mobilization its purpose is to assess and to submit to the of internal audience by means of the formal Board initiatives aiming to enhance clients channels used by the company, and OrganiAnnual Report 2015 19 tinuity Plan Management. This group is the scope of authority of Brasilprev that reports to the Risk Committee cases that can be fitted into the Circular Letter 285 of the Superintendence of Private Insurances (Susep), which formalizes insurance companies in relation to the summarized operations continuity plan in cases of contingency and emergency. The zational Setting, initiatives aiming at sustainpurpose of the forum is to design plans and able environment levels, based on the annual business continuity tests to ensure the mainsatisfaction polls to reach positive levels. tenance of the main company operations in case the activities are suspended; to enforce • Products and Pricing Committee | It supports and the guidelines related to the matter and to helps the Board of Directors in matters relatkeep them always in line; to share information ed to the general policies and guidelines of related to events that can impact Brasilprev’s definition of company’s products and prices businesses, and to provide input about the to find opportunities of new products, ideas matter to the Risk Committee. It is composed and investment strategies, along with market by permanent representatives from eight detrends at the national and International levels. partments: Processes, Internal Affairs, InforIt is composed by the managers of Products mation Technology, Corporate Communicadepartments, Retail Business, Strategic Mantion, Financial, People Management, Building agement, Planning and Management, TechInfrastructure and Operations. nology and Planning, Infrastructure and Investment Management. • Money Laundering Prevention Forum | It is composed by four permanent members: Account• Risk Committee | It is composed by members ing manager, Business and Retail and other from the Financial, Technical and Actuarial Channels manager, Changes and Benefits and Services, Risk Management and Products Portability manager, and Internal Management departments. This committee supports the and Compliance manager. It is responsible for board of directors in the matters related to reporting to the Management Council of Fithe management and regulation of the marnancial Activities (Coaf) of events that can be ket risk, liquidity, credit, subscription, image, fitted into Group 02, subsection II, of section operation, legal affairs and strategy. 13 of Circular Letter Susep No. 445/2012, which addresses the prevention and fights • Ethics Committee | It is comprised of the Peocrimes related to money laundering in frauds. ple and Processes manager; Legal manager and two managers endorsed by the Board of • Sponsoring Forum | It is responsible for assessDirectors, with one-year term. After this period, ing initiatives and to recommend to the manthere must be rotated with the other Brasilprev aging director sponsoring project proposals, in managers. The committee reports to the CEO addition to defining the actions to implement and it’s responsible to manage the Ethics Chanthe projects approved and follow their results. nel, available in the corporate internal Internet It is composed by five members: the manand on the company Internet. It is responsible agers of Digital Channels, Customer Service, for proposing the necessary actions and means Corporate Communication and Social Reto disseminate and enforce the guidelines of sponsibility, Communication and Intelligence the Code of Conduct, to analyze any behavior and Clients’ Management. deviations and propose appropriate actions on eventual cases of guidance deviations. • Benefit Analysis Forum | It is composed by five members – managers of the Products, OpForums erations, Legal Affairs, Retail Business and • Continuity Management Forum | It is responsible Technical Actuarial Services departments –, of discussing the Business Continuity Plan and five alternate members, the forum is liabasing on People, Processes and Technolble for performing the revision and/or review ogy, reporting to the Risk Committee every of the dismissal and/or granting of the risk six months and to the Technology Manager benefits contracted by the company. monthly, responsible for the Business ConAnnual Report 2015 20 Brasilprev’s Governance also counts on the drives customer service from received contacts support provided by the following instances: directly by the regulatory body channel and by the website www.consumidor.gov.br. To ensure • Audit Committee Channel | Available on the coma customized relationship, Brasilprev keeps an pany’s website and available to all audiences to ombudsman to collaborators (internal), to clients, send requests or complaints to the Audit ComBanco do Brasil employees, Susep and www. mittee Processes are fully independent and afconsumidor.gov.br (external) and to Vendors. ter verification, they may be sent to the ManThe team is comprised of eight skilled profesagement Board for proper analysis and actions. sionals, certified by the the Brazilian Association of Ombudsmen (ABO) and guided by the princi• Ethics Channel | With the warranty of full secrecy, ples laid by the International Ombudsman Assothis is an integrated and unlimited communiciation (IOA). In 2014, the area renewed its ISO cation channel with the company, available 9001:2008 and it has also been certified with nathrough its portal. It is a channel for reports tional and international accreditation, respectively of doubtful and questionable actions related to by the Brazilian National Institute of Weights and the businesses and fraudulent or unethical beMeasures (CGCRE/Inmetro) and ANSI-ASQ Nahavior observed between employees, clients, tional Accreditation Board (Anab), American body vendors and other associates. The messages that regulates management systems. received are forwarded to the Ethics Committee, which is in charge of assessing the inforIn 2015, the organization was recognized for esmation and handling the reports. tablishing the best practices in relationships with strategic publics, being a Highlight during the 4th • Code of Conduct | Known by all workers, who edition of the Brazilian Ombudsman Award 2015. must go through an on line course on the It also receive the ABT award and represented subject to join Brasilprev, it presents a set of the insurance market in the book Ouvidoria Braguidelines designed to guide the behavior of sileira – O Cidadão e as Instituições (Brazilian all employees and governance body memOmbudsman – The Citizen and the Institutions, bers, notwithstanding the hierarchy In 2015, see more at Awards and Recognitions). the document was reviewed by 35 collaborators and its presentation to teams will happen Management Model in 2016. In line with the corporate culture, it The good results achieved by Brasilprev are the comprehends issues related to the ethics, the consequence of a solid management model that individual responsibility, professional secrecy is constantly enhanced from consolidated bases and conflicts of interest, along with other imto ensure satisfaction and meeting of expectaportant factors that must be respected inside tions to different publics. Clarity and cooperation and outside the work setting. It is also available between areas create a corporate culture that for consultation on the internal internet and on privileges experience changes, while methods the website of Brasilprev. GRI G4-56 and tools strengthen a high performance and innovation. Some of the practices are: • Ombudsman | It is a department responsible for intermediation of requests, and resolution • Joint decisions | A structure of commissions, of conflicts with clarity, impartiality, indepencommittees and forums from different departdence, and confidentiality. The purpose is to ments work to support the decision-making 35 ensure rights, to guide in matters of obligations, and to create value in the relationship with strategic publics, aiming to reduce financial losses and to strengthen the institutional image through a structure that allows direct interaction with a high-level management. This channel operates solving second-instance demands, in cases that expired their deadlines collaborators or needs that weren’t met previously. Besides, it contributed to a participative review process of the Code of Conduct, available on Brasilprev’s website Annual Report 2015 21 process for the business so as to find a con• Opportunities | Professional ascension is envergence point and solutions that meet the couraged by the management model, that needs of the organization. includes concrete opportunities of professional evolution in different departments, making • Informal setting | Organized in an informal, funcavailable to anyone encouragement tools and tional and open manner, the work settings fainstruments to search for excellence and high vor proximity and the idea of equality among performance. employees, encouraging integration, professional engagement and fast decision-making • Acknowledgment | The company offers several processes. programs to recognize dedication, conscious that success depends on efficiency, experi• Shared information | With clear, objective lanence and commitment from collaborators. guage, the internal communication channels disclose information on the behavior of • Innovation boost | To Brasilprev, innovation is an the insurances and private pensions market, essential approach in the search for the differthe company and its products and services, entiation of the company within the industry. strategy and corporate goals. They are also a Innovation is essential to the identity and to mean of sharing the company achievements, the strategy of the company, basing on the in addition to the integration and the comprelaunching of new concepts and products in hension of different aspects of the scenario the national market (more at Intangible Assets) where the company is inserted. and external recognitions (more at Awards and Recognitions). • Open communication | Brasilprev values the democratic and the two-way communication • Celebration | Events, awards and parties are with the internal audience. One of the initiapromoted in dates and important recognitions tives it makes is an annual poll on the organito celebrate achievements and results. This zational setting and makes available the Interculture has the purpose of valuing and ennal Ombudsman and the Ethics Channel, what couraging professionals that are part of these allows collaborators to be heard and evaluated achievements. in relation to their demands. Annual Report 2015 22 Management Tools ation of strategic actions, the production of Brasilprev always strives to improve its daily life studies on client behaviors and relationship and processes by choosing and improving its actions with this audience. management tools. They are essential to excellent business practices and for the stakeholders, • Project Office | Its purpose is to provide methodand to allow strategic decisions are effectively ological support to define, map and measure made. The main management tools are: the performance of the many internal strategic projects. For the management, it uses the • Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) | It is an importEnterprise Project Management (EPM) – which ant model to manage and report financial and allows visualizing all development steps, the socio-environmental impacts in the business, team of professionals working on the project, support the improving of several sustainable deadlines and costs – and the Project Manpractices of an organization. In 2015, Brasilagement Body of Knowledge (PMBOK), to prev published for the first time its Annual define the best way to manage the portfolio. Report (from 2014) basing on GRI indicators In 2015, the office reviewed the work methodand using inputs from this process to improve ology and started to analyze all strategic projits practices. ects. To a better alignment with the corporate strategy and assertiveness, the office defined • Balanced Scorecard (BSC) | The tool is used for an impact and relevance matrix that allow the the communication, measurement and mancomparison and privilege of projects. agement of goals to turn the corporate strategy into indicators with well-defined metrics. • Processes and Standards Office | It provides inAvailable to all managers, it is used as the baput that help making the decisions based on sis so that each department can define its prithe analysis of the company processes. In orities and corresponding goals, in a process addition, there is ongoing work of managethat is expanded until the level of the challengment of internal standards that define roles, es presented to every member of the team. assignments, and rules, regulating how employees should interact. • Performance Cycle | Divided in seven steps during the year, the tool includes as of the defiDuring 2015, with the purpose of improving nition of BSC-aligned goals, the evaluation of management and controls, a comparison were performance results and closing the Individual executed between processes and macro proDevelopment Plan (PDI). It includes the financesses indicators and strategic indicators of cial awareness of the Profit-Sharing Plan (PPR) some business aspects. It is the first step of resulting from the performance of every eman ongoing work of 2016. The area also investployee in regards to goals and assignments. ed on training in process through workshops to managers and collaborators, as well as the • Data Base Marketing (DBM) | DBM is a database creation of Business Rules (RN) and Activity within the Business Intelligence department Rules (RA) to the new Technological Platform. that consolidates personal and operational information of clients’ plans. It allows analyz• Rolling forecasts | This initiative allows carrying ing the profile, designing behavioral trends, out simulations for periods up to five quarters, creating statistic models to implement acfinding deviations and discrepancies, offering tions and prepare studies. These deliveries more effective and solid elements in advance to provide inputs to many lines of work of the help managers in the decision-making process. company, such as the sales force, the development and follow-up of products, the creAnnual Report 2015 23 In addition to tools mentioned, since 2014, To measure general satisfaction or any other Brasilprev has an Efficiency Index, whose crespecif attribute, the company uses a scale of 11 ation took two years of work. The focus are Oppoints (from 0 to 10). Grades between 0 and 6 erations activities of the company. Thus, it was represent dissatisfaction; 7 to 8 represent satispossible to define references to the average cost faction; and 9 to 10 represent amazement. The of each transaction and the team’s ability to opcompany also uses an evaluation methodology erate, in addition to the evaluation of the volume known as Net Promoter Score (NPS), which of deliveries within a predetermined deadline. considers as end result the difference between These information created a base to look for onthe number of promoters and the total of detracgoing improvements and area efficiency. tors in the NPS survey. The company is also executing a long and careful •O  pinion Cycle 2014/2015 work of Restructuring of Information Databases (RBI). This is an action that is part of the program Annual opinion poll | Carried out together with New Technological Platform, whose purpose is R&J Pesquisa de Mercado e Opinião Institute in gather information bases to allow more efficacy 2015, the quantitative analysis suggested a satin data management and the creation of manisfaction index of 75% of 2,300 costumers conagement information panels and risk mitigation. sulted by phone all over Brazil. The main positive In 2015, this content unification continued to attributes were future assurance vision that the subjects like financial, management and legal company products offered and the security of a services, and information to clients. strong brand associated to Banco do Brasil (BB). Opinion Polls GRI G4-PR5 | G4-DMA (Product and In the Net Promoter Score (NPS), which takes service labeling) into consideration to recommend Brasilprev to Stakeholders view about Brasilprev’s perforfriend, the index was 33% of costumers. mance is essential to define strategies and it helps to evaluate products, services, and management practices. That is why the company performs often polls, monitoring needs and customers, collaborators, and partners satisfaction index. In the relationship with customers, it performs the Opinion Cycle, that includes three phases: annual satisfaction poll, in-depth interview and punctual polls. Brasilprev considers the perception of its stakeholders when it promotes its strategies definition Annual Report 2015 24 Net Promoter Score Results (NPS – %) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Individual 32 36 31 33 33 v Individual -7 4 -5 2 0 v Range Legal 35 34 35 32 33 Person Legal Person -3 -1 1 -3 1 Range In-depth interview | Following the Annual and services support to this public, in 2015, Opinion Poll, a group of 20 participants that the study registered 95% of manager satisfacshowed some dissatisfaction in the previous tion to individuals and 94% to legal bodies. In phase is invited to participate in an qualitative 2014, indexes were 93% for both. interview to a more sensible analysis of the dissatisfaction points. This action will be ex• Satisfaction of HR from corporate customers | Beecuted in 2016 to evaluate the performance tween Human Resources managers that manin 2015. age corporate pension plans, 95% declared themselves satisfied with Brasilprev services.  easonable Polls | In this phase, in which the S The 2015 poll results registers an increase of company also adopts NPS methodology, eight percentage points in relation to 2014, subjects considered priorities in previous cywhile 87% showed satisfaction. Between the cles are deepen. In 2015, the Satisfaction Cymain strengths showed are an accessible and cle third phase was concluded in 2014 and clear language and the technical knowledge the customers profiles were identified, which of the professionals. The adaptation to the will be essential to create a strategy to this functional board and the team members’ expublic in 2016. Punctual polls of 2015 will perience gain and maturity contributed to the happen in 2016. good results. In addition to the Satisfaction Cycle, Brasilprev • Organizational setting | Aiming at assessing the try to measure the performance evaluation in level of satisfaction of the employees in relarelation to the following themes: tion to the management model and the work setting, the company carries out on an annu• Satisfaction with Customer Service | At the end al basis an organizational setting poll aimed of each call, the customer has the option of at full-time workers, in a joint initiative with evaluating the service provided. In 2015, 56% the shareholder Principal Financial Group. In accepted to answer the poll and 9.4 was the 2015, 96% of the target audience answered average satisfaction rate, same result of 2014. the survey and satisfaction index reached 83%, an increase of two percentage points in • Satisfaction of Banco do Brasil managers | Aiming relation to 2014. to evaluate the view about the quality of sell Annual Report 2015 25 Risk Management GRI G4-2 | G4-14 | G4-DMA (Investiment) | G4-DMA (Anti-corruption) | G4-DMA (Public policy) | G4-DMA (Customer privacy) | G4-DMA (Compliance) To ensure the continuity of its business and to comply with the trustee obligation assumed wider, including items as intellectual property with its clients are essential points to Brasilprev. and information security, in order to enhance Thus, the company operates focusing on preexisting rules. The management also approved serve the liquidity, the solvency and the balance the rebirth of its complaint channel, whose of the benefit plans contracted. management will be charged to a outsourced company benchmarking in consultancy, audits, To ensure the following of its premises, the and risk management services. Thus, comcompany continuously invests in the improveplaints will be treated completely independent ment of its risk management strategy, following and clear, ensuring investigations and proper the best market practices and it enforces serievaluations, rebuking responsible people. The ous controlling measures with high economichannel will be put into operation from 2016. cal, financial and actuarial standards There is a constant worry in promoting the imRisk management is an attribution of the Techposition of culture to collaborators about risk nical Risk Management Board and of the Intersubjects. Therefore, mandatory trainings are nal Audit Superintendency, as well as all offiperformed about the Code of Conduct concials responsible by businesses and processes. tent, money laundry and fraud prevention, inCreated according international standards, the formation security, among others. area has an independent operation and reports directly to the Board of Directors and the ConKeeping the continuity of the risk matrix work sultive Committee. Its attributions include to defined in 2014, there was the creation and support the definition of strategic guidelines of monitoring of indicators that will be presented risk management and to care for the adequate to involved areas through a panel, the estabidentification, measurement, management and lishing of action plans, and the evaluation of report of corporate risks that can hinder the controls that mitigate those risks. company from meeting its strategic goals. As for the Compliance and Internal Control ManMain business risks are divided in eight cateagement, part of the Technical Risk Managegories: credit, strategic, image, legal, liquidity, ment Board, it is responsible for the legal conmarket, operational, and subscription. formity of Brasilprev and for the prevention of money laundry and corrupt practices, as well • Market risk | The possibility of losses caused as the compliance culture, Code of Conduct, by assets prices variation or by differences beand Code of Ethics spreading. tween indexes and terms of assets and liabilities is monitored to ensure that assumed risk In 2015, first and second levels of investment are in line with parameters established by the risk control were reinforced based on trends company. The investment strategies of each and the best international practices to manage portfolio, fund or stocks are evaluated from risk limits. Thus, Brasilprev foresaw a rule from sets of metrics that scale, control, and analyze Susep (Superitendency of Private Insurance) market conditions. that will regulate in 2016 the separation between teams that execute risks monitoring and • Liquidity risk | This category prevents losses the ones that make investment decisions. resulting from the lack of sufficient resources to comply with the pledges assumed on the Another initiative concluded in 2015 was the expected dates. To mitigate this risk, the comCode of Conduct review, performed with sevpany studies the cash flows, considering many eral areas of the company. The document got different situations, assessing the best investAnnual Report 2015 26 ment options to optimize the resources avail• Legal risk | It results from likely losses caused able and defines minimum net provision rates. by the non-compliance with legal aspects related to products, agreements executed and • Credit risk | It represents the risk of losses reregulatory, labor, fiscal, corporate, business, sulting from the non-compliance with financial civil and punitive obligations, among others. To obligations assumed by the other party or becontrol this kind of risk, the company is supcause of the depreciation of his credit condiported by skilled professionals and structured tions (rating downgrade). To avoid excessive processes that allow following any impacts on exposure to this type of risk, the resources are its products or internal processes. only invested in partners with high credit rating quality, within clear limits, and submitted to pe• Image risk | It represents the likelihood of losses riodical economic and financial assessments. caused by the credibility depreciation or bad reputation for poor performance of the trustee • Operational risk | It results from the likelihood of obligation, of unethical behavior, the revelation losses caused by inadequate or insufficient proof negative information and failure in internal or cesses, mistakes, failures in Information Techexternal communication. nology systems, operational problems, frauds or external events that bring losses to the activ• Strategic risk | It arises from the likelihood of ities or damages to its physical assets. So as to compromising the business feasibility because minimize this type of risk, the company invests of failures in the planning and the market poin the improvement of procedures, processes sitioning, lack of capacity to implement the and tools, in addition to mapping, monitoring strategies defined, credibility, and adverse and assessing every step of the work. All loss changes in the market regulation or the macfactors resulting from processes, systems, peoroeconomic situation. The strategic risk also ple and external events are recorded in a dataincludes risks related to the business condibase used to define future strategies. tions, in light of the likelihood of losses resulting from transactions not depending on the • Subscription risk | It refers to the likelihood of company, and that can influence the reach losses caused by the inadequate use of actuof the strategic objects because of changes arial methodologies or assumptions, including that make the organization or its products less failures in the technical product specification competitive. It includes the likelihood of losses and the acceptance and pricing terms. It incaused by inappropriate or inadequate stratcludes the acceptance, cancellation, longevity, egies; market share risks, because of equivmortality, morbidity and product design risks. ocal product positioning and/or not following To manage it, Brasilprev follows risk subscripthe competitors’ strategies; and project risks, tion standards; performs periodical follow-ups by means of losses caused by dubious losses to avoid deviations; develops products suitor the non-formulation and implementation of able to the current situation; keeps insurance projects essential to the business. contracts to cover any severe disability and death events; reassesses technical provisions at least once a year; and performs consistency tests and actuarial recalculations to assess technical and operation adequacy. In addition, the company submits to Independent Actuarial Audit, as determined by CNSP resolution number 311 by the Superintendence of Private Insurances (Susep). Annual Report 2015 27 Anti-Corruption policy | The anti-corruption policy ic way, the purpose was to make participants is an internal standard spread among collabounderstand what can be considered a corrupt rators that defines guidelines and procedures act and expand their knowledge about bribery, to avoid any eventual implication of the comtips, negotiations, and gifts in general, among pany in corruption affairs, directly or indirectly. other subjects. All participants had a 10-quesIt addresses guidance on accepting and offertion test and only those who had a minimum ing gifts, awards and entertainment; standards 70% of right answers received a course certiffor granting sponsorships and donations; not icate.GRI G4-SO4 allowing donations to political parties; regulations regarding the contracting of third parties Also, the organization created a strict internal and employees; and the need of providing control system to prevent money laundry to periodical training sessions to all employees identify atypical transactions. on this matter, in addition to periodical notices within the internal communication channels. In 2015, no corrupt cases were registered. GRI G4-SO3 | G4-SO5 To reinforce knowledge about anti-corruption within the company, in 2015, a mandatory on-line training to official collaborators, interns, young citizens, and trainees was started through its learning management platform, Development Center. In a quick and pedagogAnnual Report 2015 28 Strategy Economic scenario The gradual recovering of the world economy Central Bank of Brazil kept its tight monetary is the highlight of 2015. The USA promoted policy during 2015. The Extended National changes on its monetary policy after seven Consumer Price Index (IPCA) reached 10.67% years of stability. Federal Reserve Bank (FED) at the end of the year, according to Brazilian increased interest rate between 0.25% and Institute of Geography and Statistics (IBGE). 0.5% per year, but it alerted that the monetary Until the end of 2015, contraction measures policy would keep adapting to future increases adopted, essential to ensure a sustainable due to the economic condition of the country growth on a medium and long term basis, imand the world. plied on the reduction of activities rate. Brazil promoted changes on economic policy: afIndustry Performance ter a boost period, it has made tax changes. The Even in a challenging economic scenario, prieconomic activity slowdown and the search for vate pension sector kept a rising path in 2015, balance in public finances led to cut of expenses with an increase of 18.1% in total deposits in and reduction of discretionary expenditure. comparison to 2014, according to data from National Private Pension Fund Federation (FenaPrevi). The growth has always been by two decimal digits, a trend that reflects the evolution of financial literacy on Brazilian so‘When Marquinhos was 4 years old, I decided to contract a Brasilprev Junior plan for him. I encourage him to save coins in a piggy bank and, at the end of the year, we go to Banco do Brasil to make a deposit of the accumulated value on its private pension plan. To know that my grandson is financially protected with this product is one of the main reasons that induced me to contract the plan. My grandson says he wants to be a doctor, and I see education as one of the purposes of this money.’ MARCOS BITTENCOURT, 52 years old, retired fireman, fishing fan and Brasilprev client for 3 years. Marquinhos’ (7 years old) Grandfather. Annual Report 2015 29 ciety and a bigger desire of the population to Those and other strategic initiatives contribaccumulate resources in a long term basis. uted to Brasilprev, so that it could strengthen its protagonist position in the Brazilian market. The category Generating Life of Free Benefit In addition to keep the leadership in net inflow (VGBL) collected R$85.8 billion during the peand deposits, in 2015, the company reached riod, 20.6% more than 2014. It was the great first place in assets under management in responsible for this progress. As for the GenerPGBL and VGBL. This achievement is just one ating Plan of Free Benefit (PGBL), it amounted more in the successful path of the company to R$8.9 billion, an increase of 5.7% in comparithat, even though it is young, it is full of innovason to the previous year. Withdrawal rate in both tions, achievements, and a sustainable growth categories was 10.4% over reserves, 0.7 less over the market average. than 2014. In December, 2015, private pension market assets amount to R$536.3 billion, 21.3% Perspectives more than the end of the previous year. Even in a challenging economic scenario with a high inflation and interest rates, new opportuniStrategic Analysis ties may appear to social security sector. BrazilSince its foundation in 1993, Brasilprev conians are now conscious about private pension tinuously enhances its processes, controls plans as products to gather resources in a long and management model in line with its main term basis and that it is a assured investment strategy drivers: its mission, vision, and values. to population, especially in uncertainty times. To To support the organization and generate corthe ongoing growth of the sector, it is essential porate encouragement to pursue planned obthat the spreading of financial literacy concepts jectives, the company has an area of Strategic to society continues. Hence, Brasilprev will exManagement, which applies the best planning tend its initiatives on private pension culture and execution practices, such as Balanced training and it will invest on the understanding Scorecard and planning methodologies, priviof people’s needs to offer proper products and lege and monitoring of projects. services to many costumer profiles. Between the actions of the strategic agenda With the approval of Resolution 4,444 from the of the company in 2015 are the efforts to enNational Monetary Counsel (CMN) in Novemhance customers’ experience. This work apber, 2015, that will be valid starting from May, proach included the imposition of culture about 2016, pension funds managers will have more the theme with all collaborators, as well as imfreedom to allocate resources, increasing the provements in many selling processes and the diversification of costumers’ property in private relationship with that stakeholder. pension plans, what means improvements of payback and risk reduction. In addition, othAnother highlight is the implantation program New er discussion of which Brasilprev participates Technological Platform, whose purpose is to cretogether with National Private Pension Fund ate a single system to all data sources of the comFederation (FenaPrevi), as Prev Saúde, will mapany. In 2015, it was still in progress and allowed ture and bring new possibilities to industry. Bethe continuity of services and financial, managesides, Brasilprev will continuously investing on ment, and legal information to customers. the business segment, a huge potential niche, because it is an efficient benefit to attract and To the internal public, an initiative of great relgather talents and to have a differential in proevance was the Strategic Leadership Develfessionals’ view. opment Program (PDLE) and, in relation to vendors, the company has made an important In parallel to that, the company will keep their step creating a management dedicated to that investments in training the organizational envipublic, which operates during all its relationship ronment and formalization of more strict policycle with the company. cies and guidances about the company information traffic. Annual Report 2015 30 Products and Services GRI G4-4 | G4-PR3 | G4-DMA (Product and service labeling Brasilprev was the first in the industry to expand the concept of private pension. In 2014, when the market thought the product exclusively in pension plan monthly contribution is R$25.00, the retirement idea, the company restructured the lowest value of the national market. So, a its mission, using plans as tools to achieve and huge part of the population can afford the prilong-term life projects, regardless the age. With vate pension plans. unusual solution to individuals and legal bodies of many profiles and legal entities, our portfolio The selling of products occurs in Banco do offers plans to many ends: retirement, studies, Brasil agencies and through 62 insurance broeven a big travel. kers registered. GRI G4-12 Thus, it market pension plans of two categories Brasilprev has a Pricing Policy in accordance to lo– Generating Plan of Free Benefit (PGBL) and cal legislation and ethic principles. It has rules that Generating Life of Free Benefit (VGBL) – with two define price strategies in many areas and genertaxation schedules: Offsetting Progressive and al pricing guidelines of products from the phase Definitive Regressive. Resources are applied for of collection of resources (contribution period) to investment funds with strategy options in fixed benefit concession (payback to customers). Beincome, balanced with variable income, or even sides, the whole operation is performed in accorthe innovative concept target-date. The lowest dance to Susep rules. GRI G4-DMA (former FS15) Marquinhos (on the left) and Marcos (on the right) Bittencourt, Brasilprev clients Annual Report 2015 31 The distribution of Brasilprev’s portfolio is in range of Banco do Brasil, which allows to sell line with the social and economic development Brasilprev plans efficiently, resulting in a bigger context of the country and the open private delivery of business lines all over the country. pension market. The southeast region, one of Besides, some socio-economic moves like the the largest national economic poles, keeps a rise of emerging classes, bancarization and the huge amount of companies, favoring the comincrease of financial literacy have promote the pany’s representativeness, as in other sectors. increasing joining to long-term resource accuIn other regions, the company has also the mulation tools. GRI FS6 Separation of each portfolio category according to the amount of plan, by region (%) GRI FS6 NORTH PGBL 34 VGBL 62 TRADITIONAL 4 NORTHEAST REGION REPRESENTATIVENESS IN BRAZIL 4 PGBL 32 VGBL 62 TRADITIONAL 6 MID-WEST REGION REPRESENTATIVENESS IN BRAZIL 16 PGBL 30 VGBL 65 TRADITIONAL 5 SOUTHEAST REGION REPRESENTATIVENESS 9 IN BRAZIL PGBL 30 VGBL 63 TRADITIONAL 7 SOUTH REGION REPRESENTATIVENESS 52 IN BRAZIL PGBL 29 VGBL 65 TRADITIONAL 6 REGION REPRESENTATIVENESS 19 IN BRAZIL The company operates with consultive sales, Besides, training are executed to help those proaiming to guide costumers to contract the most fessionals. In 2015, more than 630 educational suitable product according to its profile and needs. initiatives were performed, either in-person or afar, To give support to the advisor and qualify relationcovering 14 thousand Banco do Brasil managers, ships, selling and monitoring materials are created besides advisors from the company. and distributed. They are commercial, technical presentations and collective plans manuals preBrasilprev has also a wide range of services pared according to customers’ segmentation. that covers many channels. Through all those Annual Report 2015 32 actions, the company intends to create value to Products this public during the whole relationship cycle Individual | The clients can choose between with the company. the types PGBL and VGBL, in the Brasilprev Plain, directed at people aged between 14 – 69 In 2015, comparing to the previous year, Brasiland with minimum monthly investment rate of prev increase its PGBL and VGBL plans basis in R$100.00 (PGBL) and R$60.00 (VGBL). The all parts of Brazil. The southeast region growth, second option is Customized Brasilprev, with the biggest national economic pole, was 8%. minimum investment of R$200.00 and that can There was an increase on plans and average be contracted by clients aged between 14 and product tickets. The south region, which has 99. There are also two other options that can be a per capita income 13% higher than the naaccessed according to the level of relationship tional average, also had an increasing of 8% of of the client with Banco do Brasil, Brasilprev Escontracted plans. In the north and northeast retilo and Brasilprev Private. gions, which registered an expansion especially of Brasilprev Junior for the huge concentration Brasilprev Junior (minors’ segment) | In 1997, Brasilprev of the new low-income class population, foinnovated by introducing Brasilprev Junior. Directed cused on educational projects to children and at children and teenagers, the product introduced teenagers, the increases were 3% and 5%, a new segment into the private pension market. respectively. For facts as the growth of formal Designed for the clients to take advantage of the jobs, in the Mid-West region, plans registered an resources at a young age, the solution has become increasing of 6%. GRI FS6 an effective tool to support the families (parents or caretakers) to set up provisions to fund projects for their children, nephews and nieces and grandchildren – mainly education-related projects. Also, what makes it easier for people to subscribe to the plan is that the product requires the lowest contribution rate of the market: R$25.00. Annual Report 2015 33 Micro-businesses, small companies and health-care Competitive Differentials providers | In October 2015, the product for miand Intangible Assets cro-business and small companies completed In 22 years, Brasilprev achieved, developed, and two years of sales. It has a big amount of subenhanced important market differentials and intanscriptions because of its benefits, with a highgible assets. They are essential to a sustainable light to the progressive advantage, which allow growth of the company. Some highlights are: taxes to reduce as reserves increase, individually or collectively. Besides, it allows an individual• Strong brand | The reputation and strength of two ized invoicing, releasing this responsibility from shareholders, together with a path full of achieveHuman Resources area from companies. ments and consistent management, are the background of the strong brand of the company. Corporate | In 2015, Brasilprev release new penBrasilprev has as shareholders BB Seguros Parsions plans to wholesale market. They were ticipações, a full subsidiary of BB Seguridade, a developed from predefined models, based on holding formed in December, 2012 as an arm in high-complexity variables that adapt to commatters of insurance, capitalization and private panies needs and market demands. Thus, pension plans operations (the biggest financial the company intends to reach all companies, institution in Latin America); and Principal Finanregardless its size or the type of plan to be cial Group, global leader in private pension and contracted. It was also developed a business investment management, bringing to Brasilprev platform with an on-line sales tool by which an international expertise. The partnership that Brasilprev advisors may offer the best solution lasts over 17 years between these two major in matters of pension funds with less papers, conglomerates that together add up to over 300 what helps the environment and allows more years of experience has allowed greater access modernity and efficiency on transactions. So, to the knowledge and the technology to build a a new operation model was structured to progood reputation to Brasilprev. mote self-sufficiency and mobility to advisors, with less paperwork and more agility. • Specialization | The business exclusively devoted to private pension makes the company difServices ferent from its main competitors, which market Brasilprev offers to its clients services about many products. This allows it to be competiits plans by means of its different relationship tive in its releases and to manage investments channels, such as Brasilprev Portal, the Cusfocusing on the long run, providing differentitomer Service and the ATMs available on the ated value to all of its relationship audiences Banco do Brasil network (more information on and ensuring a leading position in the Brazilian the chapter Clients). private pension market. Concerned about making people more aware of the importance of saving in the long-term and financial literacy as a whole, it also makes available in these channels clear and objective informaBrasilprev makes it tion about investments. (more information on the chapters Clients and Society). easier for people to subscribe to pension plans with the lowest contribution rate of the market: R$ 25.00 Annual Report 2015 34 • Positioning | In line with its Mission, Brasilprev devoted at the marketing and distribution of works in the market in a differentiated manner, investment products. disseminating the concept of long-term savings to enable different life projects. This way, the • Consultative selling | All phases of the long-term commitment towards sustainability is inherent to customer relationship with the company are its work, once the company assumes the trustee carefully monitored to ensure satisfaction. Thus, obligation with its clients and shareholders and, it operates with a consultative selling in which for such, aims at the business continuity (more skilled professional are prepared to guide while information on the chapter Social and Environchoosing a plan more suitable to the customer’s mental and Stakeholders’ Management). profile and expectations. As a consequence, Brasilprev has been keeping withdrawal levels • Innovative profile | Innovation is an important item below the average percentage seen in the marin Brasilprev’s corporate identity. The compaket and as of 2008 it has been the leader in the ny follows market trends closely and conducts net deposits index (difference between deposits studies that support the release of new products volume less the volume of withdrawals), securing and services, in addition to place pension plan gains of scale and sustainable business growth. as an option to make long-term life projects real. • High levels of satisfaction | Historically, Brasilprev • Accessibility and capillarity | Brasilprev offers afhas good results in opinion pools, considered fordable financial solutions, for profiles, objecan important tool to evaluate the experience tives and ages within all social layers, from rates of each public with the company. The list inas of R$25.00, the lowest rate in the market. Becludes customers, Banco do Brasil managers, sides, it is found in the entire country because of corporate plan managers, organizational setits main distribution channel: over 5,400 Banco ting and the quality of the services provided do Brasil branches. GRI FS13 | FS14 by the Customer Service. (More information on chapter Opinion Polls). • Customer acknowledgment | One of the sustainability guidelines in Brasilprev, reinforced by • Certificates | Renowned international certificacostumer strategy, is to create value during tions prove that Brasilprev management practhe whole life cycle of this public in the comtices are excellent. Some highlights are ISO pany. One of the tools that enable this work 9001:2008, along with the Internal, External, is the database that includes characteristics, Ombudsmen, Vendor and the Customer Serpreferences and expectations, which is used vice departments – also recertified in the Braas the basis to make a detailed profile of every zilian Self-Regulation Program (Probare) and segment and create products and services in Management Maturity Label (more information line with specific demands. on chapter Awards and acknowledgment). • Skilled professionals | The company has a team with 127 skilled advisors – an increase of 9% in relation to 2014 – skilled, specialized advisors certified by the Brazilian Association of Financial and Capital Markets’ Entities (Anbima) in the Anbima Professional Certificate (CPA 10 and CPA 20), directed at the professionals In line with its sustainability guidelines, Brasilprev aims to create value to its customers in all relationship phases Annual Report 2015 35 Economic and Financial Analysis Investments Brasilprev produces selective and constant inFor other projects, the invested value resulted in vestments for the continuous improvement of R$24.3 million in 2015, in which: the quality of its management practices and processes, being aware that the creation of growing • 1% invested to make new internal processes, and sustainable results depends on a focused systems, and services so as to increase producand efficient administration. tivity, improve quality and reduce costs. In 2015, the company invested in fixed assets, • 1% directed at legal affairs in order to foster intangible assets, and projects. Fixed assets adjustments to changes in the legislations and included furniture, machinery, computer equipadjustments to new products and/or services, ment and other physical property essential to along with the implementation of internal conthe development of Brasilprev’s activities. Intantrols and accounting standards. gible assets included the procurement of software to enhance the company’s technological • 96% invested in innovation projects and cominfrastructure. The projects, on the other hand, petitive edge, aiming at product or service diwere chosen to privilege business sustainabiliversification or market re-diversification, thus inty and innovation, and they were selected to creasing the capacity of making businesses and keep the competitive advantage in the market. attracting customers. ‘Nine years ago, my first son was born, Bruno. Two years later, my other gift came to this world, the little Enzo. My two princes has autism and Brasilprev plans, which I contracted just after they were born. The plans will be the support to any future need, or further, to allow them to achieve their objectives. Today, I attend actively to autism disturbs people developing groups and with my individual plan, I want to build a project related to the subject.’ MARINA LORENZETTI is a banker and mother of the painter and future chef Bruno, 9 years old, and of the talented swimmer Enzo, 7 years old. She is 42 years old and she has been a Brasilprev client for 15 years. Annual Report 2015 36 • 2% consumed in the enhancement of tools Investments per type (%) and instruments to manage operational risks and conformities, including the risk of financial loss due to failures in procedures, non-confor11% mities and frauds. 14% Assets under management GRI G4-DMA (InOther projects direct economic impacts) | G4-DMA (Economic performance) | Fixed assets 75% G4-DMA (Active controlling interest) Intangible assets Brasilprev financial experts’ team works with the philosophy of medium and long-term investments and follows up the behavior of portfolio funds and the evolution of trading portfolios on a daily basis, so that the allocation of resources obtains the best results. In order to provide the best return on investments, practices recognized by the market and strict controls were of the companies in Brasilprev’s credit portfolio adopted, including risk analysis and evaluation received a positive evaluation according to this of different aspects of the macroeconomic situscreening. Furthermore, 18% of them had reation. This is an essential commitment given the sources invested by the company and used the fiduciary duty assumed by the company with its granted additional limit. GRI G4-DMA (former FS2) | over 1.89 million clients and by the asset adminG4-DMA (former FS5) | FS10 | FS11 istration of R$149.7 billion. Governance in the management of assets The pillars that support the company’s investGRI G4-EC8 ment philosophy are the strategic allocation of Once Brasilprev has the responsibility of invesresources and the diversification, which require tor, it keeps a hefty system and a solid structure a careful observation from the teams regarding to guide its investment decisions. The aim is to market performance, along with the rules of the provide the best long-term return for clients. market regulatory authority. In addition, the comThus, it implements a controlled governance, inpany does not make decisions based on punctuvestment and risk management process, guided al fluctuations and always considers environmenby ethics, caution and transparency. The Board tal, social, and governance issues in this process. of Directors is responsible for approving the policies and general guidelines for this work, put Credit Limit Premium (CLP) into practice by the Financial Committee and the Based on its sustainability strategy and observing company managers – which advise BB Gestão the drivers for creating growing and sustainable de Recursos – Distribuidora de Títulos e Valores results, for contributing to people and the counMobiliários S. A. (Asset Management/Distributor try’s development and for keeping responsible of Securities, BB DTVM). investments, in 2015, Brasilprev advanced in its assets under management model through the elaboration of a Credit Limit Premium (CLP). It aims at recognizing, based on a comparative and integrated analysis, companies that comprise its credit portfolio and at seeking to incorporate susIn 2015, Brasilprev registered 149.7 tainability practices in its management. The CLP uses the CSI – Corporate Sustainability Index – as a guide for such act. By the end of 2015, 28% R$ billion in assets under management Annual Report 2015 37 The Investment Policy is implemented in the entire ment. The company is acknowledged by its skills asset portfolio and approaches any decision rein the management of third parties’ resources garding allocation of resources, in its varied decisive and management of investment funds of clients levels. The document also highlights some financial from Banco do Brasil. It is a leader in the national risks, such as credit, market and liquidity, besides industry of investments funds and managed portconsidering systemic risks and observing economfolios, based on the classification of the Brazilian ic opportunities that are sustainable and socially reAssociation of Financial and Capital Markets’ Ensponsible. Since Brasilprev works with a long-term tities (Anbima, acronym in Portuguese). product, it defines the demands, requirements, and conditions that guide its investment management BB DTVM manages Brasilprev’s exclusive investstrategies with transparency. GRI G4-DMA (former FS1) ment funds and follows the ethical and legal principles in compliance with the current laws and Brasilprev has enforced, for more than 15 years, the with the Ethic Code of Banco do Brasil merged Asset and Liability Management (ALM) process for corporation. The resource management follows the products with warranty clauses in the liabilities. the guidelines that are included in Brasilprev’s InThus, it promotes integrated management of asvestment Policy and in the management terms sets and liabilities and enables choices that secure celebrated between the parties. the best possible allocation in relation to investment terms and risks. This important business partner of the company is a signatory of Principles for Responsible Asset diversification is the main element to conInvestment (PRI), a program for global investors trol and mitigate risks done by the company. In in association with the Financial Initiative of the this context, environmental risks are indirectly Environment Program (Unep, acronym in Portuconsidered too. The company also follows as guese) and with the United Nations Global Comstandard of investment opportunities selection pact. The corporations following these principles the international concept of Prudent Person make the compromise of enforcing practices Standard, i.e. making choices on behalf of clithat favor the integration of environmental, soents as if they were for themselves, always aimcial and corporate governance matters, both in ing at gains that consider both the security of the investments analyses and decisions, which the invested capital and the consequent results. supports the activities performed by the compaBrasilprev also enforces the principle of observny on behalf of Brasilprev. GRI G4-DMA (former FS5) ing the regulatory aspect regarding opportunity; risk-related impacts (whether positive or negaThe company ended the fiscal year of 2015 with tive); financial consequences and mitigation acmanaged equity amounting to more than R$600 tions (if needed); the so-called risk management billion. As of 2006, the company withholds the (monitoring and controls); and the management Manager Quality 1, the MQ1, maximum rating in costs (if applicable). GRI G4-EC2 management quality by Moody’s Latin America. Since 2012, it also withholds the International BB DTVM Certification ISO 9001:2008 – Total Quality, one BB Gestão de Recursos – Distribuidora de Títuof the most respected titles in quality of service los e Valores Mobiliários S. A. (BB DTVM) is in and processes of credit risk analysis. charge of Brasilprev’s assets under manageTo mitigate risks and to improve investments security, the company invests on assets diversification Annual Report 2015 38 Groups of Funds Brasilprev has seven groups of investment funds with different structures. Among the allocation strategies, the company does not make direct invest7 ments in infrastructure, only indirect investments, thus investing resources in corporate bonds from companies within this industry: GRI G4-EC7 • Classic FIX | Directed at clients with very low tolerance to risks, who are very close to attaining families their life projects and feel the need to protect their wealth. Therefore, they are more cautious and avoid fluctuations in their investments, givof investment funds with ing up greater long-term return. different compositions are • Family FIX | Directed at clients who wish return kept by the company, with in the long run and minimum risks at operadiversified allocation tions; their main goal is yield and preservation of financial wealth. By means of the fund, strategies Brasilprev invests in government securities, aiming at attainment the return of the appealing interest rate in the long run, and in corporate bonds, as means to achieve premium above the interests paid in bonds offered by the government for sale. • Compound 49D | Another group of funds with • FIX Premium | Directed at clients with a more enterprising nature and focused on wealth valumoderate profile, since the expectations of variing. Investments in variable income are directed ation of the quotas is greater than other fixed at bonds from companies with good records of income offers. The goal is to provide a differendividends payment. Thus, up to 49% of the retiated yield investment option in the long run. sources are invested in variable income and at least 51% in fixed income. • Compound 20 | The goal is to obtain yielding and differentiated valuation in the long run, assum• Lifecycle | Perceived as the most modern ining moderate risks in operations, directing from vestment concept in the private fund market, 15% and 20% in variable income, especially in it is known for following the client’s different equity funds, and between 80% and 85% of lifecycles. In practical terms, it allows periodithe resources in fixed income (government secal adjustments by Brasilprev’s experts in fixed curities and corporate bonds). and variable income percentages, aiming at greater balance, to ensure the best risk/return • Compound 49 | Of enterprising profile, with longratio. The farther from the target date (when term valuation goal, up to 49% of the investthe project will be put into practice) the greatments in this fund are allocated in variable iner the exposure of the resources to variable come (mainly equity funds) and at least 51% in income, since there will be more time to overfixed income (government securities and corcome any financial oscillations. On the other porate bonds). hand, the closer the date when the project will be put into practice, the fund becomes more and more conservative with greater allocation in fixed income, focusing on yield and protection. In this group of funds, Brasilprev offers three categories with different aspects according to the timeframe defined by the corresponding life projects of the clients: Lifecycle 2020, Lifecycle 2030 and Lifecycle 2040. Annual Report 2015 39 Rentabilidade dos fundos Management fee Fund name 12 months (%) 24 months (%) 36 months (%) 48 months (%) 60 months (%) (% per year) FIX 3.40 9.35 17.41 20.22 28.98 40.42 FIX II 1.50 11.43 21.94 27.27 39.15 54.37 FIX III 3.00 9.78 18.35 21.67 31.06 43.24 FIX IV 2.50 10.32 19.53 23.50 33.69 46.85 FIX V 2.00 10.87 20.73 25.37 36.40 50.57 FIX VI 1.25 11.70 22.55 28.21 40.53 56.30 FIX VII 0.80 12.20 23.66 29.96 43.09 59.86 FIX VIII 0.70 12.31 23.90 30.32 FIX IX 2.80 9.90 18.49 FIX X 1.80 11.09 21.20 FIX A 0.95 12.02 23.24 29.30 42.13 58.50 FIX C 1.00 11.98 23.16 29.18 41.95 58.26 Prev FIX 3.00 9.46 17.91 18.77 24.91 35.42 Classic 1.00 12.28 23.40 Classic II 1.80 11.39 21.43 Premium 1.25 9.15 20.57 Lifecycle 2020 2.00 6.09 16.11 3.48 24.02 25.97 Lifecycle 2020 II 3.40 4.62 12.90 -0.79 17.25 17.42 Lifecycle 2020 III 3.00 4.99 13.63 Lifecycle 2020 IV 2.50 5.48 14.72 Lifecycle 2020 E 1.25 6.86 17.82 5.79 27.72 30.68 Lifecycle 2030 2.00 -1.50 4.30 -11.62 5.41 3.12 Lifecycle 2030 II 3.40 -2.89 1.38 -15.32 -0.43 -3.97 Lifecycle 2030 III 3.00 -2.77 1.94 Lifecycle 2030 IV 2.50 -2.31 2.94 Lifecycle 2030 E 1.25 -0.79 5.83 -9.67 8.53 6.95 Lifecycle 2040 2.00 -4.32 -0.02 -15.86 -0.36 -4.68 Lifecycle 2040 II 3.40 -5.66 -2.82 -19.37 -5.86 -11.22 Lifecycle 2040 III 3.00 -5.24 -1.97 Lifecycle 2040 IV 2.50 -4.76 -0.97 Lifecycle 2040 E 1.25 -3.63 1.43 -14.01 2.58 -1.16 Compound 20 3.50 4.64 10.33 8.98 16.49 19.48 Compound 20 II 1.50 6.76 14.86 15.77 26.26 32.13 Compound 20 III 3.00 5.15 11.41 10.58 18.78 22.43 Compound 20 IV 2.50 5.64 12.48 12.19 21.09 25.42 Compound 20 V 2.00 6.23 13.73 14.06 23.76 28.87 Compound 49 3.00 -0.16 3.26 -1.15 5.47 1.59 Compound 49 II 2.00 0.83 5.34 1.87 9.78 6.81 Compound 49 III 1.50 1.01 5.81 Compound 49 D 2.00 1.17 3.54 1.04 10.01 19.13 Compound 49 D II 1.50 1.62 4.49 Compound 49 D E 1.25 1.91 5.08 3.31 13.31 23.61 Special Multimarket 1.25 -0.70 8.00 -7.56 12.63 12.85 Annual Report 2015 40 Results In 2015, Brasilprev kept the good performance regabove the 9.4% of the market. The corporate istered in the last years and made a new accomsegment raised R$7.2 billion, a 26.1% growth – a plishment: it became market leader in the assets rate higher than the one from 2014 and above under management of PGBL and VGBL classes. the market, which registered 12.3%. (Sources: FenaPrevi and Brasilprev). Net deposits The company remained market leader in net dePortability posits, which withholds as of 2008, 48.8% of Portability is a mechanism that allows the client to market share. This indicator means the difference transfer the accumulated reserve to another supplebetween everything that is collected less what is mentary fund manager and was also positive during redeemed by the clients, and it recorded R$22.7 the fiscal year of 2015. Brasilprev received R$1.8 billion in the end of 2015, 10.4% higher than the million and granted R$1.4 million, thus resulting in a result from 2014. positive net portability of R$422.5 thousand. (Source: Quantum Axis). (Source: FenaPrevi). Assets under Management Technical Reserves Brasilprev ended the fiscal year of 2015 with The balance of technical reserves increased 32.5% R$149.7 billion in assets under management, volcompared to the year of 2014, above 22.2% of the ume 32.1% above the volume recorded in 2014, market average, thus resulting in R$148.2 billion. achieving 27.9% of the market share. In PGBL and (Sources: FenaPrevi and Brasilprev). VGBL classes, the company achieved a new leadership, amounting R$138.8 billion, a 34.6% growth Added-Value Statement (DVA) GRI G4-EC1 above the market that increased 24.0%, ending the The added value (DVA) represents a financial fiscal year of 2015 with 28.7% of market share. statement that presents the wealth produced by (Sources: FenaPrevi and Brasilprev). the companies and the corresponding distribution between different stakeholders. In 2015, the Deposits added value amounted to R$16.07 billion, 58.5% Brasilprev remained in the leading position in toabove 2014, with the following division: 86% for tal deposits in 2015 with R$37.2 billion, a 19% clients, 6% for the government (taxes), 5% for the increase compared to 2014, and above the marshareholders, 2% in withheld profits, and 1% for ket average, which increased 18.1%. The market employees. share in this indicator was of 37.7%. In the PGBL and VGBL products, there was a 19.3% increase Profit reinvestment policies and distribution of compared to 2014, with a market rate of 19%, dividends are established in the company statamounting R$36.7 billion in deposits. ute and are deliberated in General Meetings, and (Sources: FenaPrevi and Brasilprev). states that shareholders are to receive a minimum mandatory dividend that is at least 25% of Deposits per segment the period’s net income. The deposits of Brasilprev in the individual segBrasilprev is the market ment amounted to R$30 billion, 17.4% higher than in 2014, whereas the market increased leader in PGBL and 19%. In the segment directed at minors – in which Brasilprev has been the leader of the reVGBL assets, net deposits serve market since 1997, after being the first to create this product, which today represents 34% and deposits of the company’s individual plans –, the company amounted at R$1.2 billion, a 10.9% increase Distribution of the added value (R$ million) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Clients 3,616.8 5,263.7 2,473.80 8,298.4 13,845.8 Government 314.8 397.9 476.6 762.9 963.1 Employees 71.9 72.6 82.6 91.1 105.0 Shareholders (dividends) 216.0 239.4 404.2 426.2 770.3 Withheld profit 169.7 244.6 178.3 561.1 385.2 Total 4,389.2 6,218.2 3,615.5 10,139.7 16,069.4 Annual Report 2015 41 Social and Environmental and Stakeholders’ Management Introduction GRI G4-24 | G4-25 | G4-26 | G4 DMA (Economic performance) Brasilprev’s performance with its stakeholders • Working to add value to all target audiences is based on its sustainability strategy, and the starting point was the corporate vision of “being • To continuously incorporate into its daily activa market leader and reference in supplementary ities and processes practices that foster suspension in Brazil, admired by its contribution to tainable development the sustainable development of people and the Country.” Thus, the company defined a Letter of • To encourage ethical and transparent dialogue Guidelines and a Sustainability Policy to constant in all relationships disseminate this position of the company and promote alignment with all business employees • To make its employees and business partners and partners. These documents formalize the aware of the sustainability role and its imporprinciples that guide the company sustainability tance for the business continuity management and serve as supporters for the decision-making process. Some major principles • To value business opportunities that can conregarding this issue are: tribute to the sustainable development • To encourage the responsible management of the investment portfolio, considering the trustee obligation and the commitments assumed with the stakeholders, along with the institutional investor role of the company Annual Report 2015 42 • To foster public initiatives directed at SustainShareholders ability, assuming pledges with matters that are Brasilprev’s relationship with its shareholders is important for the company’s business guided by the principles defined in the company’s Corporate Governance Policy, also included in • To aid other organizations in initiatives aiming the Letter of Sustainability Guidelines. Producing at finding solutions for common challenges that growing, sustainable results and keeping an equicontribute to the sustainable development of ty relationship, giving priority to transparency, acpeople and the country countability and to the corporate responsibility of the relationship are Brasilprev’s pledges with this • To disclose to the public the Sustainability fundamental stakeholder. The support and parGuidelines followed by the organization and to ticipation of the shareholders are essential so that periodically disclose the evolution of the comassertive decisions are made. Every year, Annual pany’s practices that contribute to the attainOrdinary and Extraordinary General Meetings are ment of this goal. held to discuss strategic matters, such as elective positions and the approval of amendments to the Brasilprev has a close relationship with strucarticles of incorporation and the rendering of actured approach with the stakeholders perceived counts (read more in Corporate Governance). as strategic and such relationships are grounded in core values such as ethics, transparency and There are also punctual meetings throughout the equity. Implementing actions aiming at adding year to discuss business strategies and results, as value to these audiences is also in line with the well as to promote the integration of the employees premises of the Active Life philosophy, which aswith the shareholders’ agents. sumes that, so as to make life projects feasible, one needs to pay attention to four aspects: finanClients G4-DMA (Grievance mechanisms for impacts cial literacy, quality of life, entrepreneurial attitude on society) | G4-DMA (Marketing communications) | G4and social responsibility. DMA (Local communities – Financial sector) Aware of the importance of a close relationship Financial literacy assumes that the good manwith its clients, Brasilprev’s value proposal is agement of financial resources is essential to consultation support, comfort and higher permake it possible to plan and enable life projects. formance in assets under management. The But saving is useless if one is not healthy and eacompany is also aware of its role in promoting a ger. As a consequence, the second aspect is the private pension culture. Therefore, it tries to offer quality of life, essential so that one can take adthe solution that most adapts to the expectavantage of achievements and attain goals, which tions and profile of each client, investing in clarity also requires an entrepreneurial attitude, which and transparency of services and in following-up encourages people to put their plans into practhe entire lifecycle of each contractor since the tice and carry out more daring proposals. And so moment of plan purchasing until the phase of as to fully take advantage of these achievements, resource withdrawal. it is essential to cooperate so that society and the environment are adequately treated, with social In 2015, the strategy of experience and of relationresponsibility, so that these projects are sustainship with this audience, defined after a long study able in the long run. in 2014, was the subject of several meetings, workshops and actions focused on employees. The results of clients’ opinion polls in internal channels and forums were disclosed in the first semester (learn more in Opinion Polls). In the second semester, 16 workshops with the subject Client Experience were conducted, which trained Brasilprev’s work 515 employees in such subject, corresponding to with its stakeholders 87% of the company staff. The content presenis in line with its sustainability strategy Relatório Anual 2015 43 ted mapping methodology of the client’s journey and explained Corporate Clients how each professional was in charge of developing the perThe year of 2015 marked some important developments in ception and satisfaction of this audience and of strengthening the service to companies that offer Brasilprev’s pension plans this relationship. 82% of the participants were satisfied with to their employees. The importance of this benefit to attract this action. and retain talents is already known and the company aims at providing options that add real value to the organizations and In September – Client’s Day celebration –, the Client Week their employees. was celebrated internally with content directed at the Brazilian consumer behavior trends, including legal aspects, speThus, in 2015, products with more adequacy to the corpocific audiences (like women, men and residents from comrate clients’ reality were created, as well as structuring of a munities) and the digitalization in the Country. Ten lectures system that provides more mobility and autonomy to the penwere managed by invited professionals, besides employees sion plan consultants in all the sale process. After these piecfrom the company, resulting in more than 700 participations. es of news, client’s demands as to the plan design started The event obtained, in the end, a high level of approval, with to be done online, thus promoting several benefits, such as a 95% rate of employees’ satisfaction. decrease of paper use and transportation, as well as increase of staff’s productivity. In the same period, the Principal Financial Group (PFG) conducted for the first time in Brazil, the Client Experience ConferBrasilprev has a team of consultants specialized in the corence for Latin America. The event is done once a year and in porate industry. They offer complete support, since plan this edition, it focused on the dissemination of concepts and modeling, which can be customized, implementation to benideas on how to improve the experience of this important auefit management. The team in charge of this service was in dience, since the moment before sale, the post-sale moment constant trainings throughout the year, which reflects on the to the entire relationship chain. Brasilprev’s employees, BB Sesatisfaction pointed out by corporate clients. guridade and Claritas, represented Brazil among the 50 participants – including PFG employees from Mexico and Chile. Financial literacy actions are also provided to employees from the contractor companies, as follows: Solicitation: GRI G4-DMA (former FS16) Financial literacy program: Lectures: release of corporate plans E-learning: My Life Project platform offers an with presentations to disseminate the online course on budget planning. The serculture of financial literacy and pension vice is also available for prospects. for better planning and use of personal financial resources. Support material: participant’s material Better Choices Workshop: directed at clients with didactic content to extend the diswho are close to the end period of the laclosure of financial literacy and pension bor cycle and of the life project performance concepts. and that approaches, among others, financial changes during the post-labor phase, the pension literacy, and the formation and preservation of reserves. Exclusive hotsite to guide employees that do not work in the companies anymore, but that intend to continue using the plan. Relatório Anual 2015 44 Accessibility GRI FS14 Customer service The 5.4 thousand agencies of Banco do Brasil Brasilprev Customer Service is constantly recogfollow the Technical Standards of Accessibility nized by its quality of service. In 2015, it won for from the Brazilian Association of Technical Stanthe tenth time the Modern Consumer Premium dards (ABNT, acronym in Portuguese). They ofof Excellence in Customer Services, which is fer priority to Disabled People (PCD, acronym in the most complete study of quality evaluation of Portuguese) (temporarily or definitely), the eldercustomer services in Brazil. It also renewed the ly, pregnant women, nursing mothers and mothcertificates ISO 9001:2008 and Probare (Brazilian ers with infants. Circulation is facilitated, so as Self-Regulation Program), in the classes Code of the access to the facilities, tellers and ATMs for Ethics and Management Maturity, which certify disabled people (temporarily and definitely), bethe excellence in this channel’s performance. sides rendering of information about operational procedures for people with visual or hearing In the fiscal year of 2015, the area also tried to impairments. Through BB branches, found in improve the services it provides. For example, it several regions in Brazil, the company also promaintained a dedicated and trained team spevides services to residents from low population cifically to serve those who ask for information density or poor areas. about Income Tax in the months of March and April. This action promoted a considerable imBrasilprev Customer Service and Ombudsman provement in the period of service, the average insure accessibility through an exclusive phone duration of each call decreased from eight to four line for people with hearing or speech impairminutes, which brought an increase in the area ments, along with a specific chat room. The operational efficiency. company’s home office building has also been adjusted to facilitate the access by means of The Business Information tool was created to a proper sidewalk in the surroundings; supplesupport the agents in the event of doubts during mentary lightning on the street alongside the the service, which has a direct impact on the building; the adjustment of one bathroom per client, since it fastens information provision. In floor for disabled people; two elevators with addition, the area maintained its training prolateral crossbars, audio communication and grams twice a week, bulletins with clarification of Braille signage; tactile paving for visually imthe most frequent doubts, and the Special Oppaired people; accessible handrails; anti-skid erations Group (GOE, acronym in Portuguese) tapes in the staircases; external platform lifts; to handle the Customer Service-related claims front desk; and special gates for wheelchair usreceived through Ombudsman and social neters. Furthermore, the room for clients’ individuworks, as well as to help customers that go to al service is located in the first floor to facilitate the company’s home office in person. In 2015, even more the entrance of this audience. the Customer Service registered 850 thousand calls, 26 thousand e-mails, and it maintained 9 thousand contacts through chat services. Data from the Customer Service (in thousands) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Calls 849 749 796 775 850 E-mails 22 15 74 45 26 Chat services 44 54 11 13 9 Total 915 818 881 833 881 Annual Report 2015 45 Marina (on the left), Enzo (in the middle) and Bruno Lorenzetti (on the right), Brasilprev clients Ombudsman Mobile phone The department, certified by ISO 9001:2008, Using the mobile phone to follow the plans is which implies high quality standards, is liable for more and more important every year in the resolving client demands with transparency and lationship of Brasilprev with its clients due to its equality, mainly from lower courts (learn more in practicality and functionality. In 2015, 3.6 million Corporate Governance). transactions were carried out in the tool, a 101% increase compared to 2014. Website Brasilprev’s portal offers a wide range of services, The clients can also receive SMS with informawith clear and objective language, to clients and tion about the plan balance, withdrawals, pendpotential clients, from simulations to decide on ing documents and bar codes for the payment the plan to explanations on the Tax Return, to of contributions, which also increased 11% comlearn how to act in compensation. It is also an impared to 2014. portant financial and social security literacy channel, since it provides content on finances (like Banco do Brasil ATMs calculator and brochures, among other materials) Clients can also follow the transactions in their and educational videos. plans in Banco do Brasil ATMs, which amount to over 44 thousand units spread across the counIn the exclusive customer area, it is possible to try. In 2015, the number of consultations had a issue bank payment forms for funds and follow 51% increase compared to 2014, amounting detailed information such as funds profitability, 533 thousand. balance, financial transactions and statement. The channel received, in 2015, more than 2.1 million general accesses, which represented a 24% growth compared to 2014. Annual Report 2015 46 Relationship actions In this sense, 385 on-site training courses were Brasilprev has a series of events for customer provided in 2015, attended by 7,539 people, relationship, such as lectures for financial guidbesides 247 remote enhancement courses, ance and cultural and sports events. An examattended by 6,540 managers. These profesple of lecturer is the one approaching the theme sionals also count with the specialized support Tax Return, which counted with the presence of 127 consultants located in several Brazilian of 450 people in 2015. Culturally speaking, the cities, besides a telephone service from a conspectacle Disney on Ice was launched in five sultation area. capitals and gathered 45 thousand people. In sports, Brasilprev supports Circuito Pedalar (CyAn opinion poll is annually conducted with this cling Tour), whose aim is to promote quality of audience, and it presented higher results in 2015 life and urban mobility. compared to 2014. The growth is mainly due to the constant improvement and to the expertise of As a whole, there were more than 250 events in the team that serves this audience (learn more in such period, with the participation of around 55 Opinion Polls). thousand people. GRI G4-EC4 | G4-DMA (former FS16) Employees G4-DMA (Labor practices grievance mechanisms) | GRI G4-DMA (Occupational health and safety) | G4-DMA (Employment) Support to BB managers Brasilprev has specific guidelines for the relaBrasilprev continuously invests in the training and tionship with its employees, which demonstrate support to Banco do Brasil managers, the main how the company works and aim at creating sales channel of Brasilprev, to secure the quality value for this audience. They include: and increase of sales, which is one of the aspects that guide the organization value proposal. • Promoting diversity and equity, repressing any kind of discrimination 385 • Having a workplace that favors dialogue and is in line with the employees’ true interests • Supporting employees’ professional development • Ensuring full health and security of its teams in-person • Supporting the achievement of the employees’ life projects by means of benefits and amenitrainings, ties that comply with the Active Life philosophy dimensions: financial literacy, quality of life, eninvolving 7,539 trepreneurial attitude and social responsibility Banco do Brasil • Providing guidance on expected behavior and managers contributed to actions by means of its Code of Conduct and ensure goodManual of Assignments quality sells Annual Report 2015 47 In 2015, Personnel Management department By the end of the period, Brasilprev’s staff commade a large review on the structure and proprised 587 employees – 544 full-time employcesses with the aim of improving its work and ees, 4 apprentices, 6 statutory directors, 11 performance, seeking more alignment to the interns and 22 young apprentices. All full-time strategic goals of the company. workers are registered and work full time. Interns, young apprentices and apprentices work under specific contracting regulations. Read about Brasilprev internal audience by gender (including managers) and region, and about turnover in the following charts: Total of employees per functional category, gender and region GRI G4-10 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Statutory Director 6 0 6 0 6 0 6 0 6 1 Full-time employee* 276 268 283 268 270 249 262 231 240 210 Intern 5 6 3 11 7 9 6 6 2 9 Working part-time (Young Apprentice) 15 7 8 5 6 4 8 2 4 1 Apprentice 1 3 0 1 2 2 3 1 3 1 Total 303 284 300 285 291 264 285 240 255 222 *Among the managers who comprise the staff of permanent employees, 62% are male and 38% female. 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women Men Women North 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 1 0 Northeast 6 6 6 5 6 5 5 5 5 4 South 9 9 9 8 8 8 8 7 7 7 Southeast 283 261 278 267 266 250 255 234 227 217 Mid-West 6 6 6 5 6 5 5 5 5 4 Total 305 282 300 285 287 268 274 251 245 232 Annual Report 2015 48 Number of placements and turnover GRI G4-LA1 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Total number of new employees 72 93 98 136 84 New placements ratios (%) 13.14 16.80 18.53 27.04 18.22 Age group | Below 30 34 42 62 62 44 Age group | Between 30 and 50 36 43 32 60 35 Age group | Over 50 2 8 4 14 5 Women 36 44 49 57 32 Men 36 49 49 79 52 South Region 1 2 0 1 1 Southeast Region 67 85 96 132 81 Mid-West Region 2 4 2 2 2 North Region 0 2 0 0 0 Northeast Region 2 0 0 1 0 Total number of people who quit the company 73 67 70 92 101 Turnover (%) 13.32 14.52 16.18 23.98 23.07 Age group | Below 30 20 20 25 32 34 Age group | Between 30 and 50 48 37 39 49 55 Age group | Over 50 5 10 6 11 12 Women 33 28 30 38 43 Men 40 39 40 54 58 South Region 1 Southeast Region 70 67 70 92 101 Mid-West Region 2 North Region 0 Northeast Region 0 100% of the full-time employees and apprentices are covered by the collective negotiation agreement and are secured the right of union association. GRI G4-11 Professional appreciation Enhancement GRI G4-DMA (Training and education) For Brasilprev, promoting clear perception and Brasilprev provides its employees with techrecognition of the employees’ role in the companical and behavioral enhancement programs ny’s path is essential for the satisfaction of this that include courses, lectures and workshops audience. The strategic goal of attracting, ap– external or internal training, on-site, or online preciating and retaining talents strengthens this courses. The Individual Performance Plan (PDI, position and includes several programs, in varied acronym in Portuguese), one of the stages of objectives: internal opportunities, stimulation of the Performance Cycle that full-time employhigh-performance culture, and enhancement acees make during the fiscal year, proposes the tions. The guiding line of all initiatives is the aligndefinition of themes of the courses offered by ment of employees with regard to strategy, goals, the company. In addition, the strategic guiders results and subjects that have an impact on the of the company, as well as the Setting Poll and company and on its working market. Performance Evaluations, are considered to establish the content of courses. Among many other actions, dialogue with the company’s employees is also done through the In 2015, 70% of the professionals attended 72 Setting Poll, which is done once a year with the trainings, in which R$907 thousand were investaim of understanding the needs and wishes of ed. There was an average of two trainings per everybody and creating a better corporate enviemployee, amounting to 5,588 hours. ronment (learn more in Opinion Polls). Annual Report 2015 49 Average number of training hours GRI G4-LA9 Total of employees Total of female Total of male employees Functional category (average of visited employees (average (average of visited hours) of visited hours) hours) Strategic 18 43 8 Tactical 17 16 17 Specialist 3 4 2 Administrative/Technician 9 9 9 Total 10 10 10 There is also the Educational Grant program Leadership that includes undergraduation, graduation, GRI G4-LA11 | G4-DMA (Training and education) post-graduation and language courses, which Brasilprev constantly encourages the employees amounted to 79 employees and 21 of the stuto be responsible for the progress and evolution dents attended the courses in 2015. For the of their own careers, like in the Performance Cyinitiative, resources estimated in R$366 thoucle. The management tool is divided into seven sand were allocated. phases and is based on transparency, objectivity, and equity in the employees’ performance Another action implemented in 2015 was the evaluation. In such process, the goals of each Strategic Leadership Performance Program employee are established with the aim of align(PDLE, acronym in Portuguese). The initiative, ment with the company’s strategy, and they are offered to statutory directors, technical director analyzed in dialogues with the managers, who and superintendents, counted with the supalso consider the evaluation regarding the conport of two external consulting agencies that ducts expected by the company. promoted meetings with evaluations, coaching session, and elaboration of Individual DevelopIn 2015, all the employees were invited to ment Plans (PDI, acronym in Portuguese). The answer a questionnaire that helps mapping PDLE amounted to 1,000 hours on average the skills and behavior trends and provides of enhancement. The Organizational Perforself-knowledge and development. In the workmance Plan was structured with the results of shops conducted with all the managers, the such work, which will guide the elaboration of value of the management tool for the teams Brasilprev’s leadership view by preparing the was presented. Along with the employees, the company to its future needs. importance of understanding the presented results as a driver of their own development was In line with the commitment of offering continupresented too. ous professional improvement of its teams, the company will increase, in 2016, the scope of its learning management platform called Development Center. Thus, the employees will be able to access trainings, videos and information through mobile phones or tablets. Percentage of employees who regularly receive analysis of performance and career development (2015) GRI G4-LA11 Number of assessed Assessed employees Total of employees Functional Category employees (%) Men Women Men Women Men Women Strategic 16 6 16 6 100 100 Tactical 47 33 46 33 98* 100 Specialist 7 2 7 2 100 100 Administrative/Technician 217 225 214 225 99* 100 Total 287 266 283 266 99 100 *They did not take part in the performance assessment, which was conducted aiming only employees with less than six months since their admission. Annual Report 2015 50 Acknowledgments As in other years, Brasilprev continued the celebraThese benefits include the Employee Assistance tion of special dates among its internal audience as Program (PAE – psychological, financial and legal one of its management characteristics. In 2015, the counseling), flexible working hours, quarterly paygreat highlight was the Leader Company campaign ment, day-off on the birthday, course for expectant that was conducted to celebrate the market leaderfathers and mothers, library, gym, multi-purpose ship in assets under management in the PGBL and sports court, rack, among others. In order to manVGBL classes. The brand was received in March, tain its employees’ health, the company promotes and was disclosed to the audience in the Employthe performance of clinical exams that are fully anees’ Meeting, and in order to begin celebrations, alyzed and help in planning actions of quality of life those present in the event were able to decide what promotion conducted by the company. band would play in the company’s party celebrating the end of the year. Jota Quest was chosen to perBenefitis established in the collective agreement are form. In May, the company home office building was also offered, such as child care assistance, health adapted with the action theme and the employees insurance, and Profit-Sharing Plan (PPR, acronym received a customized trophy with their names as in Portuguese). a homage. Furthermore, the volleyball player Giba visited all departments to greet people, take photos Talent retention is among the results obtained for and interact, from leader to leader. enhanced management of the company and for these differentials. In 2015, 93% of the 15 women Benefits and comfort GRI G4-LA2 who took maternity leave, continued employed at In line with the Active Life philosophy, many beneBrasilprev 12 months after their return to work, and fits and amenities are offered to full-time employees among the five men who used their parent leave and interns. They aim at contributing to personal (including the possibility of remote work), there was and professional development aspects, at facilitata 100% ratio. GRI G4-LA3 ing health/protection care of the employee and his family, at encouraging attention to finances, besides aiming at quality of life and leisure. Bruno (on the left) e Claudio (on the right) Germano, Brasilprev clients Annual Report 2015 51 Attention with the teams’ security also showed zero Internship Program cases of occupational diseases and no deaths in In 2015, Brasilprev welcomed 11 interns and 6 2015. In the Southeast region, there were three light joined the staff. The program, whose main goal is cases of injuries, involving two women (0.6%) and to invest in the learning process and in the developone man (0.2%). In the other regions, there was ment of organizational skills, includes a schedule of no ratio of injuries for their internal employees and periodical meetings between interns and counseloutsourced employees, and the number of absent ors, with the support of the People’s Management days in the year of 2015 was of 2,054. GRI G4-LA6 department. In addition to the payment, the interns are given health insurance, life insurance, meal tickOur Brasilprev GRI G4-EC3 ets and travel vouchers. In line with the mission of offering financial security solutions to enable life projects, Brasilprev offers to Apprentice Program the full-time employees the private pension plan Our Directed at youngsters aged 14 – 24 who are in eleBrasilprev. It is offered as defined contribution and mentary or high school, the program complies with in the PGBL and VGBL classes, and the employthe guidance laid by the Brazilian Labor Department ees are offered differentiated conditions for children to hire apprentices according to the ratio of employwhen contracting the Brasilprev Junior Plan. ees at the company. In addition to payment, participants are provided travel vouchers, health and Besides the balancing entry from the company, acdental insurance, life insurance, meal tickets, day off cording to the percentage entry by the employee, on their birthday and gym tuition. The apprentices exclusive management fees, exemption of carrying also take part in a technical course about Brasilprev fees, pension for the spouse or long-term partner, business throughout the period, thus enhancing to the dependents up to 21 years of age and 100% their professional work. annuity shouldered by the company are available. Young Apprentices (Jovem Cidadão) After three years working at the company, the GRI G4-SO1 | G4-DMA (Local communities) full-time worker is entitled to 40% of the balance The program is an initiative of the São Paulo State set up by the company and, after seven years, government, whose objective is to insert students to 100%, and the money can be redeemed after from public state high schools into the labor mardismissal or retirement. In 2015, the total conket in a paid internship program. There is a parttribution of Brasilprev to the plan amounted to nership celebrated between the Department of R$2,126,491.00, an amount corresponding to an Labor and Work Relations (SERT, acronym in Poraverage monthly deposit of R$177,208.00, above tuguese) and the schools where the students are the average monthly deposit of R$176,791.00 reenrolled and the apprentices’ parents, in order to corded in 2014. put the agreement into effect. The company also offers a financial literacy workIn addition to the opportunity of having their first shop focused on the post-retirement phase for empaid jobs, these 16-to-21-year-olds also have benployees over 45 years old. Among other subjects, efits such as meals at associated establishments, it addresses the financial changes and the wealth health insurance, travel vouchers, and monthly inprotection, and the importance of assessing new terviews are carried out by the People’s Manageopportunities that arise at this time of life – such as ment Department to monitor them. The youngsters another career or opening their own business. GRI also have the advantage of taking part in classes G4-LA10 | G4-DMA (former FS16) given by company’s volunteer workers. This initiaAligned to its mission, Brasilprev gives to official collaborators the pension plan Annual Report 2015 52 Marquinhos (on the left) and Marcos (on the right) Bittencourt, Brasilprev clients tive is called Volunteer Citizen program (Voluntário the vendor’s steps in the company, as well as the Cidadão) and aims at contributing to the student’s analysis of activities that included since the choice professional and personal growth (read more in the to monitoring of the rendered service quality, with Society chapter). In 2015, 24 youngsters worked metrics that were exclusively developed for this. in Brasilprev in several departments, such as the Operations, Administrative and Commercial deIn this line of evolution, the company also improved partments. In the same year, youngsters who had risk management focused on this audience, with already worked in the company were hired: three of the aim of ensuring that partnerships do not inthem as apprentices and three as temporary parclude companies that do not fulfill their legal and ticipants, representing 25% of the youngsters who social responsibilities. By the end of the year, an participated in the 2014 program. organization focused on third-party management was hired to support this work and will have the Vendors G4-12 | G4-13 | G4-DMA (Human rights grievrole of guiding and educating partners that are not ance mechanisms) | G4-DMA (Investiments) proper to the company guidelines. Brasilprev keeps a continuous dialogue with its vendors and relationships grounded on transparBrasilprev also carries out the Vendors’ Meeting ency and ethics, based on processes guided on once a year as a source of relationship with this impartiality and loyal competition. In 2015, comaudience. In 2015, the event approached subjects mercial partners’ management evolved with the like Vendor’s Ombudsman and Outsourced Sercreation of Vendors’ Management, which started vice Management, with international and national gathering duties such as purchases, contracts, panoramas of this kind of work contract, as well payment release and fixed assets management as sustainability focused on the importance of in the same department. As the first steps of this mobilization to a conscious consumption and the new structure, the department established goals adoption of new habits. that comprised the revision of registration information and creation of dashboards for controlling all Annual Report 2015 53 On the occasion, the hired companies were invited to renew the adhesion to a Commitment Term of the organization, which aims at disclosing the practices adopted, valued and recommended by Brasilprev. Vendors employing service providers located in the company home office building could know firsthand an online management tool of venVendors’ relationship dors that was enabled to everybody. The action obtained the participation of 48 companies and a is aligned with ethics 98.1% satisfaction index. and clarity In order to secure the compliance of laws and standards, contracts executed by Brasilprev have standard clauses formalizing commitment to anticorruption guidelines and on social responsibility, Market Entities, Regulatory Bodies and describing items such as respect to labor legislathe Government GRI G4-16 | G4-EC8 | G4-DMA tion; human rights (not hiring forced labor or child (Indirect economic impacts) | G4-DMA (Anti-competitive labor); rejecting discrimination actions; and respectbehavior) | G4-DMA (Public Policy) | G4-DMA (Compliance ing security and occupational medicine standards; – Product liability) | G4-DMA (Customer privacy) | G4-DMA as well as preserving the environment. In 2015, (Compliance – Society) from the 334 contracts in effect that year, nearly Brasilprev constantly works in a structured man70% – long-term service contracts or according to ner with entities that represent the industry or with payment condition – included insurance clauses of government bodies to support and get involved human right aspects fulfillment. Those that did not in the constant improvement of private pension include this statement refer to software licenses, plan activities. The relationship with these audiutility companies and others that are not flexible to ences is guided by an internal policy that details the model enforced by the company. GRI G4-HR1 the roles and responsibilities for the interaction with these stakeholders, the press and the invesVendor’s Ombudsman secures transparency and tors. In addition, an internal policy regulates and an open and honest dialogue, which is a direct establishes a flow of communication and knowlformal, participative, exempt and confidential edge management with these bodies. channel that is open to suggestions, complaints and compliments sent by letter or via e-mail. The company considers its participation in these forums as strategic, because it helps to define By the end of the period, the company had 940 the paths of the private pension market, which active vendors, with whom it conducted busihas a direct impact on the activities and perfornesses estimated in R$139.8 million. In addition mance of the organization. The involvement in to these, the company has 62 registered freediscussions about the CMN 4,444 Resolution lance insurance brokers that can commercialize and the Prev Saúde is one of the examples. Brasilprev businesses. GRI G4-12 This is why Brasilprev is associated and keeps a position in the statutory board of the National Federation of Private Pension and Life (FenaPrevi), civil non-profit organization that gathers and represents companies and entities that work within the national territory in the private pension and insurance markets. It is affiliated to the National Confederation of General Insurance Companies, Private Pension and Life, Supplementary Health and Capitalization (CNseg). Brasilprev employees also take part in activities Annual Report 2015 54 and keep dialogues with the National Superin• Fostering the employees’ engagement in sotendence of Private Insurances (Susep), agency cial actions. that regulates the market where Brasilprev operates, by means of workgroups. • Dialoguing with the community in the surroundings, contributing towards sustainable, In 2015, contributing to the growth of relevant relevant practices for the area. discussions for the department, the Principal Financial Group invited one of the best experts • Disseminating financial literacy concepts, so in the world regarding demography and geopolthat the population is more and more aware itics from the 21st century, Richard Jackson, to of the need to save in the long run, and of the present the study The Global Aging and Private products and services it markets, giving priorPension Security in the Increasing Economies ity to clarity and transparency. for members of the open and closed pension area. As the founder and president of Global In line with this position, the company makes Aging Institute (GAI), a non-profit research and pledges and agreements as volunteer where it education organization, he participated in the 7th shares its principles and core values with instiConseguro that was carried out by CNseg. tutions and organizations. Brasilprev supports the Global Compact as of 2008, strengthening Society GRI G4-SO1 | G4-DMA (Local communities) | its commitment to incorporate into its businessG4-DMA (Grievance mechanisms for impacts on society) es actions guided by the respect to human | G4-DMA (Marketing communications) | G4-DMA (Local rights, work relationships, the environment and communities – Financial sector) anti-corruption actions. It is associated to the With a strong participation in the private pension Ethos Institute of Companies and Social Reindustry – a sector administering long-term assponsibility and withholds, since 2009, the right sets that fund Brazil’s development –, Brasilprev to use the seal of the Child Friendly Company is positioned as an important institutional investor, Program, granted by Abrinq Foundation for the with a relevant role in the encouragement to posRights of Children and Teenagers, due to the acitive changes in the society. Hence, Brasilprev is tions directed at this audience. aware of its role as a transforming agent, thus it follows the guidelines below to balance this relaSince 2005, it is also a signatory of CDP, an tionship: GRI G4-EC8 | G4-FS1 international non-profit initiative supported by institutional investors (such as Brasilprev), re• Supporting social initiatives and projects aimquesting companies to measure, disseminate ing at the sustainable development and which and share information about their actions conare in line with the operational context of the cerning climate changes, the water and the forcompany’s business. ests. GRI G4-15 Private pension culture formation In its sustainability strategy, Brasilprev has three priorities: private pension culture formation, responsible investments and responsible management. As a company that works with Brasilprev’s sustainability long-term resource accumulation, Brasilprev acknowledges its role as a contributor to the popstrategy has as priorities ulation’s financial literacy as a way to encourage planning for resource accumulation, conscious to create a private pension consumption and accomplishment of life projects. Hence, Brasilprev provides the society culture, responsible content aligned with this subject through several means, namely: investments and management Annual Report 2015 55 Luiza Aquino Ferreira, Brasilprev client • T  he “Well-Calculated Life Projects” Brasilprev carries out the Projetos de Vida na first time, the project was also chosen for BraPonta do Lápis (Well-Calculated Life Projects), zil Benchmarking Program from Mais Projetos together with Trevisan Escola de Negócios (busiSocioambientais, which granted 28 prizes to ness school) as of 2010. The action was develcompanies from several industries and located oped in line with the commitment of contributing in different Brazilian cities. GRI G4-FS14 | G4-DMA to set up a private pension culture in the soci(former FS16) ety, and through free lectures, it approaches the The Projetos de Vida na Ponta importance of financial planning and saving resources in the long run. The meetings last 1 hour and 30 minutes and are held by college students who go through training courses to become disseminators. The target audience are students do Lápis was recognized with from both public and private schools, members from district associations and other entities from the Selo ENEF, a government the Capital city and from ABC Paulista. By the end, the attendants are given a summary of the and civil society initiative content presented, and an indication to access a budget spreadsheet available on the website of Brasilprev. In 2015, the project achieved an • Digital media amount of 58 thousand people, 1,295 lectures The release of the Life Projects app marked and was acknowledged with the Selo ENEF that the year of 2015. It had around 23 thousand was granted by the Brazilian Strategy of Finandownloads, and through simulations, the tool cial Literacy, an initiative lead by the government aims at supporting the planning of life projand civil society organizations. The action highects like buying your own house, making an lights companies that contribute to citizenship exchange program overseas, or paying chilstrengthening, national financial system solidity dren’s college. and conscious decisions by the citizens. For the Annual Report 2015 56 The company’s corporate channel on YouTube, • Publications GRI FS14 | G4-DMA (former FS16) on the other hand, provides access to educaThe Previdência Sem Mistério (Pensions for Dummies) handtional videos on several subjects, analyzed in their book explains how the private pension plans work, relates the different aspects: services provided to clients, provided investment options and highlights aspects that should products, financial literacy and real stories of clibe seen during the purchase act, didactically and objectively. ents who accomplished their projects by means The material is available for download on Brasilprev’s website, of Brasilprev plan. New videos of digital services in in the About Private Pension section, and received around 160 the company and in Banco do Brasil were creatthousand accesses in 2015. ed in 2015. With these releases, Brasilprev keeps a heap of around 125 published videos that In addition to this publication, it sponsored the special private amounted more than 320 thousand visualizations pension edition of the Você S/A magazine, which aims at dissemin 2015. inating concepts and values associated with long-term savings. The supplement was distributed to more than 65 thousand peoAs of May 2015, Brasilprev also works with efple: subscribers of the magazines Exame and Você S/A, sales ficiency in its Facebook fan page. By means of force and participants from Circuito Pedalar (Bicycle Tour). contents focused on products, financial literacy, life projects and publication of the main sponProjects supported with deposits GRI G4-EC4 sors, it is also an important mean to dissemiBrasilprev takes advantage of tax abatement techniques to supnate information along with the role of private port projects aimed at promoting education, culture, sports and pension culture in the society. The page ended quality of life in the society. In 2015, R$19,934,107.97 of resourcthe year of 2015 with 73 posts that received es were invested in projects approved by the Rouanet, Sports, 393 comments, 39,019 likes and 1,915 shares, Pronon, Pronas/PCD Laws, besides the Elder Law and the Law thus amounting to 2,550,715 Facebook users from the State Council of Child and Adolescent’s Rights (Condeand an amount of more than 50 thousand fans. ca, acronym in Portuguese). GRI G4-EC7 | FS14 | G4-DMA (former FS16) Number of Invested value Incentive mechanism supported projects (R$) State Council of Child and Adolescent’s Rights (Condeca) 3 2,634,671.60 Sports Law 3 2,921,783.90 Elder Law 1 1,529,610.48 Rouanet Law 11 11,695,000.00 National Program of Support to Oncological Care (Pronon) 1 822,910.10 National Program of Support to Health Care of the Disabled Person 2 330,131.89 (Pronas/PCD) State Council of Child and Adolescent’s Rights (Condeca) The company is donating to Condeca for the first a productive inclusion of youngsters and Distime, in which priority was given to social projabled People (PCD) in social vulnerability situects focused on education and work. The folation, through technological and professional lowing institutions comprise the project, whose enhancement. The purpose is to perform an actions will be carried out throughout 2016: enhanced inclusion in urban areas, thus contributing directly to reduce poverty and social • Instituto da Oportunidade Social (Social Opportunity inequality. Around 700 14-18-year-old youngInstitute) | The project Professional Enhancesters will take advantage of this project. ment for Students and Disabled People in Information Technology Area aims at promoting Annual Report 2015 57 • Educadores sem Fronteiras (Educators without borders) | The program Navegando para um Futuro Sustentável [Launching into a Sustainable Future] offers supplementary education for children, adolescents and youngsters from Elementary and High Schools enrolled at a school in the region of Jardim Ângela and in its surroundings, in the city of São Paulo. TransdisciPronas/PCD plinary classes are given to extend the access In 2015, the company destined contributions to social, cultural and environmental assets. through the Pronas/PCD Law to incentive, during The institution has had the support of Brasilprev 2016, two projects from the Social Opportunity since 2009, and the 2015 donation will help Institute (IOS, acronym in Portuguese). The IOS more than 80 children and adolescents in 2016. trains students from public schools and PCD about rules of business and Information Technol• Congregação Israelita Paulista | The project ogy, by monitoring and supporting employability, Aprendizagem, Conhecimento como Ferraas well as contributing to the formation of more menta de Transformação (Learning, Knowlproductive and conscious citizens. The project edge as Transformation Tool) lasts 12 months Professional View, which is destined to 80 peoand has more than 190 enrolled children, and ple, will offer the IOS Program of Enhancement it fosters a healthy relationship with learning. for blind people, focusing on administration and The purpose is that, by the end of Elementary information technology. The second project is the School, participants have already developed Productive Inclusion of Disabled People, in which study habits and acquired structuring contents 40 people aged 16 years or older with physical regarding mathematics, Portuguese and sciimpairment will be benefited. ences knowledge, so they can become prepared to choose school or work challenges. Rouanet Law and Sports Incentive Law Through the Federal Law of Culture Incentive Elder Law (Rouanet Law) and the Sports Incentive ProAs of 2013 Brasilprev allocates funds for the Elgram, the company supported many theater der Law. The projects are assessed according plays, musicals, movie productions, exhibits, to the education, income generation and quality and sports activities. Some of the projects supof life benefits, besides premises aligned with ported in such period are: the company’s mission and vision. In 2015, Brasilprev renewed its support to the Barre• 2015 Annual Activity Plan of Pinacoteca | The São tos Cancer Treatment Center by means of the Paulo State Pinacoteca (art gallery) completed Amparo ao Idoso (Support to the Elderly) proj110 years of existence in 2015 and is one of ect. The goal is to promote quality of life for pathe most active museums in the Country: with tients at the hospital with integration and get-tomore than 25 exhibitions per year, it welcomed gether actions with their family members. 616,143 thousand visitors in 2015 and maintains a collection of 10 thousand pieces. BrasilPronon Law prev sponsorship contributed to the production Through the Pronon Law, the company will support of temporary exhibitions, maintenance of the the research Microbial Profiles in Human Tumors Educational Actions Department, the purchase Studies from A.C. Camargo Hospital – Antônio of art works and other special projects, such as Prudent Foundation – that will last three years. The publications and organizations of seminars and project aims at contributing to the identification of courses. The exhibition A Paisagem na Arte: the etiological agents involved in several kinds of 1690-1998 – Artistas Britânicos na Coleção cancer, besides possible markers of the disease da Tate [Art Landscaping: 1690-1998 – British evolution and prediction of collateral effects of cheArtists in Tate’s Collection] was a highlight and motherapy and radiotherapy, thus allowing more received 106 thousand visitors between the proper treatments in which patients suffer less. months of July and October 2015. Annual Report 2015 58 • The Nutcracker | In 2015, Brasilprev presented 3-12 to read. The company supplies books the 32th edition of the ballet spectacle The Nutand clothing used in the activity, which aims cracker, a universal dance classic that is part of at providing fun moments and helping this authe Christmas spectacle schedule from large dience to enhance their cultural development. capitals in the world. In São Paulo, it counted with the interpretation of the Cisne Negro • Collective Vegetable Garden | During a meeting Cia. de Dança in a season that included 16 with all the employees, carried out in Decempresentations for an audience of over 15,800 ber 2015, a collective vegetable garden with spectators. The project also made several so600 aromatic herbs and teas was planted by cial actions, including an inclusive session with the company’s team. The plants provided in accessibility resources for people with special Brasilprev home office building will be taken needs and offered free tickets to over 940 care by a group of volunteers that will water, spectators from NGOs and public schools. fertilize and remove weeds and new plantings. • Circuito Pedalar (Bicycle Tour) | This project is be• Projetos de Vida na Ponta do Lápis (Well-Calculated ing sponsored for the fourth time a row, and Life Projects) | The employees support the disit is a family bicycle tour directed at promotsemination of good financial literacy practices ing leisure and stimulating using bicycles on a in institutions from Brasilprev surroundings daily basis, and also at making people aware through lectures. of the rational use of transportation for better urban mobility. The project was carried out in Internal Donation Campaigns the cities of São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro, Belo Every year, the company carries out campaigns Horizonte and Brasília. Over 19 thousand peoto collect products for partner institutions, based ple participated in this project. on the need identified by the Social Responsibility department and trying to help the highest Volunteer programs number as possible in a varied manner. In addiIn line with the guidelines to foster the engagetion to the traditional campaigns to collect winter ment of employees in social actions, Brasilprev clothes and Christmas gifts, other targets were has allowed employees to be away during workdefined in 2015: food, children’s books, and ing hours for up to eight hours per year to engage hygiene and cleaning supplies. As a whole, five in internal and external actions as volunteers. The campaigns collected 1,687 items in 68 days inprogram includes the following actions: cluding children’s books and children and adult hygiene and cleaning supplies. The employees • Voluntário Cidadão (Volunteer Citizen) | The volunalso donated 3.8 tons of clothes and food, along teers give classes focusing on the professional with 561 toys and 200 consumer baskets that and personal growth of youngsters aged 16were given to children and their relatives from a 21, members of the Jovem Cidadão (Young needy community for the Christmas campaign. Apprentice) Program, from the São Paulo State government. The Environment The Sustainability Guidelines Letter of Brasilprev • Storytellers | In association with institutions near includes three resolutions that establish how the the home office building of Brasilprev, voluncompany acts to minimize its impacts on the teers and employees encourage children aged environment. The first mentions the continuous development of practices that contribute to this end, including the subject promotion among emBrasilprev develops ployees and business partners; the second reinforces the importance of rationality when using continuously practices resources to maintain operational efficiency and environment preservation; and the third establishand processes to mitigate its impacts on the environment Annual Report 2015 59 es that the company should work to fight against sponsible for a 14.8-acre native forestry area in climate changes through the implementation of the city of Barra do Turvo, in the countryside of eco-efficiency practices. the State of São Paulo. These commitments are strengthened by being a Some actions, like waste sorting, interruption of signatory of the United Nations Global Compact elevators in periods of low circulation, installa(UN) – one of its universal principles is the envition of videoconference rooms for reducing air ronment defense – and by its participation as an trips and external meetings and the promotion institutional investor in the international organizaof responsible habits like turning off the lights tion called CDP, which works with market forces when leaving a place, have been helping the to motivate companies and cities to measure and company to decrease its environmental mandisclose their impact on climate changes, water agement indicators. and forests, in order to decrease them. Along with the company’s education position on Every year, internally, Brasilprev carries out the inthe theme, lectures on lack of water were carried ventory of the greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). out for the employees in association with the Akatu The action takes into account the amount of Institute, in 2015. Besides making people aware fuel used in the automobiles, in freight services, of the hydric crisis problems, which was more setaxis and air trips, electric energy consumption, verely lived in 2015, the meetings approached the use of diesel oil in the generator and organic importance of implementing measures to reduce garbage removal. In order to compensate its long-term consumption. Brasilprev also impleemissions, the company acquires carbon credmented actions for saving water and energy during its from the project Cerâmica Lara/Sustainable the year, thus decreasing the pressure of faucets Carbon (which promotes social, environmental and flushes and using temporizers in showers of and economic benefits) as of 2012 and is relocker rooms, among other actions. Enzo (on the left), Marina (in the middle) and Bruno Lorenzetti (on the right), Brasilprev clients Annual Report 2015 60 Awards and Acknowledgments Every year, Brasilprev receives important awards from renowned organizations within the segment and the press. In 2015, the continuous search for innovations, care and transparency that guide the interlocution with clients and improvement of good management practices stood out. Reputation • Brazil Innovation Yearbook | Carried out respected sustainability certificates of Brazil. by Valor Econômico magazine in association In 2015, it received 58 registrations and 28 with Strategy& consulting firm, the publication benchmarking cases stood out, an example is listed the 100 most innovating institutions in Brasilprev’s Projetos de Vida na Ponta do Láthe Country. Brasilprev stood in 45th, and it is pis (Well-Calculated Life Projects) that dissemalone in the Private Pension segment and the inates the concepts of financial literacy and fourth in the Financial Services segment. has reached more than 58 thousand people. • Brazil Insurance Broker Award | A reference in • Selo ENEF | Granted by the Brazilian Strategy the national industry of insurances and carried of Financial Literacy (ENEF, acronym in Porout by Brasil Notícias Editora e Comunicação tuguese) – headed by representatives of govEmpresarial, Brasilprev stood out in the Best ernment and civil society bodies – through the Performance in Private Pension category. performance of Projetos de Vida na Ponta do Lápis (Well-Calculated Life Projects), an action • Brazil Benchmarking Program | In 2015, for that promotes free financial literacy lectures the first time, Brasilprev entered in the ranking and is carried out in association with Trevisan of Brazil Benchmarking Program. The project Escola de Negócios (business school). is in its 13th edition, and is one of the most • Decision-Maker Brands | For the 13th time in a row, the company is the most recognized company within the Private Pension segment in the survey carried out by the newspaper Jornal do Comércio in the State of Rio Grande do Sul. Annual Report 2015 61 Products •Insurance Market Award – Gaivota de Ouro • 2015 Best HR Providers | The publisher Trophy | The award recognized the company Gestão e RH included Brasilprev in the list of in four categories: Excellence and leadership the 2015 300 Best HR Providers due to the company in supplementary pension with beneservices offered in the department of Benefits/ fits that attract skilled professionals; Excellence Private Pension. and merit in the setting up of assets in PGBL and VGBL with an indicator over R$115 billion – • Certificates | After an audit from Vanzolini FenaPrevi data; Excellence in growth – general Foundation, the International Organization for merit in sales of open private pension in PGBL Standardization representation, with home ofand VGBL plans; and Excellence – pioneerfice in Switzerland, the Customer Service reing and leadership in private pension plans for newed the certificate ISO 9001:2008, received youngsters – Brasilprev Júnior Empresarial. The for the first time in June 2010. The industry trophy is granted every year and is an action of also received again the Ethics Code that asthe Seguro Total magazine. sesses the compliance with the Ethics Code of the Brazilian Self-Regulation Program (ProServices bare, acronym in Portuguese), a document that follows the current laws and the stan• Modern Consumer Award | For the 10th time, dards from the Consumer Defense Code. In the company was awarded the Modern Conaddition, it received grade four in Management sumer Award of Excellence in Customer SerMaturity, also by Probare. vices in the Private Pension and Capitalization category. Awarded by the magazine ConsuManagement midor Moderno in association with the GFK • 100 Best Companies in Corporate Citizenship | Institute, it highlights companies that invest in The list promoted by Gestão e RH Editora (pubservice provision and adopt the best strategy lishing house) chose Brasilprev among the comto customer service. panies that promote social and environmental responsibility, ethics, good relationship with stake•Brazil Ombudsman Award | Brasilprev was holders, quality of life at the workplace and incluawarded as a Highlight in the 4th edition of sive policies. Brazil Ombudsman Award. The award is promoted by the Brazilian Association of Company-Client Relationships (ABRAREC), with the support of the Brazilian Association of Ombudsmen (ABO) and of the Consumidor Moderno magazine. Annual Report 2015 62 Clients of this publication BRUNO AND CLAUDIO LUIZA AQUINO FERREIRA GERMANO MARQUINHOS AND ENZO, MARINA AND MARCOS BITTENCOURT BRUNO LORENZETTI Annual Report 2015 63 GRI Content Summary CONTENT GENERAL STANDARDS Global Content general standards Page/Answer Externally assured Compact STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 6 There was no external assurance. G4-2 26 There was no external assurance. ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 12 There was no external assurance. G4-4 31 There was no external assurance. G4-5 13 There was no external assurance. G4-6 12 There was no external assurance. G4-7 12 There was no external assurance. G4-8 12 There was no external assurance. G4-9 12 There was no external assurance. G4-10 48 There was no external assurance. 6 G4-11 49 There was no external assurance. 3 G4-12 31, 53, 54 There was no external assurance. G4-13 53 There was no external assurance. G4-14 26 There was no external assurance. G4-15 55 There was no external assurance. G4-16 54 There was no external assurance. IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 3 There was no external assurance. G4-18 3 There was no external assurance. G4-19 3 There was no external assurance. G4-20 3 There was no external assurance. G4-21 3 There was no external assurance. G4-22 3 There was no external assurance. G4-23 3 There was no external assurance. Annual Report 2015 64 CONTENT GENERAL STANDARDS Global Content general standards Page/Answer Externally assured Compact STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 42 There was no external assurance. G4-25 42 There was no external assurance. G4-26 3, 42 There was no external assurance. G4-27 3 There was no external assurance. REPORT PROFILE G4-28 3 There was no external assurance. G4-29 3 There was no external assurance. G4-30 3 There was no external assurance. G4-31 3 There was no external assurance. G4-32 3 There was no external assurance. G4-33 3 There was no external assurance. GOVERNANCE G4-34 16 There was no external assurance. ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 14, 21 There was no external assurance. 10 SPECIFIC CONTENT Information about Externally Global Material aspects management Page/Answer Omissions assured Compact type and indicators CATEGORY: ECONOMICS There was no G4-DMA 37, 42 external assurance. There was no G4-EC1 41 external assurance. There was no Economic performance G4-EC2 38 7 external assurance. There was no G4-EC3 52 external assurance. There was no G4-EC4 47, 57 external assurance. There was no G4-DMA 37, 54 external assurance. There was no G4-EC7 39, 57 external assurance. Index partially attended Indirect economic impacts because it doesn’t have information about matters of There was no G4-EC8 15, 37, 54, 55 measurement of external assurance. economic impact indirect to the organization. Annual Report 2015 65 SPECIFIC CONTENT Information about Externally Global Material aspects management Page/Answer Omissions assured Compact type and indicators CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUBCATEGORY: Labor practices and decent work There was no G4-DMA 47 external assurance. There was no G4-LA1 49 6 external assurance. Employment There was no G4-LA2 51 external assurance. There was no G4-LA3 51 6 external assurance. There was no G4-DMA 47 external assurance. Occupational health and safety There was no G4-LA6 52 external assurance. There was no G4-DMA 49, 50 external assurance. There was no G4-LA9 50 6 external assurance. Training and education There was no G4-LA10 52 external assurance. There was no G4-LA11 50 6 external assurance. There was no G4-DMA 16, 47 external assurance. In 2015, the company registered 25 labor-related lawsuits, five were Labor practices grievance mechanisms solved in the the There was no G4-LA16 same period. In external assurance. the same year, 13 labor-related lawsuits started in previous years were solved. SUBCATEGORY: Human rights There was no G4-DMA 26, 53 external assurance. Investment There was no G4-HR1 54 2 external assurance. There was no G4-DMA 16, 53 external assurance. No human rights Human rights grievance mechanisms impact-related complaints and There was no G4-HR12 1 claims were external assurance. recorded or solved in 2015. Annual Report 2015 66 SPECIFIC CONTENT Information about Externally Global Material aspects management Page/Answer Omissions assured Compact type and indicators SUBCATEGORY: Society There was no G4-DMA 52, 55 external assurance. There was no G4-SO1 52, 55 1 external assurance. Local communities There are no reports of negative There was no G4-SO2 1 impacts external assurance. at Brasilprev. There was no G4-DMA 26 external assurance. There was no G4-SO3 28 10 external assurance. The indicator was Anti-corruption half accomplished because it does not There was no G4-SO4 28 10 have quantitative external assurance. information in the requested model. There was no G4-SO5 28 10 external assurance. There was no G4-DMA 26, 54 external assurance. Public policy Brasilprev does not contribute to There was no G4-SO6 10 political parties or external assurance. politicians. There was no G4-DMA 54 external assurance. Anti-competitive behavior No lawsuits were filed in 2015 There was no G4-SO7 against Brasilprev in external assurance. this sense. There was no G4-DMA 26, 54 external assurance. In the year, there were registered cases Compliance of unconformity There was no G4-SO8 to laws and external assurance. regulations, which weren't relevant and have already been solved. There was no G4-DMA 43, 55 external assurance. Grievance mechanisms for impacts No cases of this on society nature were There was no G4-SO11 recorded or solved external assurance. at the company in 2015. Annual Report 2015 67 SPECIFIC CONTENT Information about Externally Global Material aspects management Page/Answer Omissions assured Compact type and indicators SUBCATEGORY: Product liability There was no G4-DMA 24, 31 external assurance. There was no G4-PR3 31 external assurance. Non-compliance with voluntary regulations and Product and service labeling codes associated with information There was no G4-PR4 and labeling of external assurance. products and services was not registered in 2015. There was no G4-PR5 24 external assurance. There was no G4-DMA 43, 55 external assurance. There were no cases of Marketing communication communication that led to any There was no G4-PR7 kind of nonexternal assurance. compliance with regulators in 2015. There was no G4-DMA 26, 54 external assurance. Within the scope of Susep and the Legal Branch, no Customer privacity complaints and There was no G4-PR8 claims concerning external assurance. privacy violation and loss of customer data were recorded. There was no G4-DMA 54 external assurance. Brasilprev did not receive any relevant Compliance fines due to the There was no G4-PR9 non-compliance external assurance. with legislations and regulations concerning its products. Annual Report 2015 68 FINANCIAL SECTOR SUPPLEMENT Information about Externally Global Material aspects management Page/Answer Omissions assured Compact type and indicators CATEGORY: Financial sector supplement G4-DMA There was no 38, 55 (former FS1) external assurance. G4-DMA There was no 37 (former FS2) external assurance. There is no specific training for this practice. The departments are G4-DMA There was no constantly seeking self(former FS4) external assurance. Portfolio of products development by taking part in thematic events and meetings, among others. G4-DMA There was no 37, 38 (former FS5) external assurance. There was no FS6 13, 32, 33 external assurance. G4-DMA There was no Audit 18 (former FS9) external assurance. G4-DMA 37 There was no Active controlling interest FS10 37 external assurance. There was no FS11 37 external assurance. Brasilprev did not apply financial resources in vehicles/ G4-DMA instruments that There was no Controle acionário ativo (former FS12) provided it with the external assurance. right to vote in the invested companies, during the fiscal year. G4-DMA 43, 55 There was no Community FS13 35 external assurance. There was no FS14 35, 45, 56, 57 external assurance. G4-DMA There was no 31 (former FS15) external assurance. Labeling of products and services G4-DMA There was no 44, 47, 52, 56, 57 (former FS16) external assurance. Annual Report 2015 69 Credits General coordination Corporative Communication and Social Responsibility Management Text and edition TheMediaGroup/KMZ Conteúdo GRI Consulting, graphic project, design and review TheMediaGroup Photos Luiz Doro Translation IntelliBizTraduções Relationship Center To clarify doubts and to know more about Brasilprev plans Telephone: 0800 729 7170 To the hearing and speech impaired: 0800 729 0150 Ombudsman Telephone: 0800 727 7109 To the hearing and speech impaired: 0800 727 7120 Website: www.brasilprev.com.br Address: Rua Alexandre Dumas, 1.671 – CEP: 04717-004 – São Paulo (SP)
