UNGC Communication of Progress 2015 Content Page 3 About Ooredoo Maldives 4 Statement from CEO 12 Global Compact Principles 12 Human Rights Principles 15 Labor Principles 16 Environment Principles 17 Anti-corruption Principles Ooredoo Maldives became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in February 2012. The reporting period is for the year February 2015 February 2016. About Ooredoo Maldives Ooredoo Maldives provides a wide range of innovative voice and data services tailored to the growing needs of today’s consumers and businesses. Guided by its vision of enriching people’s lives and its belief that it can stimulate human growth by leveraging communications to help people achieve their full potential, Ooredoo has transformed the telecommunications industry for the people of the Maldives. Since its inception in the Maldives, Ooredoo has continued to be at forefront of introducing the latest technologies in the global telecommunication market, to the people of Maldives. Ooredoo places topmost priority on empowering customers by providing them with new opportunities for development, powered by the latest innovations in the world. Its networks, services and investments into new growth opportunities all demonstrate the transformative power of Ooredoo for its customers and their communities. Ooredoo was the first to introduce 2G EDGE, 3G+ & 4G LTE network to the Maldives, thus playing a key role in revolutionizing the country’s mobile data market. Their work to drive the local telecommunication market to reach international standards, combined with Ooredoo’s aptitude for introducing innovative and beneficial products and services helped the company achieve the favourable position it has in the market today. With the issuance of an ISP (Internet Service Provider) license in July 2015, Ooredoo is focused on rolling out high speed broadband services across the Maldives. The company is currently in progress of deploying a nation-wide fiber optic submarine cable network, in order to provide internet at optimum speeds to all islands across the Maldives, and effectively address the increasing communication needs across developing islands and new resort locations. Ooredoo is also working to bring Mobile Money service to the Maldives; an easy-to-use, safe, and affordable alternative to traditional banks. The company was the first to pilot the service in the country, and looks forward to providing the service to communities across the nation, providing a gateway to a world of unmatched convenience, ease and security to the people of Maldives. In the coming year, Ooredoo will continue to its work to enrich people’s lives by expanding into new areas such as Ooredoo Business, Fixed Line Internet, Mobile Money, and Smart City Products, in order to support the needs of the local communities to fully utilise the benefits of the digital age, and connect customers to exciting new opportunities for social and economic development. 3 Statement by Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to confirm that Ooredoo Maldives reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours Vikram Sinha Chief Executive Officer 4 Ooredoo: A Community Focused Company that Cares and Connects As a community-focused company, we are guided by a vision of contribution to nearly all of the issues the goals address. using our services to enrich people’s lives and stimulate human Ooredoo is passionate about mobile technology as a tool to growth. We believe in the power of mobile technology, specifieffect positive social and economic change, and will contincally mobile broadband, as an enabler, to bring about social ue to work hard in contributing to the sustainable developand economic progress. ment of the local communities, with special focus on Good In 2015, Ooredoo made a strong commitmentto the United NaHealth, Gender Equality, Infrastructure & Innovation, Qualitions Sustainable Development Goals (Global Goals) – a series ty Education and Climate Action. of 17 ambitious goals to end poverty, fight inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change for everyone by 2030. The reach of Some of the key initiatives and contributions that were mobile technology, particularly into under-served communities, carried out over the past twelve months under our corporate is unprecedented and it can help make a direct social responsibility program includes; Good Health Our focus is on making a difference in three main areas: Women’s Health, Children’s Health & Wellbeing, and Disaster Response. Support to Child Helpline Maldives: implement the disaster response initiative to ensure effective Ooredoo Group raised funds in support of Child Helpline and predictable response during times of crisis. Maldives, and also donated a smart phone and a toll-free Ooredoo was among the first corporates in the Maldives to number through which children in need can reach out to the volunteer their support in times of crisis; such as the water Child Helpline. No charges will be incurred by the organisation crisis in Male’, the devastating earthquake in Indonesia last managing the Child Helpline for the toll-free calls made to the year, the mecca crane collapse, the stampede in mina, and number. This initiative was carried out in association with the power crisis in Thinadhoo. GSMA’s partnership with Child Helpline International (CHI) to protect children and guarantee their right to be heard. Ooredoo The company has contributed both in terms of monetary is among GSMA’s operator members who have pledged to donations, active participation as volunteers during recovsupport child helplines in their communities, and is a strong ery efforts, and by utilising mobile technologies to provide supporter of Child Helpline International’s ‘Free Our Voices’ support to those affected. This includes the provision of free campaign to generate public support for child helplines across calls to get in touch with friends and family, creating awarethe globe. ness through bulk messaging, using location based technologies to track recovery vessels etc. Donation of Life Saving Equipment to IGMH: Ooredoo Maldives the donation of six LIFEPAK 20e defibrillators to Indira Gandhi Memorial Hospital (IGMH). Defibrillators are used to give an electric shock to the heart, in order to re-establish normal contraction rhythms in a heart having dangerous arrhythmia or in cardiac arrest. With early defibrillation being an essential part of providing effective emergency cardiovascular care, the increased availability of defibrillators across the hospital will support emergency personnel in providing immediate response to emergency cases. Support during Times of Crisis: Ooredoo is an active supporter of GSMA’s Humanitarian Connectivity Charter, demonstrating the commitment of the mobile industry to support customers and responders before and during humanitarian emergencies, and have committed to 6 Gender Equality We champion women, helping them to overcome the barriers which prevent them from pursuing their own economic and social development. Connected Women Program: We firmly believe that everyone has the right to access the across the Maldives, the company launched the ‘Smart Ideas internet and experience all of the benefits of connectivity, for Women’ challenge. The initiative was held in collaboration including access to critical information and connecting with one with local NGO, Woman on Boards (WOB) with the aim to another. In 2015, Ooredoo Maldives endorsed GSMA’s further understand key challenges being faced by women Connected Women Program, which is focused on the across our communities and to create awareness on how socio-economic benefits of greater inclusion of women at all technologies can provide smart solutions in tackling these points in the mobile industry from consumer to employee to issues. leaders. As a committed partner to the Connected Women programme which accelerates growth of the female digital The Conference for Women: economy, Ooredoo is working to bring significant socio-ecoOoredoo powered Women on Board’s “The Conference for nomic benefits to all women and to the mobile eco-system of Women” held in Bandos Island Resort last year, which providMaldives. ed breakthrough success strategies and insights for women of all ages. The event was attended by young women from a Smart Ideas for Women Program: variety of local corporates, and provided them an opportunity As part of Ooredoo’s commitment to Connecting Women to network with and learn from some of the leading women in the local society. Infrastructure & Innovation Ooredoo is working to close the digital divide, help everyone stay connected all of the time, and power local innovation within Free Basics, in partnership with Facebook: Ooredoo Maldives and Facebook have partnered to connect hospitals, ferry terminals, youth center, café’s etc. The company more people in the Maldives to the internet and its limitless will continue to expand this service across the country, enabling opportunities with the launch of Free Basics in the Maldives. customers with seamless access to a fast, secure and affordable Free Basics, a Facebook-led initiative, is aimed at making internet connection from wherever they are. Ooredoo is also internet access available to the two thirds of the world’s populaproviding Free Wi-Fi access at public utility areas such as tion who have never been connected to the internet before. Free IGMH hospital, ferry terminals and the youth center. Customers Basics gives Ooredoo the opportunity to connect more people can use 50 Mb of data per day within the Free Wi-Fi service, in the Maldives to a range of free basic services like news, giving them the opportunity to catch up on news websites or health, travel, local jobs, sports, communication via the Free connect with friends and family via social media, email, and Basics website and mobile application. social chat platforms such as WhatsApp and Viber. Smart City Initiative: Connected Women Commitment: Ooredoo launched Smart City initiative in the Maldives, On 25th February 2016 at the Mobile World Congress in committing to connect the nation with smart solutions aimed to Barcelona, Ooredoo Maldives became one of the first GSMA enrich the lives of the population. As cities across the world deal operator members to endorse the Connected Women Commitwith a growing range of issues, including over-population, ment Initiative aimed at reducing the mobile gender gap. traffic congestion, pollution and high levels of energy consumpTogether, these operators will seek to increase the proportion of tion, the world is seeing a rise in the number of “smart cities” – their female customers using mobile internet and mobile urban areas which use ICT solutions to address mobile, financial services. Some key areas that Ooredoo is already transport, energy sustainability, infrastructure, governance, focusing on to reduce the mobile gender divide include; and security issues. Ooredoo unveiled a number of smart improving digital literacy among women and girls through solutions that connect Ooredoo customers to Smart Homes, educational programmes and interactive content, strengthening Smart Offices, Smart Schools and Smart Surveillance Systems. gender diverse policies within the workplace to ensure equal opportunities to women and men, as well as engaging and Ooredoo Wi-Fi Hangout: supporting women and girls to contribute to and succeed in the As part of its Smart City umbrella, Ooredoo introduced Wi-Fi technology field. hangout areas across prime spots in the capital city including 8 Education Ooredoo will work to ensure inclusive and quality education for all and promote lifelong learning, through effective and innovation smart solutions. Smart Schools: Tech Tips Awareness Campaign: Ooredoo has already started using smart technologies to Ooredoo carried out an online campaign on how to use mobile support young people. The company has setup a telecenter’s at technologies, with special focus on the internet, in a safe and local schools such as Iskandhar School and Muhyiddin School, productive manner. The company also carried out a special and has enabled free access to a number of educational session for children with disabilities, who are members of Care websites, adding to the interactive learning experience of Society. The session highlighted on how to use internet and young students. social media safely, ensure privacy of information, and how to protect themselves from online bullying from online predators Sports We will continue to build on our global partnerships with Messi Foundation & PSG, as well as local partnerships with Football Association of Maldives and other NGO’s, in our mutual aspiration to encourage healthy lifestyles and support young peoples’ ambitions. Simply Do Wonders, in partnership with Messi: A young sports fan from Maldives had the chance to meet The sessions provided important insights into a range of topics sporting hero and Ooredoo brand ambassador Leo Messi in – from proper training and preparation through to injury Barcelona last year, as Ooredoo’s successful “Simply Do management – and will take the aspiring young footballers Wonders” competition concluded. While visiting Barcelona, the closer to their dreams of playing professionally. Led by Paris children also saw Leo Messi playing football during an official Saint-Germain coaches, the clinics are designed to educate, match. motivate and encourage young football players, and potentially connect them with a range of new life opportunities. Fans Do Wonders, in partnership with PSG: In addition, Ooredoo and Paris-Saint Germain organised a The winners of Ooredoo’s global advertising campaign with special training seminar for 36 local coaches of Maldives Paris Saint-Germain, “Fans Do Wonders”, travelled to Qatar to football clubs sponsored by Ooredoo, as part of the wider meet the players and be a part of a friendly match between investment in supporting football in Maldives. Inter Milan and Paris Saint-Germain on 30 December at Al Sadd Stadium in Qatar. The winner got the chance to watch the Ooredoo Masrace: match and attend a training session with the players on 28 Since 2009, the‘Ooredoo Masrace’ show has become an December in Qatar’s Aspire Zone. important part of local culture during Ramadan, having revolutionized night fishing into acompetitive sport across the country. Coaching Clinics by PSG Academy: The “Paris Saint-Germain Academy brought to you by OoreOoredoo Dhivehi Premier League: doo” coaching clinics took place in Maldives, with special Ooredoo Maldives sponsored the rebranded Dhivehi Premier training sessions at the Henveiru Stadium. More than 200 six to League by Football Association of Maldives for the year 2015. sixteen year-old young people took part, having been specialFootball brings people together, and through this partnership, ly-selected from the Football Association Maldives and through Ooredoo & FAM worked to bring Maldivian football to the next Ooredoo Social Media competition. level, while developing local footballers and connecting them to their fans. 10 The Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. LABOUR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Business should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Business should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ANTI CORRUPTION Principle 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 12 United Nations Global Compact – Human Rights Principles Principle 1 Principle 1 Business should support and respect the protection of Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human internationally proclaimed human rights. rights abuses. Health & Safety At Ooredoo we’re committed to our employee’s health and safety and expect all employees to take appropriate actions and promptly report incidents that are likely to result health and safety concerns. The Company issues personal protective equipment and have safety work instructions for all hazardous activities. Fair Treatment & Workplace without Harassment Our policies and procedures are designed to ensure that everyone is treated fairly and consistent manner, in the context of assigning work, remuneration, career development or other employment related matters. The Company policy prohibits harassment of any form in the work environment and does not accept retaliation or retribution against any employee who has lodged such a complaint Medical Insurance & Retirement Benefits Ooredoo provides its permanent employees and their immediate family with medical care. Employees are enrolled in the company’s medical insurance scheme on completion of probation period. The company has been successfully providing medical insurance to staff since 2005. 4.1 Implementation violation of laws, regulations, policies, decisions, • Company policies and procedures are shared instructions, code of conduct or ethics in the with all employees following the signing of company, in addition to the problems that occur employee contracts, and during the induction in the system of internal control, maintain the program that is carried out for all new joiners. confidentiality of company information and fraud attempts. This includes any errors that may have a • Annual First Aid Trainings, Maritime Trainings negative impact on the company, group, and Fire & Safety Trainings conducted for relevant emploees, customers, investors, shareholders or staff members. others in general. • All employees are given medical insurance, and • The whistle-blower reporting is controlled by the registered under the retirement benefit fund. Internal Audit Department of Ooredoo Maldives, information related to the whistle blower and 4.2 Measurement of Outcomes reported issues will kept confidential. • Introduction of policy on whistle blowing to ensure • No reports have been filed since the system has the receipt, analysis and processing of reports of been implemented. 13 United Nations Global CompactLabour Principles Principle 3 Principle 4 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory and the effective recognition of the right to collective labour. bargaining. Principle 5 Principle 6 The effective abolition of child labour. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Equal Opportunity to all Applicants and employees shall have equal opportunities in employment, training, or promotion irrespective of their race, colour, marital status, parental status, ancestry, source of income, religion, gender, age, national origin or handicap. Maldives is a signatory to the United Declaration of Human Rights, and Ooredoo complies with all local laws and regulations and respect the culture, values and human rights throughout our operations. 5.1 Implementation. • Recruitment, employment criteria and promotions can general. The whistle-blower reporting is controlled by only be processed as per strict company policies, that the Internal Audit Department of Ooredoo Maldives, are in accordance with the United Declaration of information related to the whistle blower and Human Rights and the Maldivian Emplowment Law. reported issues will kept confidential. Any changes to policy will need to be approved by the board of Ooredoo Maldives. • Employee Engagement Survey carried out on an annual basis, through which employees are able to report any discomforts, distresses or wrongdoings 5.2 Measurement of Outcomes on a confidential basis. The survey is carried out by an external party to ensure its confidentiality, and • Introduction of policy on whistle blowing to ensure the reviewed by HR, management and Ooredoo group. receipt, analysis and processing of reports of violation of laws, regulations, policies, decisions, • Skip level meetings are held across divisions, in orinstructions, code of conduct or ethics in the company, der to provide a safe environment for employees to in addition to the problems that occur in the system share concerns and complaints, ensuring that their of internal control, maintain the confidentiality of voice is heard. company information and fraud attempts. This includes any errors that may have a negative impact • No relevant reports have been filed since the systems on the Company, group, employees, customers, have been implemented. investors, shareholders or others in 15 United Nations Global CompactEnvironment Principles Principle 7 Principle 8 Business should support a precautionary approach to Business should undertake initiatives to promote environmental challenges. greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Business should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 6.0 Implementation  Company-wide “Go Green” program carried out to We help to protect our planet by implementing green encourage environment friendly practices and to practices within our business activities. reduce wastage of resources such as electricity, water, paper etc. Go Green program well received  Ooredoo Maldives deployed ‘Easy Macro’, a new by employees, leading to a significant reduction in technology that enhances user experience while electricity charges. meeting the increasing demand of its customers. Easy Macro is environmentally friendly with a carbon 6.1 Measurement of Outcomes footprint of zero, and will help to improve user experience during high peak hours and high peak  Introduction of policy on whistle blowing to ensure the locations. receipt, analysis and processing of reports of violation of laws, regulations, policies, decisions,  In helping to protect our planet, Ooredoo was the first instructions, code of conduct or ethics in the company in Maldives to introduce the modern Single company, in addition to the problems that occur in Radio Access Network (RAN) equipment which helps the system of internal control, maintain the save 54% in electricity consumption and 80% in confidentiality of company information and fraud carbon footprint. attempts. This includes any errors that may have a negative impact on the Company, group, employees,  Ooredoo Maldives moved all of its customers to customers, investors, shareholders or others in paperless billing ‘eBill service’ to cut down on paper general. The whistle-blower reporting is controlled by waste as part of the company's many ‘Go Green' the Internal Audit Department of Ooredoo Maldives, initiatives. In helping to protecting our planet and as information related to the whistle blower and part of the company's many ‘Go Green' initiatives, reported issues will kept confidential. effective of 1st June 2015 Ooredoo customers receivee Bill instead of a printed paper bill. However  Employee Engagement Survey carried out on an printed paper bills will be still available on request, annual basis, through which employees are able to but customers will be charged a fee of MVR25 per report any discomforts, distresses or wrongdoings on bill to continue receiving them. a confidential basis. The survey is carried out by an external party to ensure its confidentiality, and reviewed by HR, management and Ooredoo group.  No relevant reports have been filed since the systems have been implemented. 16 United Nations Global CompactAnti-Corruption Principles Principle 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We have various policies’ in relate to corruption which includes: Suppliers Employees must interact with suppliers or vendors with honesty and integrity. Decisions to purchase products and services shall be based on the company’s interest, taking into account factors such as quality, price, performance, suitability, and reliability. Employees who are required to engage in dealings with regard to purchasing of assets, items and equipment’s or obtaining services from suppliers, vendors and service providers should avoid conflict of interest or appearance of any conflict of interest. Conflict of Interest Employees shall not practice any business or trade, which is in conflict with their duties, or with the Company’s interest or which may cause the employee to have direct or indirect interest in any contracts or works related to the Company’s activities or to which the Company is a party. The Company policy requires that employees avoid any situation that creates a conflict of interest between the employee’s own interest and that of the Company. Employees shall ensure that their activities during and after office hours do not conflict with their duties or with the company’s interest. The employee should inform the management in case any activity or situation creates a conflict of interest. It is the responsibility of the employee to declare their business interest that may or may not create any conflict of interest. 7.1 Implementation confidentiality of company information and  Policies regarding anti-corruption are shared by fraud attempts. This includes any errors that HR, upon employment offer and contract may have a negative impact on the Company, signing, as well as during induction trainings for group, employees, customers, investors, share new staff. holders or others in general.The whistle-blower  Annual Internal Audits conducted to prevent reporting is controlled by the Internal Audit corruption and bribery. Department of Ooredoo Maldives, information  Disciplinary committee assembled to carry out related to the whistle blower and reported issues non biased investigations upon any reports of will kept confidential. fraud, bribery or corruptions.  Employee Engagement Survey carried out on an 7.2 Measurement of Outcomes annual basis, through which employees are  Introduction of policy on whistle blowing to able to report any discomforts, distresses or ensure the receipt, analysis and wrongdoings on a confidential basis. The survey processing of reports of violation of laws, reguis carried out by an external party to ensure its lations, policies, decisions, confidentiality, and reviewed by HR, manageinstructions, code of conduct or ethics in the ment and Ooredoo group. company, in addition to the problems that occur  No relevant reports have been filed since the in the system of internal control, maintain the systems have been implemented. 17 Connect with us, OoredooMaldives T:929 | E: 929@ooredoo.mv | ooredoo.mv
