To our Stakeholders Tofuture Oy (Tofuture) is a specialist combining knowledge and technology to help its customers to improve sustainability data management. Tofuture is a registered limited liability company located in Espoo Finland. The company has been established in 1997 and has operations in Nordic countries. Tofuture CSM (Corporate Sustainability Management) helps the customers to improve sustainability data collecting, analyzing and consolidation according to various regulations and standards and reporting to stakeholders. Tofuture Oy is an Organizational Stakeholder for Global Reporting Initiative (GRI Gold Community member) and a Certified Training Partner in the Nordic countries. Tofuture CSM-solution is a GRI G4 certified solution and fulfills also the requirements for GHG Protocol, UNGC and various other international sustainability related standards and recommendations. Tofuture develops and improves sustainability through sustainability training and software services to its customers. Tofuture CSM-solution is used by companies acting in more than 80 countries in services, logistics and retail and in various industries like energy, metal and engineering, chemical and forest industries. The focus on sustainability management covers monitoring and managing the impacts caused directly or in the value chain of our customers. The CSM-solution is offered as a service (SaaS) and hosted by an outside professional service provider. Tofuture is focusing in the software development. In addition to our own personnel we have a network of consultants, resellers and specialists to serve the customers with consulting, implementing the solution and developing customers’ sustainability reporting. Tofuture CSM is the market leader in Finland having more than ¼ of the market value of Helsinki stock exchange list of companies as its customers. In addition to listed companies we deliver services to several non-listed or state owned organizations. Based on our role and market share, we have great responsibility to maintain and develop our services so that our customers can manage and report their sustainability performance according to evolving sustainability management and reporting standards. Tofuture is building partner network for CSM sales and support services in neighboring countries and in Central Europe. We require the same level of sustainability performance from our partners as for our own operations. Tofuture Oy, COP 4 Mai 2016 Sustainability is becoming an integral part of the operations. International standards and their implementation are moving forward. The ten principles of UNGC and The six Principles of PRI for responsible investment are generally accepted. Social and environmental topics and their economic implications are better understood. European Union Directive for non-financial and diversity information requires bigger companies to report starting 2017. Various local and/or country specific rules and regulations increase the demand for sustainability management and reporting. Tofuture CSM is a GRI G4 certified solution and offers a solid base for all sustainability management and reporting. Tofuture Oy is committed to follow the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. The 10 principles Global Compact is based upon, are integrated in our company culture and policy. In addition, the principles are defining the base for our professional services. Tofuture Oy joined the UN Global Compact in 2010. For a small software company this means taking good care of our employees and to protect their rights and well-being. In our own operations we focus on energy efficiency in our offices, efficient processes and business travel. The greater impact to the global sustainability is created through our services. Therefore, we focus both on our internal responsibility, and on external impact that we are able to generate with our CSM-SaaS software services supporting the ten principles. Espoo, Finland, Mai 4th 2016 Veli Kalle Tavakka CEO, Tofuture Oy Tofuture Oy, COP 4 Mai 2016 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Human rights Principle 1: Support and respect the protection Human rights and occupational health and safety We continue to develop our health and safety of internationally proclaimed human rights and policies are incorporated into Tofuture’s daily practices though policies and training, and practices. We provide timely and accurate improve the well-being of our employees. In payment of wages, provision of different types of addition, we encourage and support our Principle 2: Make sure that we are not complicit employment leave and medical benefits for all employees to develop their skills on IT and in human right abuses our employees. sustainability. Tofuture offers better terms in occupational healthcare, insurance and training than the local We also consult and train our clients to develop legislation or the association agreements require. measure and manage their human right topics and to report on those to stakeholders. Our The total amount of sickness leave was 4 days software assist our clients to manage and and same as in the previous year. The amount of measure their practices related to human rights. time for taking care of the children at home when they are ill has remained on the same level as in earlier years. We strictly resist any kind of human rights abuses. We develop our training, consulting and the software to meet the emerging and evolving needs of clients to better understand, measure and manage the impacts of their operations in the fields of human rights. Furthermore, through our services, our clients can have a better management and control to their supply chain to resist human right abuses. Tofuture Oy, COP 4 Mai 2016 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Labour standards Principle 3: the freedom of association and the We operate in the Nordic countries and obey the We obey the local legislation in all our effective recognition of the right to collective local legislation related to labour standards. We operations, and resist any kind of bargaining respect our employees' freedom of association discrimination or labour abuses. and labour agreements, and strictly resist any abuse of labour. We grant the freedom of association for our personnel. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of We provide equal opportunities for every forced and compulsory labour individual that joins our company. We accept We do not use any form of forced, compulsory individual regardless of gender, age, religion or or child labour, and do not accept any kind of nationality. discrimination in our own operations. Principle 5: the effective abolition of child We request the same standard and quality labour and We also consult and train our clients to develop measure and manage their practices related to regarding personnel policies and practices labour standards. Our software is used by our from our partners helping in sustainability customers in sensitive business, including rawconsulting, certified GRI training, CSM-SaaS Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in material sourcing globally, food, energy and wood implementation and customer support. employment and occupation. harvesting. The software enables the customer We develop our training, consulting and the companies to measure and manage impacts of CSM-software to meet the evolving needs of their operations and also follow-up the clients to better understand, measure and performance of the supply-chain. manage the impacts of their operations in the fields of labour standards. We increasingly focus on the aspects related to supply chain management in a responsible manner. Tofuture Oy, COP 4 Mai 2016 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Environment Principle 7: support precautionary approach to Tofuture encourages its employees to respect the We continue to work to mitigate our negative environmental challenges; environment, and to use natural resources in a impact on the environment through efficient responsible and efficient manner. use of energy and materials in our operations. We consider environmental implications for all Our offices are located in a modern office Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote our decisions and strategic choices. building with up to date energy saving and with environmental responsibility; and excellent commuting opportunities. We evaluate our performance by following selected key performance indicators. l We save the use of materials. All waste is sorted Principle 9: encourage the development and and collected separately for proper processing diffusion of environmentally friendly The use of internet meetings and partner technologies. network have reduced the need to travel, however due to increased activity outside Finland our flying kilometers doubled in 2015 compared to 2014. Driven kilometers were down by 18 %. Car traveling resulted only 470 kg CO2 equivalent emissions in 2015. Our carbon footprint for air travel was 2020 kg CO2 equivalent. Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Environment Tofuture Oy, COP 4 Mai 2016 Principle 7: support precautionary approach to Even more important than our own activities Tofuture is the first certified training partner environmental challenges; regarding environmental responsibility are, for GRI organization in the Nordic countries however, our training and software services that and has renewed the certified training partner encourage and assist our clients to take greater license for coming year as well. Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote responsibility for the environment. We develop our training services and the environmental responsibility; and We train our clients to measure, manage and software to meet the needs of our clients to develop their sustainability performance. better understand, measure and manage the Together with our clients, we have a great indirect impacts of their operations on the Principle 9: encourage the development and impact on the environment though reducing the environment. diffusion of environmentally friendly negative impacts and increasing environmentally technologies. positive solutions. Tofuture CSM supports UNGC, GHG Protocol, PRI for responsible investment, CDP and other investor related ESG standards and recommendations. We make it easier for the customers to do their part in developing sustainable environmental policies and practices and in measuring their performance development. CSM has been developed also to help to manage and monitor environmental impacts occurring in the supply chain both upstream and downstream. Tofuture Oy, COP 4 Mai 2016 Global Compact Principles What it means for Tofuture Oy Targets and ambitions Anti-corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against Tofuture does not accept any kind of corruption in We resist any kind of corruption in our own corruption in all its forms, including extortion its own or its partners’ operations. operations and also including our partners’ and bribery activities. There have not been any reported or even suspected cases regarding corruption in the company’s history. We also encourage and support our customers to avoid corruption in their businesses. Tofuture CSM SaaS solution is supporting the EU directive for non-financial and diversity information, the UN and OECD guidelines for internationally operating companies. The scalability and configurability of the CSM system makes it easier for our customers to organize the needed processes internally and for their supply chain to prevent corruption in their operations. Tofuture Oy, COP 4 Mai 2016
