Communication on Progress January 2015–January 2016 Barangaroo Delivery Authority H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA June 2016 Dear Mr Secretary-General I am pleased to confirm that the Barangaroo Delivery Authority, an agency of the New South Wales Government, supports the ten principles of the Global Compact with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our organisation and sphere of influence as a project of state significance. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our organisation. The Barangaroo Delivery Authority will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We welcome this opportunity to submit a Communication on Progress. With the Barangaroo project now at a stage where delivery and operations can be better measured with respect to the ten principles, we look forward to annually sharing our progress in the years to come. Yours sincerely Craig van der Laan Chief Executive Officer Barangaroo Delivery Authority Barangaroo Delivery Authority 2015 Communication on Progress Table of contents 1. INTRODUCTION................................................... 2 1.1 Period covered by Communication on Progress................................................... 2 1.2 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO)...................... 2 1.3 Acknowledgement of Country.................... 2 2. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES............................... 3 2.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals...................... 3 2.2 Implementation............................................ 3 2.3 Measurement of outcomes.......................... 3 3. LABOUR PRINCIPLES............................................ 4 3.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals...................... 4 4. IMPLEMENTATION.............................................. 5 4.1 Measurement of outcomes.......................... 5 5. ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES............................ 6 5.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals...................... 6 5.2 Implementation............................................ 6 5.3 Measurement of Outcomes......................... 8 6. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES.......................... 9 6.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals...................... 9 6.2 Implementation............................................ 9 6.3 Measurement of outcomes.......................... 9 < Aerial of Barangaroo Reserve 1 Barangaroo Delivery Authority 2015 Communication on Progress 1. Introduction Barangaroo is one of the most ambitious urban renewal 1.2 Statement of continued support by the projects in the world today. Embodying world-class design Chief Executive Officer (CEO) excellence and sustainability, over 50 per cent of the project is being returned to the public as open space and parklands. This former 22 hectare container port on the June 2016 western edge of Sydney’s CBD is well under way to being transformed into a vital extension of the city, with the To our stakeholders: spectacular headland park and the first stages of Sydney’s financial and professional services hub now open. I am pleased to confirm that the Barangaroo Delivery Authority reaffirms its support of the Ten Overseeing the project is the Barangaroo Delivery Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in Authority (the Authority), a NSW Government agency the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment constituted under the Barangaroo Delivery Authority Act and Anti-Corruption. 2009 (NSW). The objects of this Act are as follows: In this annual Communication on Progress, we • T  o encourage the development of Barangaroo as an describe our actions to continually improve active, vibrant and sustainable community and as a the integration of the Global Compact and its location for national and global business; principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this •  o create a high quality commercial and mixed use T information with our stakeholders using our primary precinct connected to and supporting the economic channels of communication, including our website development of Sydney; and publicly-accessible display foyer. •  o facilitate the establishment of Barangaroo T Yours sincerely Headland Park and public domain land; •  To promote the orderly and sustainable development of Barangaroo, balancing social, economic and environmental outcomes; and Craig van der Laan • T  o create in Barangaroo an opportunity for design Chief Executive Officer excellence outcomes in architecture and public Barangaroo Delivery Authority domain design. The site is owned by the NSW Government and managed by the Authority. Development of Barangaroo is done in 1.3 Acknowledgement of Country partnership with the private sector and is being delivered across three precincts – Barangaroo Reserve (completed in The Barangaroo Delivery Authority acknowledges the August 2016), Central Barangaroo (currently out to tender) Gadigal of the Eora nation as the Traditional Custodians and Barangaroo South (first stages completed in July 2015). of this land and we offer our respect to Elders past and present. Barangaroo South is being developed by Lendlease. The Authority is pleased to note that Lendlease is also a We acknowledge that our site is named for Barangaroo, signatory to the United Nations Global Compact. member of the Cammeraygal, who played a significant role in her community and that of the early British colony. 1.1 Period covered by Communication on Progress January 2015 – January 2016. 2 Barangaroo Delivery Authority 2015 Communication on Progress 2. Human Rights Principles Ann Weldon, Board Member Metropolitan Local Aboriginal Land Council, delivering the Welcome to Country at the opening of Barangaroo Reserve, August 2015 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the 2.2 Implementation protection of internationally proclaimed In June 2010, the NSW Government released the NSW human rights; and Domestic and Family Violence Action Plan: Stop the Violence, End the Silence. As a NSW Government agency, Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in Authority employees are able to access support initiatives human rights abuses. that enable those who have experienced domestic violence to enter or return to the workplace. Employees 2.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals who experience domestic or family violence will now be The Authority is committed to an inclusive workplace which able to access certain leave entitlements and where those is free of discrimination and one that supports diversity. entitlements are exhausted the employee shall be granted special leave. The NSW Government Ethical Framework and the Authority’s Code of Conduct set out clear standards of 2.3 Measurement of outcomes behaviour and conduct applicable to all employees. In addition to these, the Authority also commits itself to the The Authority monitors diversity targets against implementation and compliance of NSW Government state benchmarks as set down by the NSW Government and wide initiatives. The Government Sector Employment Act publicises these in annual reports. Further information is 2013 (GSE Act) preserves the focus on existing diversity available at 3.3. groups (Aboriginal people, women, people from culturally The Authority addresses conduct that is contrary to its and linguistically diverse backgrounds, and people with policies in accordance with procedural fairness processes. disability), while also providing flexibility to a diverse No incidences of misconduct under the above policies were workforce that includes mature workers, parents, young reported in January 2015 – January 2016. people and carers. 3 Barangaroo Delivery Authority 2015 Communication on Progress 3. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Equal opportunity association and the effective recognition of The Authority is an Equal Opportunity Employer. the right to collective bargaining; The Authority maintains recruitment processes that Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and are fair and equitable via a merit selection recruitment compulsory labour; methodology. Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Disability Inclusion Plan Over 2015, the NSW disability sector experienced Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of substantial legislative and regulatory change with employment and occupation promulgation of the Disability Inclusion Act 2014 and its attendant regulations. The new Act repealed and replaced 3.1. Assessment, Policy and Goals the Disability Services Act 1993 and its regulatory regime, The Authority reports on demographics of management including Disability Action Plans. and employees by diversity factors including gender and The new Act demonstrates the NSW Government’s ethnicity. commitment to improving inclusion and engagement Personnel Policies for people with disability. To achieve this, the Act The Authority has adopted best practice policies and requires public authorities – such as the Barangaroo practices of both the public and private sector in employee Delivery Authority – to develop and implement Disability management. The Authority has policies covering bullying Inclusion Plans. The new Act captures the sentiment of and harassment prevention, managing performance and the international and national reform momentum which dignity at work. The Authority also has a Professional commenced in 2008 with the UN Convention on the Rights Learning and Development Policy to assist staff with of Persons with Disabilities. upskilling. As at December 2015, the Authority is finalising a Disability Flexible working Inclusion Plan, in compliance with NSW Government As a NSW Government employer the Authority provides requirements. The Authority is seeking comment and flexible working arrangements. The Authority’s Flexible feedback on the contents of the proposed plan from Working Arrangement Policy has been introduced as stakeholders with disabilities. recognition of the increasing importance of flexibility Multicultural Strategies at work. The policy offers a range of options including The Authority has dual roles in relation to promoting working from home arrangements, reduced hours, flex the principles of Multicultural NSW as outlined in the days and flexible commencement and finish times. Multicultural NSW Act 2000. These roles are: •  As an employer – the Authority must develop and maintain a culture that is supportive of the principles of multiculturalism, diversity and equality for its employees; and •  s the owner and manager of public domain A and websites – the Authority has a responsibility to ensure that all people can both physically and virtually visit and engage with Barangaroo, irrespective of their linguistic, cultural, religious and ancestral background. Onsite construction workforce Reporting on the onsite construction workforce is the responsibility of the Authority’s development partners. Marie-Claire Bergman, Events Officer 4 Barangaroo Delivery Authority 2015 Communication on Progress 4. Implementation Tim Gray, Clarence Slockee, Mary Mumbulla, Jessica Birk & Harry Matheson , Visitor Services Guides In 2015, Multicultural Plan initiatives included: 2015 Salary scale Total Women • C  ommencement of a partnership with Eora College at Sydney TAFE to recruit and train six Aboriginal Grade 1–2 or equivalent 1 1 and Torres Strait Islander guides for the Barangaroo Grade 3-4 or equivalent 4 2 Reserve Visitors Services Unit. This Unit designs and delivers visitor information, education activities and Grade 5–6 or equivalent 3 3 services. The partnership included a three-week Grade 7-8 or equivalent 3 2 intensive pre-employment program and on-the-job training, including tertiary certification in Guiding Grade 9–10 or equivalent 5 2 and ongoing mentoring; and Grade 11–12 or equivalent 8 3 •  ultural awareness training for all Authority C Above Grade 12 or equivalent 17 5 employees – the aim of the program is to increase mindfulness and understanding of appropriate Total number of employees* 41 19 management and engagement with employees from * Figures do not include contract staff. Part-time employees diverse backgrounds. In 2015, 14 staff undertook are counted as one. this training. Senior Executives* 4.1. Measurement of outcomes 2015 Industrial Relations Policies Senior Executive Band Total Women There were no industrial disputes lodged by the NSW Senior Executive Band 3 2 0 Public Service Association with the Industrial Relations Senior Executive Band 2 2 0 Commission of NSW. There was no working time lost due to industrial disputes during the year. There were no Senior Executive Band 1 13 5 exceptional movements in wages, salaries or allowances, except for increases awarded across the public sector by * There figures are also reported in the table above under ‘Above Grade 12 or equivalent the Industrial Relations Commission of NSW. Diversity in the workplace The Authority reports on workforce diversity reports on demographics of management and employees by diversity factors triennially, with the upcoming Annual Report for Financial Year 2016–17 covering this information. The Authority reports on gender diversity annually. The Authority’s baseline data relating to workplace diversity shows strong representation of women across the organisation, including the Senior Executive. 5 Barangaroo Delivery Authority 2015 Communication on Progress 5. Environmental Principles Principle 7: B  usinesses should support a precautionary Environmental policies of the NSW Government approach to environmental challenges; The Authority, as an agency of the NSW Government, is aligned with the Government Resource Efficiency Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater Policy (GREP). environmental responsibility; and Remediation of Millers Point Gasworks Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of In 2009 the NSW Environment Protection Authority environmentally friendly technologies. declared the approximate boundaries of the former Millers Point Gas Works be remediated. The Millers Point 5.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals Gasworks contamination being remediated in two projects Environmental principles for the development principally arises from waste tars that are made up of of Barangaroo a complex mixture of polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons, Under the Act, the Authority has the environmental petroleum hydrocarbons, benzene, toluene, ammonia, objectives to “encourage the development of Barangaroo cyanide, ethylbenzene and xylenes (BTEX), phenols and as an active, vibrant and sustainable community and as a other chemical substances produced in gas making processes. location for national and global business” and “to promote There are two locations requiring remediation: the first the orderly and sustainable development of Barangaroo, is underneath Hickson Road, between approximately the balancing social, economic and environmental outcomes.” addresses of 30-34 and 38 Hickson Rd and the second in The Act also confirms the Authority’s environmental the northern section of Barangaroo South and, adjacent to function to promote development within Barangaroo that area, on site at Central Barangaroo. that accords with best practice environmental and town The Authority is using two methodologies for the planning standards, is environmentally sustainable and remediation works: In Situ Chemical Oxidation (ISCO) applies innovative environmental building and public along Hickson Road and a more conventional ‘dig, treat domain design. and fill’ on the Barangaroo site itself. These approaches Barangaroo aims to be one of the first climate positive city were selected based on differing volumes and types precincts of its size in the world, positioning Sydney as a of contamination and access requirements. The two leader in environmental sustainability. This goal remains remediation projects will take more than three years. fundamental to the vision and philosophy of Barangaroo. The area being remediated does not include Barangaroo Environmental responsibilities of development partners Reserve and does not affect the Reserve’s amenity or Managing environmental concerns and ensuring worldaccess. It will not affect continuing construction at class natural resource management outcomes during the Barangaroo South. Barangaroo construction process are primary objectives for the Authority, current and future development partners. 5.2 Implementation Management of this is the responsibility of the Authority’s Remediation development partners. Extensive investigations and planning have been undertaken over several years, including: • e  xtensive soil investigation works, drilling 800 bores to obtain thousands of samples; • undertaking health risk assessments; • preparation of remediation action plans; • o  btaining development approvals through the Department of Planning and Environment; and • procuring appropriately qualified contractors. In September 2015, the pilot trial of ISCO along Hickson Road began, with the ‘dig, treat and fill’ starting later in the year. A map and timeline are provided below. < Bridge Lawn, Barangaroo Reserve 6 Barangaroo Delivery Authority 2015 Communication on Progress Timeline for remediation September 2015 Marquee sited on Hickson Road and pilot starts. Late 2015 BARANGAROO RESERVE MILLERS POINT Construction starts on underground wall at Central Barangaroo and Barangaroo South Mid 2016 HI CK SO N RO AD Tent constructed on Barangaroo, and attached to underground wall. Excavation starts. Late 2016 HICKSON RD Determination on whether Hickson Road pilot has REMEDIATION been successful. Either revert to ‘dig, treat and fill’ BLOCK method, or continue ISCO method. BARANGAROO REMEDIATION   –  HICKSON RD Early 2017 Excavation of contaminated dirt at Barangaroo BLOCK   HICKSON RD finishes. Tent removed. Regular excavation continues. Early 2018 Conclusion of excavation at Central Barangaroo and Barangaroo South. Back filling of Central BARANGAROO Barangaroo. SOUTH 2019 Completion of Hickson Road remediation. Remediation Site Transport provision of recycling facilities for staff to minimise waste, Barangaroo is using a world’s best practice approach to the use of sensor lights in the Authority’s offices and the sustainable transport. In order to reach the sustainability procurement of recycled paper for its printers and copiers. targets, 96% of people coming to work at Barangaroo will The Authority also complies with the GREP. catch public transport, cycle or walk. Opening of Barangaroo Reserve A new ferry hub and the pedestrian link to Wynyard is on In August 2015, the Authority opened Barangaroo Reserve, schedule to be completed in 2016. Four new bus stations the first major park to open in the Sydney Central Business were opened at Barangaroo in 2015. District since Darling Harbour in 1988. The creation of the Reserve is a key part of delivering an active, vibrant In November 2015, the NSW Government confirmed a and sustainable community. The Reserve has been Barangaroo station on the new Sydney Metro line. This is highly commended by the design community due to expected to open in 2024. its construction, design and operation methodologies. The materials removed from the existing site, such as Expert environmental sustainability advice the kilometre of concrete caissons, asphalt and mass The Authority is committed to waste reduction and excavations of the existing container port, were used in the minimising energy use and is advised on environmental creation of the headland, while the naturalised foreshore principles by specialist sustainability consultants. encourages the return of marine life and tanks and The Authority’s commitment to waste reduction is treatment plants allow for the Reserve to be run without demonstrated in a number of initiatives including the drawing on urban water resources. 7 Barangaroo Delivery Authority 2015 Communication on Progress Aerial of Barangaroo Reserve 5.3 Measurement of Outcomes • B  anksia Foundation Sustainability in Design, Build Barangaroo Reserve Award – Buildings, Landscapes and Infrastructure The opening of the Reserve replaces tarmac with over six Projects; and hectares of harbour-side green space, 75,000 Sydney-native •  urecon Awards ‘Benefit to Communities and A trees and shrubs and a naturalised shoreline conducive Environments Award’ and ‘People’s Choice Award’. to marine life. The Authority is in early discussions with scientific advisers over monitoring the environmental Remediation outcomes of the plantings and the naturalised shoreline. In late 2016 a determination on the success of the ISCO trial will be made. Since opening in August 2015, the Reserve has won: Transport •  World Architecture News – (Inaugural) As at January 2016, no data is available for public transport Waterfront Award; usage to Barangaroo. •  ustralian Institute of Landscape Architects A President’s Award; 8 Barangaroo Delivery Authority 2015 Communication on Progress 6. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in 6.2 Implementation all its forms, including extortion and bribery Risk Management The Audit and Risk Management Committee is responsible 6.1 Assessment, Policy and Goals for risk management, control framework, external Risk Management accountability, compliance with applicable laws and regulations, internal audit and external audit. The Authority has in place both appropriate structures and rigorous processes to identify and manage material risks to The Committee met four times over the reporting period. its strategic and operational objectives. Responsibilities for managing risk are clearly delegated within the Authority, and expert support is obtained where needed. 6.3 Measurement of outcomes The Authority implements NSW Procurement policy Code of Conduct and Ethics and guidelines and working with delivery partners to Authority staff are governed by a Code of Conduct and implement a rigorous process to manage corruption in all Ethics. The Code covers: its forms. • Gifts, Benefits and Hospitality No breaches of the Authority’s Code of Conduct and Ethics or Prevention of Fraud and Corruption Policy occurred over • Handing Complaints the reporting period. • Addressing and Resolving Grievances • Secondary and Private Employment • Public Interest Disclosures • Conflicts of Interest • Mandatory Conduct • Misconduct The Code is also accompanied by a dedicated Prevention of Fraud and Corruption Policy. v Nawi Cove, Barangaroo Reserve 9 AON Tower, Level 21, 201 Kent Street Sydney NSW 2000 Australia T +61 2 9255 1700 www.barangaroo.com Barangaroo Delivery Authority
