hvkh<kdhgf<kdhBiBilaga [ ] Strikt konfidentiellt 2016 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress INTRODUCTION We are pleased to confirm that Advokatfirman Hammarskiöld & Co proudly affirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour Law, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. Hammarskiöld & Co is truly dedicated to conducting business and providing legal advice of the highest ethical standard. This is a founding principle of the firm. Accordingly, we are delighted to integrate these ten Global Compact principles into our “day–to-day” business. In this annual Communication on Progress, we will describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture, and daily operations. We are also committed to sharing this information with our clients using our normal channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Advokatfirman HAMMARSKIÖLD & CO Claes Langenius Sandra Hein Kaznova Erik Fahlgren CEO UN Global Compact CSR AND HUMAN RIGHTS AT HAMMARSKIÖLD & CO Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), also referred to as Corporate Citizenship, is about creating long-term sustainability, not only for us at Hammarskiöld & Co, but for the community in which we operate. CSR is important within Hammarskiöld & Co’s day-to-day operations, where ethics and longterm sustainability, together with quality and integrity, are fundamental principles that guide us in everything we do. As lawyers, we have a special responsibility, as well as a special opportunity, to stand up for the most fundamental and basic principles in society – such as human rights, the rule of law, and sound business ethics. As a firm we have agreed to support and respect internationally recognized human rights, as part of our commitment to the UN Global Compact, to all of our clients and employees, and to the local and international community. In addition, Hammarskiöld & Co fully expects all of its suppliers and cooperative partners to comply with the applicable laws in the countries in which they operate. Being a law firm, Hammarskiöld & Co and its employees operate under the strict ethical rules of the Swedish Bar Association. These rules mandate that Swedish lawyers shall fulfil their duties of loyalty to the client, by observing professional independence and confidentiality – safeguarding, among other things, that we as a firm will not allow ourselves to be affected by improper influences or conflicts of interest. Hammarskiöld & Co strives to lead the way in business ethics amongst its peers. Serving as a beacon for the legal community, Hammarskiöld & Co adopted its own internal business ethics policy with even stricter rules than those mandated by the Bar Association. Among other rules, the policy contains: i) A special screening and acceptance procedure for admitting new clients; ii) A procedure for accepting new matters from existing clients; iii) Additional requirements regarding an employee’s independence and integrity; iv) Restrictions on an employee’s engagement in other businesses or participation in financial investments; v) Strict guidelines prohibiting insider trading; and vi) Strict guidelines prohibiting money laundering. The unique screening and acceptance procedure that Hammarskiöld & Co has adopted also works as a checkpoint, to assure that the law firm does not accept clients that do not respect basic human rights and that the law firm does not accept assignments that would be contrary to Hammarskiöld & Co’s ethical standards or would make the law firm complicit in human rights abuse. UN Global Compact Present situation In addition to our daily operation, we are proud to be part of a number of projects, which we support legally, financially, and with our personal effort and time. Promoting Human Rights and Sustainable Business Models In 2013 Hammarskiöld & Co joined the United Nations Global Compact. Hammarskiöld & Co’s Managing Partner at that time, Claes Langenius, participated in the UN Global Compact Leaders Summit 2013: Architects of a Better World that gathered over 1,000 participants, bringing new energy and direction to the Global Compact’s work. Since 2014 Hammarskiöld & Co has taken a more active role in UN Global Compact. Our Partner Claes Langenius joined the Global Compact Nordic Network’s steering committee. He has participated at the steering committee’s meetings during 2015 and has been active in the development of the Governance document for the Nordic network. In 2015 the Nordic network meeting was held in Copenhagen. Hammarskiöld & Co participated in the planning group for the conference. The partners Claes Langenius and Sandra Hein Kaznova attended the Nordic Network’s meeting in Copenhagen. In 2016, Claes Langenius and Sandra Hein Kaznova will hold two training courses for signatories to the Global Compact, sharing their experience of working with sustainability. Since 2014 Hammarskiöld & Co also includes questions regarding human rights and social responsibility in our check list questionnaire that we use in the dialogue with all of our suppliers. This is intended as a tool that can provide us with information in order to analyse if we need to take additional measures during the procurement process to address potential human rights risks within our supply chain. So far this tool has been helpful and has increased our awareness, but it has also shown that many times there are significant challenges for a small company to get sufficient and useful information to assess its supply chain risks. Promoting Gender Equality In 2015, Hammarskiöld & Co joined Level the Playing Field, a project initiated by the Stockholm Chamber of Commerce (SCC) and Swedish Women in Arbitration Network (SWAN). Hammarskiöld & Co is one of ten business law firms participating in the project, which aim is to improve equality and diversity in the industry. Among Sweden’s business law firms, six out of ten newly employed lawyers are women, but only one in ten becomes a partner. The work among the participants of the project is focused on finding constructive and concrete ideas to change this. Promoting Supplier Diversity In 2015 Hammarskiöld & Co also became involved in a project aimed at promoting supplier diversity among immigrant-owned businesses, which was launched by the American chamber of commerce in Sweden, the American embassy and the IFS (Internationella Företagarföreningen). Hammarskiöld & Co is supporting the project members by providing pro bono legal assistance relating to the project, such as giving advice on compliance and drafting policies and agreements. The aim of the project is to link Sweden’s immigrant entrepreneurs and their companies with larger companies in Sweden so that the immigrant-owned companies can be considered in UN Global Compact the procurement processes of the larger companies. The core values of the program are fairness and equal opportunity. The main aim is to give immigrant-owned business an opportunity to reach the Swedish market and in that way boost growth in disadvantaged areas and promote employment throughout Sweden. In the long run, the program will hopefully bring prosperity and develop role models in under-served communities. Integration of Refugee Children into Swedish Society During the last year, Hammarskiold & Co established an internal working group with the aim to support the current refugee situation in Stockholm. One of the goals of the group is to give the children escaping war and coming to Sweden opportunity to do something fun and integrate in the Swedish society. In 2015 the group raised enough money to offer these children 75 hours of soccer training. Employees of Hammarskiold & Co also gave sports equipment, toys and clothes as donations to the new homes of the children. In addition, lawyers working at Hammarskiöld & Co have applied to work pro bono as mentors for refugee children who are not accompanied by their parents in order to help the children integrate better into the society. The mentoring is a project initiated by the Swedish Bar Association. Health Another important and fundamental factor in CSR is health. Without good health everything else becomes irrelevant. We promote a healthy work-life balance and offer our employees everything from regular health check-ups to a variety of sporting activities. Activities for Critically Ill Children Hammarskiöld & Co is also committed to supporting critically ill children. One bright example includes helping establish the charitable foundation MinStoraDag (My Big Day). Hammarskiöld & Co prepared all of the legal work necessary to create the foundation, pro bono. The mission of MinStoraDag is to grant wishes to children with serious illnesses and diagnosis. The foundation’s work is unique as each child is actively involved in planning his or her own wish. MinStoraDag works with all of the university hospitals in Sweden. The primary physicians refer the children and their wishes to the foundation, which in turn makes their wishes come true. Since August 2000, MinStoraDag has helped thousands of children fulfill their dreams and wishes. The foundation is based on an initiative taken by Claire Rosvall and its patron is Her Royal Highness Princess Madeleine of Sweden. Hammarskiöld & Co’s Senior Partner Peder Hammarskiöld is one of the founders of the MinStoraDag foundation. Going forward Hammarskiöld & Co works continuously to safeguard that the firm’s high standards regarding ethics and respect for basic principles in society are upheld. This work includes obligatory education on the firm’s core values and internal policies for all new employees, special sessions for young lawyers on Hammarskiöld & Co’s and the Swedish Bar Association’s ethical rules and proper conduct, as well as biannual conferences for all employees where the firm’s ethical rules are studied and discussed. During 2015 Hammarskiöld & Co supported two master theses on the subject “Integrity on the Internet” in a co-operation with the global IT Company CGI (www.cgi.com) and the Swedish Financial Coalition Against Child Pornography (www.financialcoalition.se). The purpose of these theses was to examine different aspect of integrity on the Internet in UN Global Compact relation to measures to prevent child abuse. The master thesis focuses on both technical and legal aspects and identifies obstacles and possibilities when it comes to for example restricting distribution and access to child pornography on the Internet. In 2016 Hammarskiöld & Co started financially supporting a non-profit student organization in Stockholm called Asylrättstudenterna. Hammarskiöld & Co is also assisting the board members pro bono by giving general advice and acting as a discussion partner. The organization is founded by and has its members among law students in Stockholm. The aim of the organization is primarily to offer its members education focused on relevant law in relation to immigration, e.g. the right to asylum. The members’ voluntary work is focused on giving legal advice to refugees arriving to Stockholm meeting their immediate needs in this respect. EMPLOYMENT AT HAMMARSKIÖLD & CO LABOR PRINCIPLES Hammarskiöld & Co’s company handbook covers a range of policies concerning employee rights, compensation, and responsibilities. We continuously assess labor related risks. We will continue to revise our employee handbook as needed and incorporate the Global Compact in this work. The written company policies stating employee rights and responsibilities include:  Ethics policy  Safety policy  Quality policy  Anti-drug policy  IT and security policy  Equality and diversity policy  Policy on parental leave compensation  Crisis plan  Pension policy  Anti-harassment policy  Confidentiality policy  Guidelines prohibiting insider trading  Guidelines prohibiting money laundering UN Global Compact EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION AND DEVELOPMENT Hammarskiöld & Co is one of the leading business law firms in Sweden and, as a knowledge-business, we depend on having competent, committed, and motivated employees who want to take part in developing and improving our business. We aim for long-term relationships with our employees and are committed to developing them so that they reach their full potential. Since its founding, Hammarskiöld & Co has invested heavily in Know How and our Know-How database. The Know-How work is conducted primarily within our competence groups. It develops our employees’ ability to adapt to new conditions and increases the quality of our work product. Hammarskiöld & Co believes that employees who are engaged and motivated feel happy and do a better job at work. Good employee morale promotes excellent treatment and service for our clients. In the Partnership Agreement, one of the firm´s most basic principles is “To have fun at work.” We therefore believe in engaging our employees in activities inside and outside office hours to promote a well-functioning team spirit and friendship within the firm. We continuously arrange different social activities and participate in common sporting events or competitions. Hammarskiöld & Co is further convinced that:  Personal development is important;  A heterogeneous group performs better over time than a homogeneous group;  Equality in the workplace leads to a positive work environment which promotes business;  Balance between work and family life contributes to better performance;  Any form of harassment is completely unacceptable, degenerates the working atmosphere, and also contributes to increased absences; and  A good working environment is characterized by security, diversity, and social responsibility. Most importantly, however, is how we treat each other and our clients. All employees are encouraged to ask colleagues for help and advice if needed and to freely speak their minds without regard to age differences or titles. This promotes quality and comfort. We always strive to maintain a positive tone and manner with each other as well as with our clients and opposing parties. Each associate has a designated partner acting as a mentor and they meet on a regular basis to discuss the associate’s professional and personal development. For each new associate, a “buddy” associate is appointed to help introducing the new employee to the firm and his/her new colleagues. UN Global Compact Present situation In order to maintain our high standard of being one of the leading business law firms in Sweden, we monitor and evaluate performance through many different channels. Our associates maintain their own representative council which meets monthly with our partners in order to present their point of view on various issues regarding the employees’ working situation. Moreover, there are scheduled group lunches for all associates every two weeks and once a month all the firm’s lawyers have a joint lunch. We have a development plan for each associate, which includes follow-up meetings twice a year, lunches and reviews to support the individual associate´s development. We make plans with measurable goals giving employees the opportunity to fully develop their skills. We also give additional support in the areas of education, special coaching, and experience in particular subject areas and business development. Every associate has a generous education budget for continuing external education in Sweden and abroad. We also send employees on short or long term secondments both to Swedish companies and to leading law firms abroad. Several of our senior associates and partners have experience from leading business law firms in Europe, the U.S., and Australia. Our administrative and support staff is offered introduction training and ongoing training in English. Specific/individual courses are discussed, documented, and followed-up on during the yearly Performance Management Cycle, ensuring that all support staff receives training to meet the requirements of their role within the firm. The support staff has a development plan with measurable goals and follow-up meetings once a year, to reach their full potential in necessary areas. We have also taken steps to promote the health and general well-being of our employees and to prevent workplace injuries. In addition to an in-house work-out facility, all employees are entitled to an annual health benefit, complementary health check-ups according to scheme, ergonomic workplace adaptations, and other benefits. Going forward  In 2016 we are launching a student step program. The idea is to create ways for talented law students to become involved in the work at Hammarskiöld & Co at an early stage and gradually introduce them to more challenging tasks.  Based on feedback from our employees and discussions within the project Level the Playing Field (see above) a dedicated group of partners and associates will be working together to see how we can do best to develop and retain talent in the future. UN Global Compact EQUALITY IN THE WORK PLACE In recent decades, Europe has come a long way in achieving equality between women and men, with the Northern European countries serving as models in this work. However, much work remains to be done. We strive to achieve equal opportunities for both genders, and are aware of the challenges faced by employees wishing to become partners. We recruit more women than men from universities, but we still have fewer women becoming partners. It is crucial for the firm’s long-term success to retain the most competent employees, male or female. Therefore, the firm works with a number of measures to encourage our associates to focus on the partnership track. These include external mentoring, membership in different networks, and promoting a leadership program for senior associates on parental leave. To assist with the many challenges encountered by being a high performing individual at Hammarskiöld & Co, we have a service agreement with a home care company, which provides a wide range of housekeeping services through quality assured sub-contractors. In exchange for a service charge, our employees receive assistance with small, daily chores which take time and energy, such as going to the pharmacy, collecting and delivering dry cleaning, cleaning the home, and picking up children from day care centers. Present situation  Women and men are treated equally at all levels at Hammarskiöld & Co.  Our long-term strategy is that women and men shall succeed at Hammarskiöld & Co in the same way and that gender, background, or other irrelevant factors shall not be an impediment to any individual employee’s development.  A third of our lawyers are women, but we see a need to increase the number of women at senior positions.  We conduct a yearly compensation survey to ensure comparable pay for comparable work. There is no pay gap between women and men at Hammarskiöld & Co at the same level of experience. To our knowledge, there is no harassment of any kind at Hammarskiöld & Co.  We encourage all our employees to take parental leave and we provide generous parental leave compensation. Many of our associates and partners with children have taken parental leave, both men and women.  We provide individual mentoring for all of our associates.  In previous years we have taken initiative to ensure that employees on parental leave and leave of absence are kept up to date and involved in the firm during their absence. We are now focusing on ways to further encourage and facilitate for UN Global Compact employees to return to work from parental leave. This initiative has been received very positive by our employees. Through these activities, we hope to be able to retain employees who have been on leave. Statistics as per 1 January, 2016 (last year’s figures in parenthesis) Law Section Total Women Men Partners 14 (14) 7% (7%) 93% (100%) Senior associates 3 (9) 33% (55%) 67% (45%) Associates 7 (8) 86% (100%) 14% (0%) Total 24 (31) 33% (45%) 67% (55%) Administrative section Total Women Men Managers 3 (4) 67% (75%) 33% (25%) Staff 11 (15) 91% (80%) 9% (20%) Extras 10 (9) 70% (75%) 30% (25%) Total 24 (28) 79% (78%) 21% (25%) All employees 48 (59) 56% (59%) 44% (41%) Going forward  We will evaluate the information from “Level the playing field” and adapt the knowledge to our operations.  Reviewing and strengthening our model for encouraging and supporting lawyers returning from parental leave, including planning in advance DIVERSITY Hammarskiöld & Co only hires lawyers and administrative staff with the best qualifications, regardless of gender, ethnic origin, age, religion, functional disability, and sexual orientation. We strive to meet the needs of our clients and our employees must reflect the market´s demands. It is important for our brand to be an attractive workplace where people feel comfortable and able to develop. A group of people with different backgrounds and mixed genders will have better resources for innovation and higher quality solutions for our clients. Present situation  We have a diverse workforce regarding age, gender and background.  Hammarskiöld & Co supports foreign graduates entering the Swedish job market by providing concrete work experience through internships. UN Global Compact Going forward  We will continue our strategy of recruiting associates with diverse mind-sets and a blend of mixed backgrounds, genders, and ethnic groups.  Our ambition is to have an atmosphere based on inclusive and open mind. CARING FOR THE ENVIRONMENT At Hammarskiöld & Co, we are actively working to reduce our impact on the environment. For this reason, we have introduced environmentally sustainable practices in our day-to-day operations and within our long-term planning. Hammarskiöld & Co works for a sustainable society where the environmental impact is limited and national environmental objectives are achieved. Amongst our employees, a commitment to sustainability and knowledge of our environmental impact are requisites for continually achieving these objectives within our workplace and the community in general. Present situation Hammarskiöld & Co special working group continues its work with creating and implementing an environmental management system for the law firm. To date, this project has included the collection and analysis of data, information etc. in order to identify the activities and services that have a significant impact on the environment as well as producing a performance baseline for the law firm’s environmental impact. There is also an ongoing review of the law firm’s policies and procedures in this area. Within the project, we identified four main groups to which our environmental efforts are focused.  Energy  Recycling  Purchase  Travels Energy We are working to improve energy monitoring and reduce Hammarskiöld & Co’s impact on the environment, especially the use of heating, electricity, and water consumption. Our office is situated in an old 17th century listed building, which affects the kind of measures that can UN Global Compact be taken. We are however continuously improving energy efficiency while steering towards renewable sources. During 2015, Hammarskiöld & Co has started a close co-operation with our landlord on a climate project aimed at improving the interior climate in the premises by installing a ventilation system for supply of cool air. This increases the energy efficiency by contributing to easier heat recovery. This project will be on-going for several years. As from 1 January 2015, our office has a separate electricity meter that is separated from other electricity consumption in the office building. This significantly increases our possibilities and incentives to work proactive with reduction of energy consumption and also improves our ability to monitor our electricity consumption. In 2015, our energy consumption decreased by 10.8 per cent compared to 2014. In 2014, our Office Manager started a project together with external consultants in order to reduce our energy consumption by reviewing different types of sources of light used in our offices. The electric fittings at the office were analyzed, with focus on the type of electric lightning used (halogen lamps, low energy, LED etc.). The project resulted in an action plan that was introduced in 2015, cutting our energy consumption related to electric lightning by 70 per cent (corresponding to an annual reduction of CO2 by 150 tons per year). This will substantially lower our costs over a ten-year-period. This project continues in 2016 as it turned out that the currently available sources of LED-light are often not compatible with the electric fittings at the office. As new sources of LED-light are introduced on the market on the continuous bases, the adjustments will be made when as soon as a compatible LED-light source is available on the market. Since 2014 Hammarskiöld & Co’s IT department has worked systematically to reduce the number of individual appliances in the company’s machine park. For example, the number of individual desk printers has been reduced by 45 per cent, saving both energy and other consumables such as ink cartridges, as well as saving costs. Purchases We have adopted procurement policies to ensure that environmental aspects are considered when purchasing supplies and services for the law firm. Hammarskiöld & Co also maintains an active discussion with our suppliers to improve transportation and delivery routines and avoid unnecessary transport. Our administrative staff follows a checklist in order to consistently request environmentally preferable options from our suppliers. The checklist was designed to motivate and compel each person responsible for ordering supplies and services to consider preferable environmental options by requesting healthy and sustainable materials and environmentally friendly ways of production and means of transportation. The checklist also contains a number of questions to be posed to all of our suppliers, including a description of how the supplier address issues related to environment, CSR, and quality and to what extent the supplier is certified within these areas. To date, our IT department and office department have received this information from about 70 per cent of their respective suppliers and are pursuing the remaining 30 per cent during 2016. The result serves as basis for a continued dialogue with our suppliers and, if so required, a decision to change to other more conscious suppliers. In 2014 our Office Manager started working with Hammarskiöld & Co’s main supplier in order to establish which of the products we purchase have the most significant environmental impact. The goal with this project was to explore the possibility to change these products for UN Global Compact more environmentally friendly products and, in that way, increase our purchase of ecolabelled products. This project resulted in 27 of our 155 most common products being exchanged for better alternatives. Hammarskiöld & Co continues to have a close dialog the main supplier who regularly recommends new, more environmentally friendly alternatives. An important goal for 2015 was to discontinue the use of bottled water. In addition to the positive effects this has for energy, use of natural resources, and reduction of waste; it also resulted in a significant decrease of re-occurring transport – one of our goals for 2015. Recycling We are working to improve recycling and waste disposal. Since 2014 Hammarskiöld & Co together with the landlord increased the number of different fractions that we recycle. All waste from the office except food waste is categorized and sent for recycling. The reduction of the number of delivery transports to the law firm (see further below) has also led to a significant reduction of the amount of packaging material that needs to be recycled, thereby reducing our total waste. During 2015 we could note that food waste is the only waste that we still do not have a possibility to recycle. We aim to reduce our paper usage per project by increasing the amount of digital information send-outs and decreasing unnecessary copying/printing. Our focus is on optimizing paper recycling. We also strive to increase the share of digital invoices that are received as well as sent from the law firm. Travels and transportation Business travel Hammarskiöld & Co is establishing a travel policy and guidelines for our traveling arrangements. We continuously gather and analyze statistics that in order to set targets for future reductions of company’s environmental impact through travelling. Our business activities require a certain amount of travel, as we have a significant share of international clients and are to a large extent involved in international business. However, Hammarskiöld & Co’s ambition is to, as far as possible, chose the most cost-effective travel alternative with the lowest possible impact on the environment. Transportation to and from the office (supplies, couriers etc.) Transportation to and from the office must, to the greatest extent possible, be done ecoefficiently by increasing the use of vehicles powered by renewable energy. This applies to all couriers, delivery, and business travels. During 2014 our administrative departments have worked actively with their respective suppliers to reduce the number of transports to Hammarskiöld & Co, thus reducing environmental impact. Our Office Manager has been able to reduce the number of delivery transports to the office from 320 per year in 2013 to 200 in 2014, a reduction by 40 per cent. We have also achieved our goal for 2015 to reduce the number of transports further to 160 per year. Our IT department continues its work on optimizing and reducing the number of delivery transports. Going forward  We will continue implementing the environmental management system.  We will continue the co-operation with our landlord to further improve energy efficiency. UN Global Compact  We will continue the project on finding alternative sources of LED-light, which is compatible with the electric fittings at the office.  We will finalize the travel policy and set goals for reduction of the environmental impact related to travels. ANTI-CORUPPTION For us at Hammarskiöld & Co ethics, integrity, and excellence are core values that encompass everything we do. All employees of Hammarskiöld & Co shall always act with integrity and maintain the highest ethical standards in order to provide our clients with the leading-quality advice and counsel. Our business principles require that we always comply with the applicable laws and regulations. Hammarskiöld & Co has a zero tolerance policy for corruption and bribery. Hammarskiöld & Co has an appointed ethics committee that oversees our employees’ compliance within the areas of anti-corruption, insider trading, anti-money laundering requirements, and the rules and regulations of the Swedish Bar Association. The ethics committee is responsible for our internal policy relating to anticorruption, insider trading, anti-money laundering, and conflicts of interest. The policy is continuously developed to further strengthen and secure Hammarskiöld & Co’s position as a high-quality law firm. The ethics committee also provides guidance and support to the organization regarding anti-corruption matters. In order for us at Hammarskiöld & Co to maintain our high ethical standards, all of our employees are given continuous mandatory education about anti-corruption, including instruction on what to do should they encounter or suspect it. Every other year we revisit the course material and instruct all of our employees to complete the mandatory online course on the prevention of money laundering. The anti-money laundering education tool has been developed by Hammarskiöld & Co together with other selected major law firms in Stockholm and is now widely used by larger Swedish law firms. Hammarskiöld & Co’s unique Client Acceptance Committee reviews and approves all new client admissions and requests, assuring that all new clients fulfill our ethical requirements and that they are compatible with Hammarskiöld & Co’s business model. We also have comprehensive IT and record keeping systems in order to identify any potential conflict of interest that could arise. These systems include processes for identifying and conducting due diligence on new clients in compliance with Swedish anti-corruption rules and regulations. We at Hammarskiöld & Co also provide legal advice and services within the field of compliance for our clients and their businesses. In addition to anti-corruption matters, Hammarskiöld & Co has extensive experience in a broad range of issues, including corporate governance, risk management, competition law, market abuse, and other securities laws. We also advise our clients on the laws and regulations targeting the financial sector, the insurance sector, and many other industries. Our multi-practice Compliance and UN Global Compact Investigations team is ideally suited to assist in preventing, detecting, and resolving potential violations of laws, regulations, and company policies in all industries. By providing this kind of legal advice to our clients, we aim to assure that our clients also maintain their ethical standards and prevent corruption. Present situation During 2015 all of Hammarskiöld & Co’s lawyers took and passed the online anti-money laundering course. In addition, all new employees must take and pass the course within their first two months of employment. We also assisted several clients during 2015 with extensive internal compliance investigations and implementation of compliance guidelines, where anti-corruption and antimoney laundering were material aspects addressed. Our partners Peder Hammarskiöld, Joakim Sundbom and Sandra Hein Kaznova have also written the Swedish report in the international guide, the Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Review. During the “Almedalen week” 2015, Hammarskiöld & Co held a joint seminar with ICC Sweden, focusing on anti-corruption programs in the business sector. The seminar was part of a one-day initiative against corruption, arranged by Transparency International, the Swedish Anti-Corruption Institute, and the American Chamber of Commerce in Sweden together with a number of organizations and business partners. The Almedalen week is an annual event in the city of Visby, Sweden. With speeches, seminars, and other political activities, it is considered to be the most important forum in Swedish politics. During the week, representatives from the major political parties in Sweden take turns to make speeches. Almost 3,500 activities were scheduled in 2015, attracting about 35 000 visitors. Almost 700 journalists were accredited. Going forward We continue to see an increased awareness from our clients coupled with a strong demand for assistance in the areas of compliance and investigation – including anti-corruption and risk assessments, implementation of policies and programs, and related issues. Hammarskiöld & Co will therefore continue to support and assist our clients in this field of work. Hammarskiöld & Co’s internal education program on business ethics and anti-money laundering will continue in 2016. UN Global Compact
