Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress April 2016 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress Table of Contents Statement of Continued Support…………………………Page 3 Human Rights Principles………………………………………Page 4 to 7 Labour Principles…………………………………………………Page 8 to 11 Environment Principles……………………………………….Page 12to 13 Anti-corruption Principles…………………………………..Page 14to 15 Page 2 of 15 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress Statement of Continued Support It has been four years since we, MIT Pte Ltd became a member of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact in 2012 when the United Nations General-Secretary paid a visit to Myanmar soon after the proclamation of our nation’s initiatives for the liberalization of the economy in conjunction with broader, all-inclusive political reforms. We take this opportunity to reaffirm our commitment to comply with the aspirations of the United Nations (UN) Global Compact embodying the ten universal principles on human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. As the saying: “Think globally. Act locally” goes; we try to keep abreast of developments taking place around the world in terms of the four chief agenda and take realistic initiatives that are also in conformity with our national socio-cultural heritage in fulfilling the Millennium Development and the Sustainable Development Goals. All activities we have undertaken so far towards incorporating the afore-mentioned principles into our company’s mainstream business operations and strategies can be surfed on our website at www.mit.com.mm. Sincerely yours, Dr. Tun Thura Thet CEO MYANMAR INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY PTE LTD Page 3 of 15 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Ever since becoming a member of the United Nations Global Compact in 2012, MIT have been keeping themselves busy with spreading the knowledge of the basic principles and tenets of the UN Global Compact among the staff in the first place, and later on through other means of communication, notifying and informing our stakeholders.` In line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, MIT has adopted an ambitious and holistic approach to ensure that human rights are properly integrated throughout all the MIT operations. For MIT, it is essential to ensure that respect for Human Rights is integrated into our business activities everywhere we operate. It is incumbent upon us that we address human rights issues that are common to all types of business, such as labor conditions, employee safety, and the abolition of forced labor and child labor. Human Rights in business is a complex topic by nature and it cannot be addressed only through reference documents such as the Staff Handbook or any other programmes drawn in line with UN compliance goals, and a standardized methodology. It requires a very strong desire and a holistic vision in order to identify and implement all necessary tools aimed at raising the awareness of employees so that they develop and progress step by step. As a result, MIT has come up with a set of basic, fundamental practices and guidelines leading towards a sound compliance. They are as follows: Page 4 of 15 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress 1. Adopt a human rights statement which will set the tone of our commitment. 2. Identify human rights impacts in our value chain so as to instill respect for human rights. Respecting human rights forms the basis on which our CSR policy is built and a desire to uphold and comply with international human rights standards, norms and principles. We hope that by doing so, it will lead to MIT making a formal commitment to incorporate human rights principles into the group’s operating activities. 3. Because MIT’s core business is the development and commercialization of IT softwares and related services, we have designed a program outlining the best practices a responsible employer should put in place all along its value chain. 4. Our Human Rights Guide is composed of the following: 4.1 Inform and familiarize all MIT employees with the key human rights principles. 4.2 Identify potential impacts of MIT operations on human rights as well as associated expectations from stakeholders to reduce negative impacts and maximize positive ones. 4.3 Describe a selection of MIT good practices at every step of IT software and in the workplace. 4.4 Act as a reference point for all managers making decisions on potential issues linked to human rights in their daily activities. As part of its responsibility towards complying with human rights principles, MIT has been keenly aware of our social responsibilities and is committed to integrating respect for human rights into our business operations and public positions. We are also convinced that the principles of human rights apply to peoples, to nations and, by extension, to businesses. States and governments guarantee human rights through adequate laws and Page 5 of 15 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress policies. So do businesses through identification of their impacts on human rights compliance and taking measures to prevent human rights violations. Of the many principles under Human Rights, we have always strived to focus on how to promote the welfare of disadvantaged children not only those living in satellite towns or in big cities but also in rural areas. For instance, in 2013, we donated computers and accessories to a school in Hlaing Thayar Township, a satellite town in Yangon. Besides, we have rewarded prizes to outstanding students at a number of schools. Another scheme that we came up with in encouraging education development in Myanmar is sponsoring scholarship to IT students from two Computer Science Universities in Yangon. This is in line with our company’s policy of streamlining education to meet the needs of the business sectors that have sprung up not so long ago. We have rewarded stipends to students living in Hinthada, a town some 200 miles north-west of Yangon. In addition, we have implemented a program called OJT (On Job Training) in which young people from far and near, and are mostly job-seekers are given an opportunity to work temporarily with us in a range of capacities before they embark on their careers. Finally, out of compassion and a desire to offer humanitarian aids, we have donated 300 bags of rice and a variety of household goods and utensils to the flood victims who had suffered greatly due to the unexpected heavy rains that occurred in many parts of the country. We are committed to promoting respect for human rights principles in all aspects of our business –from improving access to healthcare, to education and upholding ethical standards to respecting fundamental employee rights and taking steps to preserve our planet. Page 6 of 15 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME In conclusion, as a matter of a measurement of outcome, we believe we are on the right tract of respecting human rights as far as we are concerned in promoting those principles. We are also happy to note that, regarding CSR, we have been able to share our success with those in need of assistance and encouragement in pursuit of their goals in life, especially the children and the young. We will also be looking out for further opportunities that might present themselves to us for furtherance of the principles of Human Rights. Page 7 of 15 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress LABOUR PRINCIPLES Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 : the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 : the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 : the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. As a leading provider of IT communication services in Myanmar, and as a labor and skill intensive establishment, we employ a great deal of software based, programming skilled personnel most of whom are female. In terms of expanding computing knowledge and expertise for our employees, we have been able to establish strategic partnership with Microsoft and Oracle and it has assisted us in making us what we are todaya leader in IT communication industry. As set out in the guidelines of the Human Rights and Labor principles, Freedom of Expression forms fundamental human rights derived from the inherent dignity of all persons. MIT employees are encouraged to express their views and opinions in matters relating either to work or work environment, or to air their grievances freely and openly. Our management takes great pains to address these matters swiftly and in a manner satisfactory and beneficial to all concerned. We totally prohibit hiring child labor within our establishment and forced labor is a taboo. And in employment of our staff, we choose applicants according to the criteria laid down by Page 8 of 15 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress the management fairly and equitably without prejudice or bias. In employment of our staff, all are welcome and there is no discrimination as to race, sex, religion or political affiliations. We are fully aware of the fact that creating a good working condition is of paramount importance for a corporate entity such as us. We have done and are still doing to provide better working conditions for our employees at work. We have achieved this by drawing up and following through a set of rules and regulations embodied in our Staff Handbook. This Handbook is regularly updated in line with the changing needs of the business and economic developments taking place inside and outside of the country. Some of the labor welfare and benefits available for our employees are: our staff registering themselves in the Social Welfare Scheme sponsored by the Ministry of Labor, taking part in the anti-hepatitis virus B injection program, promoting healthcare by participating in the annual sporting event for the staff, forming a football team, distributing water bottles to ensure clean and pure water intake by the staff, enjoying weekly fruit fare consisting of most abundant and seasonally grown fruits such as bananas, apples, oranges etc. twice per week. All the rooms in our offices are airconditioned to provide cool atmosphere in such a hot country as ours. Among the improvement measures on MIT working conditions we have undertaken so far are: providing bus ferries to and from workplace on daily basis, providing uniforms annually so as to make our staff as presentable as we can to our customers and to promote our corporate image as attractive and respectable as can be, conducting of healthcare screening for management level personnel and so forth. Page 9 of 15 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress We also provide financial assistance to our staff who have gone through medical treatment and find themselves in difficulty in settling medical bills. To top it off, we provide tuition fees to school children of our company’s drivers and other general and menial workers. The company also arranges annual vacation trips for all our staff for relaxation and exploration purposes. On human resources front, we have been sending some of our personnel overseas so that they may learn more about new theories and practices developed in other parts of the world. Within our firm, we conduct orientation courses from time to time and take part in local workshops and seminars held on related fields of technology and science. We take part in sharing our technical expertise with other companies operating in the field of telecommunication. Moreover, we have been inviting lecturers, instructors and trainers from outside to give relevant, in-depth knowledge and education to our staff. And, this is supplemented by sending our staff to locally run training courses that have direct bearings on our operational skills and know-how. There is a program where outside individuals are permitted to come and work at MIT for a period as a familiarization process before they are employed elsewhere. We do not hesitate to lend a helping hand to all our staff regardless of their positions, in times of difficulties they might meet in the course of their sojourn in life under our care. Some such assistance we generally give includes providing financial assistance when they meet with bereavement in the family or when one starts a family. Page 10 of 15 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In conclusion, we would like to point out that much has been accomplished in terms of improving working conditions at MIT for the past two or three years. We are always ever ready to meet any demands for such improvement in the areas of social welfare and labor principles. We feel, as a result of such measures taken by the company, that we have achieved something towards improving the general working conditions of our workforce at MIT. Cases of conflict and grievances have been decreasing and, with the improved management planning, we expect to accomplish achieving our objectives, sustaining our development and maintaining our values in the coming years. Being the first company in Myanmar to have been awarded the ISO 9001:2008 Quality Management System, points out to the fact that MIT have significantly succeeded in creating a healthy working environment based on mutual respect, amicable collaboration, in-depth knowledge of one’s profession, and sound decisionmaking skills. We acknowledge that there is a lot to be done in the labor area. This prompts us to find new and better ways of dealing with labor issues that can arise in the future. Page 11 of 15 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Principe 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 : undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 : encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Climate change has become the all-important topic all over the world and world leaders have recently met in France to thrash out details and narrow differences of opinions among themselves in order to come up with a most appropriate and acceptable set of global agreement in the fight against environmental challenges the world is facing. MIT, whose mainstream operations are officebased, does not directly impact the environment where it works in as much as the manufacturing sector does. However, we have identified factors that we could possibly cause, by way of our operations, environmental degradation indirectly. There are several ways through which we can improve the environment such as decreased utilization of office paperwork, improved lighting in our offices and the use of ecofriendly technology. As far as utilization of paperwork at MIT is concerned, we have taken a few initiatives in order to reduce paper waste in and around our worksites. We found that the end result has been encouraging. The wastage of office paper, packing paper and so forth we generally see at our workplaces has obviously been reduced. This has made our worksites neat and clean leading to an overall friendly ambience at our organization. We are also reminded of our commitment to comply with the UN Environmental Principles as set forth herein, to raise awareness in our workforce as well as among our stakeholders on matters relating to the Page 12 of 15 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress environment protection. We have also initiated to indicate a “Going Green” policy as a footnote to all our outgoing emails. Also, instead of using paper in circulating internal communication, we now use the internet and the more so in the case of the external communication. This measure has enabled us to achieve cost efficiency too. But the main aim is to reduce paperwork load and thereby to help protect the surroundings. We have developed new eco-friendly software known as “HCM” to help optimize cost efficiency, reduction of paperwork and creation of a cleaner workplace. In addition, we computerize all recruitment processes; reduce electricity consumption by replacing old lighting with new LED electrical lightings that consume less electricity. We also use new software for data collection and integration such as HR and payroll etc. Besides, we have set out rules and regulations for our staff to follow such as turning off all electric devices and appliances at the end of the day or at breaks. Of course, because we provide software operating systems and related services to our clients, we make sure we bring no harm to the environment where our clients operate. This is our first priority and we share this information with our customers and suppliers and solicit their cooperation towards compliance of the UN environmental principles. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES We believe we have done, in our small ways, to help protect the environment in places where we and our clients work. The initiatives we have undertaken point to the success in mitigating the environment degradation in our surrounding areas. Electricity consumption reduction means less emission of carbon-oxide into the atmosphere. Reduced paper usage means less wastage, less incidents of infectious diseases. Overall, we might say that these measures have helped us achieve costefficiency, modernity through tidiness and cleanliness and eco-friendly environment. Page 13 of 15 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. MIT have always been doing its best to comply with the principles as set forth in the UN Global Compact in conjunction with all local applicable laws and by-laws. Also, international and regional legal frameworks against corruption form our backbone in as much as the fight against corrupt practices is concerned. We initiated ways and means by which our employees, suppliers, customers and stakeholders are constantly reminded of their duty to observe and follow the guidelines set out in our Staff Handbook. Since corruption takes many forms and nuances, such as bribery, extortion, under-thetable paying, etc., we make sure that all our employees know and understand these trickeries and make an effort to avoid committing such crimes or fall prey to them. We make sure that all our employees recognize the importance of the commitment our company have taken on, we emphasize that they are aware of the rules and regulations on corruption issues as laid down not only in the Staff Handbook but also in the terms and conditions stipulated in the rules and regulations as applicable as per the Employment Agreement. One such measure to contain the spread of bribery and illegal practices, we ask our employees not to present gifts to superiors exceeding Ks 10,000.00 in cash or in kind on religious and social occasions. We have also come up with a few steps that, we think, would raise awareness and cooperation among our staff in the fight against corruption. These are: 1. Procedural integration to prevent the risk of corruption in our company’s operational processes, particularly during commercial transactions involving third parties Page 14 of 15 Myanmar Information Technology Pte Ltd Communication on Progress 2. Drawing up programs to increase awareness and to inform and train employees most likely to be exposed to corrupt practices from outside influences. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOME It has become common knowledge that money makes the world go round which, in truth is totally false. In the fight against corruption, education plays a very important part to be able to get success. For this reason, we always try to remind our staff of the danger of falling prey into greed and false assumptions. Besides, the fight against corruption is one of constant vigilance of not falling into temptations. To date, for the past two or three years, we have not seen or witnessed any cases of bribery, kickback or blackmailing in our company. It is our belief that with a consorted effort and cooperation, we can make our company free from all kinds of mal-practices. Page 15 of 15
