COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S CONTENTS 01 STATEMENT FROM THE CEO 03 02 ABOUT SANTA FE 04 03 GOVERNANCE PROCESS 05 04 TEN UNGC PRINCIPLES 06 05 CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 07 06 ETHICS AND BEHAVIOUR 08 07 PEOPLE, HEALTH & SAFETY 09 08 FACTS ON PEOPLE 11 09 CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP 12 10 REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 14 11 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION 18 12 SUPPLY CHAIN INTEGRITY 19 01 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S STATEMENT FROM THE CEO 2015 was an eventful year for Santa Fe. We re-branded our company to Santa Fe – so we are now Santa Fe all over the globe. At the Annual General Meeting it was approved to change the name of the listed Parent company (formerly the East Asiatic Company Ltd. A/S) to Santa Fe Group A/S (SFG). We established a new Group Leadership Team (GLT) to get a better balance between regional/ local priorities and global strategy. The team now consists of the Regional CEOs, COO, the Group Functional Managers and the Business Line Directors for Relocation Assignment Management (RAMS) and Immigration Management Services (IMMS). We implemented Microsoft Office 365, and are now all on one mail system across the globe, with integrated calendars, Skype and social networking. We implemented Pulse – our new HR system. And we took the first steps to completely change our technology platform over the next 3 years. We also launched our first ever global engagement survey with Great Place to Work. Excellent participation and some important feedback on where we are strong, and where we can still improve and develop. A recurring event throughout the year was the very positive feedback that we received from our customers and from assignees that had a great experience relocating with Santa Fe. Of course, not all is easy and not all works completely smoothly when we relocate some 75,000 families across the globe – but the overall feedback we received was very, very positive, and there were countless examples of customers and assignees proactively reaching out to tell us. We are delighted to present out sixth Communication on Progress Report in support of our continued commitment to the 10 UNGC principles. The UNGC principles will continue to act as a guide, an inspiration and an aspiration to help create a sustainable future. Santa Fe will continue to drive forward its Martin Thaysen commitment to the UNGC guided by our own longChief Executive Officer standing values of trust, honesty and integrity. 03 02 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ABOUT SANTA FE Santa Fe is a global mobility Our 2,908 dedicated professionals speak more than 100 languages and deliver approximately 60,000 company specialising in international and 15,000 domestic relocations annually through our representation in 44 countries managing and delivering across six continents. As a business handling relocations anywhere in the world, our cultural high-quality relocation diversity, local presence and depth of experience means that there is no other relocation company services worldwide. Our core that can support our clients to the same level. Santa Fe operates so our clients and their assignees competence is our ability experience consistency, a single point of contact and high levels of support. Santa Fe’s customer to provide these services to centric approach ensures that we are expanding in accordance with the needs of our clients. In the a consistent high standard, past several years, we have continued to expand our geographical presence with new self-owned locally and globally. A key offices in Qatar, United States, Brazil, Mongolia, Myanmar and New Zealand, all to support our clients’ aspect of this is being able to requests for local expertise in these locations. Demand for mobility services from global corporations manage our service delivery is undergoing structural changes with added impetus on costs saving. Santa Fe continually develops new through our own offices. services that are relevant in the current business climate and assists its customers to achieve cost-reductions in the management of their mobility programmes. Santa Fe Group is headquartered in Copenhagen, Denmark with daily management of Santa Fe Relocation Services in London, United Kingdom and regional hubs in key global locations. Our core competence is our ability to provide services to a consistent, unifying high standard, locally and globally. A key aspect of this is our own offices, delivering services in critical locations that multinationals find most challenging. These services are delivered via World Link, our global network, consisting of own offices and Approved Partners. 04 03 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S GOVERNANCE PROCESS Santa Fe Group’s governing structure ensures that we are directed and controlled in a responsible manner, to ensure long-term sustainability and transparency. We transparently report our performance annually in terms of financial results, social responsibility and the operational aspects of our business. Our objective is to ensure our business remains sustainable in every meaning of the word. This means that we are able to provide our customers with a service that both offers value and continuity. It also means that through our continued commitment to aligning our operations and strategies with the ten UNGC principles, our Company contributes and benefits economies and societies globally. The governance structure has been strengthened with a sustainability team aiming at aligning sustainability objectives, implementing and sharing best practices. The team consists of members in each region with overall responsibility held by the Santa Fe Group CFO. 05 04 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S TEN UNGC PRINCIPLES The CSR policy of Santa Fe is Human Rights Environment: based on the 10 UN Global Principle 1: Businesses should Principle 7: Businesses should support and respect the support a precautionary approach Compact principles (UNGC) protection of internationally to environmental challenges; along with compliance with proclaimed human rights; and Principle 8: undertake international and national laws. Principle 2: make sure that initiatives to promote greater Where international minimum they are not complicit in environmental responsibility; and human rights abuses. Principle 9: encourage standards for CSR are higher the development and than those required by national Labour diffusion of environmentally law, Santa Fe strives to uphold Principle 3: Businesses should friendly technologies. uphold the freedom of association international standards. In and the effective recognition of We commit to: addition, Santa Fe goes beyond the right to collective bargaining; • Reduce the negative impact of our business on the legal compliance in a number Principle 4: the elimination environment, meet or exceed of areas where the company of all forms of forced and regulatory requirements compulsory labour; can contribute to sustainable and continuously seek to Principle 5: the effective improve our processes to development by applying abolition of child labour; and achieve high standards. its core competences. Principle 6: the elimination of • Monitor and Reduce discrimination in respect of carbon emissions. employment and occupation. • Reuse 100 % of packing We commit to: material where quality • Continuous monitoring of is not compromised. our governance system to ensure compliance with Anti-Corruption basic human rights within Principle 10: Businesses our organisation and those should work against corruption with whom we interact in all its forms, including • Compliance with extortion and bribery. national legislation We commit to: • Apply a zero tolerance approach with respect to corruption, extortion and bribery. • Continuously identify ways of maximising the positive impact of our business operations where we have special skills, products or services to make a difference in the communities where we live and work. 06 05 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Corporate social responsibility (CSR) is an important part of the culture at Santa Fe, and it’s an embedded component of our business ethics. It’s about us being accountable for our impact on our society and our environment and it’s integral to all our relationshipswith employees, clients, suppliers, partners and communities worldwide. We take our corporate social Non-profit organisations responsibilities (CSR) seriously; By building close and long-term we know that we can always do relationships with global nonmore. We’re constantly looking profit organisations, we can at new or different ways to respond to the needs of our local make sure that our people are communities, undertake actions proactive global citizens who to improve the environment have a positive impact on the and shape the relevancy of communities around them. our CSR programme. Stakeholder Engagement Suppliers and partners We recognise the importance Working with third-party of identifying and engaging partners and suppliers, we with our stakeholders. They can implement best practice provide us with a diverse range and influence relationships of perspectives and experiences to ensure stable growth and which inform, develop and refine responsible business practices. our CSR programme. In turn, Santa Fe Group’s corporate our stakeholders are intimately responsibility strategy contains involved in CSR activities. five prioritised areas: Employees Ethics and behaviour Through one-to-ones, team Binding guidelines with the aim meetings, events, engagement of ensuring that all employees surveys, round table discussions, perform their duties in accordance we encourage open dialogue with our business ethics. to find out what matters to our People, Health and safety peopleand learn how they Ensure a healthy working want to make a difference. environment for our employees Clients Environment By listening and learning from Assume responsibility for reducing the organisations with which our environmental footprint. we work, we can understand what is important to them and Anti-Corruption how our CSR strategies align. Maintain a zero tolerance Opinion leaders and approach to corruption industry thinkers in all its forms. By engaging with leading bodies, Supplier standards such as the UN Global Compact, we can draw upon their existence Ethical standards that our knowledge and experience. suppliers must follow, and we will ensure that these standards are, at a minimum, in compliance with the UN Global Compact. 07 06 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S ETHICS AND BEHAVIOUR To truly make a difference in our organisation, CSR must be embedded into our culture, in addition to our processes, policies and practices. It must be aligned to our strategy and we must take a long-term view. To truly make a difference in The Code contributes to our our organisation, CSR must future success by helping to be embedded into our culture, maintain this culture. The Code in addition to our processes, and our other ethics policies policies and practices. It must help to focus everyone on areas be aligned to our strategy and of ethical risk, offer guidance we must take a long-term view. in recognising and dealing To act in a globally responsible with ethical issues and provide way, we continually review our mechanisms to report unethical initiatives, codes and schemes conduct without fear of retaliation. so that we can learn from We revised the Code of Business them. We pride ourselves on Conduct in 2015 which involved a fair, ethical and inclusive placing a stronger emphasis approach to our business, on anti-corruption practices. our people and our clients. In 2016 we plan to revise the Our Code of Business Conduct Code of Business Conduct, and Code of Business Conduct, Staff guidebook; strengthening Staff Guidebook provides the guidance on data privacy guidance to all employees on the and anti-corruption. conduct of our business according to the highest ethical standards. We have grown and prospered with a culture of honesty, integrity and accountability. 08 07 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S PEOPLE, HEALTH & SAFETY Investing in our people Enhancing our Learning One of our core people Continuous learning and Platform we offer online initiatives in 2015 was the development is critical to the learning opportunities to all implementation of our first ever growth and success of our of our employees. In an era of global employee engagement employees and we ensure that “information overload,” it is survey. We are partnering everyone in our organisation vital that we help employees with the Great Place to Work has access to development easily access the most relevant, © institute on this strategic opportunities. We have identified targeted content and courses people project and are already key focus areas to ensure that that will enable them to develop embracing the feedback from we are equipping our people the capabilities they need to our employees by running with the capabilities they need to succeed. In 2015, we finalised local focus groups and getting achieve their career aspirations our plan to move our learning a better understanding of the and help us meet our goals. management system (LMS) to working environment we need a single platform within our HR to create to foster a culture of The ‘Managing @ Santa Fe’ Management System (HRIS) trust at all levels. 77% of all management fundamentals that will enhance individual employees took part in the programme is a global learning experience while allowing us survey and while there is some initiative successfully launched to better measure learning work to do, we have a number in 2015 with over 125 managers outcomes. Our new HRIS— of markets with outstanding attending the two-day event in Pulse—was implemented across results. Culture change is a five locations across the Santa our entire organisation in marathon, not a sprint, and Fe network. The programme is 2015. It will allow us to develop we know that it will take time. designed to give line managers capabilities on a global scale However, we are proud of more confidence in successfully in a more integrated fashion, having started this important completing day-to-day share training content more engagement initiative and are managerial activities, including easily, design curriculum that already looking forward to performance management, incorporates multiple modes of our October 2016 survey. providing feedback and learning and provide a more coaching, understanding customised experience for team dynamics and Action individual learners. Overall, Centred Leadership as well as the course catalogue will be motivation and engagement. targeted toward the most Further programmes are current, relevant and inplanned throughout 2016 in demand skills and content. an effort to ensure that the For our employees, the majority of line managers – in learning experience will be a particular first-time managers much more personal one. and those managers new to the organisation – appreciate the fundamental principles of leading others and getting the best out of their teams. 09 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S PEOPLE, HEALTH & SAFETY (CONTINUED) 2016 will also be the year in which Diversity Employee retention a globally consistent approach Santa Fe continues to monitor Retaining employees remains an to Performance Management is gender ratio to ensure that we are important aspect of our business, introduced across Santa Fe. Not an attractive employer to both our goal is to remain an attractive only have we introduced consistent male and female prospective employer respecting, supporting metrics for our senior leaders, we employees as well as our current and adhering to internationally are also supporting the roll-out employees. The overall female proclaimed human rights including of the process through an online gender ratio increased, this was the basic principles of the performance management system attributed to the increase of female International Labour organisation’s which ties seamlessly into our employees at the office staff level. Declaration of Fundamental existing HRIS and LMS, creating a Principles and Rights at Work. In accordance with its support to UN compelling overall ‘online bundle’ Global Compact and in line with Our absolute turnover was for our employees. In order to its long-running practices, Santa 23.3% with higher turnover ensure performance management Fe Group endeavours to create rates being seen in Australia, has a positive impact, we will equal opportunities for employees mainly due to restructuring of the only request the top two levels of and managers, regardless of organisation. Our goal is to bring the organisation to complete this gender, ethnicity, age, political the absolute turnover to 20% year’s process; from 2017, it will and religious convictions, etc. be cascaded further. The process Health & Safety has been designed with constant Pursuant to Danish legislation on feedback in mind, e.g. monthly 1-ongender equality, Santa Fe also has We take appropriate measures to 1 meetings between managers and an objective for the proportion of provide a safe working environment employees to update one another on the underrepresented gender on for all of our employees, contractors performance against objectives. This the Board of Directors. It is Santa and consultants. We focus on will reduce the potential ambiguity Fe’s ambition that 25% of the compliance with health and safety and stresses often caused by formal members of the Board of Directors legislation within our own business mid-year and year-end review cycles are women. Consequently Santa Fe operations and also apply this same as employees will have received onwill ensure that qualitied candidates standard as a matter of priority. going feedback throughout the year. are considered before the Board We recognise the importance of of Directors proposes candidates work-life balance, and appreciate As a global company, our the value that out-of-work activities to the Annual General Meeting. employees, contractors, clients bring back into the workplace. However, the Board of Directors’ and suppliers come from diverse We also aim to foster a culture of final submission of candidates will backgrounds and cultures. By well-being by providing a variety of always be based on their actual valuing diversity and equal tools, education and resources that competencies and experiences opportunity, we connect with the reinforce healthy lifestyle choices. relative to Santa Fe’s needs to richest spectrum of experiences, ensure that the candidate deemed In the field of occupational health skills, expertise and perspectives best qualified is proposed. In 2015, and safety, both the number for all of the markets we serve. 1 of 4 members (25%) of the Santa of accidents with time lost and This philosophy is also reflected in Fe Board of Directors was a woman. the number of lost workdays our own recruiting process – we recognise that a diverse workforce Following the transformation per accident increased in 2015. fosters creativity, innovation and of Santa Fe in 2015 with a These were mainly due to work better business practices. generational handover in executive accidents involving operational management and the launch of staff undertaking manual labour. a new strategy towards 2020, the We aim to reduce the number of Board of Directors also wishes work accidents and associated to ensure that the composition of days lost in 2016 by continuing the Board forms the best possible with the integration of health support for the future journey. and safety considerations in This may mean that the ambition decision-making processes, along of a 25% female representation with more training, cooperation on the Board of Directors will and improved coordination not be met at all times, but it will across the organisation. continue to be a general ambition. 10 08 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S FACTS ON PEOPLE Gender Ratio Absolute Turnover 0% 50% 100% Total Female 24% Workforce Total Male 18% Workforce Female Senior 12% Management Male Senior Management 6% Female Middle Management 0% 2013 2014 2015 Work accidents with days lost Male Middle Management 90 Work accidents with days lost per 1000 employees Female Days off due to accidents per Office headcount per 1000 emploees Staff 60 Male Office Staff Female Operational Staff 30 Male Operational Staff 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 11 09 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP Santa Fe financially contributes towards three main charities. Santa Fe and our employees remain active in supporting local communities. We believe that whilst we provide financial contributions we can also contribute our time, expertise, resources and experience. Santa Fe Group continues to make Santa Fe Asia contributed USD 5.00 per trucks available for disaster relief when booked move to Johns Hopkins Medicine tsunamis, earthquakes, typhoons or other in Baltimore, Maryland. Johns Hopkins is natural disasters strike. In addition Santa one of the world’s pre-eminent health care Fe Group provides logistical services to institutions, and its researchers have made charities and local communities for a a tremendous contribution in deciphering variety of events. Various activities took the mechanisms of cancer and discovering place in 2015 and Santa Fe continues new treatments. A total of EUR 68,000 was to promote a culture whereby we care raised through booked move donations. about our communities not just as an Santa Fe Europe contributed EUR 54.000 organisation but also as individuals. to Bertram’s Junior School in Johannesburg, Santa Fe Australia are proud supporters of South Africa which is a Charity set up Red Kite, committing to A$20,000 per year to help make a difference to the lives in corporate sponsorship. Red Kite helps of its children many of whom have had to support the families of children living their family lives destroyed by conflict or with cancer and is a well-known and highly by social disasters like HIV/Aids. These respected charity within Australia. On top donations will help to develop a school of our base level of commitment, we also expansion and to provide necessities such fundraise and participate in additional as books and food for the students. events when the opportunity arises. Recently our team in Melbourne raised over A$150 in a Christmas raffle, and Perth held a morning tea and participated in the Trade a Treat fundraiser which totaled A$300. 12 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S CORPORATE CITIZENSHIP (CONTINUED) Australia In November the staff of Santa Fe Australia attempted to grow moustaches throughout the month of November to support ‘Movember’, which raises money for men’s health, specifically prostate cancer and mental health. They held a morning tea at the end of the month with donation tins, and in total raised A$250 for this cause. During October our Brisbane branch collected feminine hygiene products for the Share the Dignity Campaign. This organisation works to source and distribute much needed products to women in homeless shelters across Australia who may not have the means to purchase the products India Poland themselves. Shelters across the Santa Fe Poland partnered In the aftermath of floods in globe list these products as one with Sygma Bank to assist in August 2015 that killed more than of the most valuable physical the refurbishment of a local 100 people in Northern India donations that you can give, orphanage. The team provided and Nepal and left thousands with a great number of generous logistic services, delivering homeless, our team in India donors never even considering the furniture to the orphanage. mobilised to help. Santa Fe India impact that something so simple team members contributed to can have in the everyday lives Spain the relief effort by contributing of those living on the streets. money to buy more than 100 Santa Fe Spain donated China blankets, tents and clothes. The Computer equipment to India team contributed money Asociación juvenil El Gallo Santa Fe Shanghai continue de Santo Domingo Youth to the local NGO Goong which to support Heart to Heart, a Association for the Integration supported victims by sending relief non-profit community outreach of immigrants without resources. materials to victims in Srinagar. organisation who rely solely The project is aimed at promoting on volunteers who donate time In support of their efforts, Santa Fe India arranged free logistical acceptance and facilitating and money to give support to access to employment for children from extremely poor support to collect the material families who are undergoing from various collection points and young immigrants in social deliver to their central collection exclusion, through a sustainable heart surgery. The last donation entrepreneurship, which of clothes, shoes, school supplies hub. We also arranged a full truck of relief material in our promotes personal autonomy and and any other usable items for ensure their socio-professional children was 20 cubic meters. own truck from New Delhi to Srinagar in Northern India. integration in society. Santa Fe Beijing is the official logistics sponsor for Roundabout Indonesia Thailand Beijing, transporting donated Santa Fe Thailand held a Santa Fe Indonesia worked with items to shops and recycled badminton Championship to a local consultant to create a cartons for storage and raise money that helps provide hydroponic garden on the roof transportation of such items. dog food at a no-kill shelter of our Jakarta office. The team The charity was started to for stray animal in Saraburi were trained to plant vegetables provide assistance to raise funds Province. The shelter currently and the skills and knowledge to support medical costs for takes care of 1,400 stray dogs learnt were passed on to several orphans, sheltered housing for and over 300 stray cats. The local communities to show them the elderly or those in need. event raised more than THB how they too could start their own hydroponic gardens. 10,000, the team also donated wood to build dog houses in order to improve the shelter. 13 10 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT We pride ourselves on being a responsible organisation and have committed to continually improving our environmental performance and preventing pollution. We support and comply with all environmental legislation and advocate a precautionary approach with regard to environmental concerns. At Santa Fe, we believe that our Our objectives are to people are the foundation of our reduce our impact on the success, not just in our business environment year-on-year by: operations but also in our • Becoming more energy drive to improve environmental efficient, thereby reducing our performance. As a result they are greenhouse gas emissions. fully involved in our environmental • Minimising our waste by programmes, as part of our applying a reduce-reuseCSR programme. At a local recycle philosophy. In 2015 the Environmental Our business has environmental committee in France undertook impacts from the packing material a number of environmental we purchase and their disposal. initiatives to raise employee With a fleet of over 540 vehicles awareness and collaborate efforts we acknowledge this as being a to reduce their environmental huge environmental consideration impact. These initiatives ranged for Santa Fe. Our vision and goals from placing recycling boxes focus on reducing our impacts in the kitchen for recycling at each stage of our value chain coffee capsules, to setting up and making a positive difference a compost bin and improving to the world in which we live. the paper recycling process. A key achievement in 2015 was Santa Fe’s Environmental policy Santa Fe Hong Kong’s Award for is intended to be sustainable Environmental Excellence. The and is being integrated into our Hong Kong office successfully day-to-day business practices. As won the Transport and Logistics such, this policy is communicated certificate of merit awarded by to all staff members and is the Environmental Campaign also available to the public. Committee (ECC). This was Santa Fe applies recognised in recognition of the efforts Environmental Management to promote environmental Systems such as ISO 14001:2004 practices and management. (or its local equivalent) based on the principle of continuous performance improvement. These systems are the basis for the deployment of key elements which include risk analysis, monitoring of environmental performance and compliance to regulations and permits, follow-up of the corresponding corrective actions, review of performance and improvement plans by the management. 14 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (CONTINUED) Waste Reuse Energy Our reduce-reuse-recycle Santa Fe has looked at a number The amount of electricity philosophy has led to some of opportunities for reusing consumed in 2015 decreased by positive recycling results in the packing material, these have 0.89% this result can be attributed past three years. 2015 saw a ranged from being donated to creating and maintaining reduction in the amount of waste to help local charities, aiding sustainable warehouses and recycled which can be attributed with local relief work, being also continuous management to a significant amount of re-used on household goods and awareness building with available waste that was recycled moves; where the quality and all our employees globally. in 2014. There was a significant integrity of the packing material reduction of 48.7% in the amount has not been compromised. Trucks of waste sent to landfill, however, As we grow and increase sales there was an increase of 14.7% Recycle and delivery of our services, of waste incinerated. In 2016 Santa Fe London has a we continue to look for ways we aim to recycle 75% of all partnership programme with to increase the efficiency and available waste and reduce the their packing supplier where all reduce emissions levels of our amount of waste sent to landfill waste is collected and recycled fleet. Many of these initiatives by 2%. This can be achieved by back into packing material. This have required no additional placing an even greater emphasis has been a great initiative and investment; by promoting the on the importance of recycling, seen positive results with 0% of choice of lower-emission models providing awareness training waste being sent to landfill. for our fleets, continuously for employees as well as the Santa Fe has a number of improve the way in which they are resources and systems in place to initiatives surrounding recycling maintained and how their routes maximise our recycling potential. such as recycling bins made and volumes are scheduled. This available for office paper, tin has resulted in a 0.14% decrease Reduce in fuel per tonnage moved. cans, and printer cartridges, as Santa Fe’s Household goods well as for packaging material. services continues to be heavily Greenhouse Gas Emissions reliant on natural resources Technology Santa Fe has continued to in particular materials such Microsoft Sharepoint 2010, monitor its GHG emissions. We as paper, cardboard, plastic Yammer Technology and Skype continue to work with our offices etc. Santa Fe Australia has for Business, is revolutionising globally to improve the data successfully made the transition the ways we communicate and quality to allow better and more to using ‘Envirowrap’ (a material at Santa Fe we also recognise in depth reporting of our Scope based alternative to cardboard the need for technology that is 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions. Fuel packaging which reduces the environmentally friendly. Following continues to be Santa Fe’s biggest amount of cardboard and on from the initial rollout of contributor to its Scope 1 and 2 tape used during packing), Skype for Business, which offers emissions and we are committed for intra-country moves. messaging, voice and video to working on initiatives and The mass of materials used per calling capabilities and enables ways in which we can reduce household goods move continues people to communicate remotely, the impact of our fleet. to decrease and can be attributed we extended this offering in 2015 In 2014, Santa Fe begun to to various initiatives such as to include Yammer, the enterprise collect data to allow reporting of educating packers on efficient social networking software. relevant Scope 3 GHG emissions. packing, density packing and Everyone at Santa Fe now has this One of our objectives for using the original manufacturers software installed. It has created 2015 was to collect data packaging where available. a new communication platform from our Australian offices to for our business. Our investment provide a better indication of in these technologies has enabled our overall relevant Scope 3 teams who work remotely to meet GHG emissions impact. We virtually capturing financial are pleased to confirm that savings, ensuring better workthis objective was met. life balance for colleagues in international roles, and reducing our carbon footprint. 15 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (CONTINUED) Waste Distibution Waste Distibution (Kgs) 90% 7m Recycling Recycling Inceneration Inceneration Landfill Landfill 60% Million Kgs 30% 0% 0m 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Fleet fuel consumption Greenhouse Gas impacts – per tonnage (MJ/m3) Scope 1,2 & 3 110 8,000 1,400 Scope 1+2 Tons Scope 3 Tons CO2e 95 4,000 700 Million 80 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 16 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT (CONTINUED) Greenhouse gas impacts – Greenhouse gas impacts – Scope 3 – Third party by road Scope 3 – Third party by sea 5,520 23 Scope 3 Tons CO2e Million 20 Million 5,380 17 2014 2015 2014 2015 Greenhouse gas impacts – Scope 3 – Third party by air 50 Scope 3 Tons CO2e Million 25 Million 0 2014 2015 17 11 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS AND ANTI-CORRUPTION Our main activities covering the principles in UN Global Compact regarding Anti-Corruption are detailed within our Code of Business Conduct and Staff Guidebook. According to these, all Santa Fe Group employees are expected to: • Apply a zero tolerance approach towards corruption, extortion and bribery. • Behave honestly, are trustworthy and set a good example. • Do not pay or accept bribes in any form. • Do not accept or provide gifts, invitations or other advantages which could create a possible conflict of interest. • Ensure that they do not engage directly or indirectly in fraud against any of our partners or government entities. • Ensure that they do not engage directly or indirectly in bribery. • Refuse to pay any bribes, including small amount bribes or facilitation payments. ABC training Data security The Santa Fe Anti-Corruption Santa Fe continues to follow Policy cements and elaborates the requirements of ISO 27001 our position against corruption Data Security Management and bribery as set out in the to ensure that all data and Code of Business Conduct. To information that interacts within ensure that all managers and our Company is secure. Santa key employees understand and Fe undergoes regular audits recognise the position of Santa Fe via certification bodies, internal against corruption and bribery, audits and also audits by our we made available e-learning corporate customers. ISO based compliance training. In 27001 is the internationally 2016, the target is for Anti-Bribery recognised standard for and Corruption eLearning to be establishing, implementing, rolled out in different languages. maintaining and continuously In addition to this Santa Fe improving Information Security aims to provide an Anti-Money Management. It demonstrates Laundering eLearning programme our ability to deliver secure to further educate our employees reliable solutions for both Santa against anti-corruption practices. Fe and our customers and 11 locations have received formal Whistleblowing certification to ISO 27001. Santa Fe’s Whistle-blower Santa Fe demonstrates an programme encourages ability to efficiently handle data employees to take up any through robustly managed difficulty or question relating to processes. By achieving and the application of the Code of maintaining certification it has Conduct with its hierarchy and allowed us to strengthen the other identified interlocutors levels of trust between ourselves in a confidential manner. The and our customers, improving Whistle-blower system is aimed our ability to securely manage at identifying corrupt practices their data and at the same or suspected violations of laws time providing assurances that and regulations, extortion, we are following ISO 27001 fraud, bribery and other forms of information security best practice. corruption or ethical concerns. 18 12 C O M M U N I C AT I O N O N P R O G R E S S SUPPLY CHAIN INTEGRITY We need to ensure that we do not expose ourselves or our clients to operational or reputation risk from the actions of our suppliers. We engage a wide variety of suppliers around the world — from large, global technology providers to small, local diversity suppliers and recruiters of specialised talent. Santa Fe has identified the need to strengthen and broaden our risk-based approach to addressing concerns that may arise from our supply chain. A key priority in 2016 will be the revision of the Santa Fe Partner Agreement which will place strong emphases on Compliance requirements. Higher risk suppliers in each of our markets are asked to provide positive assurance that they adhere to our policy and also complete quarterly declarations on any instances of corruption within their organisation or any work accidents whilst undertaking services on behalf of Santa Fe. Many of our largest global suppliers have key social responsibility principles embedded into their contracts and are required to participate in Anti-Bribery eLearning provided by Santa Fe. We believe that an open and honest dialogue will benefit our Stakeholders as well as our Corporate Social Responsibility efforts, and we invite you to participate. Feel free to contact us with any questions or comments on certification@santaferelo.com 19
