CSR Report 2015 Corporate Data (as of February 28, 2015) Company name Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. Businesses Planning, management, and operations for the various Group companies (pure Head Office 8-8, Nibancho, Chiyoda-ku, holding company), centered on conveTokyo 102-8452, Japan nience stores, general merchandise Date of Establishment September 1, 2005 stores, department stores, supermarPaid-in Capital ¥50,000 million kets, food services, financial services, and IT/ services Number of Employees 148,307 (Including part-time employees with every 163 hours/month Website http://www.7andi.com/en worked being counted as one employee) Please refer to the website for detailed information about CSR initiatives. http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/index.html ●Consolidated Financial Summary Revenues from Operations and Operating Income Net Income and ROE ¥ Billion ¥ Billion ¥ 60,000 4,000 2,500 10 2,000 8 45,000 3,000 1,500 6 30,000 2,000 1,000 4 15,000 1,000 500 2 0 0 0 0 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 ■Revenues from operations (left) ■Operating income (right) ■Net income (left) Return on equity (ROE) (right) Total Assets, Net Assets and Owners’ Equity Ratio Cash Flows ¥ Billion % ¥ Billion 80,000 50 6,000 4,000 60,000 45 2,000 40,000 40 0 20,000 35 –2,000 0 30 –4,000 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 ■Total assets (left) ■Net assets (left) Owners’ equity ratio (right) ■Cash flows from operating activities ■Cash flows from investing activities ■Cash flows from financing activities 1 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 About the CSR Report CSR Report 2015 covers CSR initiatives implemented by Seven & i Holdings, Contents our holding company, and its operating companies. There is detailed reporting on initiatives each operating company has taken in regard to the Five Message 3 Promises (material issues) and CSR activities overseas. Policy Regarding CSR 4 Report Coverage Corporate Governance  5 The Report mainly covers the following organizations. Information on each CSR Management 7 company is also available on the following websites. (URLs are for CSRrelated pages or the top pages of each company’s website). Feature (Dialogue) Sustainable Growth by Sales of reporting organizations Responding to Change 11 as a percentage of overall sales 96.2% Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/index.html Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) The Relationship between Seven & i Holdings and Society17 http://www.sej.co.jp/social/index.html Five Promises 19 Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) http://www.itoyokado.co.jp/company/iycsr/ Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd.(in Japanese) We will realize a society where all people http://www.sogo-seibu.co.jp/csr.html Promise can enjoy reliability and convenience in 1 York-Benimaru Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) shopping as a form of social infrastructure. 21 http://www.yorkbeni.co.jp/enviro/index.html York Mart Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) We will provide safety and 27 Promise http://www.yorkmart.com/company/preservation/ 2 reliability through products and stores. Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) http://www.7andi-fs.co.jp/7fs/company/csr.html We will eliminate waste in terms of products, materials, and energy and contribute to the Promise 3 Seven Bank, Ltd. http://www.sevenbank.co.jp/english/ir/csr/ preservation of the environment. 35 Akachan Honpo Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) We will support the creation of a society where all people can actively participate, Promise http://www.akachan.jp/company/csr/ 4 7-Eleven, Inc. regardless of gender or age. 45 http://corp.7-eleven.com/corp/background-information We will work to build an ethical society SEVEN-ELEVEN (HAWAII), INC. together with customers and Promise 5 http://www.7elevenhawaii.com/home business partners. 53 SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) CO., LTD., SEVEN-ELEVEN(TIANJIN) CO., LTD. (in Chinese) http://www.7-11bj.com.cn/ Social Contribution Activities 59 SEVEN-ELEVEN (CHENGDU) Co., Ltd. (in Chinese) Overseas Initiatives 61 http://www.7-11cd.cn/ Hua Tang Yokado Commercial Co., Ltd. (in Chinese) Awards and Recognition by Outside Parties 63 http://www.ht-store.com/d/index.do Greenhouse Gas Emissions Verification Statement 64 Chengdu Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. (in Chinese) http://www.iy-cd.com/ Data Section Period of the Report Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. 65 This report covers our activities during the fiscal year ended February 28, Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. 66 2015 (March 2014 to February 2015). Some of our activities in the fiscal year ending February 29, 2016 are also included. Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. 69 Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. 72 References GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines York-Benimaru Co., Ltd. 76 ISO 26000 York Mart Co., Ltd. (in Japanese)  79 Current Report September 2015 Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd. 82 Akachan Honpo Co., Ltd. 85 Disclaimer Seven Bank, Ltd.  88 The data shown in this report are based on information as of the time of writing. Actual activities and results may differ depending on future social changes. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 2 Message We will strive constantly to respond to the changing times including social issues, and to meet the expectations of our stakeholders. Chairman and President and Chief Executive Officer Chief Operating Officer The condition of the economy is still as harsh as ever due to the people living in areas that are not convenient for daily shopimpact of the consumption tax rate hike. Since the end of 2014, ping, or seniors. Through initiatives such as these, we will there have been some encouraging signs, such as a lift in share promote responses that utilize the respective strengths of prices, partly due to the effect of a recovery in corporate earneach Group company. ings; nevertheless, many uncertainties remain, including a furMoreover, in the mature market of Japan today, it is becomther tax rate increase, prices, and wages. It is thought that more ing increasingly difficult to meet diversifying customer needs time will be needed for consumption to make a full recovery. with the conventional chain store approach. Our policy is to Meanwhile, looking at the overall social situation surround“Break Away from Conventional Chain Store Management”* ing Seven & i Holdings, the global environment is presenting and have individual stores play the central role as the entities even more diverse social issues for companies, including cliclosest to our customers, picking up on local needs and focusmate change, resource depletion, and labor and human rights ing on product development and store operation tailored to issues. In Japan, there are numerous problems that have regional characteristics. arisen with the changes in the times, such as the decline in the Furthermore, in autumn 2015, we will launch full-scale birthrate and aging of the population, and the decline of retail operation of our Omni-Channel Strategy, which will enable us stores and service centers. Today, the call for companies to to supply customers with any products and services of our take action to solve and alleviate these social issues is growGroup companies anywhere and at any time. By integrating the ing even stronger. Internet and real stores, we are making an attempt at innovaTo enable us to respond flexibly to these changes in the tion that only the Seven & i Group with its diverse formats times and social demands, it is important for us to have daycould achieve. By establishing and operating this Omni-Chanto-day dialogue with stakeholders such as customers, sharenel Strategy, we aim to realize a society where everyone can holders, and employees. In the fiscal year ended February shop with confidence and convenience. At the same time, we 28, 2015, we held numerous dialogues with experts repreexpect to create even further synergies for the entire Group. senting stakeholders on issues that we should address as a We became a signatory to the UN Global Compact in July company. Through these discussions, we identified five mate2012. In addition to abiding by its 10 principles, we will prorial issues and are now working as a Group on initiatives to mote initiatives to resolve social issues in line with the busiaddress them. ness characteristics of each Group company through its core In particular, the aging and decline of the population along operations in response to the endless changes of society and with the hollowing out of facilities supporting daily life have our customers’ changing needs. At the same time, we will conresulted in an increase in customers who now find daily shoptinue our efforts to be a sincere company that is trusted by its ping to be inconvenient. The Seven & i Group recognizes this stakeholders by practicing our Corporate Creed. as one of the most material issues that it should address by leveraging its business characteristics, including its network of *Break Away from Conventional Chain Store Management With the changes in the social environment, we have rejected the theory of approximately 19,000 stores nationwide. To increase the conchain store management, which was the product of the pursuit of efficiency venience of shopping, we will develop and arrange product in the age of mass production and mass consumption, and have instead lineups of original products that offer high quality and value developed a policy that entails a major change from the conventional format. Today, we have radically revised Head Office-led operational manthat meets customers’ needs, while promoting services such agement, and are focusing on realizing a system led primarily by the stores as product delivery or mobile sales to meet the needs of in each area. 3 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 CSR Policies We conduct business activities based on the corporate creed of aiming to be a sincere company trusted by all stakeholders. In the form of Corporate Action Guidelines, we have stated the actions for realizing that creed. Corporate Creed We aim to be a sincere company that our customers trust. We aim to be a sincere company that our business partners, shareholders and local communities trust. We aim to be a sincere company that our employees trust. The basic posture of Seven & i Holdings employees http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/policy/guidelines.html Corporate 1. Compliance 6. Human Resources and Creed 2. Relationship with Customers Workplace Environment Seven & i 3. Relationship with 7. Environmental Management Holdings Corporate Business Partners 8. Social and Cultural Contribution Action Guidelines 4. Relationship with Activities Shareholders and Investors 9. Reporting Misconduct and 5. Relationship with Violative Conduct Specific policies Local Communities for each area Policies for each measure Quality Policy (In Japanese) http://www.7andi.com/csr/policy/quality.html Basic Policy on Sustainable Procurement (In Japanese) http://www.7andi.com/csr/policy/procurement.html Environmental guidelines and environmental rules http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/policy/environment_02.html Seven & i Holdings Environmental Declaration Fundamental Policies Relating to Measures to Contribute to the Prevention of Global Warming http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/policy/environment_02.html Basic Policy on Social and Cultural Contribution, Social and Cultural Contribution Action Guidelines http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/policy/contribute.html Seven & i Holdings supports the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, a worldwide framework for achieving sustainable growth, and carries out CSR activities through its core businesses to fulfill these principles. * Visit the following link to learn more about the UN Global Compact. http://www.unglobalcompact.org/index.html Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 4 Corporate Governance As a holding company that oversees and controls its operating companies, it is our mission to strengthen corporate governance and maximize the enterprise value of our Group. Corporate Governance System Supported by decision-making and business execution by the Board of Executive Officer and Corporate Auditor Systems Directors. They also supervise and audit the execution of business by exchanging opinions regarding company The Board of Directors of Seven & i Holdings is composed management, corporate governance, and other matters at of 15 Directors (of whom 4 are independent Outside meetings with Directors and others. Directors). The Executive Officer system has been adopted *1 Seven & i Holdings emphasizes the independence of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Individuals are selected who are for prompt decision making and operations under a rapidly unlikely to be in a conflict of interest with general shareholders and who are changing management environment. The Board of Directors capable of offering supervision, auditing, advice, and suggestions based on expert knowledge and experience, from objective and neutral standpoints is responsible for formulating business strategies and *2 The number is as of the end of August 2015. supervising operations, and 19 Executive Officers, including those who also serve as Directors, execute business operations. The term of Directors has been set to one year, Internal Control Systems to reflect the intentions of shareholders in a timely manner. The Audit & Supervisory Board is composed of five Seven & i Holdings has worked to enhance its internal members (of whom three are independent Outside Audit & control systems to achieve the required conditions of Supervisory Board Members), and monitors management. In internal control: (1) operational effectiveness and efficiency; addition to attending Board Meetings and other important (2) reliability in financial reporting; (3) strict compliance meetings, the Audit & Supervisory Board Members exchange with laws and regulations in operating activities; and (4) opinions with the Representative Director and periodically appropriate preservation of assets. interview Directors regarding the status of business The Auditing Office, which is an independent internal execution. In addition, they share information with operating auditing department, has an oversight function to verify and companies’ directors and independent auditors and strictly provide guidance on internal auditing by operating audit the directors’ performance of duties. companies or directly audit them, and an internal auditing The Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory function for auditing the holding company, Seven & i Board Members conduct corporate governance based on Holdings. In addition to the operational auditing director for the executive officer system and the Audit & Supervisory performing these operations, the internal control evaluation Board Member system by providing advice and suggestions director has been appointed to evaluate internal controls of to ensure the validity and appropriateness of core operating companies. Corporate Governance System General Shareholders’ Meeting Appointment, Appointment, Appointment, Dismissal Dismissal Dismissal Board of Corporate Auditors Auditing Board of Directors 5 members 15 members (including 3 independent Outside Members) (including 4 independent Outside Directors) Management supervision function Auditing Reporting Appointment, Supervision Execution of operations Representative Directors Independent Auditors Auditing Office Committees Audit (CSR Management Committee, Risk Management collaboration Committee, Information Management Committee, Group Synergy Committee) Auditing, Monitoring Divisions Auditing Operating Companies Operating Companies Operating Companies Operating Companies 5 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 ●Information Management Committee Committees The Information Management Committee works to control Seven & i Holdings has established the CSR Management issues related to information management. Committee, Information Management Committee, Risk In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, the Management Committee, and Group Synergy Committee, Committee continued to examine ways to strengthen the which report to the Representative Director. Each system for reporting decisions or occurrences of key issues committee cooperates with the operating companies to in Group companies to Seven and i Holdings and Groupdetermine Group policies and to manage and supervise wide IT security standards. It also established the new their dissemination and execution with an eye to Information Management & Security Office. In regard to strengthening corporate governance. these two issues of information management and information security, a person was placed in charge of each to further promote them, and we moved forward with the ●CSR Management Committee formulation of a common Group-wide information security The CSR Management Committee endeavors to maintain policy and IT security standards, and made progress with compliance with the Seven & i Holdings Corporate Action reviewing and upgrading subordinate regulations. Guidelines, following the corporate creed of “We aim to be In the fiscal year ending February 29, 2016, working a sincere company that our customers trust.” with respect under the new reporting system, the Committee will to its various stakeholders. The Committee works to strengthen governance and compliance having made a contribute to resolving social issues through business start with the theme of information, while continuing to activities and aims for society and the Group to achieve strengthen the information security system against a sustainable growth. To achieve these objectives, three backdrop of heightened interest in protection of subcommittees (Corporate Ethics and Culture personal information. Moreover, departments within the Subcommittee, Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Group that handle customer’s personal information will Practices Subcommittee, and Environment Subcommittee) work to acquire ISO 27001 information security have been established under the CSR Management management certification. Committee. Each subcommittee prioritizes main issues to be addressed from the standpoint of the Group’s business ●Group Synergy Committee characteristics, and then develops and implements measures for achieving solutions. (Please refer to pages The Group Synergy Committee is composed of five 7-10 for details about the subcommittees.) subcommittees on the Omni-Channel Strategy, systems, sales promotion, merchandising, and building equipment. By sharing confirmation of progress on starting and ●Risk Management Committee developing the Group’s Omni-Channel Strategy while The Risk Management Committee regards all phenomena sharing and utilizing the expertise in areas such as product that threaten continuation of our businesses and hinder development and promotion that each operating company sustainable growth as risks, and works to strengthen has cultivated, our Group creates safe, reliable, and useful comprehensive and integrated risk management. products and services of high quality; of which privateIn the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, the brand Seven Premium products are the leading example. Committee continued to strengthen business continuity Making use of the scale merit brought about for the Group, and the soundness of the Group’s management practices. significant cost reductions have also been attempted To facilitate sustained growth, the Committee also worked through collaborative purchasing of commercial and to strengthen collaboration with management and materials, equipment and more. reinforced its compliance and risk controls. In the fiscal year ending February 29, 2016, the Committee will focus on promoting collaboration between risk management and management by establishing risk assessment standards and techniques that will form key indicators. In addition, the Committee will work in collaboration with respective divisions toward solving issues currently confronting the Group. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 6 CSR Management Seven & i Holdings works toward solving social issues in its core operations through promotion and development of businesses such as products and services. At the same time, we aim for sustainable development that creates value for both companies and society. Seven & i Holdings engaged in dialogue with stakeholders during the year ended February 28, 2015, and decided on five material issues. In this report, we refer to these five material issues as our “promises” and will Junro Ito, introduce them in detail while looking back at CSR Director, initiatives to date. Prioritizing resolution of these issues will Executive Officer create shared value for both society and companies, which Senior Officer of the Corporate we think is valuable not only for social contributions, but Social Responsibility Department also for the development of our business. Going forward, to continue as a sincere company trusted In recent years, there has been an increase in issues that by all we must earnestly turn our attention to the cannot be overlooked if a sustainable society is to be expectations and requirements of stakeholders and actively developed. These include dramatic changes in the work toward solving social issues in our business through environment encompassing society and corporate the promotion and development of products and services management, such as the rapid aging and declining to realize the Five Promises. population in Japan and global climate change. In this situation, and considering the announcement of Japan’s *1 Japan’s Stewardship Code Stewardship Code*1 and Japan’s Corporate Governance A set of principles which stipulate the responsibility of institutional investors to increase mediumto long-term investment return for customers and beneficiaries Code*2, there is clearly a strong requirement to be aware of by enhancing mediumto long-term corporate value through dialogue (A Financial Services Agency council of experts formulated the code in February 2014). social issues, engage in corporate management from a *2 Japan’s Corporate Governance Code mediumto long-term perspective based on dialogue with The main principles related to the realization of effective corporate governance that were decided for companies to achieve sustainable growth and enhance stakeholders, and disclose information in a highly mediumto long-term corporate value (The Financial Services Agency Council of transparent manner. Experts Concerning the Corporate Governance Code released a final proposal in March 2015) ●Organization of CSR Management Committee CSR Management Committee Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee Environment Subcommittee ● Thoroughly ensuring compliance ● Improving product quality and ensuring safety ● Assessing and reducing environmental impact ● Creating fulfilling workplaces ◆ Strengthening the quality control system ◆ Reducing CO2 emissions and water use ◆ Improving work environments ● Establishing fair business practices ◆ Promoting the 3Rs*2 ◆ Promoting normalization*1 ◆ Strengthening the fair business practices ◆ Promoting sustainable procurement control system ◆ Promoting diversity ● Forest conservation activities ● Enhancing customer service quality ◆ Employee opinion survey ◆ Seven Forest project ◆ Customer service training ◆ Thoroughly ensuring compliance ● Raising environmental awareness/sharing information ● Supply chain risk avoidance ● Major issues ◆ Environmental information training ◆ Thoroughly implement Business Partner ◆ Projects Action Guidelines *1 Normalization: enabling everyone to take part in social activities in a range of areas, irrespective of age or ability *2 3Rs: Reduce, Reuse, and Recycle Each subcommittee is engaged in projects in which it implements measures in accordance with major issues. 7 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Organization of CSR Management Committee Furthermore, to ensure that we meet our social responsibilities regarding products and services across the Seven & i Holdings seeks to promote Group-wide CSR entire supply chain, we ask business partners to understand activities that are effective and efficient. To this end, we and implement the Seven & i Holdings Business Partner hold regular, twice-yearly CSR Management Committee Action Guidelines, and regularly confirm and assess their meetings where we offer guidance and make compliance. Additionally, to ensure fairness and improvements based on reports received from the three transparency in our relationships with business partners, subcommittees. The meetings also help to strengthen we have enhanced employee training and set up a collaboration between the holding company and operating dedicated external contact for business partners to secure companies and the CSR management framework. fair trade practices. Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee Environment Subcommittee The Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee aims to The Environment Subcommittee works through business ensuring compliance and create fulfilling workplaces, activities to reduce CO2 emissions and make effective use mainly for Group employees. of limited resources. Ensuring compliance means making everyone aware of the In reducing CO2 emissions, we assess environmental loads Corporate Creed and Corporate Action Guidelines and at each stage of the supply chain from product development performing timely confirmation of the establishment and through production, shipment, and sales and take steps to implementation status of compliance at each Group company. reduce CO2 emissions. We also strive to ensure compliance In our initiatives to create fulfilling workplaces, we are with laws and regulations related to the environment, such as working to improve work environments and making those dealing with chlorofluorocarbons. progress on promoting active roles for diverse human To make effective use of limited resources, we promote resources, including women and people with disabilities. foodstuff recycling and reduction of waste, effective use of To enable timely confirmation and assessment of the forest thinning and recycled materials, preservation of dissemination and acceptance of these initiatives, an diversity and procurement of sustainable raw materials. opinion survey is conducted among Group employees In addition, we are utilizing the Group’s business every second year. Group companies improve on issues characteristics as a social infrastructure to expand based on analysis of the results of this survey. commercial recharging services for environmentally conscious automobiles such as electric vehicles and plug-in hybrids, to advance the environmental business in response Consumer Affairs and Fair Business to customers’ needs. Practices Subcommittee To promote these initiatives within the Group, we are engaged in various activities to raise employees’ The Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices awareness. For example, we conduct regular environmental Subcommittee aims to improve product quality and ensure education for Group employees, work to raise awareness safety in the products and services handled at Group through events in Environment Month in June, promote companies. It also strives to disclose appropriate and clear acquisition of the Certification Test for Environmental information that helps customers to select and use products. Specialists (Eco Test), undertake conservation activities at To improve product quality and ensure safety, the Seven Forest and take part in environmental exhibitions for Subcommittee aims to establish and strengthen its own eco-products. quality levels and control systems based on Group-wide quality policies. In disclosing appropriate and clear information, purchasing staff at each Group company are notified of the latest work-related information, such as changes in laws, and regularly receive training and education. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 8 CSR Management Targets and Progress by Each Subcommittee ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Major FY2015 Targets Results for FY2015 Evaluation Plans for FY2016 Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee Thoroughly ensuring compliance. Creating fulfilling workplaces Check the progress of education programs Construct e-learning system to support CSR Continued to check progress of education at Group on the basic components and conduct △ education for Group employees and commence companies and conduct follow up follow-up test implementation Support operating companies that ・ Support operating companies that permanently permanently employ more than 101 ・ Provided advice on hiring for operating companies employ more than 101 workers to hire people workers to hire people with disabilities in concerned ○ with disabilities response to the increase in the number of ・ Achieved employment rate for people with ・ Maintain or improve on the statutory employment companies required to pay the disabilities of 2.29% (Groupwide) rate at the five applicable Group companies employment levy as of April 2015 ・ In May held a briefing session on use of the Seven & Promote the utilization of the Seven & i i Holdings Normalization Support Guide Holdings Normalization Support Guide ・ Held Normalization Hands-On Learning Sessions (five ○ Cognitive impairment supporter training course held and conduct hands-on learning sessions times) for personnel in charge of education to learn and visits how to conduct hands-on learning sessions For standards relating to work environment improvement (overtime work and use of ・ Promote sharing of information relating to work Shared examples of initiatives at each Group company holidays and leave), promote the sharing of environment improvements every month and held meeting for sharing information ○ information among Group companies to ・ Create awareness-raising tools for employees to on revisions of labor laws achieve standards and make further promote use of paid leave improvements Propose and implement new improvement measures within the Group and operating companies based on Promote sharing of examples of measures the analysis result of the second employee opinion at operating companies to improve Shared each operating company’s examples at the four survey conducted in 2015 “ensuring compliance” and “job fulfillment” annual meetings of the Corporate Ethics and Culture ○ based on the analysis result of the first Subcommittee Establish compliance promotion project for creating employee opinion survey standards and systems at all Group companies for preventing compliance violations, monitoring, and responding appropriately Formulated Health Declaration 2018 (set KPIs for ratio Identify issues with health enhancement of employees with BMI of 25 or over and ratio of initiatives, set targets, and create an ○ smokers to be achieved by the fiscal year ending action plan February 28, 2019) ・ Gather information on operating company strategies In July established the Health Management Committee for employee health promotion and examine Group chaired by the President and with members including strategies Develop an organizational structure to people responsible for human resources, the managing ○ ・ Promote use of MY HEALTH WEB and hold health engage in health management director of the Health Insurance Union, and the person promotion campaigns responsible for the health management center Introduce a health management system for Launched the health management portal website MY ○ enhancing the health of employees HEALTH WEB in October Diversity Promotion Project Increased the number of operating companies Expand the number of events at conducting community activities for female operating companies for building networks ○ employees involved in childcare and seminars, etc., among women for female managers Continue and advance community activities and awareness-raising for changing women’s awareness Increase the number of companies providing orientation to employees who Increased the number of operating companies ○ returned from childcare leave and review providing orientation and enhanced the content how the orientation is run ・ Held the Ikumen Promotion Program for male Hold events for fathers to encourage greater Continue to hold events for fathers to encourage employees involved in childcare five times ○ participation in the childcare process greater participation in the childcare process ・ Examined introduction of the childcare leave system Held new diversity management seminars four times Hold awareness-raising events for managers ○ with 1,225 attendees from all Group companies Continue to hold awareness-raising events for managers Created the Diversity Management Handbook. Used in Create a handbook for managers ○ management training at all Group companies Establish a year-round column specializing Published a monthly corner called “Cheering Working Distribute internal notices for raising awareness of in the promotion of women’s involvement Women” for the internal newsletter distributed to ○ diversity promotion in the workplace internal newsletters 70,000 employees Groupwide ・ Received the Prime Minister's Award at the Leading Companies Where Women Shine Awards Continue with external communications established by the Cabinet Office ○ Continue with external communications ・ Received the 6th Corporate Activity Award (FY2014) from the Tokyo Stock Exchange Identify issues to be addressed for achieving both work and family care 9 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Major FY2015 Targets Results for FY2015 Evaluation Plans for FY2016 Consumer Affairs and Fair Business Practices Subcommittee (1) Responding sincerely to customer opinions ・ Hold Groupwide joint seminar for apparel and Hold Groupwide seminar for apparel and Held seminar for apparel and household item buyers household item buyers ○ household item buyers with 433 attendees ・ Help buyers and quality control managers acquire formal qualifications (QC test and TES qualification) Further improve quality control system Further improve quality control system at Group Improved quality control system at Group companies at Group companies and formulate a ○ companies (quality control standard (formulated own quality standards and quality policy) Quality Policy implementation management) Review own guidelines relating to labeling Reviewed own guidelines relating to labeling of food Strengthen inspection system following expansion of ○ of food products and menus products and menus Seven Premium private brand manufacturing plants (2) Establishing fair business practices ・ Upgraded the labeling management system Continue to build management and training following revision of the Act against Unjustifiable Continue to build management and training systems to systems to ensure fair trading practices Premiums and Misleading Representations ○ ensure fair trading practices among Group companies among Group companies ・ Shared initiatives by each company and conducted follow-up ・ Continue to hold regular training on the Subcontract Continue to hold regular training on the Held joint training in March and October with ○ Act and the Anti-Monopoly Act Subcontract Act and the Anti-Monopoly Act 127 attendees ・ Ensure training content is established using e-learning Share response measures among Group Shared status of government response to tax hike to Conduct follow-up at each company from status of companies in advance of the next 8% in April 2014 and conducted follow-up at each ○ response to tax increase to 8% in advance of further consumption tax hike slated for 2015 company tax hike to 10% in April 2017 Environment Subcommittee (1) Understanding and reducing environmental impacts Increase the number of operating Conducted third-party verification of GHG emissions at companies subject to third-party ○ Calculated Scope 3 emissions for six companies 10 companies verification of GHG emissions from 9 to 10 ・ Promote food recycling Installed around 250 automatic PET bottle collection Install machines at SEJ in addition to the operating ・ Increase the number of PET bottle ○ machines at IY, YB, and York-Mart companies that currently have them collection machines Sogo & Seibu, SEJ, and Seven & i Food Systems have Expand the scope of ISO 14001 Aim for acquisition by four operating companies with acquired certification; IY Foods is currently preparing ○ certification the acquisition by IY Foods for acquisition (2) Forest conservation activities Aim to have at least 1,500 participants per year in 1,490 volunteers including Group employees and Seven Forest preservation activities. In particular, aim Expand the number of employee franchisees of SEJ participated in Seven Forest ○ to have at least 100 participants, mainly local volunteers preservation activities at 15 locations throughout employees, at the Nagano Seven Forest preservation Japan activities in both spring and autumn ・ Develop environmentally friendly products and ・ Used thinning materials for part of the SEVEN CAFÉ expand use of environmentally friendly packaging Increase the number of eco-friendly hot beverage cups, reducing CO2 emissions on materials (switch to non-aluminum cartons for ○ products incineration by around 20% alcohol to enable recycling) ・ Used “eco nano labels” (page 44) on Golden Bread ・ Expand use of environmental labels (eco nano label expansion for Seven Premium Select Fresh Eggs ) (3) Raising environmental awareness/sharing information Enhance employee training and challenge 598 employees took the Certification Test for Aim to have at least 1,000 employees take the employees to pass the Certification Test for Environmental Specialists. 487 passed for a pass rate 〇 Certification Test for Environmental Specialists, with a Environmental Specialists of 81.4% pass rate of at least 80% Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 10 Dialogue Sustainable Growth by Responding to Change Kunio Ito Toshifumi Suzuki Outside Director, Seven & i Holdings Group Professor, Graduate School of Commerce and Chairman and Management, Hitotsubashi University Chief Executive Officer Integrated Reporting Ambassador, International Integrated Reporting Council 11 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 What does Seven & i Holdings need to achieve sustainable growth at a time when mediumto long-term value enhancement of companies is attracting attention? Prof. Kunio Ito, a leading researcher in corporate management and value, as well as one of the Company’s Outside Directors, was invited to give his thoughts in an exchange of opinions with Chairman and Chief Executive Officer Toshifumi Suzuki. ● Utilizing diverse capitals to increase corporate value Ito: Japanese companies and capital markets are on the from methods that are not attuned to the times and grow verge of a significant change, against the back drop of in a balanced manner across the entire Group. the promulgation of the Stewardship Code*1 and the Corporate Governance Code*2, which call for construcIto: Driven by convenience store operations, Seven & i tive dialogue between companies and institutional invesHoldings has developed remarkably in recent years. I tors to increase corporate value in the medium to long work as an ambassador for the International Integrated term. I was involved in discussions about the desired Reporting Council. In the integrated reporting framework, relationship between companies and investors held as a we believe there are six types of capital, including finanMinistry of Economy, Trade and Industry project, the cial, manufactured, intellectual, human, social and relaresult of which was the so-called Ito Report*3, and I came tionship, and natural. How well these various capitals are to realize the strong interest overseas institutional invesutilized within a business model is evidenced in areas like tors were taking. Terms like “increasing corporate value,” corporate value. Mr. Suzuki, having supported Seven“sustainable growth” and “dialogue” are the important Eleven’s progress, is a prime example of someone who keywords today. Company management and investors has cultivated this kind of integrated thinking through must engage in constructive dialogue with a purpose experience. For example, the rule and principle of repeatand increase engagement in order to build win-win parting hypothesis and verification is one of these thoughts. nerships to promote sustainable growth. Increasing corporate value, in particular, is a standpoint worth looking at. In its narrowest definition, this *1 A framework for institutional investors that ascertains the status of refers to shareholders’ value, mainly the increase in aspects such as risk response to social and environmental issues and governance. return on equity (ROE). But a broader definition incorpo*2 A framework for listed companies that promotes strengthening of goverrates the meaning of stakeholder value, which refers to nance to achieve sustainable growth and increase corporate value over the total value that can be provided to various stakeholdthe medium to long term. *3 The Competitiveness and Incentives for Sustainable Growth: Building ers, naturally including shareholders and investors, and Favorable Relationships between Companies and Investors project. also extending to customers, employees, and business *4 An approach that pursues rationalization based on scale benefits and partners, and so forth. Integrated reporting that clarifies Head Office-led operations and supply. important material issues and relays scenarios for increasing corporate value to stakeholders is also Five Promises required this context. We will realize a society where all people Promise Suzuki: Seven & i Holdings engages in business while 1 can enjoy reliability and convenience in maintaining close relationships with its stakeholders. Last shopping as a form of social infrastructure. year, as a unified Groupwide response to the expectaPromise We will provide safety and reliability through tions and requirements of stakeholders, we engaged in 2 products and stores. dialogue with many people and determined material issues, which we framed as the Five Promises. FurtherWe will eliminate waste in terms of more, in regard to shareholder value, the Company is Promise 3 products, materials, and energy and contribalso focused on the importance of ROE. Recently, while ute to the preservation of the environment. Seven-Eleven Japan (SEJ) has been able to achieve good We will support the creation of a society numerical results, results from Ito-Yokado (IY) suggest Promise 4 where all people can actively participate, there are still issues remaining. When it was a seller’s regardless of gender or age. market, IY increased sales through the traditional model We will work to build an ethical society of chain-store management*4, but even though we are Promise together with customers and 5 now in a buyer’s market, IY remains fixated on that sucbusiness partners. cessful experience. We want to completely move away Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 12 Dialogue Sustainable Growth by Responding to Change ● Pursuit of the customer’s standpoint enhances corporate governance customer alone. I truly believe that and have continued to say it within the Company. That is why I have never moved away from Seven-Eleven in convenience stores. Even if I have glanced sideways at trends in the industry, they essentially have nothing to do with the path that our Company is taking. Ito: Currently, Seven Premium private brand products have grown to overtake national-brand products, which is the result of pursuing quality in the way you have described. This is an excellent example of having realized an increase in corporate value by listening to customers and continuing to respond to their expectations and trust. This is corporate value in the wider sense, that is, stakeholder value, and it could also be referred to as the Ito: Mr. Suzuki, I believe your management method corporate brand. involves taking on the challenge of two sets of opposing concepts. The first of these is “diversity and efficiency.” It Suzuki: As long as we consider things from the customis crucial to respond to the diversification of needs ariser’s standpoint, I think those kinds of results are inevitaing from changing times, but responding to individual ble. Continuing on from the earlier mention of regional cases also increases costs. You have approached this characteristics, unlike in the past, “Tokyo products” are problem by making progress in IT and systemization, no longer rare or highly valued items in regional areas. establishing efficient operations that also respond to That’s why we don’t simply develop a product in Tokyo diversity. The second pair of opposing concepts is “indiand use the same recipe in a uniform fashion across the vidual optimization and overall optimization.” While forentire country. Instead, we consider it important give mulating general guidelines and strengthening rules and careful thought to the unique tastes in each region. We principles, you have also responded to individual needs, research thoroughly about the types of tastes preferred for example with product development emphasizing in different regions win support from customers for proregional characteristics. viding items that meet their needs. Recently, sales have rapidly escalated at SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII, INC., a Suzuki: I have consistently tried to view situations from result which we attribute passing on this policy from the customer’s standpoint. The focus should not be on Japan and developing products that sufficiently incorpocompeting companies or industry trends, but on the rate the regional character of Hawaii. Seven Premium private-brand products 13 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 ● Discern changes early and transform them into major opportunities Ito: Normally, the leading company in an industry avoids metabolic process Now, under Mr. Suzuki’s powerful the risk of taking on new challenges. That is usually left leadership, I think there is a considerable degree of exeto new companies that are just striking out, and once cution from above, and I believe the challenge now lies they have demonstrated a certain history of success, the in how to incorporated this into the organization and leading company will take the safer, more efficient step pass it on to future generations. of pouring in large-scale investments. But Seven & i Holdings has been at the forefront in creating innovative new Suzuki: That’s correct, and it is also extremely difficult to products and services in a variety of fields and set the do. Even if the Group’s individual employees each have standards for the rest of the industry. I think this is remarkable skills, operating companies may adhere to wonderful. entrenched past successful models that act as obstacles to change. For me, the biggest issue is how to break Suzuki: Opportunities are generated from grasping away from this situation. I think it will require us to implechanges in customer needs and the wider world at an ment bold measures and give the Group a variety of difearly stage. For example, Japan’s retail market is said to ferent incentives. have a difficult future ahead due to the declining population, but the super aging society means the number of Ito: Changing perspective a little, from the point of global seniors is growing. Going forward, there is certain to be change, climate change and loss of biodiversity are sigan increase in the number of oneand two-person housenificant issues. There are limits to how much individual holds, which means a likely increase in the use of convecompanies can respond to such environmental changes. nience stores as people want to avoid the bother of However, the impact that global corporations such as cooking. If that turns out to be the case, customers will Seven & i Holdings can have on society is not insignifibe asking us to provide high-quality products paying rigcant, so it’s crucial to seek cooperation from business orous attention to taste and nutrition. partners and tackle the matter throughout the entire value chain. From that standpoint, because SEJ purIto: Depending on how you view it, change can be turned chases its private-brand products and original products, into opportunity. An ability to respond to change is an such as rice balls and boxed lunches, from dedicated extremely important intangible asset. This is only my perbusiness partner companies, it can rigorously demand sonal view, but generally there is a tendency for successthat business partner companies take the environment ful companies to be complacent. They think their into account. Having a system enabling this sort of conproducts and services are wonderful and they stagnate trol during regular operations is an enormous strength. by adhering to their existing business models. To put it another way, responding to change is a way to eliminate Suzuki: I think that as a company it is important for us to complacency. Seven & i Holdings has created new items remain focused on these kinds of social issues. The pace that have astonished the market, while also sniffing out of change is accelerating and we must be able to respond changes and breaking things up to in a sort of dynamic from a variety of perspectives. Increase in Number of Households (Thousand households) (People) 60,000 4.0 45,000 3.0 30,000 2.0 15,000 1.0 0 0 1980 1990 2000 2010 2020 ■Single (left scale) ■Couples only (left scale) ■Couples and children (left scale) ■Other (left scale) ●Average number of people in households (right scale) Source: National Institute of Population and Social Security Research Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 14 Dialogue Sustainable Growth by Responding to Change Ito: Another remarkable example of how Seven & i HoldIto: Speaking of another in-house initiative, at SEJ you ings has anticipated change and responded is in promotpersonally hold meetings every second week with about ing active roles for women. Recently, society has given 2,500 Operations Field Consultants (OFCs) from across greater focus to having female directors, but IY and SEJ Japan. Is this an attempt to disseminate awareness of have had female directors from as far back as 1993, so responding to change? the Company has been proactive in this area from an extremely early stage. Suzuki: OFCs are an indispensable link between franchised stores nationwide and the Head Office. Once the Suzuki: In the retail industry that we work in, around 70% meeting had reached a certain size, there were suggesof the customers are women. To enable us to think of tions within the Company to shift to teleconferencing as things from the customer’s viewpoint, it is perfectly natua way to reduce costs, but it is important to meet repeatral to leverage women’s perspectives and senses. Neveredly in person to drive home the message. To thoroughly theless, when I issued an instruction to the presidents of spread a policy Companywide, it is absolutely crucial to each company within the Group to each have at least have direct communication, so we have kept the meeting two female directors, some showed an unwillingness, the way it has always been. saying that their situation made it difficult to do that. However, when they eventually complied, an atmosphere Ito: This dialogue forms an important aspect of the in which it was perfectly natural to have female directors engagement incorporated in your management. You arose without prompting and those prejudices disapgather the OFCs for continuous dialogue. From time to peared. Now, we have a ratio of female managers that time the chair makes declarations. The OFCs take those exceeds 20% and some stores that are centered around declarations to the owners of franchised stores and female employees. engage in deep discussion ensuring that the Head Office policies and philosophy are thoroughly disseminated into every corner of the Company. In addition, when it comes Cycle of Active Participation by Women to product development, you are also continuing detailed dialogue with business partner companies premised on Promoting the Active Role your buying all of their production. I really sense that you of Women (Advancing Strategic Capabilities) are trying to build win-win partnerships with each stakeholder. Continue growth Please customers Human development Store creation System building Product creation Enhancing Responding to Corporate Customer Needs Competitiveness Contributing to Increased Earnings 15 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 ● Taking the lead in responding to change to achieve sustainable growth Suzuki: Whenever I am asked what I am aiming for in the of this came from a desire to respond more accurately to future and what I am going to do, I always respond that I customers’ needs. In a similar way with the Omni-Channel have no idea what the future holds. If I knew that, I would Strategy, your order of priority has first been to consider have no struggles, but the reality is that it is impossible to the benefits for customers, and then to treat the strategy predict the future. However, if you diligently continue to as a tool for achieving this. I think this is a distinctive charwatch your customers it will enable you to anticipate acteristic of Seven & i Holdings. changes that will happen in the near future, and responding to them earnestly is vital. Suzuki: Even with developing the Omni-Channel Strategy, the most important factor is, of course, product developIto: The expression “responding to change” covers quite ment. When SEJ started full-scale production of rice balls a range, and in your case, Mr. Suzuki, I see that it means made from red rice, we spent one year making the pots that you do not respond to change after it has happened, to ensure that we would be able to create the ideal taste. but instead are at the forefront, catching the scent of The same applied to fried rice, but we completely withchange as it arises and quickly moving into action. That drew the product because of complaints that it tasted sharpness of intuition is a significant strength for Seven & different to what customers expected, we started all over i Holdings. again from development of the pots to make truly tasty fried rice. We can never betray customer expectations by Suzuki: You don’t simply maintain the status quo. It is giving them a product that does not taste good. This vital to always aim to change things so they are better in attention to quality, no matter what it takes, is a corpothe future. Right now, we are moving ahead with the rate culture that should continue forever. Omni-Channel Strategy. The Omni-Channel Strategy entails comprehensively handling all of the various prodIto: Ultimately, I suppose this comes back to refining the ucts and services possessed by each Group company brand. One imperfect product lined up in a store is suffiand providing customers opportunities to buy anytime, cient to destroy a carefully cultivated brand. Temporarily anywhere. About 10 years ago, we had the concept of halting production or sales can create a short-term loss, integrating brick-and-mortar stores and the Internet, and but protecting a brand is even more important than that. from the first time I heard the words Omni-Channel StratSumming up as best I can, Mr. Suzuki, I think you are egy, I thought, “This is for us!” The Omni-Channel Strategy practicing “ultimate reaction.” By catching the first scent is the pinnacle in retailing and the ultimate in customer of change in the air faster than anybody else and rapidly service. If Group products can be obtained at even small responding in an assured manner, you are increasing the convenience stores, it will enable those stores to funclikelihood of success. And you are supplementing with tion as alternative department stores. We will start with the pursuit of perfect quality. I believe sharing that sense online orders that can be collected or returned at nearby and expertise with employees and business partners Group stores, and I am convinced that we can provide from all around the world will enable Seven & i Holdings new value that will please customers. to achieve long–term sustainable growth. Ito: I think it is important to view the Omni-Channel StratSuzuki: I believe that small changes in our daily lives can egy as not merely a system but as the “ultimate in cuspresent us with new challenges. For those who will tomer service.” In the past, Seven & i Holdings led the become the next generation of the Group, I would like to world in introducing POS (point-of-sale information manleave the idea of always seeing change as a chance to agement), which not only accelerated checkout speeds grasp an opportunity and taking bold action as our comfor customers and prevented irregularities, but also pany spirit and corporate culture. Thank you very much, enabled extremely advanced individual product manageMr. Ito, for taking time from your busy schedule to be ment, tracking the movement of each and product plachere today. ing upcoming orders while verifying data, I think the basis Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 16 The Relationship between Seven & i Holdings and Society Seven & i Holdings maintains a close relationship with stakeholders while handling many products and services that are used daily by more than 57 million customers around the world. We are engaged in a variety of initiatives dealing with social changes encompassing stakeholders and solutions for social issues. Customers We think of things from the cusPopulation tomer’s standpoint, value comaging munication, and continue to match customer needs. Reducing social infrastructure Provide safety and reliability during disaster Local Communities By providing products and services matching the lifestyles in local communities, encouraging local production and local consumption Invigorate and coexisting with communities, our activities contribute to comcommunities munity development. Employees Decline in productive We create workplace environpopulation ments that are fair, just, and without discrimination where diverse employees can participate actively and find satisfaction in their work. Promoting the active role of women 17 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Shareholders and Investors To respond to the trust shown by shareholders and investors, we emphasize highly transparent management and communication and fulfill our Highly duty of accountability through transparent disclosure. management Business Partners Seven & i Holdings Since its foundation, Seven & i Holdings has aimed to be a trusted and sincere company for all stakeholders. To respond to social changes in the Group’s We build relationships of trust environment, we emphasize dialogue with with business partners to rigorstakeholders and engage in CSR activities ously enforce fair trade and compliance with rules, and to through our business. ensure maintenance of safety and security and accounting for human rights and the environment. We work together with them to develop a sustainable business. Food safety Interest in ethical consumption Global Environment Global We provide products and services warming taking into account the sustainability of the global environment, while cooperating with customers, business partners, and employees to reduce the environmental impact throughout the entire supply chain. Resource reduction and depletion Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 18 Five Promises Seven & i Holdings has engaged in dialogue with many stakeholders and identified social issues with significant materiality to respond to stakeholders’ expectations and demands. We have determined Five Promises that represent material issues for the Seven & i Holdings Group should work as one to solve these social issues. 19 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Promise We will realize a society where all people can enjoy 1 reliability and convenience in shopping as a form of social infrastructure. page 21 Promise We will provide safety and reliability through 2 products and stores. page 27 Promise We will eliminate waste in terms of products, 3 materials, and energy and contribute to the preservation of the environment. page 35 Promise We will support the creation of a society where 4 all people can actively participate, regardless of gender or age. page 45 Promise We will work to build an ethical society together 5 with customers and business partners. page 53 The process involved in deciding on the Five Promises (social issues that Seven & i Holdings should address) We listed 92 social issues confronting society today in Japan and Identifying social overseas. Among these, we identified 33 issues that we consider issues to have special relevance to the operations of the Group. We held interviews regarding the 33 social issues with our stakeInterviews with holders, including customers, business partners, shareholders and Stakeholders investors, and employees to hear their opinions on the issues that Seven & i Holdings should deal with. Based on the results of the interviews, Group management conDialogue with ducted dialogues with experts and they exchanged opinions on Stakeholders the social issues that Seven & i Holdings should address. The exchanges of opinions between stakeholders and experts Deciding on the were summarized into the Five Promises of Seven & i Holdings. The Five Promises CSR Management Committee, which is chaired by the President, determined the material issues and promised to deal with them. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 20 We will realize a society where all people can enjoy Promise reliability and convenience in shopping as a form of 1 social infrastructure. As Japan’s population ages, the number of seniors living alone is increasing every year, and by 2030 it is expected to have increased by 1.5 times from 2010. Meanwhile, with expectations of a sharp Social decline in neighborhood social infrastructure, such as government offices, bank branches, and retail Background stores, there are concerns over an increase in people suffering inconvenience in daily life. Furthermore, with the increasing flow of women into the workforce, the number of people with no time for shopping our housework is increasing. Number of Seniors Living Alone Declining number of social infrastructure facilities (Thousand persons) （Stores） Bookstores Financial institutions Police boxes and substations The number of seniors living Declining number 46,241 alone will increase 1.5 times of facilities 6,679 7,007 7,298 28,216 32,246 6,008 4,980 15,000 14,696 12,954 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030 （Year） 1989 92 97 2002 07 12 （Year） Source: Statistics from the National Institute of Source: 2012 Economic Census for Business Activity, Population and Social Security Research Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry 21 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 In response to the aging population and the advancement of women in society, we will utilize the infrastructure we have developed, such as our store networks and logistics and information systems, to create new products and services. Shopping Support Expanding Services as Offer product deliveries and a form of Social mobile sales for consumers inconInfrastructure venienced by shopping Provide public services to offset the decline in service outlets Action on the Promises Reducing Housework Providing Services to a Develop products for consumers Wide Range of Customers that feel inconvenienced by or Offer support so that all customhave difficulty preparing meals ers, including seniors and people with disabilities, can shop with ease and peace of mind Created Value Value for Value for Society Seven & i Holdings Environments that make living easy for seniors Seek out new New service customers facilities Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 22 Promise We will realize a society where all people can enjoy reliability and 1 convenience in shopping as a form of social infrastructure. ●Online Supermarkets Shopping Support IY operates Net Supermarket at 144 stores (as of February ●Omni-Channel 28, 2015) to provide scheduled deliveries of products Seven & i Holdings is working together as a group to ordered by customers using PCs or mobile phones. realize an Omni-Channel where customers can order any Net Supermarket delivers from nearby stores in as of the Group’s products and choose to pick them up little as 4 hours. The service deals in food and household from a local Group store or have them delivered to their goods, and pharmaceutical products were added in homes, as well as return unwanted items. November 2013. In addition to sales at stores, customers can also order In December 2014, we started offering a service to products using their PC or smartphone. For those who help parents raising children. With this service, parents are not used to operating a PC, store staff will offer who present and register a maternity notebook issued assistance. They will also check in on customers who within the last four years can receive deliveries at a fee cannot easily leave home to ask about their needs. In this of only ¥100 for four years from the maternity way, we aim to realize shopping styles that allow registration date. customers to purchase what they want in the most convenient way for them. For example, when customers order a product* online Net Sales and Membership for from an Omni-Channel-integrated website, they can pick IY’s Net Supermarket (billion yen) (Thousand persons) up and pay for their purchase at a convenient time at 500 500 250 their local 7-Eleven store. 450 400 200 We have been working on sales methods and 400 191 350 160 product development in preparation for the full-scale 300 300 145 150 launch of the Omni-Channel in autumn 2015. We are 210 116 200 100 86 also steadily expanding our product lineups that meet 132 58 100 50 customers’ needs. 33 0 0 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 （FY） ■Net sales (left) ●Members (right) Shopping Support When Delivering Products * Books, CDs, DVDs, and certain products offered by Sogo & Seibu’s e.depart , Akachan Honpo’s Internet shopping services and some Tower Records Online products Sales floor staff collecting products from the shelves in store to fulfill an online order 23 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 ●Supporting Shopping with Mobile Store Sales ●Service for Listening to Customers SEJ launched the Seven Anshin Delivery mobile store At Sogo & Seibu, we provide a “listening to customers” service in Ibaraki Prefecture in May 2011. This service service for delivering goods purchased from our stores, utilizes proprietarily developed light trucks equipped such as boxed lunches, clothing, food, and cosmetics, to with store facilities, which go to areas that are any place specified by the customer. inconvenient for daily shopping and where many Customers aged 65 and over, those with physical residents are seniors who have trouble securing means disabilities, pregnant customers, or those with preschoolof transportation. Customers are able to purchase a aged children find the service very convenient. range of foods and beverages, including frozen foods, using this service. ●Visiting Sales at Assisted Living Facilities The Seven Anshin Delivery service is offered by 35 stores in 16 prefectures nationwide (as of August 31, IY has offered the Fureai Shopping service since March 2015). Plans call for this service to be expanded further 2014. This service entails sales calls on assisted living in the future to fulfill the needs of customers. facilities to help seniors in need of care or other assistance enjoy the fun of shopping again. During these sales calls, a mini IY store is set up in the cafeteria or meeting hall of the facility at the request of the operator or care staff to enable residents to enjoy the fun of shopping by browsing the products and choosing the things they want. This mini IY store offers a selection of requested products that are offered in our regular stores (excluding fresh meat and produce, alcohol, and cigarettes). In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 around 70 IY stores offered the Fureai Shopping service. A truck used for the SEJ mobile store service (The Seven Anshin Delivery service) IY also provides the Ito-Yokado Anshin Delivery mobile store service at five stores in Nagano Prefecture, Sapporo City, Tama City, Hanamaki City and Iwaki City. This service also uses proprietarily developed trucks equipped with store facilities to visit communities that do not have easy access to stores for daily shopping or that have a large population of seniors who have trouble getting to stores. The Fureai Shopping service Truck used for the Ito-Yokado Anshin Delivery mobile store service Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 24 Promise We will realize a society where all people can enjoy reliability and 1 convenience in shopping as a form of social infrastructure. Reducing Housework Expanding Services as a Form of Social Infrastructure ●Developing Products and Services that ●Promoting Alliances with Municipalities through Make Meal Preparation Easy Comprehensive Alliance Agreements and Other Means Seven & i Holdings, given Japan’s aging society and the Seven & i Holdings is promoting regional revitalization by advancement of women in society, is developing concluding comprehensive alliance agreements with individual meal, small volume, and simple products to municipalities in a wide range of fields, including local respond to customer demand for saving time and production for local consumption, senior support, health reducing the hassle of housework. promotion, and environmental protection. We have also SEJ’s Seven Premium private brand is also developing concluded “supply-support agreements” to prepare for products that are easy to prepare and reduce the rapid regional support in the event of disasters, and we are hassle of housework to meet the needs of customers. also promoting “agreements for supporting people who These products include a menu of prepared foods that cannot return home after a disaster” where we provide tap are ready to eat or simply need to be heated up and water, access to restrooms, and local information. also frozen foods that can be conveniently prepared in the microwave. Number of Agreements with Municipalities for Each Company (As of February 28, 2015) ●Seven Meal Delivery Service Seven-Eleven Japan 171 SEJ provides the Seven-Meal delivery service at some Ito-Yokado 101 13,800 of its stores (as of August 31, 2015). The service Sogo & Seibu ４ provides nutritionally balanced meal sets, as well as York-Benimaru 28 popular foods at 7-Eleven stores. Meals are ordered by York-Mart 4 customers such as seniors and housewives who feel Seven & i Food Systems 11 inconvenienced by daily meal preparation. Moreover, SEJ has concluded agreements with the governments of certain prefectures and municipalities to ●Government Services (Issuance of Various Certificates) have local stores check on the security of seniors and so forth when delivering their meals. In this way, we are SEJ is able to issue copies of residence certificates and promoting Seven-Meal as lifestyle infrastructure that goes seal registration certificates using in-store multi-functional beyond the scope of a simple service. copier machines. As of August 31, 2015 agreements for SEJ offers the Seven RakuRaku Delivery service, which this service were in place with 100 municipalities. This provides home delivery for nearly every product sold in service is currently being expanded, as family register our stores. Orders can be placed in person or in advance certificates can now be issued for 44 municipalities and by telephone. As of August 31, 2015, the service tax certificates for 46. (*A basic resident’s registration card operated a fleet of some 800 “COMS” ultra-small electric is required to use the services). vehicles, which it plans on expanding to around 1,000 We are also introducing multi-function copier during the fiscal year ending February 29, 2016. SEJ is machines at all Group companies to enable wider use of also moving forward with the introduction of power the service. assisted bicycles and as of August 31, 2015 it ●Insurance Enrollment and Premium Payment Service was already using 2,350. Plans call for this number In 1990, SEJ became the first in the industry to offer to be increased to over motorcycle insurance enrollment and insurance premium 3,000 during the fiscal payment services where customers can enroll in year ending February insurance 24 hours a day simply by entering the 29, 2016. necessary personal information on the multi-functional copier machine screen in store and paying their premium at the register. (The service is for motor scooters and motorcycles with an engine displacement of 250 cc or less, which do not require a warrant of fitness). Meals delivered to customers’ at home * SEJ began offering a bicycle insurance enrollment service in 2011. 25 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 ●Services for Foreign Travelers Providing Services to a Wide Range of Customers Seven & i Holdings launched tax-free services at certain ●Training Cognitive Impairment Supporters stores within every Group company in December 2014, Seven & i Holdings is committed to supporting the elderly after the range of consumption tax-exempt items for as a way of contributing to society through our main foreign visitors was expanded to cover all items. business. One aspect of this is supporting the creation of Moreover, Seven Bank ATMs offer cash withdrawal neighborhoods where local residents who suffer from services on overseas-issued cards, as well as overseas cognitive impairment and their families can live with remittance, while stores also offer free in-store Wi-Fi security. To this end, we are encouraging our employees services Seven Spot in response to strong demand from to attend cognitive impairment supporter training courses. overseas travelers. Each Group company holds training courses, and the * Not available at some stores. number of supporters Groupwide had increased to about 10,200 as of August 31, 2015. We will strengthen our efforts to continue developing cognitive impairment supporters going forward. Tax-free services A display to notify customers that cognitive impairment supporters are in store ●Voice Guidance-Operated ATM Machines Seven Bank offers voice guidance services for people ●Marketing Products that Support Senior Lifestyles with visual disabilities at all of its ATM machines, Users IY runs the Anshin Support Shop, which carries a full can make a deposit, withdrawal, or make a balance lineup of apparel, daily essentials, and foods, including inquiry by following voice guidance delivered through an products that support the health and lifestyles of seniors intercom phone installed on the ATM to operate the and care products (108 stores as of June 30, 2015) buttons. Customers with the cash cards of around 540 Around 600 items, or 40%, of the products sold at partner financial institutions* can also use this service. these shops are originally designed and developed with This voice guidance system was developed after our business partners. IY also provides in-depth customer soliciting feedback from people with visual disabilities services in which its staff listen to the customer’s needs and testing various solutions. and recommend the best products. * Banks, credit unions, credit cooperatives, labor banks, JA banks, JF Marine banks, and securities companies that are partners with Seven Bank. This service is not offered for insurance companies or credit card companies, even if they are a partner of Seven Bank. Anshin Support Shop Voice guidance service Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 26 Promise We will provide safety and reliability through 2 products and stores. Customer interest in food safety is increasing. A survey conducted by the Consumer Affairs Agency found that approximately 70% of respondents were concerned about the area where items were Social produced when making purchases. Companies are therefore being urged to tighten their quality Background control systems even further. Stores are also viewed as playing an increasingly important role as lifestyle infrastructure amid widespread concern over whether people will be able to buy essential products and services for living as usual in the event of a major disaster. When you usually buy food, do you care where What are you concerned about when an earthyour food is produced? quake or disaster occurs? (Multiple answers) Securing food Securing daily 7.8% 0.4% People that cared about the production 93.4% necessities area when purchasing products 85.1% 80.1% 26.9% 71.6% 70.7% 68.4% 72.3% 60.0% 19.6% ●I care about this ●I somewhat care about this ●I don’t really care about this Safety of Securing Securing Breakdown of Home Occurrence Securing ●I don’t care about this my family lifelines food communication, destruction of ﬁre daily 45.4% ●I don’t know including not being or damage necessities water and able to electricity contact people Source:“Survey of Consumer Awareness Towards Food Safety” (2011), Source:“Questionnaire on Disasters” (August 2011), the Consumer Affairs Agency Meiji Yasuda Life Insurance Company 27 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Along with providing safe, reliable products, we are also working to provide products and services based on the customer’s perspective, as we work to play our part in lifestyle infrastructure that customers can rely on at any time, even in emergencies such as disasters. Establishment of Quality Food Traceability Management Systems Emphasizing the safety and reliability of products in all processes from the procurement of raw Adopt international management system stanmaterials to sales and actively disclose product dards and management techniques concerning traceability information (distribution history). quality and hygiene in order to provide safe and reliable products to customers. Action on the Promises Appropriate Disclosure Provision of Safety and Security of Information on when Disasters Occur Products and Services Implement various initiatives such as the establishing a fuel storage station for delivering emergency Display whether products contain allergens so supplies in order to fulfill the function of social that people with allergies can feel confident infrastructure in the event of a disaster. selecting products. Created Value Value for Value for Society Seven & i Holdings Improving safety and reliability of food and other Strengthening trust products Life support with stakeholders function during disasters Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 28 Promise We will provide safety and reliability through 2 products and stores. ●Acquisition of JGAP Certification Building a Quality Control System For our private brand Fruits and Vegetables with ●Coordination between Quality Control Departments Traceability (see page 30) at IY, we are working to in Each Group Company acquire JGAP (Japan Good Agricultural Practice) At Seven & i Holdings, the heads of the Group certification, recommended by the Ministry of development division for the Seven Premium private Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries in order to further brand and other divisions of Group companies, such as improve the level of our quality management. SEJ and IY, hold regular meetings in order to confirm JGAP sets standards that should be implemented in current quality management issues and problems in an day-to-day agricultural management to improve safety effort to share information aimed at improvement. and protect the environment. Certification has been For example, they check progress on initiatives to acquired for 15 locations as of February 28, 2015, and counter the spread of the norovirus and prevent food efforts will be made for further certification going poisoning, including ingredient and hygiene management forward. at operating companies handling food products, and apply them rigorously throughout the Group to increase ●Hygiene Management Based on ISO 9001 the level of quality control. At Seven & i Food Systems, the QC Office that serves as the hygiene management division has acquired the ISO ●Adoption of the NDF-HACCP Certification System 9001 international standard concerning quality SEJ has adopted the (Hazard Analysis and Critical management (application scope consisting of food Control Point) HACCP*1 method since 1997 as a method hygiene management system standards and provision at to manage food hygiene. In addition, for review and stores). Utilizing this system, efforts are made to improve certification of the quality control status of dedicated hygiene management at stores and educate employees. plants, we check their compliance with a safety standard In hygiene management, an emphasis is put on easyof approximately 140 check items based on HACCP. to-understand freshness management that can be Based on the results of this check, high-quality plants implemented by anyone. A dedicated internal recognized to be above a certain level are certified under department conducts checks at stores, and random our NDF-HACCP Certification System. A third party is checks of store hygiene are also conducted by a thirdcommissioned with the inspection, and the results are party hygiene inspection agency (wipe inspection). inspected and certified by the Nihon Delica Foods Moreover, by conducting regular hygiene training for Association (NDF)* 2. Inspections are also conducted store employees, we aim to increase the level of hygiene after certification is acquired in order to maintain the management. management level. *1 HACCP: A process management system that analyzes hazards at each step of production, from ingredient acceptance through to product finalization, and provides continuous monitoring and recording of critically important hazardprevention processes. *2 Nihon Delica Foods Association (NDF): The NDF was formed in 1979 to improve hygiene quality management levels at deli product manufacturing facilities and to eliminate region-based quality differences. 29 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Food Traceability ●“Fresh Foods with Traceability” Initiatives Producer Information Disclosure Methods IY offers products under its private brand Foods with (Example of IY) Traceability, which communicates to customers that we have an accurate understanding of production sites, production methods, and distribution channels. For Foods with Traceability, our procurement officers check with producers to ensure that they are using appropriate cultivation and stock-raising management. Various tests are conducted, including agricultural chemical residue A likeness of the producer’s face, ID tests, as well as soil, feed, and water quality tests, and numbers, and 2D bar code are attached to third-party confirmation is obtained before the products the product are sold. It is possible to confirm producer information for Foods with Traceability products using the IY website and mobile phones or smartphones. As of February 28, Check with mobile Disclosed on 2015, 212 items are handled under the Foods with phone or smartphone the website Traceability brand, covering all fresh foods including vegetables, fruits, meat, eggs, and fish. ●Centralized Management of Production Records We also confirm the presence of any allergens or At SEJ, each deli product menu, such as rice and side additives included in the products, to take every possible dishes, uses an average of 40 types of raw materials precaution when selling the products. (including seasonings). In order to manage these In addition, because it is possible to get an accurate individual products and gain an accurate grasp of which understanding of the amount of raw materials and factory a product was manufactured at, how much of packaging used at each plant, this system is helpful in what raw material was used, and in what region, we reducing waste through means such as controlling manage all information for over 300 business partners excessive production. and approximately 170 dedicated plants in a database In addition, we voluntarily conduct DNA testing on rice and link this with store point-of-sales data so that it is to prevent the mixing of different varieties as well as possible to thoroughly manage the production history inspections for radioactive substances. from the raw materials production site to the storefront. SEJ’s Raw Material Production Record Management Framework Check records from Check records from Check records from raw materials sales area products Raw materials Recipe master Information Logistics management data Information management data (Menu recipe management data) Data such as the country of Data such as raw materials for Data on raw materials used in origin, plant, and additives for each area, usage amount, and products each raw material period of use Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 30 Promise We will provide safety and reliability through 2 products and stores. Inspection for Radioactive Substances Quality Management in Stores ●Independent Inspections and Announcement of ●Management of Product Freshness Inspection Results At Seven & i Holdings, we rigorously manage product The Radioactivity Project was established as an internal freshness at stores as well, aiming to provide customers organization at YB to enable customers to shop with with products that are fresh, safe, and reliable. confidence by complementing the monitoring surveys on At IY, for example, there are specialists called radioactive substances implemented by the government. Freshness Checkers under the direct supervision of store We install equipment for measuring radioactive managers that specialize in food freshness management. substances at key points within the area where we have These specialists constantly check on the deterioration of established stores, and an internal organization conducts vegetables, the expiration of best before dates and regular inspections. The inspection results are consume by dates for products and raw materials, and the announced on the company’s website. For the case of temperature of sales floor and backroom refrigerators. our private brand Three-Star Fruit and Vegetables, we In addition, for deli products, including processed endeavor to sell products that meet the criteria by having foods such as dried fish, milk, and tofu other than fresh buyers visit production sites and conduct soil inspections foods (fruit and vegetables, meat, fish, and side dishes), and independent inspections on samples. all store employees check product dates to ensure that Inspections for radioactive substance are also products are not sold past their best before dates and conducted for IY’s Foods with Traceability and the consume by dates. results are published on the company’s website. Temperature Management in Distribution temperature management. This maintains the freshness of the vegetables for a long period of time and minimizes ●Cold Chain Distribution product degradation. (Low Temperature Distribution Network) At Seven & i Food Systems’ Denny’s, ingredients are At SEJ, we have adopted cold chain distribution (low stored at the three temperature ranges of room temperature distribution network) to procure hightemperature, refrigerated, or frozen depending on the quality and fresh raw materials for foods. Vegetables are characteristics of the foods to secure the freshness and stored at low temperature on the spot after being safety of foods through centralized temperature harvested in fields, and transported under constant management from harvest to refrigerators at stores. Flow of Cold Chain (Low Temperature Distribution Network) General transport method Suitable Seven-Eleven temperature Production site Chilled vehicle, Chilled Chilled refrigerator vehicle vehicle vehicle Production Low temperature Production Stores site processing center plant Storage at low temperature Separated by plant Processing into sandwiches, salads, after harvest etc. 31 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 ●Developing Products that Take Food Allergies Consideration to Health into Consideration ●Reducing the Use of Food Additives To allow children with food allergy concerns and their At Seven & i Holdings we endeavor to reduce the use of families, as well as many others to eat cake with food additives in our original products. confidence, IY conducts reservation sales of rice flour For example, in SEJ’s original deli products and IY’s and soy milk cream cakes for Christmas and birthdays delicatessen items, boxed lunches, and sushi produced that do not use designated raw materials. For these in-store, we have eliminated the use of synthetic coloring products, all raw materials and components are and preservative agents. managed by lot and inspections are conducted by Furthermore, since 2007 SEJ has eliminated external agencies. phosphate from ham and sausages that are used for In addition, special areas have been set up to cater to original product sandwiches, as excessive intake is said people with food allergies within the food product sales to inhibit the absorption of calcium. We have also area at 83 stores (as of May 31, 2015). These areas are implemented independent measures in conjunction with stocked with allergy-conscious product lines from raw material manufacturers to reduce trans-fatty acid, seasoning and food product manufacturers. which is said to increase the risk of heart disease. In At Seven & i Food Systems’ Denny’s, we offer a lowaddition, we have disclosed the amount of saturated allergen menu for kids that takes food allergies into fatty acid, trans fatty acid, and cholesterol contained in consideration. The menu items exclude seven specified some of our main products on our website since May ingredients (eggs, milk, flour, buckwheat, peanuts, 2011, based on the Guidelines on Trans Fatty Acid shrimp, and crab). When preparing the food in the Labeling of the Consumer Affairs Agency. restaurant, staff members conduct heating and food arrangement separately from the standard cooking line, and tableware that is individually washed and stored is ●Providing Healthy Meals Supervised by used in an effort to prevent secondary contamination a Managing Dietician by allergens. SEJ’s Seven-Meal home delivery service is supervised by a managing dietician who organizes the composition and nutritional components of the menu to provide healthy, balanced meals adjusted for calories and salt. We are constantly working to develop new products, aiming for authentic, home-cooked tastes with enduring appeal, pursuing tastiness without the use of preservatives or synthetic coloring agents. Low allergen menu Seven-Meal Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 32 Promise We will provide safety and reliability through 2 products and stores. Appropriate Disclosure of Information on Support of Crime Prevention Products and Services ●Safety Station Activities ●Allergy Information Labeling Seven-Eleven stores are open 365 days a year, and even At Seven & i Holdings, we endeavor to use labels for late at night the stores a brightly lit and there are both products purchased from business partners and employees inside the store. Leveraging these business products prepared at stores so that it is easy for characteristics, we are actively implementing Safety customers to understand what allergens are included in Station activities based on the themes of creating safe and which product to enable people with allergies to select secure communities and creating healthy and sound youth products with confidence. environments as a member of the local community. We For products prepared in 7-Eleven stores, (hot snacks, also use various opportunities to disseminate information oden , and Chinese steamed buns, donuts) and Denny’s on measures to prevent underage drinking and smoking. menu items, information on the use of designated raw materials and products equivalent to designated raw materials is disclosed on our website. Using the cash register screen to Preventing sales of adult magazines raise awareness to minors ●Safe ATM transactions At Seven Bank, we have installed cameras to allow Disclosure of information on the website customers to perform cash withdrawals, fund transfers, and other tasks with confidence, and we alert customers of bank transfer scams through visual displays and audio ●Product Labeling Education for Employees announcements so that they do not become victims. At Seven & i Holdings, joint training on labeling, such as Moreover, we have also taken measures to detect the Act against Unjustifiable Premiums and Misleading suspicious objects attached to ATMs and to prevent Representations and the Food Labeling Act, is conducted unauthorized acquisition of customers’ card information twice a year for new purchasing staff members at each (scamming). In the fiscal year ending February 29, 2016, Group company. The training is intended to provide to prevent ATMs from being used in crimes, we plan to basic knowledge relating to misleading representations expand IC card support that has been adopted for and the provision of unjustifiable premiums prohibited domestic bank transaction for transactions with cards under law. issued overseas. After the joint training course, a confirmation test is given For accounts at Seven Bank, we work to prevent the using an e-learning platform to check the participants’ level use of accounts for illegal purposes through thorough of understanding. In the fiscal year ended February 28, confirmation of personal identification when accounts are 2015, 175 people had taken the course. opened, and taking measures against money laundering such as filtering of people who have been involved with financial crimes in the past and people that are not able to use accounts. We have adopted an account monitoring system that detects suspicious transactions in real time after accounts have been opened. Group joint training 33 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Provision of Safety and Security When ●Establishing a Disaster Response System Disasters Occur As part of the social infrastructure in areas where it has established stores, Seven & i Holdings is expected to act ●Providing Emergency Contact Information as a lifeline to provide essential products and services for for Emergencies daily living. We are also expected to continue operating SEJ has installed emergency telephones (special public during disasters. To meet these expectations, we are telephones for use in disasters) at some of its stores working to secure a distribution network and within the 23 wards of Tokyo. These will serve as a constructing a disaster countermeasure system to make means for confirming the personal safety of people and regional information visible in greater detail. making contact when people are unable to return to At Seven & i Holdings, we have adopted a disaster their homes in an emergency such as a disaster. We are response map system that displays information such as also prepared to allow free use of our Seven Spot the damage to each Group company store and the in-store Wi-Fi service without requiring membership extent of the impact in the event of a largescale registration during disasters. earthquake on a map displayed on a PC screen. This system makes it possible to centrally manage information such as the magnitude of earthquakes affecting stores, which in turn Seismic information display enables us to provide more prompt store support. At SEJ, we have established a wireless network that allows the Head Office, delivery companies, joint Emergency telephone Free In-Store Wi-Fi Service Seven Spot distribution centers, and all delivery vehicles to mutually communicate with each other in the event of a disaster. A contact network for disasters using wireless networks has been established by each Group company. ●Fuel Storage Station for Delivering Emergency Supplies At Seven & i Holdings, we consider securing a fuel supply ●7VIEW (Seven Visual Information Emergency Web) network during a major disaster to be a priority issue from Seven & i Holdings is constructing 7VIEW (Seven Visual an emergency business continuity plan (BCP) perspective. Information Emergency Web), a system that enables In May 2014 we became the first retailer in Japan to provision, sharing, and joint use of disaster information. establish a fuel storage station to stockpile fuel for The system gathers together information from within the product delivery vehicles. The station was set up on the Group and through cooperation with business partners. site of the IY distribution center in Saitama Prefecture. Our goal is to create a system which combines various As 400 kl of fuel is stored at this station at all times, information provided by Group companies in stages and the station makes it possible to deliver emergency produces a map that enables accurate judgment of the supplies and goods promptly and reliably when a status of areas in which our stores are located. The disaster occurs for approximately ten days to evacuation system will facilitate information exchange between centers in disaster areas as well as our Group Group companies, as well as with municipalities, local companies’ stores in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area. residents, and so forth, and will enable us to disseminate information to local residents through our stores. Fuel for vehicles is stored underground Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 34 We will eliminate waste in terms of products, Promise materials, and energy and contribute to 3 the preservation of the environment. Climate change is a global issue. The projected worst case scenario for business as usual is a temperature rise of almost 2° C by 2050. The main cause is thought to be CO2 emissions. Social Another serious problem is food waste. In 2011, the global amount of food aid reached approxiBackground mately 3.9 million tons. By comparison, over 17 million tons of food is wasted every year in Japan. From 5 to 8 million tons of this is food loss–food that is likely to be still edible, such as half-eaten food or food that has passed its expiry date. Predicted Increases in Global Temperatures Amount of global food aid & （℃） Temperatures will rise by 2°C or annual Japanese food loss more in the worst case scenario Vast food loss 3.0 Amount of Food loss 2.0 global food aid in Japan 1.0 0 2011 Annually 1950 2000 2050 3.9 million tons 5 – 8 million tons Taken from the IPPC Fifth Assessment Report on the Japan Center for Climate Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries: Working to Reduce Food Loss” Change Actions website (http://www.jccca.org/) 35 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 To realize sustainability for the global environment and corporate activities, we are taking steps to reduce the environmental impact of our business activities, while working together with our customers, business partners, and local communities to eliminate waste in resource use. Reducing CO2 Emissions at Stores Reducing CO2 Emissions from About 90% of Group CO2 emissions are attributable Logistics Operations to the use of energy for equipment vital to store Due to the need to control CO2 emissions from operations. We are therefore promoting the introdelivery vehicles, we are promoting a range of duction of energy-saving equipment. measures that include the introduction of ecofriendly vehicles. Action on the Promises Promoting Food Recycling Reduce Packaging Material We have established “improving food recycling We are reducing waste from packaging materials rates” as an important theme and are promoting used for supplying products by simplifying packaging initiatives for effective use of food waste. and promoting reduced provision of plastic bags. Created Value Value for Value for Society Seven & i Holdings Effective use Reduced of resources energy costs Reduced CO2 Increased emissions recycle rate Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 36 Promise We will eliminate waste in terms of products, materials, 3 and energy and contribute to the preservation of the environment. Attaining an Appropriate Grasp of ●ISO 14001 Acquisition Environmental Impact Seven & i Holdings is promoting ISO 14001 acquisition to strengthen its environmental management systems. We ●Setting CO2 Emission-Reduction Targets maintain the certification at Sogo & Seibu stores, SEJ Seven & i Holdings has established “CO 2 emissions Head Office, offices nationwide, and directly managed reduction targets” for the purpose of preventing global stores within the Greater Tokyo Area. warming. By introducing the latest energy-saving In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, Seven & i equipment and renewable energies, and other measures, Food Systems acquired ISO 14001. All departments will the Group has set a CO2 emission reduction target that continue to use management systems to reduce represents a 10% reduction from the projected CO2 environmental impact through our business activities. emissions in the fiscal year ending February 28, 2018 under the same level of environmental measures set for ●Raising Environmental Awareness among Employees the nine Japanese operating companies*1 in the fiscal year ended February 29, 2012, and is working to reduce To raise employee environmental awareness, Seven & i energy usage. Holdings has conducted a campaign to allow employees to obtain “Eco Test”* 3 certification. This campaign involved employees who passed the Eco Test receiving a ●Third-Party Audit of CO2 Emissions certain amount as a support subsidy. At the testing To correctly assess and verify the initiatives taken to conducted in July 2015, across the Group 951 people reduce environmental impact, Seven & i Holdings has sat the test and 753 passed. undertaken third-party audits of CO 2 emissions from *3 The Certification Test for Environmental Specialists is conducted by the Tokyo store operations at the 10 main Group operating Chamber of Commerce and Industry The official name is the Certification Test for Environmental Specialists® companies*2 since the fiscal year ended February 29, 2012. The sales of the 10 audited companies account for about 96% of the Group’s total, helping to increase the accuracy and reliability of quantitative data internally and externally. (A Greenhouse Gas Emissions Verification Statement is on page 64). *1 Included companies: Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, YorkBenimaru, Seven & i Food Systems, York Mart, Akachan Honpo, THE LOFT, and SHELL GARDEN *2 Ten companies comprising the nine companies in *1 with the addition of 7-Eleven Inc. CO2 Emissions* CO2 Emissions Resulting from Store Operations* (1,000 t-CO2) (1,000 t-CO2) (t-CO2) 3,000 3,000 100 2,795 SEJ 1,645 CO2 emissions per 2,772 Seven-Eleven store IY 550 2,556 2,561 2,469 SEJ 1,462 YB 205 2,276 90.9 IY 524 2,000 Sogo & Seibu 194 2,000 90 Sogo & Seibu 194 Seven & i Food Systems 91 87.0 YB 183 York Mart 61 85.0 Seven & i THE LOFT 23 Food Systems 89 1,000 1,000 80 Akachan Honpo 21 York Mart 61 SHELL GARDEN 5 THE LOFT 23 Akachan Honpo 20 SHELL GARDEN 5 0 0 70 2012 2013 2014 （FY） 2012 2013 2014 （FY） * CO2 emissions from store operations plus CO2 emissions caused by the use of * For calculation conditions, please see the data posted on the website. energy for logistics and Head Office activities. For calculation methods, please see the data posted on the website. 37 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 ●Scope 3 Calculation*1 Breakdown of Greenhouse Gas Emissions throughSeven & i Holdings has calculated the CO2 emissions out the Supply Chain in the Fiscal Year Ended (“Scope 3”) throughout the supply chains at six of its February 28, 2015 major Group companies *2 for the fiscal year ended Calculation Period: March 2014 – February 2015 February 28, 2014 for the first time. In making the Composition calculations, we used the “Supply Chain Emissions Category Description Example ratio Accounting and Public Support” project of the Ministry of Direct emissions from Fuel used for onsite Scope 1 owned/controlled 0.5% the Environment, making the calculations in accordance operations generation with the “Basic Guidelines on Accounting for Greenhouse Indirect emissions from the use of purchased Electricity Gas Emissions throughout the Supply Chain Ver. 2.1.” In Scope 2 electricity, steam, consumption 11.5% heating, and cooling this support project, the calculation by Seven & i Food Other indirect Systems was the first example of its kind in the food and Scope 3 emissions Below 88.0% beverage industry. We calculated Scope 3 emissions in Category 1 Purchased goods and Procurement of raw 85.8% services material the same way for the fiscal year ended February 28, Investment in Category 2 Capital goods 3.8% 2015. Based on this calculation result, we will aim to equipment achieve further reductions of CO2 emissions across the Fuel-and-energy-related Procurement of energy Category 3 activities (not included 0.9% used entire supply chain. in Scope 1 or 2) Upstream Delivery from delivery The six companies’ calculation results are disclosed on the following website. Category 4 transportation and 1.4% center to stores (Japanese Only) distribution http://www.env.go.jp/earth/ondanka/supply_chain/gvc/business/case_smpl. html Waste generated in Processing of store Category 5 0.4% operations waste *1 “Scope 3”: CO2 emissions other than those from the company, emitted from its Employees’ business procurement of raw materials and products, transportation, product use, and CO2 Category 6 Business travel 0.0% trips emissions from waste disposal processes *2 Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, York Mart, Seven & i Food Category 7 Employee commuting Employees’ commutes 0.2% Systems, and Seven Bank Electricity use in data Category 8 Upstream leased assets 0.0% centers Downstream Deliveries from stores Category 9 transportation and 0.2% to customers distribution Category 11 Use of sold products Use of sold products 0.7% End of life treatment of Disposal of sold Category 12 5.3% sold products products Downstream leased Category 13 Tenants’ energy use 1.4% assets FY2015 Breakdown of Emissions under FY2015 Breakdown of Scope 3 Scopes 1, 2, and 3 11.5% 3.8% 5.3% 0.5% 5.4% 88.0% 85.5% ●Scope 1 0.5% ●Purchased goods and services 85.5% ●Scope 2 11.5% ●End of life treatment of sold products 5.3% ●Scope 3 88.0% ●Capital goods 3.8% ●Other 5.4% Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 38 Promise We will eliminate waste in terms of products, materials, 3 and energy and contribute to the preservation of the environment. ●Measures to Conserve Water Reducing CO2 Emissions at Stores At Seven & i Holdings stores, in addition to the daily ●Promoting Introduction of Energy-Saving Equipment efforts made to conserve water, water-conserving Seven & i Holdings is taking steps to control the faucets and energy-saving flushing toilets are also being proportional increase in environmental impact that introduced. Furthermore, through utilizing rainwater, etc., accompanies the growth in the number and size of we are working to reduce the volumes of water used. stores, and the expansion of products and services. One approach is to installed energy saving equipment such as Water Usage Resulting from Store Operations LED lighting and solar panels when opening new stores (1,000 m3) 30,000 SEJ 10,412 or remodeling existing ones. IY 6,441 To promote the creation of environmentally friendly 22,856 21,928 Sogo & Seibu 2,265 stores at SEJ, all types of lighting are being converted to 20,000 19,893 Seven & i LED, including store signage, sales area lighting, and Food Systems 2,036 exterior lighting. By changing over to LED, stores that 10,000 YB 1,043 previously used 85 fluorescent lights can achieve an York Mart 543 Akachan Honpo 48 annual energy saving effect of 11,508 kWh per store. We 0 SHELL GARDEN 36 are also promoting the installation of solar panels, which 2012 2013 2014 （FY） THE LOFT 32 are now used in 7,278 stores (as of August 31, 2015). At IY, to reduce the load on the environment from ●Management of CFCs store operations, LED lighting has been installed At Seven & i Holdings stores, devices using CFCs are at almost all stores as of replaced with ones using CFC alternatives during February 28, 2015, and remodeling and so forth. Moreover, in compliance with solar panels have been the Act on the Protection of the Ozone Layer Through the installed at 14 stores. Control of Specified Substances and Other Measures, which was implemented in April 2015, devices undergo regular inspections required by the government. Devices using CFCs are disposed of by professional companies in compliance with the law, and stores receive collection certificates from these contractors as proof of Electricity Use from Store Operations appropriate disposal. （GWh） （MWh） We also plan to further promote the introduction of 5,000 200 Energy use per store non-CFC devices in freezing and refrigeration devices at Seven-Eleven 4,305 4,393 4,414 used at our stores. At SEJ, refrigeration devices that SEJ 2,584 4,000 180 utilize CO 2 refrigerants have been introduced at 75 IYー 851 169 stores (as of August 31, 2015) and we are trialing them 3,000 161 160 Sogo & Seibu 341 at 3 IY stores. . YB 309 Seven & i 2,000 148 140 Food Systems 135 York Mart 113 1,000 120 THE LOFT 38 Akachan Honpo 34 SHELL GARDEN 9 0 100 2012 2013 2014 （FY） 39 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 ●Installation of Electric Vehicle Chargers ●Convenience Stores with Hydrogen Stations Seven & i Holdings and NEC Corporation have installed SEJ has signed a comprehensive agreement with Iwatani 3,380 chargers for electric vehicles (EV) and plug-in Corporation regarding the installation of hydrogen hybrid vehicles (PHV) in parking lots at 45 stores in stations together with convenience stores. The companies Japan, including IY, Ario, and Sogo and Seibu department plan to open two stores with hydrogen stations in Tokyo stores to provide a fee-based charging service. Metropolis and Aichi Prefecture in 2016. This project is the largest scale introduction of EV and The two stores will conduct a trial test on the PHV chargers ever attempted in Japan. Services are environmental impact reduction of stores using pure scheduled to be gradually launched from November hydrogen fuel cells to verify the potential for the use of 2015 in stores where chargers have been installed. The fuel cells in SEJ stores. Moreover, the project also aims initiative aims to increase the convenience of the to promote the creation of “close-by, convenient stores” commercial facilities and establish a pattern for using EVs that are closely tied to local communities, while and PHVs of charging them while shopping, as well as to creating sites that can serve as social infrastructure able contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society by to provide products, services, and clean energy at a promoting the spread of environmentally friendly, nextsingle point. generation cars. SEJ will continue actively striving to make total The charging service will support payment with a energy savings while creating environmentally friendly charging card issued by Nippon Charge Service LLC, a stores through “energy saving, energy creation, and joint venture established by four Japanese automakers, energy storage.” as well as Seven & i Holdings' electronic money nanaco. Image of the convenience store with hydrogen station T O P I C 7–Eleven, Inc. 2014 Environmental Initiatives In 2014, 7-Eleven, Inc. (SEI) continued to roll out LED lighting and an energy management system (EMS) in stores to reduce energy consumption. The EMS monitors, controls, and optimizes the performance of heating, ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC) and refrigeration equipment, which have significant energy consumption. It also enables remote control of HVAC and other energy-consuming equipment. Real-time data obtained by the system is used to perform frequent self-diagnostic and optimization routines to reduce energy consumption and manage costs. Since 2011, more than 5,000 stores have installed LED lighting and more than 3,600 stores have installed the EMS. In 2014, SEI achieved an LED lighting annualized reduction of CO 2 emissions of an estimated 298,422 tons and annualized energy cost savings of approximately $45 million. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 40 Promise We will eliminate waste in terms of products, materials, 3 and energy and contribute to the preservation of the environment. ●Promoting Introduction of Eco-Friendly Tires Reducing CO2 Emissions from Logistics Operations SEJ is promoting the introduction of eco-friendly tires that ●Reducing CO2 Emissions from Deliveries reduce the rolling resistance of the tires of delivery In addition to promoting the introduction of ecofriendly vehicles. As of February 28, 2015, we have installed ecovehicles, Seven & i Holdings is working to improve fuel friendly tires on 4,707 delivery vehicles, representing efficiency and reduce store delivery frequencies. approximately 95% of the total fleet. Furthermore, progress is also being made in the Moreover, SEJ has also introduced retread tires to introduction of drive-data terminals in trucks, which record 6,013 vehicles as of February 28, 2015. These tires are driving conditions. Based on the collected data, drivers are made from tires that have finished their service life by instructed and eco-driving seminars carried out. removing a certain amount of the tire surface that contacts the road and applying new rubber and tread. In this way, CO2 Emissions by Delivery Trucks they can be re-used as rear tires for delivery vehicles. （1000 t-CO2） （t-CO2） SEJ will promote the use of retread tires to contribute 300 11 10.7 to resource conservation and waste reduction by reusing 10.2 10.3 CO2 emissions per store at Seven-Eleven them as rear tires. 221 200 202 10 186 SEJ*1 179 *1 Tires may be removed and refitted several times for each vehicle, so the number is the total number of vehicles. IY 24 100 9 YB 15 Seven & i 0 8 Food Systems*2 2 2012※3 2013 2014 （FY） *1 SEJ data includes CO2 emissions from distribution center operations. *2 The values are for Denny’s only *3 Some data is missing due to the impact of the Great East Japan Earthquake. ●Introduction of Eco-Friendly Vehicles We are replacing delivery vehicles with hybrid trucks at SEJ. These are capable of recuperating energy generated during deceleration and then using it as secondary power to drive motors when pulling away and accelerating. Through this technology, we hope to realize fuel-efficiency improvements and reduced CO2 emissions, etc. There are New tire 4,856 delivery vehicles in the fleet (as of February 28, 2015), and hybrid trucks account for 522 of these. We plan to replace 20% of the total fleet with eco-friendly After use trucks by 2020. Retread tire REDUCE 100% use of Number of Hybrid Vehicles Introduced new tire’s value (Vehicles) 600 522 400 403 Completed retread type 297 REUSE 200 142 115 After use 56 0 1 3 8 Material recycling (re-used as raw material) 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 （FY） RECYCLE Thermal recycling 41 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Promoting Food Recycling (This is an event sponsored by the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries). ●Recycling-Oriented Agriculture (Seven Farms) To improve food recycling rates and invigorate regional Seven Farms Outline agriculture, in August 2008 IY established “Seven Farm Tomisato” as an agricultural production corporation in Stores Tomisato City, Chiba Prefecture, thereby becoming the Crops grown Grown crops from compost are sold first player in the retail sector to engage in “recyclingmade from at stores oriented agriculture”. This involves composting food food residues To customers residues (garbage) generated by stores, and using it at By working at recyclingoriented agriculture, food Seven Farms. The produce that is grown at the farms is waste reductions are promoted then harvested and sold at the stores. The initiative is being carried out at 11 locations throughout Japan. This initiative has been well received. In the Environmental Division of the Fiscal 2014 35th Food Compost depot Seven Farms Industry Best Company Awards, we were awarded the Food residue generated Crops grown using Minister of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries Award by by stores is processed compost made from food into compost residues. Shipped to IY. the Japan Food Industry Association and the Organization of Food-Marketing Structure Improvement. Major Company Food-Waste Recycling Rates (FY2015) ●Installing Systems to Treat Garbage （%） 60 At IY, a “biodegradable garbage processor” system that Sogo & Seibu 54.7% breaks down garbage using microorganisms was York Mart 51.6% introduced in October of 2011 and has been installed in 40 SEJ 51.3% 12 stores. Through the power of microorganisms, the IY 50.1% Seven & i devices break down into water and CO2 garbage that is Food Systems 45.4% ill-suited to recycling (such as highly fibrous substances, 20 YB 40.4% etc.). This process results in reduced CO 2 emissions 0 when compared to incineration processing, and it offers 2012 2013 2014 （FY） an effective reduction of waste volumes. T O P I C Start of Research on Converting Food Residue to Liquid Fertilizer SEJ has started research toward the creation of a new food recycling loop where food residue from stores is converted to liquid fertilizer, which is then used in vegetable cultivation and so forth. ● Envisaged Next Generation Food Recycling Stores Farms Methane fermentation equipment is used to change the Using garbage processing machines installed at stores, food solution into liquid fertilizer, which is used for vegetable residue is converted into liquid over 24 hours (solution liquid). cultivation at Seven Farms and other places. Liquid fertilizer is used for vegetable cultivation Food Solution Liquid residue liquid fertilizer Cultivation trials using the solution liquid are Garbage Methane Research on liquid fertilizer made by methane currently being conducted in collaboration processing fermentation fermentation equipment is being conducted by with KURARAY CO., LTD. and Tokyo machine equipment Graduate School of Agricultural Science at University of Agriculture’s Faculty of Regional Tohoku University. Environment Science. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 42 Promise We will eliminate waste in terms of products, materials, 3 and energy and contribute to the preservation of the environment. ●Reducing the Use of Disposable Plastic Bags Reducing Packaging Materials, etc. Seven & i Holdings promotes the reduced use of ●Installing Automatic PET Bottle Collection Machines disposable plastic bags by posting posters and POP signs, IY, YB, and York Mart have had automatic PET bottle and by holding other events to encourage customers to collection machines installed at stores since 2012. bring their own shopping bags when shopping at stores. Because PET bottles inserted into the machines undergo For example, IY has discontinued the free distribution of an automatic process of foreign-matter removal and plastic bags on the food floors of all its stores. In the fiscal volume-reduction (by either compression or crushing), year ended February 28, 2015, the turndown rate of large volumes of bottles for recycling can be sent to disposable plastic bags at cash registers on food floors recycling plants on each occasion, which reduces the reached 70.2%. delivery frequency from stores. Moreover, by utilizing Seven & i Holdings logistics routes, more efficient transportation is possible and the volume of CO2 Plastic Bag Turndown Rate (Food Floors) （%） emissions resulting from the operations can be reduced. 80 Additionally, some of the collected PET bottles are YB 70.6% made into new PET bottles for the domestic market. This 60 “closed-loop recycling” system of recycling PET bottles IY 70.2% into new PET bottles is the first attempt by a major retail York Mart 48.3% chain in Japan to be implemented on such a large scale. 40 As of the end of July 2015, across the three companies collection machines have been installed in 254 stores. 0 The recycled material from PET bottles recovered at 2012 2013 2014 （FY） stores is used in the containers of the private brand Seven Premium Refillable Body Soap and other environmentally friendly everyday household products. Products Using Recycled Material from PET Bottles PET Bottle Recycling System Using an Automatic Collection Machine Recycling PET bottles into PET bottles ● Circulation of recycled products ● Circulation of resources in Japan ● Product packaging for private brands Automatic IY Container PET bottle Logistics Recycling and Consumers Collection YB company company beverage machine companies York Mart ● Bringing PET bottles Highly eﬃcient Closed-loop recycling Using recycled ● Exchanging the transportation (Purchasing the materials in obtained recycle points resource and manufacturing (Use for nanaco points ● Issuing recycle points to users manufacturing of recycled materials ● Shopping using the points ● Sorting and reducing the volume of materials for recycled for the product to PET bottles on the spot PET bottles by using be manufactured advanced skills) and sold) 43 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Aggressive Development of Environmentally ●Change to Non-Aluminum Paper Cartons for Alcohol Friendly Products Since July 2015, we have been phasing in a change in the paper cartons used for Seven Premium alcohol products ●Use of Forest Thinning Materials in SEVEN CAFÉ Cups from the previous aluminum carton material to a nonForest thinning materials are being phased in for use in aluminum carton material. This change enables the the outer sleeve section of the hot cups used for SEVEN cartons to be recycled as paper, just like milk cartons. CAFÉ , which is sold mainly at Seven-Eleven stores Moreover, the volume of CO2 emissions per carton from throughout Japan. As of August 31, 2015, the change the raw material procurement and manufacturing has been implemented nationwide, except in Shikoku, process is around 12% lower compared with the and all stores are expected to have completed the aluminum packs, making the non-aluminum packs more change by the end of 2015. This is the first initiative environmentally friendly. undertaken in convenience store coffee. For information about original products made using forest thinning materials from Nagano Seven Forest, please see page 56. A SEVEN CAFÉ cup and the Forest Thinning Material Mark The identification mark also changed from the Paper Mark to the Paper Carton Mark ●Recycled PET Used in Salad Cup Container ●Change to Eco-Friendly Materials for Product Labels Moreover, the original Salad Cup Container sold in the chilled cases of Seven-Eleven stores is being replaced For Seven Gold: Golden Bread and Seven Premium Select with containers that use environmental PET made from Fresh Eggs product series sold in the Group’s stores, we recycled or biomass PET rather than oil-based PET. The have been phasing in “eco nano labels” since February changeover is scheduled to be completed by December 2015. The new labels are made of an eco-friendly 2015. The CO2 emission reduction resulting from the material that emits only half the amount of CO2 upon change is expected to be 1,790 tons in the fiscal year combustion compared to a conventional label. ending February 29, 2016. This is the first initiative of this scale in the convenience store industry. For further information about original products with containers made using recycled PET material recovered at stores, please see page 43. Example of Salad Cup Container using environmentally friendly PET Example of product labels using CO2 absorbing agents Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 44 Promise We will support the creation of a society where all people 4 can actively participate, regardless of gender or age. In Japan, the birth rate is in decline, and the population is advancing in age. Over the next 30 years or so, the productive-aged population is projected to decline by over 20 million. Furthermore, there are many women who are denied the opportunity to work, for example because it is difficult to Social Background balance work with raising children, or because they have been unable to return to work after raising children. Furthermore, the ratio of women in management among private sector companies in Japan is relatively low by international standards at 11.6% (2012). Creating workplaces where women can play an active role is therefore an important task. Changes in Population over 30-Year Periods Rate of Employment by Gender (2013) (million persons) (%) Gender gap in ●Men participation rate ●Women Japan’s working population will decline 15,000 by 20 million over the next 30 years 100 75 10,000 ■Senior population (65 and over) ■Working-age population (15-64) 50 ■Youth population (0-14) 5,000 25 0 0 1982 2012 2042 （FY） 15202530354045～50556065 （Age） 19 24 29 34 39 44 49 54 59 64 and over Source: Population Estimates, Statistics Bureau, Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications Source: Labor Force Survey Population Projections for Japan (January 2012 Estimates) , Statistics from the (Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications) National Institute of Population and Social Security Research 45 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 We strive to create workplaces where all employees feel fulfilled in their work and able to demonstrate their full potential. Furthermore, through our products and services we support women with the challenge of working while raising children. Making Use of Diverse Assuring Fair Assessment and Human Resources Treatment of Employees We are carrying out initiatives under the slogan We offer an internal recruiting system that enables “Diversity gives us power for tomorrow,” fully recogemployees to apply for positions that they want nizing that assuring the active role of women in our across different career tracks and Group compaworkplaces is an important challenge. nies, as well as a system that provides a pathway for part time staff to enter full-time employment. Action on the Promises Making Improvements Based on the Supporting Childcare and Results of the Employee Opinion Survey Child Raising Based on the results of the employee opinion Our stores provide a host of different support survey, each operating company carries out initiaoptions for families raising children to address the tives to foster a positive workplace culture and trend toward a nuclear family, which has made it shares these across the Group. more difficult for people to seek advice about raising children. Created Value Value for Value for Society Seven & i Holdings Enhance Creation of competiveness workplaces where through the anyone can play an promotion of active role Secure the diversity necessary human Achieve work-life resources during balance an era of workingpopulation shortfalls Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 46 Promise We will support the creation of a society where all people can actively participate, 4 regardless of gender or age. ●Fostering a Culture Where Diverse Personnel Can Making Use of Diverse Human Resources Play an Active Role ●E nhancing Corporate Competitiveness through Seven & i Holdings believes that promoting active roles Active Participation of Women for women requires a change in awareness at various Seven & i Holdings aims to enhance its corporate levels. To this end, we have been conducting diverse competiveness through active participation of diverse community activities and seminars. human resources, with the goal of becoming a company with a sustainable competitive advantage. Women’s Management Management Diversity management Community In 2012, we established the Seven & i Group Diversity seminar Introduced in October 2012 Promotion Project. Since most of customers who visit the Introduced in June 2014 Community for women Management seminar in management Group’s stores are women, we have identified promotion of active roles for women as a priority within diversity, Non-management Ikumen Promotion Program Mama’s Community and established targets that we are currently working to Introduced in October 2013 Introduced in July 2012 Formerly Papa’s Community Community for women involved achieve. Achieving greater participation by women in Seminar for men involved in childcare in childcare various situations will help us to create stores and Family care seminar introduced in June 2015 Support seminars for balancing work and childcare products that delight our customers. Male employees Female employees The Four Targets to Be Attained by In 2011, we interviewed female employees to identify the End of February 2016 challenges facing their more active involvement in the 1. Percentage of female managers: workplace. We found that many were concerned about Section manager or higher: 20% achieving a balance between work and childcare, so in Team leader or higher: 30% 2012 we started organizing events called Mama’s 2. Encourage male employees to participate in childcare Community for women involved in childcare to resolve 3. Improve employee satisfaction their concerns and build a network. During these events, 4. Improve external evaluation (revised March 2014) which are held at lunchtime, women are able to discuss issues about achieving a balance between work and Since September 2012, the Diversity Promotion childcare, which has helped to improve employee Project has been holding diversity promotion liaison motivation and alleviate some of the concerns held by meetings each quarter. The meetings are attended by female employees. On the other hand, in October 2013, people from the eight main operating companies*1, and we launched the Ikumen Promotion Program for male they share the Group’s policies as well as sharing and employees with children because the participation of spreading the initiatives undertaken by each company. men in the childcare process is key to helping women Since 2013, dedicated organizations for promoting active play a more active role in the workplace and society. We roles for women have been launched within SEJ, IY, Sogo have been reviewing the traditional approach to working & Seibu, and YB, and we have been working to improve style and are working to increase their interest in our flexibility even further. participating in childcare. ●Extending the Ratio of Female Managers Trends in the Percentage of Female Managers （%） At the end of February 2014, we had reached our target 30 30.0 of a 20% ratio of female managers a year early. We Team leader or higher 22.9 therefore revised the target in March 2014, and 20 19.9 21.4 20.0 Section manager 19.7 or higher increased the new target to a 30% ratio of female 17.8 14.6 13.4 managers by the end of February 2016. As of the end of 10 February 2015, we have female management ratios of 11.8 22.9% for positions of team leader or higher, and 19.7% 0 for section leader or higher. End of End of End of End of End of February February February February February 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 *Total for eight Group companies*1 *1 Seven & i Holdings, Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, York Benimaru, Seven & i Food Systems, Akachan Honpo, Seven Bank 47 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 ●Promoting Employment of People with Disabilities Moreover, in October 2012, we launched the Women’ s Management Community for female managers to help Seven & i Holdings is assisting people with disabilities to build networks of female managers across the Group and demonstrate their abilities at their workplaces based on to increase their skills. The community provides its commitment to provide an environment where opportunities for self-improvement, such as everyone can play an active role. To this end, all Group presentations by experts and lectures about business companies consult with employees with disabilities to skills. The diversity management seminar was introduced determine the workplaces, jobs and working hours that in June 2014 to change the awareness of managers. So are suitable in consideration of the level and details of far, around 1,700 people have participated in the their disability and their own preferences. In this way, seminar, and are now using what they have learned in people with disabilities work in various divisions. day-to-day management. Moreover, we have also In recruitment, we coordinate with special-needs distributed the Diversity Management Handbook to schools and participate in job interviews organized by managers, which is designed to promote communication local employment agencies and partner with vocational with their subordinates. The handbook is used in training schools. Furthermore, all Group companies are provided for newly appointed officers and other scenarios, to help with the Seven & i Holdings Normalization Support Guide, develop managers who are able to utilize diverse human which contains basic knowledge and practical resources. recruitment methods when employing people with disabilities, to ensure that all people who are responsible for recruitment and education at Group companies are ●Improving Employee Satisfaction aware of considerations regarding disabilities and that In May 2015, Seven & i Holdings conducted an employee they implement them. opinion survey for employees at 28 Group companies. Furthermore, Terube Ltd.* 1 , which is a special Comparing the answers for the questions relating to the subsidiary established to foster the employment of status of women’s active participation, the number of people with severe disabilities, employs 19 people with respondents who said that continuing to work while disabilities as of June 1, 2015. As a result, the Group’s raising children was “easy” or “relatively easy” to do has employment rate of people with disabilities*2 including increased by 11.3% since 2013. Moreover, the number those employed by Terre Verte came to 2.19% (as of of respondents who said that it was “possible” or June 1, 2015) “relatively possible” to advance their career while raising children increased by 12.6% since 2013. These kinds of *1 Established in 1994 through joint investments from Seven & i Holdings, SevenEleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, York-Benimaru, Seven & i Food Systems, and the City of quantitative changes show that our various internal Kitami in Hokkaido Prefecture. The company offers secure, long-term employment for people with disabilities awareness-raising activities are changing employee and carries out activities to raise awareness about the concept of normalization. awareness. *2 The Group’s employment rate of people with disabilities covers the five companies of Seven & i Holdings, Terre Verte, SevenEleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. Terre Verte Website (Japanese only): http://terube.jp/index.html ●Improving External Evaluation Seven & i Holdings has established specific targets for promoting the active role of women, and the entire Group has worked together to make progress on them. Trends in the Employment Rate of People with The Group’s high ratios of female corporate officers and Disabilities female managers, and its disclosure of the active roles of （%） women, as well as efforts such as changing the 2.4 YB 2.39% awareness of women, men, and management, 2.2 Groupwide 2.29% respectively, have been highly rated. We received the Seven Bank 2.11% Prime Minister's Award at the Leading Companies Where 2.0 Women Shine Awards York Mart 2.09% established by the 1.8 Sogo & Seibu 2.04% Cabinet Office. Akachan Honpo 1.98% 0 2012 2013 2014 （FY） *Fiscal year data is as of June 1 of the following fiscal year Award ceremony (January 2015) Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 48 Promise We will support the creation of a society where all people can actively participate, 4 regardless of gender or age. ●Family Care Seminar Achieving a Work-Life Balance Since 2015, Seven & i Holdings has been promoting ●Enhancing Childcare and Family Care activities for balancing family care with work. To achieve a Assistance Systems balance between family care and work, it is important to Since November 2014, Seven & i Holdings has been prepare before the need for family care arises. Therefore, phasing in a childcare leave system to promote we held Family Care Seminars for learning about participation in childcare by men. The system is for preparing for family care. Employees showed great employees with pre-school aged children, and the leave interest in the seminars, which were well attended. We is available in units of one day, and is paid. The system also implemented diversity management seminars for allows employees to take leave for general reasons managers regarding related to childcare, such as nursing a sick child, or balancing family care attending events at day care or kindergarten. With with work, and we increasing awareness among men regarding childcare continue to promote the and a rise in the number of households with two working creation of an parents, the childcare leave system has been used environment where effectively since its introduction. workers can also care for their family members. Family care seminar ●“Platinum Kurumin” Certification ●Volunteer Leave System IY has become the first company in the Tokyo Metropolitan Area to receive “Platinum Kurumin” Mark To support employee participation in volunteer activities certification from the Ministry of Health, Labour and for welfare, environmental beautification, disaster Welfare, following a revision of the Act on Advancement reconstruction support, and other objectives, Seven & i of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Holdings, SEJ, IY, York Mart, Seven & i Food Systems, and Children. “Platinum Kurumin” is awarded to companies Seven Bank have instituted a volunteer leave system that have already received “Kurumin” certification and under which employees can take five days off per year for have advanced use of systems to support balancing work volunteer work. with childcare to a significant degree while implementing In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, 13 Group measures at a high level. The system was established in employees took volunteer leave. 2015 to promote continued initiatives. IY has already received the “Kurumin” certification twice, and has actively utilized its Re-Challenge Plan, a personnel system for supporting childcare to help workers balance work T O P I C and childcare. Other initiatives include holding opinion Making Improvements Based on Results of exchange events with employees who are involved in Employee Opinion Survey childcare, diversity seminars at store manager meetings, and promoting the taking of annual paid leave by Seven & i Holdings conducted an employee employees, especially part-time workers. These activities opinion survey in May 2015. Based on the results, were highly rated. IY will make even further efforts to the Corporate Ethics and Culture Subcommittee create an environment where employees can work with discusses improvement measures for issues peace of mind going forward. implemented in the fiscal year ended February 28, 2014 and reviews the validity of work and employee development and training programs. Through these and other efforts, the Subcommittee examines improvement strategies for new issues to be addressed by the Group while grasping unique issues for each operating company and holding “issues and improvement strategy proposal meetings’ for tackling improvements. Sharing the initiatives between each company helps to achieve further improvements. 49 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Supporting Development of Employee Abilities Assuring Fair Assessment and Treatment of Employees ●Open Recruitment System for Human Resources ●Fairness Based on Self-Evaluations Seven & i Holdings implements an open recruitment system for human resources that encompasses all of its Seven & i Holdings implements self evaluation-based operating companies to respect the will of each assessment systems for employees to maximize their individual employee and ensure the right person is individual abilities and ensure fair assessments free of placed in the right job to fully leverage their abilities and unreasonable discrimination, such as social status, to invigorate the organization. birthplace, race, creed, or gender. Employees who have worked in the same workplace Under this system, evaluations are carried out at least and role for at least two years and who qualify for the twice a year and cover all employees, including partrecruitment conditions of the company they seek to join, timers. Employees first self-evaluate their job can apply for a position regardless of work experience performance, then managers conduct their assessment, or seniority. and the employee and manager meet to discuss the Moreover, the Group companies have also introduced results. Through this process, employees are able to internal recruitment systems. For example, at IY, any understand their performance results and challenges. employee who has been with the company for three or The process also ensures evaluations maintain more years can put themselves forward for a position or transparency and fairness. work type, except for executive roles, regardless of their current work details, experience, and seniority. A ●Selection of Various Work Styles candidate screening examination is conducted, and appropriate candidates are appointed to their desired Seven & i Holdings’ operating companies also focus on role or duties. The internal candidate system has been in establishing systems that allow employees to choose place since 2002, and has helped over 1,500 people into various work styles to increase their motivation for work. their desired jobs. For example, IY has a program enabling part-timers to choose from diverse working styles. Under this system, part-timers may elect to step up a rank after acquiring a ●Enhancing the Training System certain level of evaluation and sales skill. There is also a Seven & i Holdings has prepared training systems tailored program in place where part-timers designated as to the business characteristics of each company, and highest level can be hired as a monthly salaried works to develop its human resources. To provide safe, permanent employee or contract worker. To date (as of reliable, high-quality products, it is essential to build June 30, 2015), 77 part-timers have become monthly employees’ capabilities. For this reason, we strive to salaried permanent employees or contract workers. A support skills improvements for each individual large number of part-timers have also been hired on in employee, including part-time workers. managerial roles, such as sales floor manager or chief. To prepare training systems matched to business characteristics, we opened the Ito Training Center in Yokohama City, Kanagawa Prefecture, to support specialized skills acquisition such as selling and food preparation. The center is equipped with the rooms used IY Step Up Elective System for training on sales floor displays, checkout services, and Three step classification skills for handling fresh foods (prepared foods, fish, sushi, Leader Partner Manager and chief meat, vegetables and fruits). In the skills training room, a Expert employee Workplace leadership role Managerial role Employee role large monitor on which trainees can see the hands of the lecturer in an Career partner enlarged size as well Central role in the workplace (experts and veterans) as a device to send the images shown on Regular Partner the monitor to each Regular division member store are prepared to provide an effective learning environment. Employees in training Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 50 Promise We will support the creation of a society where all people can actively participate, 4 regardless of gender or age. Assuring Consideration of Worker Health and Safety 60,000 employees and their families (aged 30 and over), drawing attention as the largest initiative of its kind in the ●Seven & i Health Declaration 2018 industry. We are constantly holding events for When employees are healthy both mentally and encouraging people to enjoy taking an interest in health, physically, it not only makes their own lives more fulfilling aiming to be a company that achieves sustainable but is also a source of vitality for the Company, and makes corporate growth with an environment where employees management more efficient. Based on this understanding, can work with enthusiasm. we launched the “Seven & i Health Declaration 2018: on October 1, 2014. ●Health Consultation Service The declaration sets out targets for reducing the risk of lifestyle diseases and the smoking rate, increasing Seven & i Holdings is committed to maintaining safe and recognition of cancers that affect women, and promoting comfortable workplaces for employees. To this end, work-life balance, among others. Measures to support each operating company regularly holds meetings of its these efforts include the MY HEALTH WEB Health safety and health committee and provides employees Management System, mental health training, and health with regular health checkups, while the Group’s Head events. In this way, we are working to support health Office has set up the Health Management Center for maintenance for all employees. employees. Moreover, the Group has introduced a The MY HEALTH WEB Health Management System in system in which clinical psychotherapists and counselors particular allows individuals to browse the past five years provide employees with counseling services on their of their own diagnostic data on the Internet, and serves mental health by phone and via e-mail. In addition, health as a tool for checking and goal-setting on health status, counselor and medical institution referral services are and for receiving advice on how to improve health. available for both employees and their families. Initially, the service was provided for approximately Breakdown of Health Consultation Requests by Topic (FY2015) 5% 9% ●Symptoms and treatment 51% Total ●Mental health 35% 1,840* ●Health advice 5% ●Other 9% 35% 51% MY HEALTH WEB Health Management System *Including those from employees’ families T O P I C Sound Labor-Management Relations The Federation of Seven & i Group Labor Unions is established for making work improvements, including composed of 11* Japanese unions. (The total number promoting the use of holidays and leave and reducing of members was about 63,000 as of June 2015). The long working hours. unions are federated and complement one another’s In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, labor strengths as well as unifying and improving common and management negotiated on inspection and working conditions. In these ways, the respective revision of the personnel system, including issues unions and the federation work together with the such as wage revision and bonuses. As a result, labor basic concept of forming a stronger organization. and management concluded labor agreements on Seven & i Holdings and the labor unions work through revising the childcare support system and partial numerous active discussions between labor and revision of the personnel treatment system for partmanagement to improve issues related to working time workers. conditions and employees’ working environments. * Ito-Yokado, Seven & i Food Systems, York Mart, Marudai, Sanei, York-Benimaru, For example, at IY, a collaborative project has been Akachan Honpo, Sogo & Seibu, Life Foods, THE LOFT, and SHELL GARDEN 51 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 ●Providing Opportunities for Workplace Experiences Support for Childcare and Child-Raising Seven & i Holdings, at the request of elementary, junior ●Childcare Counseling Service high, and high schools in the communities where it IY and Sogo & Seibu provide maternity and childcare operates, supports workplace experience learning at its consultation offices (at 121 stores as of February 28, Group stores, where children have the chance to take 2015) and Pre-Mama Stations (at 6 stores as of February part in running a retail store in their community. We 28, 2015), where public health nurses and midwives give provide students with the chance to visit the workplaces counseling to pregnant women on their health and to of our employees, stock shelves in sales areas, provide mothers on childcare. They also provide rest areas customer service, and bag customers’ products. equipped with booths for breast-feeding, hot-water Furthermore, SEJ has a store in Shinagawa Student suppliers, and toilets for children. City, which has been run jointly by the City of Shinagawa and Junior Achievement Japan since 2003. The concept behind Shinagawa Student City is to create a virtual town inside an elementary school, with various companies setting up shops and providing work experience. The children working in the Seven-Eleven store experience customer service, sales space creation, and other operations to learn about the systems of a company. In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, 2,160 elementary school students staffed our store and learned about the joys and challenges of working through Maternity childcare consultation office customer service and retail sales. ●Support for Dietary Education Seven & i Holdings promotes dietary education activities for children to raise people who understand foods through various experiences and can practice a sound, healthy diet. Seven & i Food Systems, at its chain of Denny’s restaurants, hands out a booklet called “Bonolon and Food” that contains important information about food manners and knowledge and teaches children about the Shinagawa Student City correct eating habits using games and quizzes. ●Picture Book Storytelling Sessions Seven Bank supports the publication of “Bonolon, Warrior of the Forest” picture book to be read to children as a means to foster parent-children communication. The bank continues to distribute the books for free and to hold storytelling sessions. A copy of “Bonolon and Food” handed out to children ©NSP2005 © Together with Bonolon, 2007 Storytelling session led by employee volunteers Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 52 Promise We will work to build an ethical society together with 5 customers and business partners. Over 20,000 varieties of fauna and flora are said to be facing extinction around the world today. Production plants in developing countries are considered to be troubled by human rights issues Social relating to workers, such as low-paid labor and child labor. This environment is driving an increase Background in ethical consumers,* who seek to buy products are considerate to the environment and human rights in their areas of production. Companies are expected to respond by building sustainable business models. Trend in global marine resources When you choose product or services, do you (%) make a conscious effort to select those that will Proportion of overutilized aquatic resources about 30% contribute to society? 100 ■Yes The percentage of people who ■If anything, yes 75 Abundant (room for development) make a conscious decision to ■If anything, no choose things that will contribute ■No 50 to society is 59.2% ■Don’t know Moderate (available up to a limit) 1.3% 25 0 Depleted (excessive use) 21.7% 37.5% 21.6% 17.9% 1974 83 87 90 95 2000 06 09（Year） Source: FAO, The State of World Fisheries and Aquaculture 2012 The FY2013 Shōhishagyōsei no suishin yoronchōsha (Opinion survey for promoting consumer administration of consumer affairs), Cabinet Office, Government of Japan 53 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 We will respond to the recent increase in awareness of “ethical consumption” by providing products and services that have value in terms of environmental and social consideration. In doing so, we will also involve our customers and business partners in our efforts to create an ethical society. Creation of Basic Guidelines of Ensuring implementation of Sustainable Procurement Business Partner Action Guidelines For procurement of natural capital products, sustainWe will ensure implementation of the Business Partner able procurement across future generations is Action Guidelines in order to provide customers with required, and we have created a sustainable procuresafe, reliable products and to fulfill our societal responsiment action plan on the urging of stakeholders. bilities in cooperation with our suppliers on matters such as human rights, labor issues and the environment. Action on the Promises Sustainable Forest Awareness-Raising Activities Conservation Activities Aimed at Customers We have created the Seven & i Forest project to We develop and supply environmentally friendly contribute to the prevention of global warming and products that help our customers to understand conservation of biological diversity. the need for a sustainable society through the prevention of global warming, conservation of biodiversity, and so forth. Created Value Value for Value for Society Seven & i Holdings Improve Reduce resource supply chain sustainability Increase risk customers’ and Ensure business partners’ social and stable supply environmental of materials consideration Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 54 Promise We will work to build an ethical society together with 5 customers and business partners. Sustainable Forest Conservation Activities ●“Seven Forest” forest conservation project Seven & i Holdings works together with the Seven-Eleven Foundation to help prevent global warming and contribute to the maintenance and conservation of biodiversity, mainly through the Seven & i Forest Conservation Project at 15 locations across Japan. The project aims to create healthy forests by conducting not only tree-planting, but also systematic undergrowth clearing, thinning, and other operations. In addition, Group employees and franchisees of SEJ also conduct Overview of “Seven Forest” Forest Conservation Project volunteer activities to help maintain the forest. During the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, a total of 1,848 volunteers participated in 19 maintenance activities. Moreover, wood material collected from these Forest Volunteers maintenance activities in the Nagano area is used within the Group for expenses store materials and office supplies, as well as commercialization to promote use of national resources. Used as store materials, Wood material from Forest Owners, Forest etc. thinning, etc. Cooperatives (thinning and maintenance organizations) Seven-Eleven Foundation environment, disaster reconstruction assistance and The Seven-Eleven Foundation was established in public relations. 1993 for Seven-Eleven stores and Head Office to In the fiscal year ended work together as one on environmentally themed CSR February 28, 2015, in-store activities. Using money collected from in-store donations totaled ¥430 million donation boxes and donations from Head Office, the and ¥170 million was used to foundation addresses the themes of prevention of give grants to 268 projects global warming, support of community activities, (including ongoing projects). protection and conservation of the natural T O P I C Takao Forest and Nature School The Seven-Eleven Foundation opened the Takao Forest and Nature School in Ichikawa-machi, Hachioji City, Tokyo, as a collaborative project with the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. Under the basic principle of “learning from nature about the co-existence and co-prosperity between people and nature, and between the natural environment and the local community.” The school aims to preserve an approximately 26.5 ha section of forest in a health condition to contribute to the realization of a low-carbon society. The school’s program will enable students to learn about the appeal and importance of nature through activities to protect rare fauna and flora experiential learning. 55 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 ●Green Wrapping Awareness-Raising Activities for Customers Sogo & Seibu is promoting the use of “green wrapping,” ●Use of Forest Thinning Materials from for customer when they order gifts. This involves the Nagano Seven Forest purchase of a wrapping ribbon with a leaf-shaped Seven & i Holdings sells environmentally friendly Seven mascot for an additional price of \100, of which \50 is Premium private brand products with packaging that donated to tree planting and growing activities. In this incorporates forest thinning material from the Nagano way, the giver can also provide the recipient a chance to Seven Forest at approximately 18,000 Group stores such think about the environment. One tree is planted for as Seven-Eleven stores. We are now promoting the use every 80 ribbons sold. In addition, customers purchasing of this material beyond beverages and cup soup offerings ochuugen and oseibo (summer and winter) gifts who as an initiative to promote forest development and agree to simple packaging also contribute to tree prevent global warming. planting, with one tree planted for every 4,000 gifts that use the simple packaging option. (Between 2009 and August 31, 2015, 8,095 trees were planted). Products that use forest thinning materials ●Sales of Rice Cultivated while Protecting the Green Wrapping Employees carefully plant seedlings provided by Environment and Biodiversity the kindness of customers IY sells a rice series that not only uses fewer pesticides and chemical fertilizers, but also encourages ●Ethical Fashion Event Heldy “biodiversified farming,” in which rice fields also service as wildlife habitats. Part of the sales are donated for Sogo & Seibu held the ethical fashion item event, environmental improvements; in the fiscal year ended “WHAT’S ETHICAL-Let’s Embrace Ethical Fashion!” event February 28, 2015, sales of Koshihikari Rice Nurturing at the Sogo Yokohama store in May 2015. Each product White Storks provided approximately ¥140,000 for featured a display providing a clear explanation of its nurturing oriental white storks, while sales of Sado, ethical nature, while talk shows and workshops were Niigata Prefecture‒Produced Koshihikari Rice Certified by also used to promote interest in ethical products in a the Creating Villages Coexisting with Crested Ibis fun setting. Program provided approximately ¥220,000 to the Fund for the Improved Habitat for the Japanese Crested Ibis. A collection of ethical fashion items on display Rice cultivated while protecting the environment and biodiversity Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 56 Promise We will work to build an ethical society together with 5 customers and business partners. Formulation of a Basic Policy on ●Compliance with the Guideline through Sustainable Procurement the Self Check Sheet To ensure that business partners understand the ●Implementing the Basic Policy on Guidelines and to assist with effective CSR initiatives, Sustainable Procurement Seven & i Holdings administers a self check sheet for Seven and i Holdings aims to solve social issues while business partners, explaining all of the specific enhancing its corporate competitive edge. At the same requirements of the Guidelines. time, we seek the sustainable development of society In drafting the check sheet, we referred to sources and business. To further these aims, in September 2014 such as the ISO 26000 standard, the Japanese Business we formulated the Basic Policy on Sustainable Federation's Charter of Corporate Behavior, and the Procurement (the “Policy,”) to clearly state our policy for OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. Business the Group’s procurement activities. partners asked to submit the check sheet include By working with stakeholders to tackle issues such as manufacturers of the Group’s universal strategic Seven consideration for biodiversity, consideration for the Premium products and Seven-Eleven original daily problem of resource depletion, and ensuring traceability, manufacturers, as well as distribution centers and IY’s we aim to realize a sustainable society. Looking ahead, direct import suppliers overseas. Administering the check we will thoroughly entrench this Policy throughout the sheets enables us to ascertain the status of our business Group, as well as establishing standards for each product partners’ CSR activities. category based on the Policy. We will also obtain the understanding and cooperation of our business partners ●Conducting Business Partners’ CSR Audits as we promote this initiative throughout the supply chain. Since the fiscal year ended February 28, 2013, Seven & i Holdings has conducted CSR audits to determine the Strengthening the Business Partner Action Guidelines status of compliance with the Guidelines at a selection of ●Ensure Implementation of Business Partner factories of the business partners we have asked to Action Guidelines submit check sheets. The audit is performed by a external auditing organization based on our Seven & i Holdings has formulated the Seven & i Holdings independently established CSR audit program (about Business Partner Action Guidelines (the “Guidelines”) and 140 items in 16 categories). If items are found that do requires all business partners to understand and observe not comply with the audit program (unacceptable items), them. the external audit organization provides guidance on These guidelines are designed to not only guarantee them to the business partner concerned. The business the safety and quality of products and services, but also partners must submit a corrective action plan (CAP) to consideration for promote legal compliance, the auditing organization within 10 days after the audit is environmental conservation and labor conditions completed, and must take immediate action to improve throughout the supply chain so that we can fulfil our the items. corporate social responsibility together with our business partners. The Guideline is communicated to business partners of Group companies through various meetings. The Flow of Business Partner Action Guidelines: Seven Premium as an example 1. Request to business partner to comply with the guidelines and to submit the self check sheet 7. For any problems with the report of audit results, a request is made for improvement in CSR activities CSR Management Committee for Seven & i Holdings Business partner Report 2. Submission of self 6. Report of check sheet audit results Seven Premium Plants CSR Department for Seven & i Holdings Development Team 4. Audit 3. Audit request 5. Audit report Third-party auditing organization 57 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 ●Audit Results for the Fiscal Year Ended ●Business Partner Consultation Helpline February 28, 2015 The helpline takes questions, opinions and other types of In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, CSR audits consultations, with the purpose of effecting rapid were conducted at 256 factories in 11 countries, improvements to help ensure fair business dealings. including China, Vietnam, Thailand, Indonesia, Cambodia The third-party organization contracted to operate the and Myanmar. The average compliance rate across all consultation helpline is under a non-disclosure audited factories was 88%, with re-audits at 29 factories. agreement, and protects the personal information and The majority of items for improvement were due to privacy of the persons consulting or whistleblowing. If the insufficient recognition or misinterpretation of items person using the helpline requests his or her name and required under local laws and regulations, and mainly affiliation to be kept confidential, that information will go involved labor environment, safety and hygiene, and no further than the third-party organization, and the approvals and authorizations. After their audits, each content of the consultation, etc. can be anonymized factory provided a CAP that included photos showing he before it is presented to Seven & i Holdings. To confirm improvements, guarantee documents, and a re-audit, that persons using the helpline to consult or report enabling us to confirm that improvements were problems do not suffer from disadvantageous treatment successfully made. from Seven & i Holdings or a Group company, approximately one month afterwards, the third-party organization contacts the person to check whether there Examples of Infringements Requiring Re-audit in has been any retaliation. the Fiscal Year Ended February 28, 2015 (All issues have now been remedied) Number of consultations ●Non-notification of long work hours or hours in （Consultations） excess of legal limits 20 ●Incorrect handling and storage of hazardous chemicals 17 16 ●Operation and driving of machinery without a license 15 15 15 ●Non-performance of environmental assessment 12 12 10 ●Use of an unlicensed waste disposal contractor 5 Number of 0 Number Number of factories for Re-audit rate audit audited re-audits 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 FY2013 17 5.9% 1 Breakdown by consultation topic FY2014 374 29 20.7％ 6 ・Suspected violation of rules, laws, or regulations FY2015 256 11.3％ 29 ・Consultation regarding product safety and reliability FY2016 target 363 363 0％ 0 ・Inappropriate employee behavior * The factories for audit received their first audit between FY2013 and FY2015. From FY2016 onwards, all factories will be audited once per year. ●Group companies . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59％ ●Outside of scope (consultations regarding business partners internal matters) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41％ ●Expanding the Scope of Factories for Audit In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, CSR audits were carried out at 363 factories including factories producing Seven Premium products in developing countries and overseas factories supplying direct imports to IY. In addition, we plan to expand the scope of the audits to include some factories supplying Sogo & Seibu and Akachan Honpo. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 58 Social Contribution Activities Social and cultural contribution activities are a part of CSR at Seven & i Holdings. Through such activities, the Group actively supports the creation of peaceful and prosperous living environments by maintaining good, cooperative, and harmonious relationships with local communities and the international community. Reconstruction Assistance Activities for For its part, YB backs PEP Kids Koriyama, a cheerful play the Great East Japan Earthquake space for children in Fukushima Prefecture. Seven & i Food Systems, meanwhile, has a Let’s Eat in Support of the Seven & i Holdings has continued activities in collaboration Affected Areas Program, where it serves a menu of foods with NPOs and employees to assist reconstruction for the from Shichigahama Town, Miyagi Prefecture in its Head Great East Japan Earthquake of March 11, 2011, as well Office and branch employee cafeterias, as well as selling as activities with customers and business partners to wakame and nori seaweed from the town. provide assistance through products. Seven & i Holdings is also a participant in the SevenTwo to three times a year, IY and other Group Eleven Foundation’s Great East Japan Earthquake companies hold a sales event named the Tohoku Recovery Project, which continues to support Kakehashi Project in their stores, featuring products reconstruction assistance in areas severely affected by the made by companies affected by the disaster and in the disaster. In addition, Group employees have initiated a Tohoku region by major manufacturers. donation drive collecting product labels from the Bellmark movement and unused postcards, which can be converted to provide financial support for NPOs assisting children with education in the affected areas. Initiatives in Collaboration with Other Organizations ●Donating Shoes to Children in Zambia Sogo & Seibu and IY work with the Japanese Organization for International Cooperation in Family Planning (JOICFP)*’s project for sending shoes to Tohoku Kakehashi Project children in Zambia They have established areas for accepting donated children’s shoes in their stores. The Sogo & Seibu make the most of their strengths as shoes they receive from customers help to prevent department stores to help with the sales of the Madei-Gi tetanus and parasitic infections resulting from foot line of clothing and accessories made by women from injuries and are sent through JOICFP to children in Iitate Village, Fukushima Prefecture, who have to live in Zambia. As of August 31, 2015, the two Group temporary housing. This entails support ranging from companies had sent 556,326 pairs of shoes since 2009. product advice by designers to the provision of sales In addition, Akachan Honpo is participating in a space by Sogo & Seibu. project to send underwear to babies in Zambia. A Madei-Gi sales event * JOICFP is an international cooperation NGO that was started in Japan to protect the health and lives of women and children in the developing world. * Madei is a word in the Fukushima dialect that means carefully or wholeheartedly 59 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 ●IVESCO Fund ●Support for Training Guide Dogs Together with six beverage manufacturers, IY established Seven & i Holdings accepts storefront donations in the Seven & i IVESCO Fund* in 2000 to donate part of support of training guide dogs for blind people. the proceeds from select vending machines in its stores In order to expand the sphere of this activity, all Sogo to organizations providing international humanitarian aid & Seibu stores hold campaigns twice a year, in the spring (approximately 400 machines as of August 31, 2015). and summer, for customers to come in contact with In September 2015, the fund donated ¥9.74 million to guide dogs. While calling for financial support, these three international humanitarian aid organizations campaigns seek to improve public understanding toward including Plan Japan. people with visual impairments and their guide dogs, through demonstrations by dog trainers and opportunities for customers to experience a walk with one of the dogs. A notice about the fund on vending machines *A donation support council leveraging proceeds from vending machines in IY ●Cooperation with the White Ribbon Campaign Campaign for coming in contact with guide dogs Akachan Honpo and Sogo & Seibu have been providing sponsorship for the White Ribbon Campaign launched by JOICFP to protect the health of pregnant women and ●Sports Promotion babies throughout the world. The Group companies have Seven & i Holdings co-sponsors the Tokyo Marathon, been working in partnership with JOICFP on the Saitama International Junior Football Tournament, and Community Safe Motherhood Project (which involves the the Prime Minister’s Cup Japan Wheelchair Basketball donation of funds to establish Maternity Waiting Houses Championship, while in Zambia). Besides accepting donations on behalf of engaging in initiatives JOICFP through its stores and online, The two companies for nurturing young have also installed 78 White people through sports Ribbon Campaign Vending and promoting sports Machines at locations among people with throughout Japan (Akachan disabilities. Honpo 54 machines, Sogo & Seibu 24 machines). For every Tokyo Marathon beverage purchased from one of these machines, the companies donate ¥2 to Social Contribution Activities Costs (FY2015) 2% JOICFP (¥1 from the beverage 1% 3% ●Environmental protection 6% ●Local community activities, and manufacture and ¥1 from the 55% preservation of historic sites and cultural traditions store where the machine is A White Ribbon beverage vending 16% Total: ●Education (including adult education) installed).In addition, Sogo & machine ¥3,058.9 million ●Social welfare and social inclusion ●Healthcare, medicine and sports Seibu has created a White ●Support for areas affected by 17% Ribbon pin badge for sale, from natural disasters ●Other which all proceeds are donated to the White Ribbon Campaign. * Total for Seven & i Holdings, Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, York-Benimaru, Seven & i Food Systems, Seven Bank, York Mart, and Akachan Honpo. Calculated based on Fiscal 2014 Key Points Regarding the Implementation of CSR Activity Surveys (Keidanren (Japan Business Federation)). A White Ribbon pin badge Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 60 Overseas Initiatives Seven & i Holdings operates globally in 16 countries and regions around the world. Chinese Operation SEVEN-ELEVEN (BEIJING) CO., LTD. SEVEN-ELEVEN (TIANJIN) CO., LTD. SEVEN-ELEVEN (CHENGDU) Co., Ltd. 175 stores 60 stores 66 stores Collection boxes have been placed The Group company is actively The Group company is engaged in in stores since November 2006 to cooperating with internship cleaning activities contributing to local accept contributions from customers programs for junior college and communities and maintaining a clean for donation to the Beijing Green university students. In the fiscal and beautiful city environment, as well Foundation, a government-approved year ended February 28, 2015, as support for Benevolence House, a environmental organization. The the company received 65 interns. home for children with intellectual foundation is engaged in activities SEVEN-ELEVEN (TIANJIN) has disabilities. Employees helped clean planting trees and developing developed a training curriculum the home and donated bread and a erosion control forests in Beijing and for the interns including lectures stereo set in May 2014 and sent Sweden its surroundings. and training related to seeking candy and toys to the children in In the fiscal year ended February employment in the future. December 2014. 28, 2015, 147,755 yuan was donated from the collection boxes. Norway Area licensees: 1,763 stores Denmark Chinese Operations China Japan Hua Tang Yokado Commercial Co. Ltd. Chengdu Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. 5 stores 6 stores South Korea Employees of this Group company This Group company decided in the volunteer as members of the local fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 community. to contribute CNY 3 million in total Taiwan Their activities include cleaning to a foundation concerned with the up the environment surrounding next generation of Chengdu citizens, Thailand their stores on a daily basis. In the and donated the first year’s Philippines year ended February 28, 2015, the installment of CNY 1 million. employees also participated in a In addition, the company has kept Malaysia campaign for obeying traffic signals up its monthly activity of cleaning up in collaboration with a local NPO. the environment surrounding all Chengdu Ito-Yokado stores. In March 2014, 26 of the company’s Singapore employees volunteered to plant Indonesia trees in Heilongtan Park, a nearby tourist destination. Australia 61 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 North American Operations Global Store Network 56,000 stores* 7-Eleven, Inc. 7-Eleven, Inc. (SEI) understands the importance 494 stores of education and supports healthy education Approximately Canada: for youth. Grants that are jointly funded by U.S.A.:7,803 stores local franchisees and SEI help to provide critical * The number of stores (in Japan as of February 28, 2015, for Hua Tang funding for academic, athletic, or extraYokado Commercial) as of August 31, 2015, and other countries and curricular programs run by local schools and Area licensees: regions as of December 31, 2014) includes the following. sports clubs. In 2014, SEI and its franchisees ● S tores the subsidiaries of Seven & i Holdings operate in each  289 stores awarded more than 550 grants, a community country and region investment of nearly $300,000. The grants have ● Stores area licensees operate in each country ● Stores licensing trademarks from Sogo & Seibu to operate been used to underwrite initiatives including science projects, tutoring, school supplies, and sporting equipment to ensure children have the resources and inspiration they need to stay in school and on a positive track. Canada U.S.A. Hawaii Mexico North American Operations SEVEN-ELEVEN In December 2014, SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII, HAWAII, INC. INC. supported the 40th Annual Toy Run/ Parade held on Oahu. During this event, 60 stores motorcycles gather at Kaka’ako Park to parade through Waikiki in support of the Salvation Army’s Toys for Tots which started in 1947 with the objective to bring the joy of Christmas to needy children, and riders are asked to donate toys at the designated drop off site at the beginning of the ride route. SEVEN-ELEVEN HAWAII had a tent station that provided pastries and coffee to motorcyclists and their riding partners prior to the start of the parade. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 62 Awards and Recognition by Outside Parties Major Awards and Recognition in the Fiscal Year Ended February 28, 2015 Recognition or award name Award sponsor Reasons for recognition Recipient Recognized for influencing the corporate conduct of other listed companies through in-depth disclosure of initiatives promoting the Tokyo Stock 6th Corporate Activity Award (FY2014) active role of women in its corporate governance report and Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. Exchange, Inc. achievements resulting from actively nurturing and deploying women for executive and managerial positions. Japan Investor Recognized for its various IR tools, including the disclosure of Best IR Award Relations Association monthly and quarterly information, and the annually updated Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. (JIRA) Corporate Outline and other materials in English Equal Employment/Work-Life Balance Recognized for the strong message sent by top management on the Awards for Fiscal Year 2014, Equal Ministry of Health, active role of women, the accelerated training aimed at raising the Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Employment Category, Tokyo Labour Labour and Welfare ratio of women in management positions, and the increasing ratio Bureau Director’s Incentive Award, of women in management positions Fiscal 2014 Cases Utilizing Heat Pump & Heat Pump & Thermal Recognized for an initiative at Ario Kameari to reduce peak electricity Thermal Storage Systems to Reduce Storage Technology Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. with the use of an unmanned thermal storage tank system Peak Electricity, Award for Excellence Center of Japan KIDS DESIGN AWARD 2014, Design Recognized Okama-Jar, a silicon rice porridge cooking pot, for its Supporting Childbirth and Parenting KIDS DESIGN convenience and ease of maintenance. The pot can cook a small Individual and Families Category, Akachan Honpo Co., Ltd. ASSOCIATION portion of rice porridge for weaning and other purposes while Incentive Award and Association cooking a batch of rice at the same time. Chairman’s Award Recognized Extra UV Baby Lotion Nine-Free for safely providing KIDS DESIGN AWARD 2014, Safe and children with skin protection from ultraviolet (UV) rays. The baby KIDS DESIGN Secure Design from a Child’s Perspective lotion does not contain nine ingredients commonly used in other Akachan Honpo Co., Ltd. ASSOCIATION Children’s Category UV skin protection lotions, such as surface-active agents and ultraviolet absorbing agents. Recognized the Nissen Hachidori no Shizuku Project for its Children’ KIDS DESIGN AWARD 2014, Design s Painting Exhibit initiatives. The exhibit aimed to keep memories of KIDS DESIGN Supporting Recovery from Disaster the Great East Japan Earthquake alive by showing pictures painted Nissen Holdings Co., Ltd. ASSOCIATION Category by children in the affected areas along with messages of encouragement for recovery Fiscal 2014 Minister of Health, Labour Pharmaceutical and Recognized for its hazard analysis critical control point (HACCP) and Welfare’s Award for Distinguished Food Safety Bureau, certification by the Nihon Kenbikyo-In and Saitama Prefectural IY Foods K.K. Food Safety Businesses, Excellent Food Ministry of Health, Government Safety Facility Labour and Welfare Hokkaido Inclusive Urban Hokkaido Recognized as a model corporate activity for supporting the Redevelopment Contest, Terube Ltd. Government independence and social participation of people with disabilities. Activities Category Inclusion in socially responsible investing (SRI) Indices (As of September 25, 2015) Seven & i Holdings has been selected as a component of the following SRI indexes. A (SRI) stock price index developed jointly by U.S.-based Dow Jones and Switzerland-based RobecoSAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment (CSA), an SRI ratings company. This world-renowned SRI index evaluates companies from a comprehensive perspective, including from the three aspects of economy, environment, and society. Dow Jones Sustainability Index: Seven & i Holdings has been selected as a component stock of the Member of DJSI Asia-Pacific. DJSI Asia-Pacific index, which covers the Asia-Pacific region. MS-SRI (Morning Star Socially Responsible Investing Index) is Japan’s first domestic SRI stock price index, created by Morningstar Inc. and comprised of 150 companies listed in Japan, which are selected for Morningstar the superior social responsibility. Seven & i Holdings has also been Socially Responsible Investment Index selected as a component stock of this index. 63 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 64 Seven & i Holdings Website: http://www.7andi.com/en/csr/index.html Group Environmental Data (Domestic in Japan) *1 *2 Challenges Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 CO2 emissions t-CO2 2,441,588 2,744,760 2,767,346 CO2 emissions from store operations t-CO2 2,249,194 2,528,518 2,533,458 Electricity consumption in store operations GWｈ 4,254 4,345 4,367 Water usage in store operations 1,000㎥ 19,789 21,829 22,788 *1 Totals for seven companies: (Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, York-Benimaru, York Mart, Seven & i Food Systems, and Akachan Honpo). *2 For calculation methods, please refer to the environmental data that is listed within the data of the different operating companies. Group Personnel Data (Domestic in Japan) *1 Breakdown of number of employees FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 (as of the end of February 2015) (persons) Average length of service 16 years 16 years 16 years Full-time employees *2 26,167 (full-time employees) 6 months 1 month 3 months Male 19,642 Number of full-time employees who 591 828 977 took childcare leave *5 (males, part-time staff) （7、286） （4、334） （11、503） Female 6,525 Number of full-time employees who 43 （5、29） 43（5、29） 24 （2、15） Part-time staff *3 62,172 took nursing leave *5 (males, part-time staff) Number of employees 88,339 Number of volunteer leave recipients 2 9 13 (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of women in 19.9% 21.4% 23.0% New graduate employees hired 1,133 management positions *6 Mid-career employees hired 388 Percentage of employees with disabilities *7 2.05% 2.19% 2.29% Re-employment *4 345 *1 For FY2014 and FY2015, the totals are for nine companies (Seven & i Holdings, Seven-Eleven Japan 、Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, York-Benimaru, York Mart, Seven & i Food Systems, Akachan Honpo, and Seven Bank). The totals for FY2013 are for eight companies excluding Seven & i Holdings. *2 Data includes persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. *3 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one employee. Includes contractual employees. *4 Persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. *5 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new takers of leave) *6 The totals are for eight companies (Seven & i Holdings, Seven-Eleven Japan 、Ito-Yokado, Sogo & Seibu, York-Benimaru, Seven & i Food Systems, Akachan Honpo, and Seven Bank). The percentage of team leaders or higher positions, excluding executive officers. *7 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. The percentage of workers with disabilities is for the five qualified Group companies: Seven & i Holdings, Terre Verte (special subsidiary for severe disabilities), Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. Group-Wide Data Description of contacts received by Internal Consultation Service by topic (FY2015) for Consultation Services Contacts received: 705 (up 5% from the previous fiscal year’s level) By user category for Employees At Seven & i Holdings, as part of Unrelated Others Others Part-time staff consulting 11% 1% 55% Groupwide internal controls, we have 5% established within a third-party Sexual harassment Work environment, 4% human relations organization a Help Line for receiving Unknown 36% 27% consultation requests and reports Full-time employees from employees. Suspected 12% Work conditions This is a system that applies to both the noncompliance 17% 7% Employees of Families of employees of Seven & i Holdings and the tenants, temporary employees workers, and 3% employees of domestic consolidated subcontractors Power harassment subsidiaries, being established to 20% 2% proactively prevent, quickly discover, promptly correct and stop reoccurrences of any behavior across the Group that would result in a loss of public trust. 65 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Seven-Eleven Japan Co., Ltd. Website: http://www.sej.co.jp/social/index.html Number of stores as of February 28, 2015: 17,491 Environment Related FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Attaining and appropriate grasp of environmental impact ●Expand ISO 14001 application to ● Completed expanding application to 〇 ● Expand ISO 14001 application to encompass district offices encompass district offices throughout Japan encompass directly managed stores in February 2015 throughout Japan ●Reduce ISO 14001 periodic-audit findings ● No non-compliant findings following the 〇 ●Reduce ISO 14001 periodic-audit findings registration audit in FY2014 Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Backroom LED lighting for 6,000 stores ● Backroom LED lighting for 8,269 stores ○ ●Highly energy efficient store illumination for another 2,000 stores ●Expand to 500 hybrid vehicles within the ●Expanded to 522 hybrid vehicles within the 〇 ● Expand to 620 hybrid vehicles within the logistics’ deliveries fleet logistics’ deliveries fleet logistics’ deliveries fleet Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society ●Continue to reduce plastic bag usage per ●Use of plastic bags per store △ ●Continue to reduce plastic bag usage per store to a level below FY2014 0.96 tons (up 1.6% from store to a level below FY2015 ●Food product recycling rate: 51.9% or more ●Food product recycling rate: 51.3% △ ●Food product recycling rate: 52.3% or more Offering eco-friendly products ●Develop products that use eco-friendly PET ●Introduced eco-friendly PET packaging as ○ ●Expand products using eco-friendly PET packaging salad containers packaging ●Turn Cartocan 2 items that use forest ●Used forest thinnings in hot beverage cups △ ●Expand produced using forest thinnings thinnings into products for SEVEN CAFÉ ●Develop products that use easy-to-recycle containers Raising environmental awareness among employees ●100 or more employees to pass the ●175 employees passed the Eco Test ○ ●300 or more employees to pass the Eco Test Eco Test Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 CO2 emissions *1 *2 *3 t-CO2 1,372,058 1,584,976 1,644,672 CO2 emissions from store operations (per store) *1 t-CO2 1,222,882 （85.0） 1,421,084 （90.9） 1,462,231 （87.0） Logistics-related CO2 emissions(per store） *1 *4 t-CO2 146,581 （10.2） 160,893 （10.3） 179,330（10.7） Electricity consumption in store operations (per store) *1 GWｈ （MWh） 2,444（169） 2,508（161） 2,584（154 ） Water consumption in store operations *1 *5 1,000㎥ 7,811 9,227 10,412 Plastic bag consumption per store (by weight) t 0.94 0.94 0.96 Waste disposal (recycling rate) *6 （％） ｔ 324,753 （46.4） 371,344 （46.7） 409,228（47.1） Food product recycling rate *7 ％ 48.9 50.9 51.3 *1 The period of the calculations was April to March. *2 The data show CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, logistics, headquarters, training center and district office operations. *3 Calculations are based on estimated electricity consumption for stores where data was not available. *4 The period of the calculations was March to February. This data represents CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy for distribution center operation and delivery trucks. *5 Calculations are based on estimated water consumption by approximately 3,400 stores in prefectural capitals. *6 Calculations are based on estimated emissions by the stores in Tokyo, Kyoto, etc. The period of the calculations was January to December. The amount of food waste was calculated based on the standard of *7 *7 Calculated based on the reports submitted by food recycling companies. The period of the calculations was April to March. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 66 Consumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 In the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015, we received many inquiries regarding new Contacts received: 126,471 products and sales promotions such as SEVEN CAFÉ and donuts. (up 17.5% from the previous fiscal year’s level) The feedback and guidance we receive from customers in our customer feedback Compliments Other department is shared internally so that it can be reflected in our products and services. 1.3% 9.0% We will also strengthen our response ability and strive to provide information that is easy to understand, while receiving feedback and guidance with sincerity and establishing Environment 3.9% structures to accelerate the pace of improvements. Customer care Service 50.7% 1.6% General inquiries Products 16.9% 16.7% FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Improve evaluations received in NDF-HACCP ●The proportion of factories receiving an 〇 ●Continue to improve evaluations received in maintenance audits in the dedicated audit evaluation of “good” or above NDF-HACCP maintenance audits in the factories for daily food products increased from 41% (FY2014) to 74% dedicated factories for daily food products (FY2015) Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable ● Stores adopting barrier-free design: 350 ● Stores adopting barrier-free design: 378 ○ ● Stores adopting barrier-free design: 400 ●Stores where the minimum necessary ● Stores where the minimum necessary ● Stores where the minimum necessary facilities continue operation even during facilities continue operation even during facilities continue operation even during blackouts: approx. 1,600 blackouts: 1,602 blackouts: 1,700 ● Stores where guardrails are installed (for stores with car parks): 4,000 Assuring appropriate information provision ●Publish information on the Internet regarding ●Published information on the Internet ○ ●Collect information about initiatives on food the effective reuse of packaging and the use regarding the effective reuse of packaging safety and security (reducing trans fatty of forest thinnings and the use of forest thinnings (Initiatives for acid, eliminating preservatives and synthetic Society and the Environment (Japanese coloring agents, etc.) on the Internet and only)) strive to disclose the information in an easy-to-understand format Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) ●For customer requests, in addition to further ●The number of comments received △ ●For customer comments, which make up strengthening our ability to respond and increased along with the increase in the 50% of customer feedback, worked with provide customers with accurate number of stores (up 17.5% from the Operation Field Consultants (OFCs) to information, we aim to reduce the number previous fiscal year). Continued to strengthen customer care training to of comments strengthen ability to respond and provide prevent recurrence. Established systems to clear information accelerate the pace of improvements Local Communities FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●In pursuing the idea of even closer ●In FY2015, introduced 35 mobile stores, × ●During FY2016, promote close-by, convenient stores, we aim to introduce the 806 electric vehicles, and 2,109 electricconvenient stores with the aim of following vehicle numbers nationwide: assisted vehicles introducing 50 mobile stores, 1,000 electric mobile stores (100) 、electric vehicles vehicles, and 3,000 electric-assisted (1,000), electric-assisted vehicles (3,000) vehicles Assisting in local community revitalization ●Look into new initiatives in order to further ●Newly concluded an agreement with Chiba ○ ●Promote new conclusion of comprehensive deepen the cooperation that is enjoyed City. Concluded comprehensive alliance alliance agreements with municipalities and with municipalities with whom agreements agreement on senior support. promote ongoing initiatives to conclude have already been concluded. Further more specific individual alliance agreements promote the concluding of agreements with new municipalities. Providing support in times of disaster ●Work to further clarify the role we play in the ●Newly-concluded disaster support ○ ●Enhance support systems and achieve community when major disasters occur, and agreements with Niigata Prefecture, Miyagi effective cooperation with national and local how we can more effectively work with Prefecture and Sendai City governments to fulfill our role as social municipal bodies infrastructure when major disasters occur, including continuing store operations Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities ●Work to revise the content of drills to ●6,304 stores participated in crime × ●Foster ties with crime prevention councils of incorporate age-confirmation activities and prevention drills and seminars (39.2％ prefectural governments and police remittance-fraud prevention, etc. Aim to participation rate; safety station activities departments, aiming to boost participation achieve a store participation rate of 50% or franchisee questionnaire conducted ) in crime prevention drills and seminars to more in crime prevention drills and seminars 50% 67 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Employee Related FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●Content of each training program to be ●Conducted compliance training (November), ○ ●Enhance each type of training (compliance revised as a result of inspections conducted new OFC training (each month), new DM training, new OFC training, new DM training, in F2014 training (twice in year), directly operated directly operated store meetings, etc.) store meetings (twice in year). Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees ●Number of applicants：increase of 20% from ●Number of applicants：level with the FY2014 △ ●Number of applicants：increase of 10% from the FY2014 level level the FY2015 level Achieving a work-life balance ●Number of male users: multiple persons ●Number of male users：0 × ●Encourage male employees to take childcare leave ●Encourage employees to take paid leave ●Paid leave usage rate: 45.5% △ ●Encourage employees to take more paid leave Making use of diverse human resources ●Number of foreign nationals to be employed ●Number of foreign nationals employed as ○ ●Number of foreign nationals to be employed as employees：20 employees：22 as employees：25 ●Number of people with disabilities to be ●Number of people with disabilities ○ ●Number of people with disabilities to be employed as employees: 20 employed as employees: 21 employed as employees: 23 ●Percentage of female managers (Team ●Percentage of female managers (Team × ●Percentage of female managers (Team leader or higher positions)：34％ leader or higher positions)：30.2％ leader or higher positions)：32％ Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Reduce the number of traffic accidents and ●Number of traffic accidents and violations： × ●Reduce the number of traffic accidents and violations by 10% compared to FY2014 increased 3% compared to FY2014 violations by 10% compared to FY2014 ●Reduce the number of workplace accidents ●Number of workplace accidents: reduced 16 ○ ●Reduce the number of workplace accidents by 10% compared to FY2014 compared to FY2014 by 10% compared to FY2014 Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 (as of the end of February 2015) (persons) Average length of service 9 years 9 years 9 years Full-time employees *1 7,089 (full-time employees) 5 months 6 months 6 months Male 5,119 Number of full-time employees who 49（1） 130（0） 159（0） took childcare leave *4 (males, part-time staff) Female 1,970 Number of full-time employees who 0 （0） 1 （0） 2 （1） Part-time staff *2 4,163 took nursing leave *4 (males, part-time staff) Number of employees 11,252 Number of volunteer leave recipients 0 0 1 (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of women in 29.3% 31.5% 30.7% New graduate employees hired 609 management positions *5 Mid-career employees hired 357 Percentage of employees with disabilities *6 2.05% 2.19% 2.29% Re-employment *3 18 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 8.1％ 16.1% 45.5% *1 Data includes persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. employees *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one Frequency rate of workplace accidents 0.04％ 0.08％ 0.01％ employee. Includes contractual employees. Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.002％ 0.001％ 0.0005％ *3 Persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. *4 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new takers of leave) *5 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. The percentage of workers with disabilities is for the five qualified Group companies: Seven & i Holdings, Terre Verte (special subsidiary for severe disabilities), Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. Data for Consultation Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 for Employees Contacts received: 58 (up 31% from the previous fiscal year’s level) By user category In addition to conducting ongoing compliance training, we also take steps Unrelated Families of to help employees acquire knowledge consulting employees 16% 6% and foster awareness, such as conducting compliance tests. We will Working conditions continue to strengthen our initiatives to Communication Full-time 7% employees improve the working environment for 64% Part-time staff 47% 47% employees. Suspected noncompliance 14% Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 68 Ito-Yokado Co., Ltd. Website: http://www.itoyokado.co.jp/company/iycsr/index.html Number of stores as of February 28, 2015: 181 Environment Related FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Stores that will introduce LED lighting: 176 ●Stores that have introduced LED lighting: 〇 ●Stores changing from fluorescent tubes to 140 (All stores as of February 28, 2015) LED lighting: 97 ●Delivery distance per store: 247,000 km ●Delivery distance per store: 244,000 km ○ ●Delivery distance per store: 242,000 km (1% reduction compared to FY2014) (2.4% reduction compared to FY2014) (0.8% reduction compared to FY2014) Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society ●Food product recycling rate: 50% ●Food product recycling rate: 50.1% ○ ●Food product recycling rate: 50% ●Stores that implement recycling: 100 stores ●Stores that implemented recycling: 89 stores △ ●Stores that implement recycling: 100 stores Raising environmental awareness among employees ●Cooperate with the Group, and promote ●Number of people taking the test: 76 (of ○ ●Target number of people taking the test: taking of the Eco Test whom 57 passed) 100 Environment Related Challenges Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 CO2 emissions *1 *2 *3 t-CO2 533,110 572,247 550,358 CO2 emissions from store operations *2 *3 t-CO2 507,499 545,989 524,418 (Environmental impact index*4) （t-CO2/1,000,000㎡×1,000h） （103） （108） （105） CO2 emissions by delivery vehicles *2 *3 t-CO2 23,340 23,904 23,638 Electricity consumption in store operations *2 GWｈ 853 884 851 Water usage in store operations *2 1,000㎥ 5,793 6,582 6,441 Plastic bag consumption (turndown rate) at the food section （t ％） 2,274(47.6) 1,321(67.5) 1,268(70.2) Waste disposal (recycling rate) ｔ （％） 132,051 （66.3） 130,816 （66.0） 131,787(66.7) Food product recycling rate ％ 45.2 47.5 50.1 *1 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, Head Office, training center and distribution center operations and by delivery vehicles. *2 The period of the calculations was April to March. *3 CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. *4 CO2 emissions per (total sales floor area × opening hours). 69 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Consumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 Contacts received from customers were down by 2% from the previous fiscal year. Contacts received: 74,357 Service complaints, which comprise 29% of total contacts, declined by 2%. (down 2% from the previous fiscal year’s level) We will continue to analyze the cause of complaints and take steps to prevent a recurrence. Others, tenants 18% Service Apparel 29% 6% Household goods 8% Food 25% Cash registers 14% FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Cooperate with municipalities, participate in ●Participated in the Committee for ○ ●Foster a product safety culture the development of official quality standards Investigating Product Safety Education for Promote reliability and safety of in-house as a committee member fifth and sixth grade Elementary School products in cooperation with the fostering ●Strengthen cooperation with different Students promoted by the Ministry of of “product safety culture” promoted by the departments within the Company for the Economy, Trade and Industry Japanese government. purpose of quality improvement ●Cooperated with the Apparel Division, △ ●Revise Quality Standard Manual ●Strengthen the sharing of information with Household Goods Division, and Revise the FY2013 Quality Standard Manual the Seven & i Holdings QC Project Development Department to enhance during FY2016 in line with the revision of the measures for checking especially private ○ public standard in FY2017, and upgrade brand product manufacturing plants to stores and equipment to enable customers improve quality to use them with confidence ●Held shared meetings with Seven & i Holdings QC Project. In FY2015, formulated the Groupwide quality policies and published it internally and externally Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable ●Revise countermeasures for disasters other ●Revised countermeasure manual in line with △ ●Create a countermeasures manual for stores than the Tokyo Metropolitan Area the latest damage predictions and internal to clarify the issues for stores to deal with in Epicentral Earthquake (damage predictions, organizational changes a disaster organizational structures, etc.) (Earthquake countermeasures, flood countermeasures, Mt. Fuji eruption countermeasures) Assuring appropriate information provision ●So that appropriate labeling occurs, at ●A grade: 88.5% (a worsening of 2.2 △ ●When inappropriate labeling is found during meetings of managers responsible for percentage points) store interviews, the manager responsible apparel, household goods and food B grade: 11.2% (a worsening of 2.5 and the store manager are interviewed products, conduct education that gives percentage points) directly to confirm the cause and examples of inappropriate labeling, and C grade: 0.2% (a worsening of 0.4 countermeasures work to raise the ratio of items graded A percentage points) Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) ●Designate the 20 stores with most ●Service-related complaints: Reduced by 2% △ ●Use customer complaints to drive specific complaints as challenging stores, and carry from the previous fiscal year’s level improvements out causal-research and preventative ●Service-related complaints at challenging ○ ●Designate the 20 stores with most measures. Aim in particular to reduce stores: Reduced by 7% from the previous complaints as challenging stores, and carry service-related complaints fiscal year’s level out causal-research and preventative ●Share the complimentary comments measures. Aim in particular to reduce received with all employees via message service-related complaints boards, morning and midday meetings, and ●Weekly information from the customer ○ ●Share customer response points at morning work to enhance employee motivation feedback department is announced and and midday meetings, and work to improve used at morning and midday store meetings the level of customer care Local Communities FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●Develop products that make the lives of ●Implemented product lineups centered on △ ●Develop products that help elderly people elderly people more enjoyable and more products that eliminate inconvenience for to go outside, and products that reflect convenient elderly people customers’ feedback ●Foster the development of sales assistants ●Held seven training sessions to learn about ○ ●Conduct training to enhance product who are trusted by the local elderly the characteristics of new products knowledge and customer care Providing support in times of disaster ●Continue to work on concluding agreements ●Revised countermeasure manual in line with △ ●Create a countermeasures manual for stores with Niigata, Hiroshima, Hyogo, Okayama the latest damage predictions and internal to clarify the issues for stores to deal with in and other prefectures and municipalities to organizational changes a disaster (earthquake countermeasures, provide support in times of disaster flood countermeasures, Mt. Fuji eruption ●Conduct revisions of previously-concluded countermeasures) agreements in accordance with actual conditions Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 70 Employee Related FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●Rather than just when positions are ●Conducted follow-up training for newly ○ ●Conduct sales area on-the-job training for assumed, make arrangements to strengthen appointed store managers, assistant newly appointed corporate officers to follow-up training 3-months and 1-year after managers, and administration managers develop personnel capable of managing in the assuming of roles so that people can accordance with front-line conditions execute tasks that are above the levels merely expected of them Making use of diverse human resources ●From the perspectives of respecting human ●Number of training sessions: 61 ○ ●To promote respect for human rights and rights and promoting normalization, in Total number of participants: 3,662 normalization, hold training centered on addition to expressing numerous specific stores from the user’s perspective, covering examples, conduct training that both knowledge and practice, thereby incorporates a practical format, and link to helping to promote general awareness in promoting general awareness in workplaces workplaces and increase understanding and the understanding of each individual Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Reduce workplace accidents, in particular ●Lost work-time accidents: Reduced by 10% ○ ●Reduce lost work-time accidents (4 days or lost work-time accidents from the previous fiscal year’s level more) by 10% ●Promote mental health training ●Promote mental health training Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 (as of the end of February 2015) (persons) Average length of service 20 years 21 years 21 years Full-time employees *1 7,896 (full-time employees) 4 months 0 months 7 months Male 5,937 Number of full-time employees who 194（0、100） 198 （0、27） 260 （0、138） took childcare leave *4 (males, part-time staff) Female 1,959 Number of full-time employees who 22 （0、18） 20 （1、16） 15（2、10） Part-time staff *2 26,425 took nursing leave *4 (males, part-time staff) Number of employees 34,321 Number of volunteer leave recipients 2 9 2 (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of women in 18.0% 20.8% 22.5% New graduate employees hired 39 management positions *5 Mid-career employees hired 1 Percentage of employees with disabilities *6 2.05％ 2.19% 2.29% Re-employment *3 189 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 11.4% 11.3% 14.0% *1 Data includes contractual employees and temporary employees. employees *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one Frequency rate of workplace accidents 1.81 2.35 1.32 employee. Includes contractual employees. Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.03 0.05 0.03 *3 Persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. *4 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new takers of leave) *5 The percentage of team leaders or higher positions, excluding executive officers. *6 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. The percentage of workers with disabilities is for the five qualified Group companies: Seven & i Holdings, Terre Verte (special subsidiary for severe disabilities), Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. Data for Consultation Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 for Employees Contacts received: 244 (up 13% from the previous fiscal year’s level) By user category Compared to the fiscal year ended February 28, 2014, there was an Other Other increase in communications-related 18% 1% consultations, and such consultations Communication Full-time Unrelated accounted for 51% of the total. At new consulting 51% Affiliation unknown employees due to anonymity 8% manager training, etc., we will continue 4% 28% to use specific examples of Part-time staff 59% consultations received by the Help Line, Suspected Working noncompliance conditions while making training participants aware 2% 25% Families of employees of the importance of communication 4% and how to go about communicating with subordinates. 71 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Sogo & Seibu Co., Ltd. Website：http://www.sogo-seibu.co.jp/csr.html Number of stores as of February 28, 2015: 24 Environment Related FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●At regular ISO 14001 audits, ●Non-compliance items: 0 △ ●Complete transition to ISO 14001 2015 Non-compliance items: 0 Recommended items: 9 (down 2 from the version Expansion of recommended items previous fiscal year) Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Reduce energy usage by 1% when ●Amount of energy usage when calculated in ○ ●Reduce energy usage by 1% when calculated in terms of crude oil usage terms of crude oil usage: Down 1% calculated in terms of crude oil usage ●Continue to expand the introduction of LED ●Introduced LED lighting in 10 stores ●Continue to expand the introduction of LED lighting lighting Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society ●Food product recycling rate: 55.0% ●Food product recycle rate: 54.7% △ ●Food product recycling rate: 55.0% (Up 0.6% from the previous year) (Up 0.3% from the previous year) (Up 0.3% from the previous year) Due to a delay in recycling subcontracting for inspection of the appropriate processing status of a new recycle route ●Waste recycling rate: 62.5% ●Waste recycling rate: 62.1% ●Waste recycling rate: 62.5% (Up 0.5% from the previous year) (Up 0.1% from the previous year) (Up 0.4% from the previous year) Due to a delay in recycling subcontracting for inspection of the appropriate processing status of a new recycle route Implementing measures to conserve biodiversity ●Tree plantings through green wrapping and ●Plantings: 1,750 trees ○ ●Plantings: 1,850 trees other initiatives: 1,600 trees Planting location: Miyako City, Iwate Prefecture Offering eco-friendly products ●Expand the range of environmentally-friendly ●Added “safety for the human body” to the ○ ●New products selected: 30 products by revising the relevant selection Environmental product selection criteria criteria, and newly-select 30 such items ●New products selected: 33 Raising environmental awareness among employees ●Environmental e-learning courses: All ●Environmental e-learning course: Taken by △ ●Environmental e-learning courses: All employees to take all employees employees to take ●Number of employees reporting successful ●Number of employees reporting successful ●Number of employees reporting successful completion of the campaign for all completion of the campaign to save completion of the campaign to save employees to save electricity: 60 electricity: 36 electricity: 60 Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Number of stores Stores 24 24 24 CO2 emissions *1 *2 *3 t-CO2 188,486 197,747 194,315 CO2 emissions from store operations *2 *3 t-CO2 187,831 196,992 193,578 Electricity consumption in store operations *2 GWh 357 346 341 Water usage in store operations *2 1,000㎥ 2,438 2,354 2,265 Packaging consumption t 1,623 1,493 1,465 Waste disposal (recycling rate) （ t ％） 32,020 （60.6） 30,981 （62.0） 30,880（62.1） Food product recycling rate *2 ％ 50.3 54.4 54.7 *1 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, Head Office and distribution center operations. *2 The period of the calculations was April to March. *3 CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 72 Consumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 Continuing from the fiscal year ended February 28, 2014, we used customer complaints as Contacts received: 10,654 a starting point to identify and analyze issues in our customer care services and operations (down 10% from the previous fiscal year’s level) at each sales area, resolve areas where customers were dissatisfied, and promote activities Other that reflect customer needs in our operating strategies. We also continued to publish case 7% studies of delighting customers in our company bulletin as an awareness-raising initiative to Misunderstanding Customer care improve employees’ mindset on customer service. or unreasonable 43% complaints In the fiscal year ending February 29, 2016, we will further promote store improvement 3% activities, and redouble our efforts to cultivate a corporate culture that leads to better Products customer satisfaction. 21% Service 26% FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Conduct suitable food labeling in ●Conducted label inspections regarding ○ ●Enhance contamination prevention activities accordance with legal regulations allergy and production region information and so forth at each store ●Strengthen the inspection system for private●Conducted 263 pre-delivery inspections (up ●Continue product inspection system for brand apparel and general merchandise 170 from the previous fiscal year) private brand apparel and general items merchandise items ●Increase the curriculum level of e-learning ●Developed a level-specific curriculum and ●Advance the education system and and other forms of training implemented it encourage acquisition of qualifications Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable ●Install an elevator for wheelchair users to ●Installed wheelchair lift in the connecting ○ ●Modified the doors to multipurpose overcome split-levels stairs between the Sogo Hiroshima Store restrooms, making them easier to operate Main Building and New Annex ●Install automatic doors to entry/exit points ●Installed automatic doors at entry/exit points (Sogo Hiroshima Store, Sogo Kashiwa Store) Assuring appropriate information provision ●Cooperate with specialist organizations to ●Conducted three inspections by specialist ○ ●Continue to cooperate with specialist carry out inspections of both food product organizations at all sites organizations to carry out inspections of labeling and the labeling of private brand both food product labeling and the labeling apparel and general merchandise items of private brand apparel and general merchandise items Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) ●Utilize analysis of customer needs, and ●Continuously implemented activities ○ ●Respond to customers’ high expectations of promote the further improvement of leveraging customer opinions to improve on department store service by analyzing their “customer awareness” among employees points of dissatisfaction wishes from their opinions, and stores and Head Office work together to promote further improvement in customer service awareness among employees. ●Reduce the number of complaints received ●Customer complaints: 5,384 (down 1,104 ●Reduce the number of complaints from from customers (below 6,488) from the previous fiscal year) customers: Below 5,384 73 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Local Communities FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●Continue operating the Pre-Mama Stations ●Held over 30 baby sign courses, baby ○ ●Continue to operate Pre-Mama Stations and and Counters, and hold seminars and events massage, and grandchild-raising courses, Counters, and hold events for parents and for the whole family to enjoy etc., at Pre-Mama Stations and Counters children, (mothers or fathers and children) ●Continue developing products by ●Developed eight products based on ●Continue developing products by incorporating the wishes customers share feedback from midwives, including multiincorporating the wishes customers share with the midwives capes, and knit blankets with the midwives ●Further develop specialty salespersons ●Developed specialty salespersons ●Continue new development of specialty Shoe fitters: 18 Shoe fitters: 17 sales persons Shoe advisors: 17 and other Sports shoe fitters: 28 Shoe fitters: 15 Shoe advisors: 32 Formal-wear advisors: 10 Sake sommeliers: 62 and other Shopping supporters for the elderly and people with disabilities: 15 Cognitive impairment supporters: 1,650 and other ●Children’s shoes: trade in 90,000 pairs ●Children’s shoes: trade in 85,709 pairs ●Children’s shoes: trade in 90,000 pairs Assisting in local community revitalization ●Continue to conduct localized events ●Conducted events in cooperation with local ○ ●Continue to conduct localized events communities such as the Green Curtain ●Collaborate with local companies to Project and water sprinkling activities, etc. incorporate traditional local technologies (all stores) and products, and develop Limited Edition ●Local event for reviewing Kanagawa Area Mode to add different products Prefecture, “Kanagawa Discover Weeks” developed for each store (SOGO Yokohama store) ●Furumai Nabe meal sharing event using local ingredients (Asahikawa Store, Fukui store) ●Picking locally grown Sayama tea and factory tour, original development of apparel and general merchandise using Sayama tea and limited-time sale (Seibu Tokorozawa store) ●Fukui Sweets Grand Exhibition using locally produced ingredients (Seibu Fukui store) ●Morning fruit and vegetable market with locally grown produce (Seibu Otsu store) Providing support in times of disaster ● Including measures for people having ●Promoted participation drills in collaboration ○ ● Including measures for people having difficulties in going home in the event of with various communities mainly at stores in difficulties in going home in the event of large earthquakes, continue to maintain the Greater Tokyo Area and in the Joint large earthquakes, continue to maintain cooperative systems with local Council to Respond to People Having cooperative systems with local municipalities and businesses Difficulties in Going Home municipalities and businesses ●Through the holding of events such as ●As an initiative to raise awareness among ●Through the holding of events such as disaster preparedness fairs, promote local community residents and so forth, held disaster preparedness fairs, promote activities that raise the awareness of disaster preparedness fairs in cooperation activities that raise the awareness of disaster-preparedness with local municipalities disaster-preparedness ●Conclude an agreement with Kobe City ●Submitted survey sheet based on the ●Conclude a comprehensive agreement with concerning the provision of supplies in the agreement Chiba Prefecture to promote local event of a disaster community activities Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities ●On an ongoing basis, cooperate with local ●Participated in local disaster preparedness ○ ●On an ongoing basis, cooperate with local communities and their disastertraining and crime-prevention patrols communities and their disasterpreparedness and crime prevention systems preparedness and crime prevention systems Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 74 Employee Related FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ● Aim to have 3,000 people annually newly●New seminar participants: 3,533 people ○ ●Aim to have 3,000 new participants in participate in career improvement seminars career improvement seminars through by constructing and implementing measures “Self-Directed Sales Area Training Course for the purpose of improving the basic skills Promotion” and “Career Advancement of individuals and expanding the base of Course Promotion” for improving basic skills people with specialist qualifications acquisition of individuals and expanding the base of people with specialist qualifications Achieving a work-life balance ●Obtain the KURUMIN mark ●Obtained the KURUMIN mark in July 2014 ○ ●Publish a Maternity and Childcare Handbook ●Enhance and expand child-rearing support ●Introduced a paid childcare leave system to support childcare and promote deeper systems irrespective of employment and introduced paid leave for nursing care understanding within management category ●Conducted childcare leave roundtable ●Strengthen the support of people on meetings between labor and management childcare leave through the sharing of information Making use of diverse human resources ●Promote 17 people from non-regular ●Promoted 17 people from non-regular △ ●Promote 30 people from non-regular employees to regular employees employees to regular employees employees to regular employees ●Hire five mid-career specialist employees ●Hired four mid-career specialist employees ●Hire five mid-career specialist employees ●Percentage of female managers (Section ●Percentage of female managers (Section ●Percentage of female managers (Section manager or higher positions): 20% manager or higher positions): 13% manager or higher positions): 20% Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Enhance the health management systems ●Established a system for a full-time public ●Standardize follow-up on health check at all including for Head Office health nurse stationed at Head Office to stores (including standardization of figures ●Reduce the number of employees on leave provide support for all worksites relating to metabolic syndrome, check-up due to mental health problems through the ●Reduced the number of employees on leave recommendations, etc.) development of mental health managers due to mental health problems by 80% year ●Establish a program to help employees with on year (improved) mental health problems to return to the workplace 75 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 (as of the end of February 2015) (persons) Average length of service 21 years 22 years 22 years Full-time employees *1 4,281 (full-time employees) 0 months 0 months 0 months Male 2,982 Number of full-time employees who 148 （2、54） 213（1、92） 193（7、85） took childcare leave *4 (males, part-time staff) Female 1,299 Number of full-time employees who 13（5、3） 9 （0、5） 6 （0、5） Part-time staff *2 4,227 took nursing leave *4 (males, part-time staff) Number of employees 8,508 Number of volunteer leave recipients No system No system No system (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of women in 19.8% 20.7% 23.1% New graduate employees hired 40 management positions *5 Mid-career employees hired 1 Percentage of employees with disabilities *6 2.00％ 2.04% 2.04% Re-employment *3 67 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 6.6% 14.0% 6.6％ *1 Data includes contractual employees and temporary employees. employees *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one Frequency rate of workplace accidents 0.30 0.29 1.04 employee. Includes contractual employees. Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.00 0.003 0.02 *3 Persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. *4 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new takers of leave) *5 The percentage of team leaders or higher positions, excluding executive officers. *6 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. Data for Consultation Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 for Employees Contacts received: 56 (down 11% from the previous fiscal year’s level) We have been focusing on the issue of time management since last year, and this year we considered it appropriate to continue dealing with the issue at the Companywide level. We Unrelated focused on enforcing compliance in time management and other labor issues from the consulting 14% perspective of external experts by inviting trainers and attorneys to hold training sessions aimed Communication at changing employees’ awareness of time management. As a result, the number of consultations 52% Other decreased. 11% The number of consultations related to workplace environment and human relationships and so forth increased. However, the main factor was thought to be a lack of communication within the Suspected Working noncompliance conditions workplace. We therefore requested the managers of the workplaces concerned to reform their 9% 14% management styles, specifically by reinforcing the vertical relationships within their teams, reaffirming the importance of proper communication of opinions between team members, and reaffirming the need to give proper supervision and guidance. We also conducted awareness raising activities for other managers regarding the role of better communication in preventing risks such as harassment and improving the workplace environment. In addition, training was conducted based on the above guidance, using case studies based on daily work activities to show that thoroughly ensuring compliance is directly related to risk By user category management. This training helps to prevent accidents and incidents from occurring or spreading. Full-time Unknown employees 54% 14% Families of Business partner employees employees 14% 18% Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 76 York-Benimaru Co., Ltd. Website：http://www.yorkbeni.co.jp/enviro/index.html Number of stores as of February 28, 2015: 200 Environment Related FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Reduce electricity consumption through the ●Reduced electricity consumption through △ ●Reduce electricity consumption by installing utilization of the BEMS management system utilization of BEMS and utilizing BEMS at all stores (17 stores and new stores remaining) ●Proceed with the switch to high-efficiency ●Upgraded to LED lighting: 27 stores ○ ●Install LED lighting at all stores lighting (LED) ●Upgrade to high-efficiency air conditioning Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 CO2 emissions *1 *2 *3 t-CO2 179,479 207,704 204,741 CO2 emissions from store operations (per store) *2 *3 t-CO2 165,186（898） 185,128（959） 182,808 （937） CO2 emissions by delivery vehicles *2 *3 t-CO2 14,294 14,781 15,344 Electricity consumption in store operations *1 GWｈ 301 309 309 Water usage in store operations *2 1,000㎥ 1,028 1,039 1,043 Plastic bag consumption (turndown rate) at the food section ｔ （％） 392 （70.2） 364 （69.9） 350（70.6） Waste disposal (recycling rate) ｔ （％） 41,997 （50.3） 42,760（51.1） 43,029 （51.6） Food product recycling rate ％ 30.2 35.7 40.4 *1 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store, Head Office, training center and distribution center operations and by delivery vehicles. *2 The period of the calculations was April to March. *3 CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. Consumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 As part of our efforts to listen to our customers’ voices and respond to every one of them, Contacts received: 2,888 we share examples of individual stores successfully meeting customers’ needs with all our (up 5.3% from the previous fiscal year’s level) stores. Our Head Office and stores will work together to provide customers with a more timely response and incorporate as many customer suggestions as possible into our operations with an eye to making our stores enjoyable places to shop with confidence. Other Customer care 41% 30% Sales Facilities 16% 3% Sales promotion Compliments 6% 4% FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Value of three-star vegetable sales: aim for a ●Value of three-star vegetable sales: 12.0% ○ ●Value of three-star vegetable sales: 16.0% 9.6% increase from the FY2014 level increase from the previous fiscal year increase from the previous fiscal year Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable ●Continue to increase the number of stores ●Continued to increase the number of stores ○ ●Continue to increase the number of stores certified pursuant to the revised Act on certified pursuant to the revised Act on certified pursuant to the revised Act on Promotion of Smooth Transportation, etc. of Promotion of Smooth Transportation, etc. of Promotion of Smooth Transportation, etc. of Elderly Persons, Disabled Persons, etc. in Elderly Persons, Disabled Persons, etc. Elderly Persons, Disabled Persons, etc. FY2015 and onward 77 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Local Communities FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●Continue with the “Heartful Saturday” blood ●Blood donors: 555 ○ ●Continue with the “Heartful Saturday” blood drive drive Assisting in local community revitalization ●Hold Opening Anniversary Festivals again in ●Held Opening Anniversary Festivals at each ○ ●Continue to hold the Opening Anniversary FY2015 store Festivals going forward Providing support in times of disaster ●Consider entering comprehensive ●In FY2015 no new agreements were △ ●Consider entering agreements with cooperation agreements with municipalities concluded (No requests) municipalities upon request upon request Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities ●Continue to conduct the activity of providing ●Continued the activity ○ ●Continue the activity going forward children with “shelters” in FY2015 Employee Related FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●Boost the average results of Target ●First half results—second half results ○ ●Establish universal content for the Target Achievement Records by making further Five of seven divisions improved their results Achievement Records to smooth the efforts to establish and promote OJT based education level for all companies. Correct on the Target Achievement Records inequalities in results between divisions Achieving a work-life balance ●Enhance the number of people including ●Number of people using childcare leave in ○ ●Create a guidebook to widen general regular employees who use the childcare FY2015 (male and female): 108 (up 24% understanding of the systems for childcare leave system from the previous fiscal year) leave and expand the number of people ●Secure the use of childcare leave by male ●Number of male users：7 ○ using leave recipients Making use of diverse human resources ●Maintain the percentage of employees with ○ ●Aim to achieve 20% female managers disabilities required by law (Executive officer – Division manager rank) ●Percentage of female managers (Executive ●Percentage of female managers (Division ○ ●Aim to increase the percentage of nonofficer Division manager rank) : 10％ manager or higher positions): 14.7% Japanese employees ●Conduct study meetings for the purpose of ●Conducted training for female managers establishing female managers Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Workplace accidents per year: reduction of ●Workplace accidents in FY2015: 345 (down × ●Workplace accidents per year: reduction of 10% from the FY2014 level 2.3% from the previous fiscal year) 10% from the FY2015 level Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 78 Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 (as of the end of February 2015) (persons) Average length of service 14 years 15 years 14 years Full-time employees *1 2,714 (full-time employees) 7 months 3 months 6 months Male 2,434 Number of full-time employees who 47（1、40） 63 （1、55） 109（2、97） took childcare leave *4 (males, part-time staff) Female 280 Number of full-time employees who 6 （3、3） 4 （0、4） 1 （0、1） Part-time staff *2 10,905 took nursing leave *4 (males, part-time staff) Number of employees 13,619 Number of volunteer leave recipients No system No system No system (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of women in 23.8% 25.1% 25.5% New graduate employees hired 168 management positions *5 Mid-career employees hired 0 Percentage of employees with disabilities *6 1.90％ 1.96％ 2.39% Re-employment *3 22 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 8.8% 9.2% 7.7% *1 Data includes contractual employees and temporary employees. employees *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one Frequency rate of workplace accidents 2.94 2.27 2.39 employee. Includes contractual employees. Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.03 0.10 0.01 *3 Persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. *4 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new takers of leave) *5 The percentage of team leaders or higher positions, excluding executive officers. *6 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. Data for Consultation Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 for Employees Contacts received: 65 (down 26%) from the previous fiscal year) By user category York-Benimaru provides employees with a help line service. The service enables Working Full-time them to receive counseling on conditions employees 11% 2% workplace issues, request investigations into noncompliance, etc. Employee Part-time staff Suspected Communication 22% suggestions are used to create a better noncompliance 72% Unknown workplace environment. 17% 74% Families of employees 2% 79 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Yorkmart Co., Ltd. Website: http://www.yorkmart.com/company/preservation/ Number of stores as of February 28, 2015 76 Environment Related FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Attaining and appropriate grasp of environmental impact ●Common headquarters invoicing by TEPCO ●Completed common headquarters invoicing ○ ●Continue introducing BEMS to new stores (uniform reporting) by TEPCO ●Introduce BEMS to new stores ●Introduced BEMS to two new stores ○ Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Make the lighting of sales floors of existing ●Completed making the lighting of sales ○ ●Introduce reach-in multi-level refrigerated stores LED (30 stores) floors of existing stores LED (30 stores) cases at existing stores ●Introduce reach-in multi-level refrigerated ●Introduced at four stores ○ cases Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society ●Reduce generation of food waste; food ●Food product recycling rate: 51.6% ○ ●Food product recycling rate: 52% waste recycling rate: 51% achieved ●Plastic bag turndown rate for FY2016: ●Plastic bag turndown rate: 55% ●Plastic bag turndown rate for FY2015: × achieve 60% 48.3% Raising environmental awareness among employees ●Publish CSR leaflet ●Published 16,000 CSR leaflets ○ ●Employees taking the Eco Test: 22 Used for in-house training, workplace tours ●Train 220 cognitive impairment supporters and work experience participation by elementary and junior high school students, etc. Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 CO2 emissions *1 *2 *3 t-CO2 52,301 61,522 61,383 CO2 emissions from store operations (per store) *2 *3 t-CO2 52,259(697) 61,474(809) 61,330（787） Electricity consumption in store operations *2 GWｈ 534 543 543 Water usage in store operations *2 1,000㎥ 42.3 45.8 48.3 Plastic bag consumption (turndown rate) at the food section t 19,511 （63.2） 20,799（65.2） 19,995(64.8) Waste disposal (recycling rate) ｔ（％） 51.3 49.4 51.6 Food product recycling rate ％ 48.9 50.9 51.3 *1 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store operations and Head Office operations. *2 The period of the calculations was April to March. *3 CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 80 Consumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 Some 996 calls were received by the toll-free phone numbers in FY2015. Concerning issues Contacts received: 996 that resulted in calls from customers, customer care issues accounted for 36%, while sales(up 7% from the previous fiscal year’s level) related issues accounted for 26%. We are analyzing the causes of such issues and working Other to make improvements. 20% Compliments Customer care 2% 36% Facilities 9% Sales 26% Sales promotion 6% FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Strengthen store compliance team activities ●Provided information to stores through △ ●Actively deploy the store compliance team meetings, web conferences, and e-mail ●Continue to provide quality control ●Implemented education and sharing through information visits to manufacturers’ plants ●Provide support through store interviews ●Following with web conferences Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable ●Number of stores certified pursuant to the ●Number of stores certified pursuant to the ○ ●Number of stores certified pursuant to the revised Act on Promotion of Smooth revised Act on Promotion of Smooth revised Act on Promotion of Smooth Transportation, etc. of Elderly Persons, Transportation, etc. of Elderly Persons, Transportation, etc. of Elderly Persons, Disabled Persons, etc.: 26 stores (3 new Disabled Persons, etc.: 25 stores (2 new Disabled Persons, etc.: 27 stores (2 new stores) stores) stores) Assuring appropriate information provision ●Continue store surveys and information ●Had auditors and Head Office quality control △ ●Have auditors and Head Office quality sharing staff carry out store surveys, and shared control staff carry out store surveys, and ●Strengthen the system of store-based information through store manager share information through interviews with voluntary self-checks meetings and manager meetings management, store manager meetings, and ●Strengthened the system of store-based manager meetings voluntary self-checks ●Strengthen the system of store-based voluntary self-checks Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) ●Install toll-free phone numbers and ●Increase in customer opinions related to △ ●Link departments with customer opinions customer feedback box facilities, customer care, and sales and incidents and feedback to stores ●Strengthen responses based on issue ●Strengthen education for new store analysis managers, etc. Local Communities FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ● Proactively promote users of the ●Appointed 5 store managers and 5 part-time ○ ●Expand users of the re-challenge plan re-challenge plan to managers staff leaders ●Revise operations to this end and make ● Revise operations to this end and make ●Implemented a community plan for users others both understand and appreciate the others both understand and appreciate the system system Assisting in local community revitalization ●Continue to accept workplace tours and ●Accepted workplace tours and work ○ ●Continue to accept workplace tours and work experience participation by experience participation by elementary and work experience participation by elementary and junior high school students junior high school students: approx. 7,000 elementary and junior high school students ●Utilize the CSR leaflet students (up 5% from the previous fiscal ● Train 220 cognitive impairment supporters year) ●Utilized the CSR leaflet 81 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Employee Related FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●Ensure education for new employees ●Revised DVD. Use of DVD differs between × ●Revise the manual for receiving new ●Revise DVD to make it easy to understand, stores employees, conduct group training for new organize education tools and the ●The manner of receiving new employees at part-time staff, and reform store operations environment for receiving new employees stores when they join the company is to help them settle in related to early resignation Achieving a work-life balance ●Reduce total work time ●Average overtime: 32.1 hours × ●Reduce total work time ●Reduce overtime by 10%, and 100% of ●Leave taken: 96% Reduce overtime by 10%, and 100% of annual leave taken annual leave taken Making use of diverse human resources ●Appoint part-time-staff to managerial roles: ●Part-time store managers: 3, Part-time staff △ ●Appoint part-time-staff to managerial roles: 45 employees leaders 87 50 employees ●Appoint expert part-time staff as full-time ●Employees promoted to full-time ●Appoint expert part-time staff as full-time employees: 10 or more employees employees: 16 employees: 10 or more employees ●Percentage of female managers (Team ●Percentage of women in management ●Percentage of female managers (Team leader or higher): 29.0% positions leader or higher): 29.0% Corporate officers: 0→7.1％ Division manager: 9.3→7.3％ Section manager: 10.8→12.8％ Team leader: 38.1→38.2％ Total: 27.6% ●Promote manager training, and promote 2 ●1 female appointed as store manager ●Promote manager training, and promote 2 females to store manager females to store manager Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Reduce occurrence of workplace accidents ●Frequency rate: 4.49→4.24 △ ●Reduce occurrence of workplace accidents Give notification of causes and responses Severity rate: 0.07→0.07 Give notification of causes and responses Reduce lost work-time accidents Lost work-time accidents: 54→51 Reduce lost work-time accidents Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 (as of the end of February 2015) (persons) Average length of service 14 years 14 years 15 years Full-time employees *1 1,225 (full-time employees) 8 months 0 months 0 months Male 995 Number of full-time employees who 21（0、8） 30 （0、14） 31（0、17） took childcare leave *4 (males, part-time staff) Female 230 Number of full-time employees who 0 （0、0） 1 （1、0） 0 （0、0） Part-time staff *2 4,368 took nursing leave *4 (males, part-time staff) Number of employees 5,593 Number of volunteer leave recipients 0 0 0 (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of women in 25.5% 28.0% 27.7% New graduate employees hired 129 management positions *5 Mid-career employees hired 2 Percentage of employees with disabilities *6 1.84% 1.94% 2.09% Re-employment *3 19 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 6.7% 8.2% 11.8% *1 Data includes contractual employees and temporary employees. employees *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one Frequency rate of workplace accidents 3.25 4.49 4.24 employee. Includes contractual employees. Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.05 0.07 0.07 *3 Persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. *4 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new takers of leave) *5 The percentage of team leaders or higher positions, excluding executive officers. *6 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. Data for Consultation Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 for Employees Contacts received: 75 (down 25% from the previous fiscal year’s level) By user category The overall number of reported incidents has been decreasing. The Affiliation unknown Full-time number of reports related to working due to anonymity employees 8% 7% conditions declined and reports relating Communication Other to human relationships between 32% 40% employees and their supervisors or Families of Part-time staff colleagues and so forth was about the employees 81% 4% same. However, it remains one of the Suspected Working noncompliance conditions most reported issues. We will continue 8% 20% providing support for education and business operation improvements. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 82 Seven & i Food Systems Co., Ltd. Website：http://www.7andi-fs.co.jp/7fs/company/csr.html Number of stores as of February 28, 2015: 846 Environment Related FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Stores with LED bulbs installed: 280 stores ●LED bulbs installed: 280 stores ○ ●Install LED bulbs at remaining 69 stores Amount of CO2 emissions reduction: 491 Amount of CO2 emissions reduction: 8,856 ○ Amount of CO2 emissions reduction: 456 tons tons tons Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society ●Expand the conducting of recycling to 100 ●Expanded the conducting of recycling to ○ ●Expand the conducting of recycling to 110 stores and improve recycling rates 107 stores ○ stores and improve recycling rates Recycling rate: 43.3%%⇒45.4% Raising environmental awareness among employees ●By encouraging employees to take the Eco ●Employees taking the Eco Test: 158 ○ ●By encouraging employees to take the Eco Test, cultivate environmental awareness and Test, cultivate environmental awareness and gain environmental knowledge (aim to have gain environmental knowledge (aim to have 100 people take the Eco Test) 120 people take the Eco Test) Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 CO2 emissions *1 *2 *3 t-CO2 96,117 100,120 91,264 CO2 emissions from store operations *2 *3 t-CO2 93,811 97,766 88,825 CO2 emissions from delivery vehicles *2 *3 *4 t-CO2 2,155 2,170 2,289 Electricity consumption in store operations *2 GWh 152 148 135 Water usage in store operations *2 1,000㎥ 2,141 2,045 2,036 Waste disposal (recycling rate) （ t ％） 10,058 （25.4） 10,624(26.0) 10,280(25.6) Food product recycling rate ％ 40.5 43.3 45.4 *1 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store operations (Seven & i Food Systems), Head Office, and delivery vehicles. *2 The period of the calculations was April to March. *3 CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. *4 The values are for Denny’s only. Consumer ChallengesConsumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 Complaints: 2,937 to 3,695 cases (an increase of 758 cases, or 25.8% from the previous Contacts received: 12,765 fiscal year) (up 16.8% from the previous fiscal year) Compliments; 824 to 963 cases (an increase of 139 cases, or 16.9% from the previous fiscal year) Other Customer care The number of compliments continued to increase dramatically following the previous fiscal 11% 46% year. However, there was also a significant rise in complaints, mainly related to cooking. In Store cleanliness the future, while working hard to improve customer satisfaction, we will continue to focus 4% on on-the-job-training (OJT) at stores, while also incorporating off-the-job-training (OFF-JT) Compliments Facilities 8% in the form of greetings practice, communications training, and mental training. 5% Menu and menu suggestions Cooking 7% 20% FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Evolve and systemize the content of the ●Progressed as planned ○ ●Shift completely to e-Base (old transaction terms and conditions requirement documents) ●Strengthen plant management confirmation ●Carried out plant management confirmation ○ ●Further strengthen plant management systems (focusing on quality) focused on quality confirmation system in and outside of Japan (focused on quality) Assuring appropriate information provision ●Continue to conduct a search service on the ●Continued to conduct the service ○ ●Continue to conduct a search service on the usage of allergenic substances usage of allergenic substances Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) ●Continue “getting the fundamentals straight” ●Through strengthening efforts to “get the △ ●Aim for further progress in getting the and share information received from fundamentals straight,” compliments fundamentals straight and enhance customers. Through moving forward with increased dramatically; however, complaints e-learning education for all divisions. Expand improvements, aim to halve complaints and also increased, mainly related to cooking various kinds of training, aiming to halve double compliments complaints and double compliments 83 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Local Communities FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●Further organize systems for receiving work ●358 people were accepted over 293 days in ○ ●Continue to maintain the system for actively experience participants, such as meal total, at 132 stores accepting work experience participants requirements, etc., and work to promote the ●To support food education, picture book ●Expand picture book reading sessions to further acceptance of participants by stores reading sessions were held at seven stores stores in prefectures close to the Kanto region in Tokyo as part of efforts to support food education Assisting in local community revitalization ●Maintain and conduct relays with growing ●Progressed as planned ○ ●Maintain and conduct relays with growing areas, thus developing the stable areas, thus developing the stable procurement of safe and delicious procurement of safe and delicious vegetables vegetables ●Collect activity information for each different ● Continued the Conquer Cancer Campaign, ○ ●Coordinate with local communities and region, based on the verification of such the Eat All of Your Meal Project in the nine actively foster an awareness of cooperation content, continue to cooperate in the prefectures and cities of Tokyo Metropolis, among employees revitalization of local communities Kanagawa Prefecture, Chiba Prefecture, Cognitive impairment supporters: 700 Saitama Prefecture, Yokohama City, Kawasaki City, Sagamihara City, Chiba City, and Saitama City, and supported the recovery of Tohoku by sales of marine products from Shichigahama, Miyagi Prefecture, and ink cartridge collection activities. ●Continue to develop and sell menu items ●Continued to develop and sell menu items ○ ●Strengthen development of menus that that contribute to health and beauty that contribute to health and beauty respond to regional characteristics Providing support in times of disaster ●Continue to proactively respond to requests ● Maintained a stance of actively receiving ○ ●Continue to proactively respond to requests received in the event of disaster from the requests received in the event of disaster received in the event of disaster from the local municipalities in which stores are from the local municipalities in which stores local municipalities in which stores are located are located located Employee Related FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●Education to be built on the three pillars of ●Mental education completed for all divisions, ○ ●Promote enhanced e-learning content for mental education, technical education and bloc managers (responsible for narrow the three pillars of education and flexibly management education commercial areas), and corporate officers of provide the required content for workplace store manager rank and higher. Technical situations in each training education content expanded in line with actual operations, including quantitative management, etc. Management education included open training on communication content ●Proceed with development and utilization of ●Implemented further study using the creed ●Raise awareness at each training to help the a creed card so that management card at morning meetings and trainings, with management philosophy to penetrate philosophy penetrates further the goal of advancing penetration of the further management philosophy Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees ●Conduct fair evaluations of employees from ●Revised personnel systems in May 2014 △ ●Plan to revise the system of ranking within July 2014 in accordance with the revised Evaluation system revised in March 2015 the same position (job responsibility) in personnel system 2016 Achieving a work-life balance ●Monthly overtime: average of less than 20 ●Monthly overtime for FY2015: average of × ●Monthly overtime: average of less than 20 hours per employee 20.4 hours per employee hours per employee Making use of diverse human resources ●To promote store-based recruitment, ●Recruited through the employee △ ●Aggressively recruit non-Japanese and short-hours recruitment will be revised, and introduction system overseas students the system of recruitment through employee 2013: 194 employees ●Stop hiring part-time employees and introductions enhanced 2014: 392 employees increase the hiring age ●Convert 30 part-timers into contractual ●Conversions to contractual employees: 52 ○ ●Conversions to contractual employees: 20 employees employees employees ●Ratio of female managers: Section manager ●Percentage of women in management Conversions to national employees and area or higher (10%), Team leader or higher positions employees: 10 employees (13%) Section manager or above: 10/111, 9% ●Percentage of women in management Team leader of above: 74/696, 10.6% positions Section manager or higher: 10% Team leader or higher: 12% Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Cooperate with other units to prevent issues ●Cases of heatstroke: 0 △ ●Heatstroke prevention (temperature such as heatstroke and norovirus, etc. Cases of norovirus symptoms: 72; tested control) ●Among employees who work the late night positive: 28 Health Declaration 2018 activities shift, work to improve the ratio who ●Health checks for employees who work the Reduce BMI and ratio of smokers undertake health checks twice a year late night shift ●Increase participation in health checks for 786/802 employees: 98% employees who work the late night shift and participation in secondary testing Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 84 Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 (as of the end of February 2015) (persons) Average length of service 14 years 14 years 13 years Full-time employees *1 1,287 (full-time employees) 3 months 1 months 4 months Male 1,084 Number of full-time employees who 39（1, 32） 66 （0, 62） 64 （0, 52） took childcare leave *4 (males, part-time staff) Female 203 Number of full-time employees who 0 0 0 Part-time staff *2 10,095 took nursing leave *4 (males, part-time staff) Number of employees 11,382 Number of volunteer leave recipients 0 0 1 (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of women in 7.1% 7.1% 9.3% New graduate employees hired 68 management positions *5 Mid-career employees hired 14 Percentage of employees with disabilities *6 2.05% 2.19% 2.29% Re-employment *3 16 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 10.8% 7.7% 9.1% *1 Data includes contractual employees and temporary employees. employees *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one Frequency rate of workplace accidents 1.41 1.11 0.66 employee. Includes contractual employees. Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.03 0.03 0.02 *3 Persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. *4 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new takers of leave) *5 The percentage of team leaders or higher positions, excluding executive officers. *6 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. The percentage of workers with disabilities is for the five qualified Group companies: Seven & i Holdings, Terre Verte (special subsidiary for severe disabilities), Seven-Eleven Japan, Ito-Yokado, and Seven & i Food Systems. Data for Consultation Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 for Employees Contacts received: 111 (up 7.8% from the previous fiscal year) By user category The number of contacts received increased by 7.8% from 103 in the Sexual harassment Work environment, Unknown Full-time previous fiscal year to 111. The number 5% human relations 1% employees 27% 13% has changed little from 113 recorded Other Other for the fiscal year ended February 28, 10% 2% Power abuse 2013. However, CSR training for the Suspected 25% Part-time staff fiscal year ending February 29, 2016 noncompliance Families of 82% 12% employees will be based on trends in contacts, Work, holiday, 3% such as an increase in the proportion Unrelated overtime, consulting evaluation concerning store managers. We will 18% 4% tailor training content to different targets, focusing on fostering consideration of diversity for all division managers, the Corporate Action Guidelines for new recruits, and compliance for newly appointed managers and store managers. We will strive to improve the workplace environment through targeted education activities. 85 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Akachan Honpo Co., Ltd. Website：http://www.akachan.jp/csr/ Number of stores as of February 28, 2015: 99 Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Renew two hot-and-chilled-water generators ● Introduced LED lighting to 23 stores ○ ●Introduce LED lighting to a further 10 stores (planned savings of approx. 4.3 kl) (savings of approx. 903.3 kl) (planned savings of approx. 509.6 kl) ●Introduce LED lighting to a further 19 stores ●Renew the Head Office gas air conditioners (planned savings of approx. 420.8 kl) (replace 12 outdoor units, 102 indoor units for planned savings of approx. 20.7 kl) Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society ●Increase the plastic bag turndown rate to ●Increased the plastic bag turndown rate to × ●Increase the plastic bag turndown rate to between 9 to 10% 7.3% 8.0% Raising environmental awareness among employees ●Strengthen PR activities for the“Akachan ●Promoted eco-discounts by having store ○ ●Increase the number of reports on CSR Honpo ECO ACTION”to be conducted in staff communicate directly with customers initiatives in the company bulletin and at June. Aim for a higher eco-discount usage during environment month in June. Achieved meetings for store managers, in order to rate than other months, and to raise the an eco-discount rate of 8.1% for June raise awareness overall usage rate. ●Through cooperation with the Group, aim to ●Incorporated basic environmental training increase awareness by incorporating basic into new employee training environmental training into new employee training Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 CO2 emissions *1 *2 *3 t-CO2 20,037 20,650 20,612 CO2 emissions from store operations (per store) *2 *3 t-CO2 19,726(207) 20,140(217) 20,268(205) Electricity consumption in store operations *2 GWｈ 38 35 34 Water consumption in store operations *2 1,000㎥ 44 39 48 Plastic bag turndown rate ％ 4.0% 7.9% 7.3％ *1 CO2 emissions stemming from the use of energy in store operations and in headquarters operations. *2 The period of the calculations was April to March. *3 CO2 emissions were calculated according to the Seven & i Holdings Group-Wide CO2 Emissions Calculation Manual. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 86 Consumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 As a “customer consultation desk that operates uninterrupted throughout the year and Contacts received: 15,350 offers toll-free phone calls,” we listen to customer requests, opinions and inquiries, get (up 11.2% from the previous fiscal year’s level) alongside them and respond in a manner both fast and honest. The number of customer Business, other consultations has been increasing with the increase in the number of stores and customer 4.6% visits to stores. Since many of our customers are first-time users of our services, they have General inquiries numerous issues that they either don’t know or are uncertain about. In order to alleviate 65.4% such apprehensions on the part of customers even to the slightest degree, we take care to Customer care 2.7% respond as kindly as possible. Commencing from the fiscal year ended February 28, 2014, a new system has been introduced, and coordination between the customer consultation Service Products desk, the different departments of the company, and our various stores has become much 17.1% 10.2% smoother. Furthermore, once a week, the customer consultation desk provides store staff with information regarding customer requests and opinions, and how best to respond to such matters. Each week we share initiatives needed to address issues in customer feedback and strive to improve customer care. FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●In addition to plant inspections carried out ●In addition to inspections of all items carried ○ ●Revise standards for safety and functionality at the time of production, conduct pre-sale out at the plant, conducted sampling and strengthen quality control inspections of all products handled by inspections of all products handled by stores stores Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable ●Work hard to provide even more convenient ●In FY2015, store openings were in well△ ●Take safety measures on fixtures and breastfeeding and diaper-change spaces equipped centers, so we did not set up shelving such as promoting the removal of facilities corners and addition of safety guards Assuring appropriate information provision ●Conduct in-house training to ensure suitable ●The Grade A+ ratio increased only slightly, △ ●Improve the level of understanding through labeling, and work hard to further improve with no significant improvement trend seen adoption of Intranet-based testing and aim the Grade A+ evaluations ratio to achieve full scores on “labeling management” in audit evaluations Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) ●For the purpose of reducing the particularly ●In FY2015, we received 590 customer care △ ●In FY2016, aim to keep the number of high PPM value of new stores, place an and service complaints, or 31.0 PPM, a slight customer care and service complaints emphasis on education at new stores, and 1.0 PPM above the target 30 PPM. There is within 380 for the year, or an incidence rate aim to achieve a company-wide total of 30 still room for improvement and measures on of 20 PPM. To this end, repeatedly analyze PPM. education and service improvement are causes of complaints and conduct internal required communication and education to stem their occurrence * Parts Per Million (PPM): Calculated by dividing the number of complaints by the number of customers and multiplying by one million. Local Communities FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●All stores are to hold “Pre-Papa Night Tours” ●All stores now hold “Pre-Papa Night Tours” ○ ●Set up new in-store events related to on Wednesday evenings each week, the aim on Wednesday evenings each week pregnancy and childcare from a CSR being to dramatically increase the number perspective. Trial the events during FY2016. of events from the current pace of once a Have all stores conduct events in FY2017. month Providing support in times of disaster ●Respond to requests from regions where ●In 2014, concluded agreements to provide ○ ●Respond to any requests for support there are stores supplied in times of disaster with 7 municipal governments 87 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 Employee Related FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●Correspondence course participants: aim to ●Correspondence course participants: 156 ○ ●Correspondence course participants: target achieve 150 participants, and continue the (up 28% from the previous year) 100 improvements of 2013, as well as make There were many calls for additional courses * As a guide for FY2016 hold courses once in additions to the course in accordance with (on the Company’s policy for the fiscal year November to adjust course timing (As a company policy. or Company-wide initiatives), and we guide for FY2017, plan to hold courses in * Improve employee ability to respond to provided courses that were highly April and November) customers and strengthen the mindset (to interesting to employees collect trending information, to act and to initiate action). Assuring fair assessment and treatment of employees ●Revisions to realize more suitable ●Managed work time in units of one minute, △ ●Aim to increase “fulfillment” points in the management of working hours introduced planned work discretionary employee opinion survey ●Consider revision of the pension system labor system ●Revise treatment of part-time employees ●Shared information on internal and external trends, and company’s own wage levels Achieving a work-life balance ●Promote male employees taking childcare ●One male employee took childcare leave ○ ●Promote male employees taking childcare leave between October 2014 to April 2015 leave ●Appoint executives from among those ●Appointed five assistant store managers ●Expand application of short working hours employees involved in childcare from among those employees involved in for employees involved in childcare childcare during FY2015 Making use of diverse human resources ●Revise the treatment of expert employees ●Appointed expert employees as store △ ●Increase the number of part time leaders ●Utilize the skills of retired executives managers and promote their use ●Revise the working style of part-timers ●Nine employees aged 55 or over continued ●Improve the percentage of female managers (contractual status) to work as managing supervisors (Team leader or higher) 30% or higher ●Improve the percentage of female ●Appointed 48 part-time leaders ●Appoint executives from among those managers(Team leader or higher) 30% ●Percentage of female managers (Team employees involved in childcare leader or higher positions)：24.5％→28.9％ Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Work accidents: no more than 30 ●Work accidents: 23 ○ ●Maintain the target of no more than 30 despite the increase in stores Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 (as of the end of February 2015) (persons) Average length of service 13 years 13 years 13 years Full-time employees *1 869 (full-time employees) 6 months 5 months 6 months Male 478 Number of full-time employees who 67 （1, 37） 63 （2, 35） 139 （1, 110） took childcare leave *4 (males, part-time staff) Female 391 Number of full-time employees who 4 （0, 4） 6 （1, 3） 0 （0, 0） Part-time staff *2 1,869 took nursing leave *4 (males, part-time staff) Number of employees 2,738 Number of volunteer leave recipients No system No system No system (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of women in 21.4% 24.5% 26.1% New graduate employees hired 72 management positions *5 Mid-career employees hired 3 Percentage of employees with disabilities *6 1.90% 2.00% 1.98% Re-employment *3 3 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 39.6% 40.2% 39.1% *1 Data includes persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. employees *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one Frequency rate of workplace accidents 0.56 0.37 0.00 employee. Includes contractual employees Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.04 0.01 0.00 *3 Persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. *4 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new takers of leave) *5 The percentage of team leaders or higher positions, excluding executive officers. *6 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. Data for Consultation Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 for Employees Contacts received: 22 (down 8% from the previous fiscal year’s level) By user category Due to insufficient communication, there were many consultations received from Unrelated Full-time employees who felt they were subject to consulting employees 5% 9% power abuse. Throughout the company, we are repeatedly working to drive home Unclear due to Suspected anonymity to them the importance of communication. noncompliance Communication 50% Part-time staff 13% Furthermore, in continuing on in the fiscal 77% 36% year ending February 29, 2016, from new Families of Working employees graduates through to specialist employees, conditions 5% centering on the education department, 5% we are conducting compliance training in cooperation with staff who deal in fair trade, quality management, and legal affairs issues, and so forth. Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 88 Seven Bank, Ltd. Website: http://www.sevenbank.co.jp/corp/csr/ Number of ATMs installed as of February 28, 2015: 21,056 Reducing the Environmental Impact FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Continue and expand the grasping of ●Six Seven & i Holdings Group companies ○ ●Continue grasping and disclosing greenhouse gas emissions volumes (Scope 3 (including Seven Bank) calculated Scope 3 greenhouse gas emissions volumes (Scope 3 emissions) that the company indirectly emissions emissions) that the company indirectly discharges through the supply chain Disclosed emissions on the Ministry of discharges through the supply chain and Environment website Green Value Chain Platform Improving energy efficiency and introducing renewable energy ●Grasp how photocopying paper is used and ●Called for paperless meetings, double-sided ○ ●Promote the adoption of paperless reduce photocopying paper purchase printing, printing two pages to a sheet, and operations volumes and the volumes of paper used in other measures color photocopying ●Proceed with the replacement of ●Completed installation of 17,603 third△ ●Continue with replacement of conventional conventional ATMs with third-generation generation ATMs by the end of FY2015. ATMs with third-generation machines that machines that operate on about half the operate on about half the electricity electricity, bring the total number of thirdgeneration ATMs installed up to about 18,000 units by the end of 2014 Reducing waste and developing a recycling-oriented society ●Formulate green procurement guidelines ●Formulated green procurement guidelines ○ ●Promote recycling of previous-type ATMs Offering eco-friendly products ●Target ratio of the third-generation ATMs to ●Ratio of third-generation ATMs to the total: △ ●Target ratio of the third-generation ATMs to the total: 85% 83% the total: 95% Raising environmental awareness among employees ●Continue to actively participate in the ●15 employees participated as volunteers in ○ ●Continue to actively participate in Seven & i Group’s environmental volunteer activities three programs run by Seven & i Holdings, Holdingsʼ environmental volunteer activities the Forest Project, the Great East Japan Earthquake Reconstruction Assistance Project, and the Amamo Project ●Increase the number of participants in ●A total of 48 employees participated in the ○ ●Increase the number of participants in environmental volunteer activities by Bonolon’s Forest Environmental Activity environmental volunteer activities under conducting Seven Bank’s own programs Seven Bankʼs own programs Environmental Data Challenges Unit FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Volume of paper ordered for office automation equipment 1,000 sheets 7,565 7,762 6,410 Electricity used at the offices* MWh 1,182 1269 1,302 * Data was not available for some rental offices. Data includes staffed branches and directly managed ATMs. Consumer Challenges Data for Customer Response Services Description of contacts received by Customer Response Service by topic for the fiscal year ended February 28, 2015 Seven Bank takes the opinions and requests it receives from customers seriously and is Contacts received: 721,936 working to enhance and expand the following services based on the details of customer (up 2% from the previous fiscal year’s level) enquiries. (Breakdown: inquiries: 99.8%, opinions and requests 0.2%) At the customer center for overseas money transfers, we are able to respond to inquiries in Other nine different languages. 0.1% ATM call centers Customer center 52.0% 12.3% Telephone centers 35.6% 89 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Ensuring the quality and safety of products and services ●Confirm the BCP viability of mission critical ●Reviewed the Great East Japan Earthquake ○ ●Conduct periodic drills in-line with actual divisions based on an assumed breakdown and revise countermeasure headquarters practice and independent of scenario of capabilities in the metropolitan area check list ●Prepare for emergencies ●Conducted joint operation drills and ○ ●Continue holding BCP officers’ committee confirmed ability to continue mission critical meetings, and strengthen systems by operations in Osaka alone in the event of an improving on issues earthquake striking Tokyo ●Enhanced structure with a committee of BCP officers Making stores and facilities more customer-friendly and reliable ●Continue and broaden renewal of ATM ●Enlarged print on ATM transaction screens ○ ●Continue to promote ATM functions to meet screens to include the ATMs of other and statement slips, made explanations diverse needs financial institutions that cooperate in the easier to understand, and introduce ●Respond to adoption of IC for overseas card provision of services. Continue to promote animation to support ATM operation transactions and create interfaces in 12 the improvement of ATMs to realize ●Prepared transaction screens and sound languages machines that both the elderly and the effects with a Japanese flavor for inexperienced also find easy to use transactions with overseas-issued cards, to provide a feeling of hospitality to overseas visitors Responding sincerely to customer opinions (organization) ●Continue to look into CS index measures ●Provided analysis reports of customer ○ ●Continue to look into CS index measures opinions to all employees ●Continued to implement improvements inspired by customer opinions Local Communities FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting young parents and the elderly ●Continue to promote story-telling activities ●Held “Bonolon story-telling events” at ○ ●Continue to promote story-telling activities via the sponsorship for “Bonolon, Warrior of children’s centers and staffed Seven Bank via the sponsorship for “Bonolon, Warrior of the Forest” branches, etc. the Forest” ●Continue donations of picture books ●Donated picture books to children’s centers ○ ●Continue donations of picture books as a result of issuing 30,822 Bonolon cash cards (donations made to 2,881 locations） ●Strengthen cooperation with children’s ●Click donations in support of Shimoarisu ○ ●Strengthen cooperation with children’s centers Children’s Center in Sumita Town Hall, centers Iwate: \395,271 Assisting in local community revitalization ●Promote employee participation in volunteer ●Nine cases of employees obtaining ○ ●Promote employee participation in volunteer opportunities volunteer leave opportunities ●A total of 16 employees participated in five volunteer activities organized by the Chiyoda Business Volunteer Association (a group comprised of businesses located in Chiyoda City, where the Head Office of Seven Bank is located) Implementing crime prevention measures for local communities ●By continuing to gather and utilize ●Appropriately prevented transactions with ○ ●Continue to gather and utilize information on information on anti-social forces, certain anti-social social forces by continuing to anti-social forces to prevent transactions transactions will continue to be prevented gather and utilize information on them with them ●Survey and analyze evolving and diversifying ●Strengthened information analysis related to ○ ●Survey and analyze evolving and diversifying financial crimes, and respond to such financial crimes financial crimes, and respond to such matters promptly matters promptly ●Strengthen prevention measures through ●Strengthened information links with multiple ○ ● Strengthen the system of links with cooperation with investigating authorities, institutions and cooperated with over investigating institutions and alliance etc. 80,000 cases in response to requests from partners, etc. investigating institutions Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 90 Employee Related FY2015 Targets/Results and FY2016 Targets ○: Achieved △: Almost achieved ×: Far from achieved Challenges FY2015 Targets and Plans FY2015 Results and Outcomes Evaluation FY2016 Targets Supporting development of employee abilities ●Strengthen support of language learning ●Employees who took language acquisition ○ ●Strengthen self-education support classes: 34 employees; employees who sat (language, business, IT skills) a TOEIC examination: 45 employees ●Develop the next generation of leaders ●Foster next-generation leaders, female ●Employees dispatched overseas on short○ managers term study: 3 employees ●Create awareness within the company ●Conducted education and training of next○ about the objectives and results of diversity generation leaders promotion Management training: 19 employees Management training for women: 4 employees Young leadership training: 30 employees ●Participants in diversity seminars held by Seven & i Holdings: 15 employees Achieving a work-life balance ●Enhance work-life balance with respect to ●Number of childcare leave recipients：12 ○ ●Support promotion of work-life balance matters of childcare and nursing employees ●Consider a work-at-home system ○ ●Establish home working system ●Enhance the follow-up of childcare leave recipients who have returned to the ●Held back-to-work orientation for ○ ●Establish childcare leave system workplace employees returning to work after childcare Enhance the follow-up of childcare leave leave recipients who have returned to the workplace Making use of diverse human resources ●Continue conducting nursing care training ●Held nursing training at two locations ○ ●Continue conducting nursing care training ●Continue measures to maintain the ●Percentage of employees with disabilities: ○ ●Continue measures to maintain the percentage of employees with disabilities 2.06% percentage of employees with disabilities required by law (As of March 31, 2015) required by law ●Create a foundation for promoting diversity Assuring consideration for worker health and safety ●Continue to ensure that employees take ●Percentage of paid holidays taken: 80.1% ○ ●Continue to ensure that employees take paid leave paid leave ●Devise measures to ensure that employees ●Dedicated two separate weeks to ○ ●Devise measures to ensure that employees will leave the office on time during the encouraging employees to leave the office will leave the office on time during the targeted weeks on time (expanded the initiative to 2 months targeted periods over summer time) Group Personnel Data Breakdown of number of employees FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 (as of the end of February 2015) (persons) Average length of service (full-time 5 years 6 years 7 years Full-time employees *1 386 employees)*4 7 months 2 months 0 months Male 310 Number of full-time employees who took 10（2, 0） 7（0, 0） 12 （1, 2） childcare leave *5 (males, part-time staff) Female 76 Number of full-time employees who took 0 （0, 0） 0（0, 0） 0 （0, 0） Part-time staff *2 104 nursing leave *5 (males, part-time staff) Number of employees 490 Number of volunteer leave recipients No system 3 9 （9 cases） (full-time employees + part-time staff) Percentage of women in management 8.0% 10.3% 9.9% New graduate employees hired 7 positions *6 Mid-career employees hired 8 Percentage of employees with disabilities *7 2.29% 2.04% 2.06% Re-employment *3 7 Percentage of paid holidays taken by full-time 82.6% 78.2% 82.7% *1 Data includes persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. employees *2 Monthly average number, with 8 hours/day counted as one Frequency rate of workplace accidents 0.00 0.00 0.00 employee. Includes contractual employees. Severity rate of workplace accidents 0.00 0.00 0.00 *3 Persons reemployed after mandatory retirement. *4 The company was established in 2001 Number of employee consultations 0件 0件 1件 *5 Persons who took such leave in the applicable years (takers continuing leave from the previous year + new takers of leave) *6 The percentage of team leaders or higher positions, excluding executive officers. *7 The rate for the fiscal year is the rate as of June 1 of the following fiscal year. 91 Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. CSR Report 2015 CSR Department 8-8, Nibancho, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 102-8452, Japan TEL. 03-6238-2448 http://www.7andi.com/en/
