Prevention of major fires is extremely important in industrial business and agriculture. It can completely prevent a fire from breaking out altogether or from developing into a disaster. 52227-2015-UK Photo: Knud Højgaard CSR REPORT 2015 2 Contents Preface Responsible investment Topdanmark in brief Business management Main stakeholders and values Employee relations CSR is business-driven Relations and dialogue Customer relations Social accounting Loss prevention and limitation About the report Preface It is a pleasure to present Topdanmark's the UN Global Compact principles and opportunities CSR report, which describes our work with for promoting both the principles and value creation in Topdanmark. CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) in 2015 and the results we have achieved. This year has been characterised by many activities and good results. The most important of these: For Topdanmark, CSR goes hand in hand with the core business. Our products and services ensure }} Continued roll-out of the new customer financial and social security for our customers perspective from outside and in , focusing when damage has occurred or their working life on providing good customer experiences. has ended, and in this way, a positive contribution is It is gratifying that the share of so-called made to Danish society as a whole. ambassador customers has improved from 44.5% to 46.0% We also work with loss prevention and limitation, }} There has been satisfactory development which again benefits our customers, Topdanmark in the loss prevention area, for example: and the society of which we are a part, for example, better advice on fires, introduction of digital in connection with rainstorms and storms. In this information to fur breeders and the holding CSR report, prevention of fire damage in listed of a health seminar buildings is treated as a separate theme. }} In the investment area, no investments have CSR for us means looking after the interests of conflicted with the principles of the Global our three main stakeholders: our customers, our Compact employees and our shareholders. Our customers }} A job satisfaction survey has been conducted, should feel well-helped, our employees motivated which shows high job satisfaction among and competent to provide the best service to our Topdanmark's employees customers, and our shareholders receive the most }} In the climate area, the solar cell system has competitive returns possible. produced just under15% of our electricity for the head office in Ballerup, Copenhagen, and Another contributor to a sustainable development we plan to double the number of solar cells in of society has been Topdanmark’s involvement 2016 since 2010 in The UN Global Compact. We are continuously working to integrate the Global I hope you enjoy reading Compact’s ten principles concerning employee and the CSR report! human rights, environment and anti-corruption in our business. Yours sincerely, Innovatively, the 2015 report contains a list of those risks and opportunities which are considered important, in relation to Topdanmark's overall Christian Sagild, CEO business activities. They are risks of not meeting  3 Topdanmark in brief Topdanmark's principal task is to help those customers who have shown confidence in us by letting us manage their insurance policies or pension schemes. We strive to give our customers the feeling that they are in good hands, well-helped and assured when they need it. Our products and advice help when, for Customers and market share example: Topdanmark has three business sectors in non-life insurance, and many people have }} Accidents occur in the customers’ spare chosen to be insured with us: time or when they are travelling }} Active work life ends }} Personal customers: more than one million customers }} Health fails, or prevention is needed }} Corporate customers: more than 60,000 }} The house is damaged by fire or the car is businesses stolen }} Agricultural customers: every second farm The policy covers businesses and farms when, for example: Topdanmark is the second largest Danish non-life insurance company with a market share of just under 18%. }} Employees have an accident }} A storehouse is flooded Topdanmark has two business sectors in life }} Systems are attacked by hackers insurance and pension fund business: }} Agricultural buildings are damaged by }} Personal customers heavy storm }} Corporate customers }} The harvest burns due to machine fires Topdanmark is the sixth largest life insurance Facts about Topdanmark company in Denmark and has a market share }} Nationwide, Danish non-life and life of about 6%. insurance company }} 2,700 employees }} Turnover: around DKK 14m annually }} Head office in Ballerup, Copenhagen }} Listed on the stock exchange since 1985 }} Most important brands: en del af Topdanmark 4 Main stakeholders and values Topdanmark has three main stakeholder groups: customers, employees and shareholders, all of whom have certain expectations of us as a company. The customer should feel well-helped Topdanmark exists to cover our customers’ Customers insurance and pension requirements, so that Heard we can help them when damage occurs or Overview their active working life ends. Our services, Confidence therefore, affect our customers’ financial and social security, and this gives us a great responsibility. We take this responsibility very seriously. Values Contact with our customers is central to Professional our daily work, and we want them to feel Value creating ”well-helped”. Customers should feel that Responsible they are heard, that they can have confidence in us, and that they have a clear view of Employees Shareholders their situation in their contact with us, e.g. in Competent Value creating regard to a claim. Motivated Transparency Trust Trustworthy Employees must be competent Our employees are the most important resource for giving customers optimal service. It is essential, therefore, that the employees are competent to receive our customers. We want employees to be motivated to do their very best in relation to our customers. We also want cooperation between employees and Values management to be characterized by So that we can live up to the expectations mutual trust. of these three stakeholder groups, Topdanmark has defined three values which are central in all our work: Shareholders must see value for }} We are professional, i.e. serious, their money competent and knowledgeable As Topdanmark is a public limited company, our shareholders play a vital }} We create value by getting results role in our business. It is essential that and placing focus on continuous our shareholders regard Topdanmark as improvement a value-creating company that delivers }} We are responsible, i.e. we behave a long-term, competitive and stable professionally and we keep our word return. It is equally important that our shareholders perceive Topdanmark as a transparent and trustworthy company, Read Read more about Topdanmark, e.g. more which is approachable and open in regard our management group, Board of to all necessary information. Directors and financial reports  5 CSR is business-driven Topdanmark’s work with CSR is business-driven, and its goal is to support our business goals and strategies. We see our CSR work as a discipline which can help to enhance our customers’, employees’ and shareholders’ experiences of Topdanmark as a professional, value-creating and responsible non-life and life insurance company. At the same time, our CSR initiatives help to contribute to a sustainable development of Danish society. CSR is also business responsibility How we work with CSR Topdanmark's core business is by nature The CSR work at Topdanmark includes the beneficial to society. The company's preparation and implementation of relevant products, services and advice ensure policies and specific initiatives decided on the financial and social security for customers basis of, among other factors: when damage has occurred or their working life has ended. At the same time, }} Risks. It is regularly identified in which Topdanmark also contributes to loss areas Topdanmark risks not upholding the prevention and limitation of the consequence UN Global Compact principles, thus risking of injuries and accidents suffered by also financial losses and loss of reputation. customers. Therefore, we believe that we show social responsibility by running a }} Opportunities. It is regularly identified how good, stable business for the benefit of both Topdanmark can increase the financial customers, 2 2 employees, shareholders and and social value for customers, employees society. and / or shareholders while contributing to promoting the ten principles and sustainable development in society. International principles for sustainability On page 6 and 7 there is an overview of the Topdanmark has joined Global Compact, risks and opportunities which Topdanmark the UN's initiative for private businesses considers most important, in relation to and organisations. Global Compact is ten Topdanmark's overall activities. principles concerning environment, labour rights, human rights and anti-corruption. In 2016, we will work on creating an We work continually to integrate the ten overview of the risks and opportunities we principles in our business by being aware of consider as critical for the coming years. the risks of violating the principles and the opportunities of for promoting them. 6 * When referring to Global Compact principles, principle 1 and 2 or the specific human rights will appear in brackets. Business Activities Opportunities Risks Global Compact-principles* Customer Financial and social security Claims handling errors 2 (The right to social security) relations Lack of clarity Fair and straightforward regarding insurance complaints recourse and conditions process Incorrect advice and product sale Loss Limit the number and extent 7,8 and 9 prevention of injuries to persons, and and limitation damage to buildings and 2 (The right to work and The environment — right to physical and mental health) Adaptation to climate change Job retention 7, 8 and 9 Responsible Ensure good and stable Infringement of Global All investments returns for pension customers Compact principles Internal factors Activities Opportunities Risks Global Compact-principles* Employee Wellbeing Lack of wellbeing 1 and 2 (The right to work and relations Stress the right to physical and mental Health health) Opportunities for development Management Inclusion and diversity Discrimination 1, 2 and 6 (The right to levels and non-discrimination) Advancing women to Rejection of diversity Board of management and Board of Directors Directors level Building Energy optimizing and CO2 emissions 7,8 and 9 operating environment-friendly management technology External Factors Activities Opportunities Risks Global Compact-principles* Supplier Cooperation in connection Events occurring within All cooperation with improving customer the supplier chain service which are incompatible with the Global Compact Principles Local Support for young people 1 and 2 (The right to education) — communities and education Financial Contribution to education 1 and 2 (The right to education) — sector within the financial sector Society Support of humanitarian 1 and 2 (Among other things, organisations and campaigns — the right to physical and mental health) Direct and indirect taxes paid to the Danish state — —  7 Contents of the CSR The contents of the report reflect the themes = improvement in relation to the 2014 described in the outline on page 6 and 7. result Each section of the report contains a = no change in relation to the 2014 result statement of goals for the individual areas, activities carried out in 2015, the results for = deterioration in relation to the 2014 the year and an assessment of the results in result relation to 2014. Where relevant, a ”traffic light” measurement is given: In addition, there is a description of plans for 2016, again where it is relevant. Read Read a résumé of CSR goals and the more year’s results The Global Compact principles A business supporting UN’s Global Compact should: 1 support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 3 uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Human rights 4 support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5 support effective abolition of child labour 6 eliminate the discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 7 support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Environment 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti10 work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery corruption Read Read more about UN more Global Compact 8 Customer relations The contact with customers is the Clear goals main focus of Topdanmark's daily Topdanmark regularly evaluates if there has work. We receive around 2.3m been satisfactory development in working with customer satisfaction, via, for example telephone calls and handle around around 60,000 annual customer interviews. 300,000 claims annually. Topdanmark has set explicit goals for customer satisfaction and aims to achieve: Topdanmark has high ambitions for customer service, and all customers should }} An increase in the number of ambassador feel well-helped. Therefore, at all points customers , i.e. customers who are so of contact with our customer, we think satisfied with Topdanmark that they would outside-in . This means that our employees like to recommend us to other people focus on the customer's need for information and services, for example, in a claims }} A decline in the number of customers situation. who are dissatisfied with Topdanmark's services Core business contributes to social }} An increase in the annual EPSI survey* and financial security Topdanmark's focus on customers' *EPSI survey is an analysis of personal experience is key in terms of CSR because customers’ satisfaction with their insurance our products and services contribute to the company. The EPSI analysis institute carries customer's social and financial security. out 5,000 customer interviews within a Accordingly, through our business, we also deﬁned period. contribute positively to social and financial stability in the Danish welfare society. See the results for 2015 on page 12 See the goal for customer complaints on We have a great responsibility page 13. The nature of our core business gives us great responsibility – and we take it seriously. At the same time, we are aware of the risks related to the business, for example: }} Claims handling errors A }} Uncertainty of insurance conditions }} Incorrect advice and product sales To minimise these risks and improve customer value, we constantly work to develop and improve customer services, for example by ensuring easily understood product information, ensuring correct cover based on the customer's requirements, needs and risk, ensuring fair and good claims handling and easy access to a fair complaints process See concrete examples of improvements and customer-oriented initiatives implemented in 2015, page 10 complaints  9 Customer contact and channels of communication e-Boks News Website Letters & Chat Customer in the centre Claim Customer Arrangements situation File Change in Loss Channels of conditions prevention communication Social NetMeetings Media Customer Customer Purchase interview E-mail contact situation Personal & Telephone & Text Letters messaging Product Questions advice about price Customer complaints e-Boks News Website Letters & Chat Customer rrangements File Channels of communication Social NetMeetings Media E-mail Personal & Telephone & Text Letters messaging 1 10 Examples of customer-oriented initiatives in 2015 New customer perspective makes it customer market, as the bonus for sales was easier to be a customer removed. The form of the previous salary In 2015, the key topic in Topdanmark was structure granting the opportunity to receive the continued roll-out of a new customer a bonus for sales, did not support good perspective, which was initiated in 2013. The customer service for all customers. new customer perspective is a significant change in our way of handling customer It is the goal for Topdanmark's sales contact. The overall goal of the change is to employees to ensure that each customer give customers an even better experience is granted correct cover in relation to the than previously when providing help and customer's own requirements and risk. The advice. new customer perspective provides more time for fully covering the customer's needs With this new perspective, we think outside and questions than previously. It is possible in at all levels of the organisation. The to provide a thorough view of the cover of goal is to identify, wherever possible, all the the products and other terms enabling the customer's concrete needs and questions customer to make the right decision on the in the first interview in order that the purchase of a product. This dialogue also customers get a full view of the situation and creates much better customer relations for avoids spending unnecessary time. Topdanmark. Improved control in claims situations Customers of the future will be Particularly after having suffered damage, digital the customer needs uncomplicated and Many of Topdanmark's customers prefer effective customer service. In this situation it digital solutions, for example, in a claims is necessary to quickly gain understanding of situation, rather than being dependent on the actual cover and the subsequent process. telephone contact. Therefore, we work To meet this need even more effectively, a continually to develop relevant digital number of internal processes was changed in platforms. In 2015, for example, an extended 2015. chat function was implemented to ensure that customers are helped by a customer Additionally, a digital solution was advisor if they notify claims digitally. Various implemented, which has made the handling self-service solutions were also implemented, of building claims more efficient. One result which, for example, offered customers of the new solution is that the customer the opportunity to choose new insurance is given access to a customer website, conditions online to get a new price for their which provides an overall impression of the motor-bike policy. claim, the time perspective and the players involved. Moreover, the solution allows all the parties to communicate with each other Facts about the specific claim, which creates better }} Approximately 8 out of 10 of progress than previously. Topdanmark’s private customers are registered in e-Boks and receive New salary structure has improved documents via this digital solution the purchase process for customers To support the new focus on good customer }} 2.6m documents were sent out via service, the sales employees' salary structure e-Boks, a rise of 8% in relation to was changed in 2015 in the personal 2014  11 Photo: Ulrik Jantzen We live from good customer experiences and learn from our Facts mistakes }} The bi-annual Aalund-survey ”My compliments for the way my claim was compares Danish pension handled. The response was exceptionally companies with the help of quick. I called in to notify my claim at three parameters: customer about 9.30. Spoke to a very friendly and satisfaction, image and loyalty. understanding employee... and by 1 p.m. both the claims service and the craftsmen }} The survey of 2015 puts were on my doorstep. I am SO grateful for Topdanmark in first place in the help I received – difficult for me to cope regard to customer satisfaction, with the situation otherwise.” and we improved in connection with the other parameters. It’s customer experiences like these Topdanmark wants to provide. But in a few cases, mistakes can happen while taking care of our customers we are the first to admit it. In the event of mistakes, internal processes and guidelines are adjusted. Also read about customer complaints on page 13. 12 Customer surveys: activities and results Goals Activities in 2015 Results for 2015 Assessment of 2015 Internal customer Implementation 46.0% Increase of 1.5 surveys: Increase of new customer percentage points in the number perspective in all of ambassador areas of business customers Digital solution for Internal customer 6.2% No change the improvement of surveys: Fall (2014: 6.2%) property damage in the number handling of dissatisfied customers New salary structure ensuring better 75.9 Increase of 0.4 purchase situations (2014: 75.5) percentage points Increase in EPSI Enhanced chat surveys function and establishment of self-service solutions Photo: Claus Boesen/MediaPress Read See what Bjørn Verwohlt, marketing more director, says about the year result in connection with customer surveys Customer surveys: Results for 2011 to 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Ambassador customers 37.0 39.0 43.3 44.5 46.0 in percent Dissatisfied customers 7.7 6.8 6.0 6.2 6.2 – in percent EPSI-survey 73.7 75.7 78.7 75.5 75.9 Status on social media 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total customer score on Trustpilot — — — 5.6 8.8 9.1 Topdanmark (0 to 10) Overall customer score on Trustpilot — Danske — — 4.5 9.1 9.3 Forsikring (0 to 10)  13 Customer complaints are taken seriously Topdanmark handles around 300,000 claims If the customer’s complaint is upheld by the annually, and it is inevitable that we receive Board, as a rule Topdanmark abides by the customer complaints about the compensation or decision. Only in exceptional cases, where we service they have received. Typically, insurance disagree in principle with the Board’s decision, cover is bought before it is used, and in certain will we assess whether or not to accept the cases the compensation or the help offered in a decision. claim do not meet the customer’s expectations. Read Read about how Topdanmark makes use Topdanmark is aware that customer complaints more of mediation as an alternative to litigation may reflect our inability to communicate the terms and conditions on which our policies are based. Customer complaints are used constructively to improve product information and processes for claims handling in order to Facts minimise errors. And we ensure that customers }} The number of complaints referred to the receive information about complaint recourse, Insurance Complaints Board is less than and a transparent and fair complaint process. 1 one-thousandth of the total number of claims. Appeal possibilities }} In 2015, Topdanmark accepted all If, in private insurance cases, there is still decisions made by the Insurance disagreement after a claim has been decided, Complaints Board, while in 2014 one the customer is entitled to appeal against the decision was contested. decision before the Insurance Complaints Board. Customer complaints: activities and results Activities in Result for Assessment of Goal 2015 2015 2015 Topdanmark’s goal Assessment of customer and See table is to not lose cases Insurance Complaints Board below brought before the cases with a view to improving Insurance Complaints processes, communication and Board conditions Statistics for Insurance Complaints Board decisions * 2011 2012 2013 2014** 2015 Total number of decisions 242 232 152 159 190 Total number of decisions 183 187 119 129 154 in Topdanmark’s favour Percentage 76 81 78 81 81 Total number of decisions against or partially against 59 45 33 30 36 Topdanmark * The figures apply to Topdanmark Forsikring, Topdanmark Livsforsikring and Danske Forsikring. The figures include decisions regarding both life and non-life business, but not rulings the Appeals Board has not considered. Source: www.ankeforsikring.dk ** Note: the figures for 2014 have been corrected in relation to those which appeared in the CSR report of 2014, in that these figures only covered the period 1 January 2014 up to and including 21 October 2014 14 Loss prevention and limitation Customers are financially secured in many different situations with Topdanmark’s life and non-life products, e.g. accident, fire, theft and illness. However, loss and illness often have greater impact and consequences than just financial, for the customer, Topdanmark and society as a whole. For this reason, Topdanmark works with loss prevention and limitation. Customer perspective Societal perspective Topdanmark’s loss prevention and limitation Topdanmark’s work with loss prevention and work can benefit the customer in many limitation is meaningful for society because it different situations, e.g. helps to: }} Adapting to climate change. We help to }} solve societal challenges arising from limit rainstorm damage to residential and climate change, such as the increase in the non-residential properties number of rainstorms and floods. This is done by, among other things, contributing }} Personal injury and illness. We help to to local authority adaptation to climate prevent illness, injury and accident which change in cooperation with our trade occur in the workplace or in free-time. body, Forsikring og Pension (Insurance Post-event, we contribute to limitation of and Pension) the consequences so that the customer is able to remain at work. Read more on }} support the welfare state by reducing page 20 the number of sick days and people on transfer incomes. Read more on 20 }} Major fire. Major fire is a real threat to business for companies and in agriculture. We help to prevent fire, keep businesses Business perspective running and keep people and livestock free For Topdanmark loss prevention and from injury. Read more on page 15 to 17 limitation also has a positive effect because it contributes to: }} Theft. We help customers to feel safe in their own homes and companies to avoid down-time due to theft and vandalism }} creating good customer experiences and, with this, loyal customers }} reducing claims settlements, and this helps to keep premiums down  15 Prevention contributes to a secure future for business Corporate customers with Topdanmark }} special attention given to buildings benefit from our loss prevention and limitation containing especially flammable materials work because it contributes to safe and stable such as PUR (polyurethane), and listed operations. Our loss prevention consulting buildings is based on the specific requirements of the }} focus on advice for customers who have customer. We also act quickly to deal with any experienced serious losses due to fire, with loss patterns we identify. At the same time, a view to improving safety and production we work continually on making prevention a area layout part of all processes and interfaces with the customer, e.g. via business blogs and personal advice given during customer calls. Topdanmark is contributing to the preservation of listed buildings Read See Topdanmark’s blog, which gives Topdanmark believes that listed buildings more loss prevention advice specifically for are a part of our Danish cultural heritage, companies (in Danish) and that is an excellent reason to prevent damage to these buildings. That is why we have developed a special expertise in this area. Listed buildings need to be handled with care, especially in regard to the prevention of fires which could permanently damage a part of our cultural heritage. Topdanmark’s engineers give customers valuable advice on fire prevention in regard to, e.g. wooden floor structures, wooden roof structures, old electrical installations and fire-fighting conditions etc. In 2015, we have strived to make our consulting services even better in relation to listed buildings by, for example, better internal knowledge-sharing and training of our sales representatives. SIn-depth knowledge of fire damage prevention Over the years, corporate and industrial Topdanmark contributes to businesses have been struck by major fires, national fire strategy e.g. canteens, kitchens and auto-mechanics. In December 2015, Denmark In workplace kitchens, deep fat fryers are implemented a national fire prevention a more and more frequent cause of major strategy which is intended to reduce the damage. As a result, we have during 2015 number of fire deaths and to minimise given our attention to fire damage via, for job losses. Topdanmark has contributed example: actively to the strategy and our work with prevention supports the initiatives }} improved information material about described in the strategy. prevention of fire and optimal fire-fighting for limiting damage }} better skills among insurance salesmen for providing fire prevention information and advice to all customer types 16 Prevention among businesses: activities and results Assessment of Goal Activities in 2015 Results for 2015 2015 Preparation of new Improved customer Good progress in information material information about loss prevention work prevention of fire, with commercial and Development of work water damage and industrial customers procedures and work crime descriptions Customers are very Develop work Applicable to e.g. satisfied with advice on targeted loss Project days auto refinishing given and make use prevention and concerning fire workshops, listed of it consulting prevention for sales buildings and representatives buildings containing flammable materials Development of business blog with, Better e.g. video spots communication in connection with prevention Plans for 2016 Apart from the current prevention initiatives, assessment of fire, water damage, crime in 2016 more attention will be given etc. In this connection, the customer will be to workplace accidents and injuries in given advice on how employee safety can be companies. Among other things, this means improved in order to prevent accidents. that certain new customers will receive a visit from a Topdanmark engineer who will review the workplace in relation to the normal Photo: Topdanmark In 2015, corporate insurance sales representatives attended a course in fire prevention and fire-fighting, with a view to giving advice to customers.  17 Kim Benhk, Topdanmark industrial engineer and ”fire” specialist. Photo: Topdanmark See what Kim Benhk, Topdanmark industrial engineer and ”fire” specialist says about his experiences in his work with prevention “I have a Master’s degree in Fire Science It feels good to assist in protecting from DTU. I am also a qualified fireman and businesses. And at the same time, I’m have worked as an emergency manager. contributing to society as a whole by helping to prevent loss of jobs. At Topdanmark, I work as an advisor to customers in connection with prevention I have worked quite a lot with prevention of of fire damage. It’s an exciting and damage to listed buildings, which require challenging job because there are a lot of special care and attention. Listed buildings new developments all the time. I use my have their own special history, which is experience as a fireman every time I visit a interesting to learn about. It adds an extra customer. dimension to my job.” “I have worked quite a lot with prevention of damage to listed buildings, which require special care and attention. „ Prevention of major fires is very important to businesses. It can help to prevent a fire breaking out altogether or it can help to stop a fire from becoming a disaster. 18 Safety in farming is the way forward Topdanmark’s experience is that loss prevention is of great benefit to farmers. It makes life safer for both people and animals on the farm, and it ensures stable operations. We have therefore developed a concept, Safe Farm, which has put together a range of relevant initiatives that farmers can utilise to prevent loss from fire, water damage, theft etc. Top Farm is prevention made real Worm. Topfarm.dk is also used by our sales All of the elements Safe Farm comprises are representatives as part of their dialogue with installed on two farms. We call them Top and advice to our customers. Farm. Our customers can visit Top Farm and see how loss prevention functions in Individually tailored advice about loss practice. Top Farms are also used by our prevention sales representatives and business for loss The new customer perspective, where prevention training. the thinking is ”outside in” and where the customer is the centre of attention (see page A digital journey to safe farming 8) has firmly established itself in relation In order to make it even easier for our to our work with loss prevention and our customers and others with an interest in agricultural customers. loss prevention, we have in 2014 launched a digital version of Top Farm. The digital In 2015, we have worked on the version presents a description of all the development of a new concept known as safety initiatives featured on Top Farm – Your Farm. The concept is that our sales with a lively narrative by farm-owner Søren representative visits our customer and Bak Andersen and agronomist Svend Anker proposes loss prevention initiatives, both Prevention of major fires is extremely important in agriculture. It can completely prevent a fire from breaking out altogether or from developing into a disaster. Photo: Knud Højgaard  19 minor and major – with the individual farm industry. On topfarm.dk, two breeders talk and the individual farmer’s requirements about the value of loss prevention, with fur and interests in mind. The concept has farmers and furriers as their target audience. been tried out with great success among a small number of our customers, and we Read will therefore roll it out to other customer more Visit topgården.dk (in Danish) segments in 2016. Read Safety for fur farmers via digital Top more Visit topfarm.dk (in Danish) Farm Fur farmers and furriers need special loss prevention advice because of the industry’s Plans for 2016 special building types, and the greater We will continue to work with the integration risk of theft of furs and the animal stock of loss prevention in the agricultural sector, not to mention the risk of vandalism. In for example by rolling out the ”Your Farm” 2015 therefore, and in cooperation with concept and more initiatives connected with Kopenhagen Fur, we launched the site, the digital communication of loss prevention. topfarm.dk, which is tailor-made for this Loss prevention in farming: activities and results Goal Activities in 2015 Result for 2015 Assessment of 2015 Develop loss Setting up of Improved advice Interest in Safe Farm prevention work via digital site for loss for customers in concept is present Safe Farm concept prevention in fur connection with in the industry, and farming, topfarm.dk loss prevention customers are generally etc. very satisfied with Improved advice received Completion of Your communication Farm concept and both digital and Topdanmark testing among customer visits Agriculture’s goal is selected customer to be even better at segment* Implemented showing farmers that targeted Top Farm loss prevention has Active use of the visits for training many advantages two Top Farms and and inspiration topgården.dk Insurance covers financial loss, but Test of sensor loss can often have technology in consequences other connection with loss than financial, e.g. loss prevention of irreplaceable assets * Note: In the CSR-report 2014 this concept was described as the ’origin analysis’ 20 Job retention For those who are affected by a serious illness or injury, one consequence can be loss Facts of contact with the job market and even the Individually tailored help is available worst case scenario of having to take early to customers who are covered by the retirement due to disability. following insurance policies: With an effective and individual-specific }} Loss of earning capacity response in connection with claims handling, Topdanmark gives claimants a better }} Workers’ compensation opportunity to get back to work instead }} Liability of ”just” receiving an insurance payment and/or having to accept disability pension. This benefits the customers, society and An individually tailored programme is Topdanmark. only implemented if the case worker assesses that it is relevant from all perspectives. The individually tailored Individually tailored help programme is, therefore, not something The key element in our response is a the customer is automatically entitled to. flexible and individually tailored programme based on the individual customer’s current situation and challenges. Our response can be, for example, to gather and coordinate links between all involved parties, a Read Follow this link for an example of a specific program of treatment or help to more customer we helped to get back into find a suitable job. We make a priority of the job market responding as quickly as possible, as this gives the customer a better chance to stay in the job market. Statistic: individually tailored programme Total number of completed Percentage of implemented customer cases in which individually tailored an individually tailored programmes in relation to programme was implemented the total number of customer cases 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Loss of earning 117 385 136 33% 34% 45% capacity insurance* Workers Compensation & 74 139 157 <3% <3% <3% Liability insurance** * 384 current cases at 31.12.2015 in which individually tailored programmes have been implemented ** 146 current cases at 31.12.2015 in which individually tailored programmes have been implemented As the table indicates, individually tailored This is because there are far more cases in programmes are implemented more often connection with this insurance type, where in connection with Loss of earning capacity an extra response is relevant. than the other two types of insurance.  21 Seminar on the importance of rest and recovery a representative from a company which had successfully worked with ”recovery” among its employees: }} Eskild Ebbesen, sports physiologist and member of the ”Golden Four” rowing team, spoke about the importance of rest and Photo: Topdanmark recovery }} Bobby Zachariae, professor in psychology, spoke about the importance of sleep for our physical and mental health }} Jeanette Hassel, HR Director at Dansk Standard, gave concrete examples of how they have incorporated rest and recovery According to Topdanmark’s Chief of Health, ideas in their healthcare work, e.g. a Pia Bay, ”rest and recovery” is an overlooked specially designed recovery room yet important factor in healthcare work in businesses. With this in mind, our corporate Plans for 2016 customers in Topdanmark Life Insurance were Health seminars are a good way for invited to a healthcare seminar about rest and Topdanmark Life Insurance to be in contact recovery in 2015. with customers, and to communicate knowledge about and inspiration for how one The key speakers at the seminar were two of can work with prevention. Therefore, another the country’s leading experts in the area, and health seminar will be arranged in 2016. Photo: Colourbox 22 Responsible investment As part of Topdanmark’s business we invest, for example, insurance reserves and pension customers’ savings, until the funds are paid in the form of compensation, pension payments and the like. Topdanmark wishes to attain the biggest responsible for implementing the policy and possible return on investments in relation to continually monitoring and ensuring that risk, but we also wish to ensure that value investments fulfill the principles of our SRI creation is responsible and not in violation (Socially Responsible Investment). of the internationally recognised standards and principles or conventions adopted by Guidelines for investment in Denmark. government bonds Based on the guidelines for investment in Global Compact provides the government bonds drawn up by The Council framework for Corporate Social Responsibility, a part of As a means to ensuring the above, The Danish Business Authority, Topdanmark Topdanmark has joined the UN’s Global has in 2015 established its own set of Compact, which consists of 10 principles guidelines for this area. They are as follows: concerning human rights, workers’ rights, Topdanmark Asset Management must not environment and corruption. These principles deal in securities which are issued directly or provide the framework for responsible indirectly by a state which is not a member investment. This means that the principles of OECD or has not ratified the ICC Statute* are, in practice, an integrated part of – unless written permission has been given investment policies. beforehand by Topdanmark’s Executive Board. The Board of Topdanmark Asset Management has the chief responsibility for this policy, *Statute of the International Criminal Court while Topdanmark Asset Management is Topdanmark has invested in the large residential building project, Havneholm in Århus. Safety on the construction site has had high priority. Photo: havneholmen-aarhus.dk  23 Topdanmark Asset Management is responsible for implementing the SRI-policy. This involves a monitoring of investments to ensure that they do not infringe the principles of The Global Compact. Photo: Tommy Verting Plans for 2016 CSR recommendations will be issued to Read Read about Topdanmark’s overall policy external asset managers – as an appendix more for responsible investment to contract. Read more about CSR recommendations on page 39. Read Read here about Topdanmark’s more investment in the large residential project, Havneholm in Århus, where safety on the building site has been a high priority Responsible investment: activities and results Goal Activities in 2015 Results in 2015 Investment returns must be Screening and assessment of No investments which may generated with consideration shares portfolio for positions be seen as in conflict with given to the Global Compact with consideration given to the UN Global Compact have the Global Compact been made Implementation of guidelines Investments in government for investment in government bonds have complied with the bonds guidelines 24 Business management It is Topdanmark’s duty as a listed company Whistleblower initiative to create financial value for our shareholders Topdanmark has implemented a — re “Topdanmark in brief”’ on page 3. In this whistleblower initiative based on value creation, we are responsible for: recommendations for corporate governance. The purpose of the initiative is to help }} complying with national legislation employees who do not wish to go to management if they suspect that illegality is }} meeting the recommendations for taking place in the company or that company Corporate Governance policies are being breached. }} meeting the expectations of the UN Global Compact Read In CSR terms, we are primarily focused more Read more about the whistleblower on our work with the Global Compact. In initiative practice this means that a number of policies have been developed and special initiatives implemented, where there is a need or where Read Read also about Topdanmark’s work it makes business sense. The key areas are: more with Corporate Governance }} Climate and the environment }} Human rights and diversity Climate and environment Topdanmark wishes to contribute to a }} Between 2011 and 2014 a relative CO2 sustainable development of society, and this reduction of 20.7% per full-time employee is why we integrate climate and environment was achieved (the goal was 10%) thanks considerations into business. Activities in our to a broad range of initiatives including own business operations are given priority as energy optimisation and the installation this is where we can have the most influence. of a solar cell system. Up to 2017, it will As a financial organisation, our negative be difficult to achieve further reductions impact on climate and environment is limited. because, among other reasons, major Nevertheless, we have set goals for CO2 building projects, which will require emissions, something we have assessed as increased power consumption, have been the most relevant with which to work. planned See the description of Topdanmark’s other }} Potentially warmer summers will lead climate and environment initiatives on page to higher power consumption for the 27. cooling of the head office in Ballerup, as an acceptable comfort level for the Goals for CO2 emissions employees is important Topdanmark’s goal with regard to CO2 emissions is to hold the 2014 level of }} A noticeable reduction in CO2 emissions emissions through to 2017, i.e. 2.3 tons from company cars or heating will not be of CO2 per full-time employee. Here is the possible background:  25 Photo: Tommy Verting Topdanmark’s existing solar cell system has been operational since August, 2012. The system will be increased to twice the size in 2016. CO2 emissions 2015: activities and results Assessment of Goal for 2015 Activities in 2015 Result for 2015 2015 Maintain 2014 Energy optimisation Relative CO2 Our goal has been level, i.e. 2.3 tons of IT operations emissions: 2.2 tons fulfilled, and we CO2 emissions per (2014: 2.3 tons) have succeeded in full-time employee Solar cell system redcing both absolute operation Absolute CO2 and relative CO2 emissions: 5,492 emissions tons Plans for 2016 Topdanmark still prioritises energy buildings and so on. In 2016, an extension optimisation and CO2 reduction in spite of of the solar cell system at the head office in the modest goals for 2017. This will be Ballerup is planned – see page 26. seen in connection with new installations, Carbon emission accounts CO2 emissions (in tons) 2012-2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Heating – natural gas 863 963 983 829 850 Scope 1 Use of company cars 1) 700 706 718 653 664 Heating – district heating 110 116 111 96 88 Scope 2 Electricity consumption 2) 3,228 2,435 2,092 2,039 1,887 Use of non-company cars 1,976 1,976 2,076 1,976 2,003 for business purposes Outsourced activities 3) — — — 0 0 Scope 3 Total absolute CO2 6,877 6,196 5,980 5,593 5,492 emissions Total CO2 emissions per 2.9 2.6 2.4 2.3 2.2 full-time employee 1) The figures include use of company car for private purposes. Figures for business purposes driving are not registered. The split between driving for private purposes and business purposes is assessed to be approximately 50-50 2) The figures for CO2 emissions from electricity consumption in 2012 are corrected in relation to the carbon emission accounts in previous CSR reports in order to reflect the emissions factor employed in the Climate Compass of 2013, 2014 and 2015. This also signifies a change in the total absolute and relative CO2 emissions in relation to previous reports 3) In 2014 Topdanmark’s main frame was outsourced to IBM Danmark, where power supply comes from Bergen Energy. Bergen Energy produces electricity with water power in accordance with the EU Renewables Directive. As a result, there are no CO2 emissions associated with consumption 26 Climate report for the Carbon Disclosure Project Since 2010 Topdanmark has reported to }} Disclosure score, which assesses the the CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project), an transparency of the report itself. Points international environment reporting initiative, between 1 to 100 are awarded which works for transparency and dialogue }} Performance score, which is an around CO2 emissions and climate strategies assessment of how a business manages in businesses, with the purpose of making climate change in practice, e.g. by setting such information available to investors. CO2 reduction targets. Grades between A and E are given, A being the best grade CDP reports are awarded a score, which is based on these two criteria: Topdanmark’s CDP score between 2011 and 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 69 D 65 C 61 D 82 C 90 C Read more Read Topdanmark’s CDP report for 2015 Topdanmark is enlarging its solar cell system in 2016 In 2012, Topdanmark began operating a A more stable production solar cell system with 3,042 panels at the In connection with the extension of the head office in Ballerup. At the time, it was system in Ballerup, the existing panels will be the biggest solar cell system in the Nordic repositioned from south to east-south. This Countries. In 2016, we will be enlarging repositioning will minimize surplus production the system to 5,928 panels with a total during the mid-afternoon period. Conversely, production of 1.5 mWh – double the electricity electricity production over the course of the production of the current system. whole day will be more stable. Additionally, a solar cell system will be set up Solar cell system contributes to low CO2 at Topdanmark’s premises in Viby. The system emissions here will consist of 432 solar panels and will The new solar cell system will allow produce approx. 102,000 kWh of electricity. Topdanmark to maintain the 2014 level of CO2 emissions and, at the same time, The total investment will cost DKK 17m. accommodate the need for cooling the office landscape at the headquarters as well as the increased electricity demands in connection with the upcoming building projects. Current solar cell system status 2013 2014 2015 Electricity production (kWh) 745,454 707,114 697,427 As a percentage of total electricity production 12 11 12 CO2 saving (tons) 300 250 241 Savings on purchase of electricity (DKKm) 1,5 1,4 1,5 Read Read more on the current solar cell system more  27 More about Topdanmark’s climate and environment initiatives Waste sorting Environment-friendly transport In 2015, 43.5% of waste at the head office Since 2013, Topdanmark has given special in Ballerup was recycled (2014: 42,6 %). attention to promoting environment-friendly means of transport, e.g. electric cars, Climate change adaptation bicycles and electric bicycles. At our head As an insurance company, Topdanmark is office in Ballerup, we have erected electric feeling the consequences of climate change: car charging stations, which can be used by more extreme and more frequent rainstorms, customers and employees alike. In 2015, we storms and flooding. These problems tested commuter bicycles in collaboration are being addressed via, for example, with Donkey Bikes. climate-related loss prevention for our customers. Read more Follow this link for more information Insurance of environment-friendly about our environment-friendly technologies transport initiatives Topdanmark supports environment-friendly technologies by providing insurance for windmills and solar cell systems. In 2015, Read more Read here about how we contribute to in the agricultural sector 6893 solar cell climate change adaptation systems and 898windmills, for example, were insured by Topdanmark. Around 13% of our agricultural customers had their solar cell systems insured by us. Photo: Topdanmark Since 2013, Topdanmark has had particular focus on promoting environment-friendly modes of transport, e.g. electric cars, cycling and electric bicycles. In 2015, we tested commuter bicycles. 28 Human rights and diversity Topdanmark respects internationally }} Supplier chain, where a CSR programme is recognised human rights, and our aim is established — see page 39 never to infringe them. }} Customer relations and the right to privacy, e.g. Topdanmark has clear Topdanmark follows and complies with guidelines for how claims are investigated Danish legislation, which incorporates if insurance fraud is suspected internationally recognised human rights. In addition, as a rule we do not come across any }} Employee relations, where there is a wide challenges legally-speaking in this area. range of HR policies and a management system which meet the challenges of and Due diligence process in 2015 the problems arising from stress, lack of Inspired by the UN Guiding Principles on employee satisfaction etc. — see page 34. Business and Human Rights, we have in 2015 On page 29 you can also read about our conducted a “due diligence process”. In other work with “diversity” words, we have looked closely at what human rights Topdanmark may be challenged by Various policies are followed up continually, in connection with our various business and potential challenges in the annual CSR activities – aside from what is expected in report are communicated. purely legal terms. Plans for 2016 The process has shown that our policies, I 2016, we will look more closely at the initiatives and management systems are in need for special initiatives in regard to place in relation to the relevant areas, e.g. discrimination and workplace bullying. }} Investment of insurance reserves and pension customers’ savings, where procedures and policies are in place — see page 22 Photo: Tommy Verting Integration of refugees In 2015, Topdanmark worked with The Danish Refugee Council to integrate Syrian refugees into our organisation. One of the refugees has an IT background and another has insurance training and work experience from Mohamad Al-Habash from working in Damascus. Syria has used his internship in In 2016, we will assess Topdanmark's IT department to get whether more refugees can a permanent job in the IT industriy be offered internships. in Denmark.  29 Topdanmark wants diversity in management Topdanmark works to maintain and develop Since 2011, we have defined a number of openness in our company culture to counter goals and implemented activities with the any form of discrimination due to gender, purpose of advancing women in management, race, colour, national, social and ethnic origin, e.g. go-home meetings and a mentor program. religion, beliefs, political opinion, disability, age and sexual orientation. We believe that Successful mentor program diversity provides business value and that it Between 2013 and 2014, a pilot project is important that all employees have equal mentor programme was run for women access to executive positions at all levels. managers. Its purpose was to give women the opportunity to clarify their career plans. Women in management As an element of encouraging diversity in the With the experiences gained from this mentor company Topdanmark has focused on women programme as our setting, we launched in management. This was due to only 15% another mentor program in 2015. The new women being at level 1, i.e. the management programme is for women who have a real level which reports to the Board of Directors. ambition to aspire to top management. We want to change this in order to improve The mentor programme attempts to give diversity and management development in these women the personal and professional general. competences needed to handle a high-level position. Women in management: activities and results Goal Activities in 2015 Results for 2015 Assessment of 2015 At least one New mentor 31 vacant For six of the vacant female candidate programme for women management positions, management positions, for job interview who wish to aspire to 25 female candidates there were no female for an executive high-level management for interview candidates for position at all interview. This may three levels (see 6 women have This correspond to be due to the fact below) participated 81% of the interviews that there were no female applicants (2014: 79%) or that the female applicants did not possess professional competences equal to those of the male applicants Percent-wise, there has been an increase in the number of female candidates for interview Both genders At 31.12.2015 the Goals were met, and must be gender ratio was 42% there has been a two represented by women and 58% men per cent increase in the at least 40% in 2014: 40% women number of women management (all and 60% men) levels) 30 Plans for 2016 In 2016, the mentor program for women who want to reach high-level management positions will continue. Women in management: Number of managers at Topdanmark by gender (not including the Board of Directors) 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Percent Percent Percent Percent Percent Number age of Number age of Number age of Number age of Number age of total total total total total of number of number of number of number of number women of women of women of women of women of managers managers managers managers managers Executives 2 10/20 2 10/20 3 15/20 3 15/20 3 15/20 level 1 Executives 22 39/56 27 43/63 25 34/59 22 34/64 22 34/65 level 2 Executives 66 43/155 71 45/159 77 45/169 75 45/165 81 48/168 level 3 Total 90 39/231 100 41/242 105 40/248 100 40/249 106 42/253 Level 1: reference to Executive Board Level 2: reference to level 1 executives Level 3: reference to level 2 executives Policy and target figures for diversity in the Board of Directors Topdanmark has implemented a policy and is for a minimum of two female and two male set target figures for diversity in the Board AGM-elected board members. This goal has of Directors. Topdanmark wants a Board of been reached as, at 31.12.2015, there were Directors which includes the best qualified two AGM-elected and three employee-elected women candidates. The Board comprises women on the Board. six AGM-elected members and three employee-elected members. The Board’s goal  31 As an element in the promoting of diversity, we have given attention to women in management via, among other things, a mentor scheme for female managers. Photo: Claus Boesen/MediaPress 32 Employee relations Topdanmark’s employees are the most In addition, we have HR policies and concrete important resource for ensuring that our activities which are intended to create a customers get the best service in every good, motivating working environment, situation. Therefore, our goal is that in which it is possible to develop both employees: professionally and personally. We want Topdanmark to be perceived as an attractive }} have the competences to do their work workplace. }} are motivated to do their best Policies and activities centre around the }} feel that cooperation with management is following four overall themes: characterised by mutual trust }} Wellbeing and job satisfaction in the Topdanmark believes that close dialogue working day between the Executive Board and employees }} Stress prevention is achieved by, among other things, a work committee with representatives }} Health from all three employee organisations }} Employee development and Topdanmark’s Executive Board. The committee’s task is to take on and discuss Read about our work with diversity on page organisational problems and to find solutions 29. to these problems. Photo: Ulrik Jantzen Topdanmark uses wellbeing surveys as a dialogue tool for creating a good work environment with high job satisfaction.  33 Wellbeing and job satisfaction in the working day Wellbeing and job satisfaction in the working in a follow-up dialogue with their immediate day are of central importance to Topdanmark. manager and colleagues to decide on what We believe, for example that employees should measures may be needed to improve their have a good work-life balance. In different common workplace. phases of life, our needs in relation to the work-life balance can vary, and Topdanmark The goal at organisation level is to achieve strives to support the individual employee’s ”high job satisfaction”, i.e. between 70 and 80 needs in the form of, e.g. flexitime, part-time out of 100 points in the survey. work, time off for the care of sick children, and a number of senior schemes and leave options. Result of job satisfaction survey 2015 The latest job satisfaction survey was In addition, a wellbeing committee has been performed in February 2015, with 95% set up, comprising representatives from employee participation. The result shows Topdanmark’s HR and the three employee that our goal was achieved – see table below. organisations. The committee regularly Topdanmark is well-placed in relation to the assesses the physical and psychological average for the Danish labour market and the wellbeing of the employees, and decides on financial sector see the bar chart below. The what activities are needed to promote this next job satisfaction survey will take place in wellbeing. 2017. Job satisfaction survey as dialogue Comparison of job satisfaction and loyalty tool Topdanmark EEI Financial Institute and Insurance EEI Denmark One important element in our work with employee wellbeing is a job satisfaction 100 survey, which is conducted every two years with the participation of all employees. The 80 survey, which is anonymous, is used as a 60 77 73 69 [+2] [-1] [-1] tool for ensuring wellbeing and a good work 40 environment at both organisation level and 20 department level. All employees participate 0 Job satisfaction 2015 2 2 Photo: Claus Boesen/MediaPress Read Here’s what Søren Pahl, more Topdanmark’ HR Director, says about the result of the job satisfaction survey in 2015 Wellbeing: activities and results Goal Activities in 2015 Result for 2015 Assessment of 2015 ’High job satisfaction’, Job satisfaction Job satisfaction: See Topdanmark’s HR i.e. between 70 and survey 77 points (+2) Directør’s comments 80 out of 100 in above the job satisfaction Dialogue and survey activities at department level 34 Stress prevention In Denmark, generally speaking, the number As mentioned, stress counselling is available of people who take sick leave as a result to all employees: colleagues, managers and of stress is increasing, and Topdanmark employee representatives. It is useful for Life Insurance is experiencing an increase managers who identify stress symptoms in requests from customers for help in in an employee or colleague, and good preventing this illness. Topdanmark is also advice is needed to tackle the situation. In actively involved in stress prevention for its 2015, information regarding anonymous own employees. counselling was given even greater visibility and accessibility among the employees. Stress and stress-related illnesses can be set off by private circumstances and conditions In cases of serious and long-term at work. Regardless of cause, Topdanmark stress-related illness, a programme tries to be pre-emptive, since experience tailor-made for the individual is available. shows that it is better to prevent than to try This program is described in ”Job Retention” to cure it. on page 20. Anonymous stress counselling Plans for 2016 All of our employees have the option of In 2016, Topdanmark’s wellbeing committee anonymous stress counselling, provided by (see page 32) will look more closely at experienced psychologists. This service can initiatives which can be relevant for the be used as a first step for employees who placing of even more focus on stress experience the symptoms of stress. In this prevention. The My Life concept, which is way, employees can get help quickly without presented in the next section, is intended for having to get a referral from a family doctor employees with stress or symptoms of stress. first. Statistic: anonymous stress counselling 2014 2015 Number of employees who availed themselves of anonymous stress 33 41 counselling Statistic: health check 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total number of 924 885 No health 867 971 employees who check received health programme checks As a percentage of all 32 34 — 33 35 employees  35 Health Topdanmark wants to give its full support to Individually planned health profiles our employees’ good health. We believe that Since 2011, it has been possible to have it creates wellbeing and job satisfaction, and a health check including measurement of this in turn provides a strong platform from cholesterol, blood glucose, blood pressure, which we can deliver the best service to our body fat percentage and level of fitness. customers. In 2015, we introduced a programme of different types of ”health check” (see the In practice, the employees are offered a illustration below) in order to fulfil the needs range of health-related initiatives, which can of the employees. be made use of when required. For example, cycling or other forms of exercise, healthy This new flexibility has heightened the canteen food and a health check. interest in health checks, which can only be seen as positive. In the future, it will also be The goal is to inspire employees to develop possible to have an individual health profile. healthy habits, which can prevent lifestyle The next time for health checks will be in illnesses and stress, and stimulate a higher 2017. level of energy in the working day and during free-time. Health check with individually planned profiles Sleep Diet profile profile Exercise profile Health profile Senior Photo: Colourbox profile 36 Pilot project in 2015 My Life Plans for 2016 For Topdanmark, it is important to reach out Due to our positive experience with the to our customers, to give advice and to help pilot project, My Life will be established as a them in claims situations. This means that permanent element in Topdanmark’s health our employees spend a great deal of their programme for employees. It will still be tailored time driving to customer appointments. We to employees with particular needs (see above), are aware of this, and in 2015 we launched but it will also be available to all employees a pilot project called My Life, with the when required. above-mentioned employees specifically in mind. Focus on the body in motion We have seen that sedentary work can cause My Life is an individually designed three-month employees muscle and joint pain, especially in health program. The program was offered to the neck and back. In 2016, therefore, we will 15 employees, who had particular needs arising launch initiatives which are designed to prevent from, e.g. a BMI over 30, expanding waistline, this type of pain and discomfort. We will focus high blood pressure or stress. The project on “the body in motion” in order to inspire all was a success, and the participants have all employees to do something good for themselves experienced significant improvement in their every day at work and in their free-time. health. Read Follow this link for more information moreabout Topdanmark as a workplace, HR policies, employment conditions etc. (in Danish) Development of employees At Topdanmark, we attach great importance Manager and talent development to talent and career development, to ensure Topdanmark continually strives to give that all employees are competent and employees with management ambitions the developing personally and professionally. For opportunity to make this happen. For women this reason, we have a comprehensive training with management ambitions, there is the and development programme comprising opportunity to become part of the mentor internal and external options, for all of the program – you can read more about this on many professional groups represented in the page 29. In addition, since 2014 Topdanmark organisation. has run a talent development program called Grow. Read See what Ida Blenner Bagason, Chief more of HR, says about Topdanmark’s talent development program, Grow. Photo: Claus Boesen/MediaPress  37 Indicators of employee relations at Topdanmark 2012 2013 2014 2015 Full-time employees 2,388 2,476 2,417 2,477 Part-time employees 254 245 236 243 Total number of employees 2,642 2,721 2,653 2,720 Employees on temporary contracts 1) 15 60 24 42 Employees covered by collective 2,577 2,653 2,582 2,649 agreement The employee numbers do not include hourly-paid employees, e.g. student assistants. 1) The numbers cover employees who are bound by a specific resignation date (excl. apprentices and maternity cover) Indicators of wellbeing at Topdanmark Unit 2012 2013 2014 2015 Absence due to illness 1) % 3.0 2.9 3.1 3.0 Employee turnover 2) % 8.7 8.9 10.2 12.5 Cases of discrimination 3) Total 1 0 0 0 Employees in flexi-time jobs Total 14 11 11 10 4) Competence development of DKKm. 45 38.6 36.2 36.7 employees 5) 1) This figure means that, on average, every employee was sick 3.0% of the total number of working hours in 2015. The figure covers all employees. In comparison, the percentage of sick days in the insurance sector is 2.9% (2014). 2) Definition: employees who have left the organisation voluntarily, have been dismissed, have resigned or have left for other reasons 3) Cases of discrimination refers to cases which have been reported to HR or brought to an employee organisation 4) Flexi-jobs are offered primarily to internal employees who need other duties than those they have had previously. Out of the 10 employees in flexi-jobs, 10 are internal employees 5) The amount does not include payroll costs but solely payment of external training activities. Note: the 2012 and 2013 figures have been changed in relation to previous CSR reports, where the payments included provisions for periodical payment. These provisions have now been removed. The fall in costs from 2012 to 2013/2014 is due to a greater focus on internal training since 2013 Mads Emdal Sørensen, sales centre manager, has participated in the Photo: Alex Tran talent programme, Grow. It has been a great success and has helped him to become more closely attached to Topdanmark. 38 Relations and dialogue Topdanmark has many stakeholders, both internal and external, who play an important role in our business. The dialogue with a large number of alliance partners is one of the factors which ensure the operation, strengthening and growth of our business. At the same time, we wish to be in dialogue We give priority to: with and contribute to the society we are part of, for example, by using our particular }} cooperation on training and environment knowledge of and various competences in the local area arising from the insurance and pension industry. We are happy to make this }} cooperation with suppliers and other knowledge and professional expertise alliance partners available, where relevant, to solve social }} humanitarian projects, where employees challenges in collaboration with other can contribute and make a difference players. }} contributions to training in the insurance and pension industry Local cooperation for young people and education In 2014, Topdanmark entered into a from normal school subjects, and the aim collaboration with Ballerup local authority in is to help the pupils to learn about the connection with the ”adopt a school class” insurance sector, Topdanmark and the job scheme. In practice, we have been assigned a market in general. In 2015, we held three class of 7th graders from a local school until training days, in which the pupils had to they finish 9th grade in 2016. design a completely new insurance company. For the next two years, the pupils will meet Ballerup local authority has previously various Topdanmark employees for a number arranged programmes involving school of days every year. There will be various classes and companies in the area – with arrangements which will differ in content positive results. Photo: Topdanmark Topdanmark has “adopted” 7. C from Egebjerg School in Ballerup. For three years, the pupils will receive lessons different to the normal school syllabus from Topdanmark employees.  39 CSR programme for suppliers Topdanmark works with suppliers and The CSR program consists of four alliance partners in various situations, elements: e.g. in connection with claims, loss prevention products, delivery of IT and CSR recommendation office equipment and articles, and in the A CSR recommendation is attached as an running of the canteens. Quality, trust and appendix to existing and new contracts. The credibility are key in our cooperation with CSR recommendation encourages suppliers to our suppliers, who deliver vital services to integrate the Global Compact principles in their our customers in critical situations. business, but they are not formally obligated. Irresponsible behaviour in the supply Risk analysis chain, for example non-compliance with In 2015, a risk analysis of existing suppliers was the principles of the UN Global Compact, performed with the intention of identifying the are incompatible with our CSR policy, risks of infringing the Global Compact principles and it can damage the reputation we in the first link of the supplier chain. The analysis have with our customers as a responsible showed that Topdanmark has no concrete organization. challenges in regard to current suppliers, but that there are areas of potential risk, e.g. waste In 2014, in order to focus on these management in connection with clearing up risks, Topdanmark established a CSR after damage and also working conditions in programme for suppliers, and in 2015 we connection with waste management. have worked on the implementation of the programme. Questionnaire In order to find out if suppliers are working with CSR program implementation CSR, we have produced a questionnaire, which is The CSR program is implemented in distributed to all the suppliers who are included in relation to Topdanmark’s strategic the CSR program. The completed questionnaires suppliers. It does not include the suppliers can be used, e.g. as a lead-up to further dialogue. our customers choose in connection with, In 2015, questionnaires were sent to six e.g. rebuilding after damage to property. suppliers. Plans for 2016 Dialogue with suppliers In 2016, the implementation of the CSR Direct dialogue with suppliers is established when programme will continue. needed, e.g. if there is a suspicion of activities which are incompatible with Global Compact principles. Dialogue can also be initiated with a view to mutually contributing positively to, for example, environmental initiatives. CSR programme for suppliers: activities and results Goal Activities in 2015 Results for 2015 Evaluering af 2015 Integrate Implementation CSR recommendation Progress in the implementation of Global of CSR integrated as an appendix the CSR programme is satisfactory Compact programme in 95 % of contracts principles figuring in the programme Positive feedback by several in the suppliers regarding the CSR collaboration Questionnaire issued to programme with strategic six suppliers suppliers 40 Support for humanitarian and social efforts One of Topdanmark’s values is }} emergency relief and help for refugees in ”responsibility” (see Main Stakeholders and their own regions Values on page 4). Our social responsibility }} exercise, health and prevention of illness finds its voice in, among other things, our contributions to organisations and campaigns. }} socially marginalised young people Every year, Topdanmark decides on which Our support has been given in the form efforts we want to support. In 2015, we of financial contributions by employees decided to support projects concerning: and Topdanmark, and initiatives involving the active participation of employees and customers. Our concrete activities and contributions in 2015 }} On the initiative of an employee, 200 }} Employees gave 2.7 tons of clothes to The unused train/bus multi-ride tickets valuing Red Cross in connection with the Give your DKK 20,000 kroner were collected and the Clothes (Smid Tøjet) Campaign proceeds went to Help the Children Day }} Topdanmark donated bicycles to the }} Topdanmark and its employees donated socio-economic organisation, Buddha DKK 194,590 to Doctors without Borders Bikes, which works with marginalised young }} Topdanmark and its employees donated people. DKK 111,300 to the Denmark Fundraising }} Employees donated 442 portions of blood Campaign during working hours to the Blood Bank }} Topdanmark donated DKK 50,000 in a national fundraising campaign to help Plans for 2016 refugees in their local regions I 2016, we will continue to contribute to }} Topdanmark, its employees and corporate Doctors without Borders, Fight Cancer and customers collected DKK 176,445 for the the National Blood Bank, and to donate Fight Cancer (Knæk Cancer) campaign via a bicycles to Buddha Bikes, as well as to support major sports event fundraising campaigns for disasters as and when they occur. Read Read more Buddha Bikes more Fight Cancer (In Danish) (In Danish) Photo: Topdanmark Employees gave 2.7 tons of clothes to The Red Cross in connection with the Give your Clothes (Smid Tøjet) Campaign.  41 Our contribution to a well-trained workforce in the insurance sector SAs a large non-life and life insurance Therefore, every year we employ a number company in Denmark and co-owner of the of finance trainees and finance students. To Danish Insurance Academy, the insurance support them in their training, we arrange industry's own educational institution, we special activities which focus on their wish to ensure the continuous availability wellbeing and personal development. of a highly skilled and qualified workforce. Statistic: Trainees and students 2012-2015 2012 2013 2014 2015 Finance trainees 24 24 24 24 Financial economists 5 4 13 16 Bachelors of Finance 14 9 18 15 Out of 25 finance trainees who completed student assistants for a period, and after this their education at Topdanmark in 2015, 19 14 were employed full-time. were employed full-time. All 16 financial economists in training were employed as Read here about the opportunities for Read more finance trainees and internships at Topdanmark (in Danish) Social accounting By operating a profitable business, in the international market. In this way, Topdanmark contributes significant, annual Topdanmark, relatively speaking, pays more amounts to the Danish state through direct to the Danish state than other big companies. corporation taxes and indirect taxes. With this in mind, Topdanmark prepares annual As the CSR report is published before “social accounts”, a report on our tax Topdanmark’s annual report, the ”social payments. accounts” for 2015 will not be published in this CSR report for 2015, but will instead be The bulk of our corporation tax remains in posted on our website in March 2016. Denmark which, taking the organisation’s size into account, is unusual since other big Danish companies pay a large part of their Read more See the social accounts for 2014 corporation tax abroad due to the activities Statistic: Topdanmark’s payment of direct tax between 2011 and 2014 2011 2012 2013 2014 Corporation tax 326 512 407 452 (DKKm) Income tax 776 815 848 860 (DKKm) 42 About the report This is Topdanmark’s annual CSR Report. It is also our Completion of Progress report for the UN Global Compact, and thereby it constitutes our statutory report on Corporate Social Responsibility (see section 132 of Executive Order on Financial Reports for Insurance Companies and Lateral Pension Funds). It covers the financial year 2015. The report The consumption of heating and electricity has applies to all subsidiaries of Topdanmark. It is been restricted to the head office and the office Topdanmark’s sixth CSR report. in Viby and does not include other sales centres. This is due to two factors: we have no reliable Objectives and target group data on the heating and electricity consumption The CSR report has been prepared to create in our sales centres and this consumption transparency about our business and its impact represents only about 5% of the overall on climate and environment, people and finance. consumption. We are looking into whether the data can be improved in 2015. It is relevant to a wide group of stakeholders: existing and potential employees, customers, Data collection and data quality for shareholders, alliance partners, suppliers and carbon emission accounts media, NGOs and civil society. The head office consumption of heating and electricity was collected from consumption The report is published on Topdanmark’s website reports made available by suppliers while the Viby and the Danske Forsikring’s website in Danish and office consumption was read manually. Electricity English. It is also forwarded to a large number of produced by our solar cell system is registered our alliance partners and corporate customers, by our energy management system. Data and is used in sales material, when relevant. dependability is considered to be high for all data. Indicators Data on driving in company cars (leased cars) The indicators for working conditions are collected from the registration of fuel in Topdanmark have been based on the consumption (litres of petrol or diesel). Data internationally recognised reporting system, dependability is considered to be good. Data Global Reporting Initiative. Data have primarily on use of own car for business purposes are been collected from our central HR payroll collected from HR's registration of mileage system and data dependability is considered to be allowance. The number of kilometres driven is high. calculated on the basis of the mileage allowances paid. Data dependability is considered to be low. See table of indicators on page 37. See carbon emission accounts on page 25. Carbon emission accounts Topdanmark prepares annual carbon emission Contact accounts in accordance with the guidelines of If you have any questions or comments on the the Climate Compass, an application developed report, please contact Pernille Fogh Christensen, by the Danish Business Authority to calculate who is responsible for CSR. If you would like to carbon emissions. We have chosen to include have dialogue with us about our CSR efforts, you the following elements in the carbon emission are also welcome to contact us. accounts which we consider to be the principal sources of our carbon emissions. Tel: +45 4474 4089 (direct) }} Heating consumption E-mail: pfi@topdanmark }} Electricity consumption }} Use of company cars }} Use of own car for business purposes
