D e n t s u I n t e g r a t e d R e p o r t 2 0 1 6 Contents About Dentsu ▼ Key Figures ▼ Key Strategies ▼ Features Key Figures of the Dentsu Group (CY2015) Gross profit Gross profit international business ratio ¥ 761.9 billion 54.3 % Organic growth rate (gross profit) Organic growth rate (international business) 7.0 % 9.4 % January to December 2015, YoY January to December 2015, YoY Gross profit digital domain ratio Underlying operating profit operating margin 34 % Gross profit digital domain growth rate 21.1 % +22.2 % (Japan) +24.8 % (International) January to December 2015, YoY January to December 2015 Share of the Japanese advertising market Operating area over 140 countries and territories around the world 25 % Number of employees Note: Under JGAAP, net sales are calculated in calendar 2015. 47,324 Sources: Advertising and Economy, Current Situation of Japanese Advertising Agencies and 2015 Advertising Expenditures in Japan (Dentsu) As of December 31, 2015 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 001 Contents About Dentsu Business Domains Dentsu Group is a marketing communications group that determines the essence of clients’ issues, and designs, proposes, and implements integrated communications that realize true solutions. With the completion of the acquisition of Aegis in March 2013 and establishment of the Dentsu Aegis Network (DAN), the Dentsu Group has evolved into a truly global network with about 47,000 professionals in more than 140 countries (as of the end of December 2015). The Group also offers the best integrated solutions for clients, not only in Japan, but also in the global market. As a solutions partner responding to the challenges faced by its clients, the Dentsu Group provides a diverse range of services. The Dentsu Group, with the communications domain at its core, is engaged in a wide range of business activities, from corporate management and operating solutions to the implementation of marketing and communications strategies. To meet the changing needs of society, the environment, and consumer lifestyles, the Dentsu Group’s service sphere is also expanding to cover an array of solutions that address societal issues. Dentsu Group Corporate Philosophy Statement Slogan Ideas that reach beyond the imaginable. Technology that crosses the bounds of possibilities. Entrepreneurship that surpasses the expected. Three sources of strength, driving our innovation, bringing positive change to people and society. The three elements of innovation Entrepreneurship Entrepreneurship + Ideas + Technology Ideas Technology By “innovation,” we mean much more than just technological innovation. We mean generating new value for people and society through a wide variety of changes. 002 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents About Dentsu ▼ Key Figures ▼ Key Strategies ▼ Features Dentsu 2017 and Beyond: Major Achievements and Strategy Strategic Themes of Dentsu 2017 and Beyond: #1 Diversifying the portfolio on a global basis Steady performance of our core Japan business Behind the Figures Continuous growth in our international business Retention of management who can lead the growth of our international business Increased new business wins, leveraging our group synergies Strategic Themes of Dentsu 2017 and Beyond: Strategic Themes of Dentsu 2017 and Beyond: #2 Evolving and expanding in the digital #3 Re-engineering business processes and domain improving profitability Through acquisitions, we accelerate the enhancement Continued cost control of our capability and service quality in newly eveloping Expansion of fee element of our business areas including brand commerce, content marketing, Japan business: Restructuring of the value chain experiential marketing, data analytics and CRM. Strategic Themes of Dentsu 2017 and Beyond: Strengthening CSR activities on a global basis #4 Further reinforcing the business platform in the core Japanese market Develop our digital solution capability, which includes The Group formulated Dentsu Group Medium-Term marketing intelligence and data CSR Strategy 2020 in December 2015. In this Seek growth opportunities through contributing to strategy, targets are set for 2020 in the four key the revitalization of Japan areas of environment, community, supply chain, and responsible marketing and sustainable consumption. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 003 Contents About Dentsu The spread of digital media and social media in recent years, as well as changes in consumer behavior patterns and the evolution of technologies, have changed the relationship between companies and consumers in marketing activities. As a result, it has become difficult for companies to succeed without organically linking each marketing process and individual measure, where they functioned separately in the past. In other words, companies require increasingly more focused strategies and tactics in order to raise the effectiveness of their marketing activities. In an environment in which marketing convergence is progressing, the Dentsu Group will enjoy more opportunities for growth. The integrated abilities of the Dentsu Group will have greater value through the development of marketing convergence. Such abilities are based on platforms that include (1) a diversified data platform, (2) intelligence that leads to accurate insights, (3) ideas and planning that improve the effects of companies’ overall marketing activities, and (4) the utilization of various possibilities brought about by the development of technology. Under the medium-term management plan Dentsu 2017 and Beyond, which began in 2013, we exercise such competences more strongly in the global arena and aim to evolve into the world’s most advanced global network—one that contributes to improving the corporate value of all our clients, beyond the borders of countries and regions. Dentsu 2017 and Beyond: Our Goal To evolve into a truly global network at the forefront of marketing convergence Innovation × Reinvention We aim to become the world’s most advanced global network, leading marketing convergence and innovation and providing solutions that contribute to improving the corporate value of all our clients. 004 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents About Dentsu ▼ Key Figures ▼ Key Strategies ▼ Features Dentsu 2017 and Beyond: Determination to Promote the Plan We will create new social values by improving We will further diversify the portfolio on a global our problem-solving and revenue-generating basis while focusing on digital area. capabilities. Tim Andree Director and Executive Vice President, Tadashi Ishii Dentsu Inc. Representative Director Executive Chairman, President & CEO P.007 ▲ Dentsu Aegis Network ▲P.023 We will maintain the positive momentum and We will increase profit by proactive investment in further strengthen digital economy solutions. the growing business domain and maintenance and improvement of profitability. Shoichi Nakamoto Jerry Buhlmann Director and Executive Officer, Dentsu Inc. Senior Executive Vice President, CEO, Dentsu Aegis Network P.025 ▲ CFO P.008 ▲ We aim to create new values of Japan and We will improve all ESG values in conjunction with disseminate such value to the world from Japan. our business activities and pursue the realization of a better society. Yoshio Takada Kunihiro Matsushima Director and Chair of the CSR Committee, Executive Vice President P.018 ▲ Director P.045 ▲ Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 005 Contents About Dentsu 001 About Dentsu Editorial Policy Key Figures As an integrated report for the first year, this report covers both financial Key Strategies and non-financial reporting and illustrates mediumto long-term value and Features sustainability of the company. CEO Message Target audience CFO Message All stakeholders including shareholders and investors Road to Value Creation – Review of FY2015 and the Medium-term Management Plan Reference guidelines 014 Special Feature: The Dentsu Group’s Capability to Create Values IIRC (International Integrated Reporting Council) [Japan] Source of Value-Creating Capability The International Integrated Reporting Framework Solid Business Foundation [Japan] Capability to Increase the Value-Creating Capability GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) Digital Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, Version 4 (G4) Sports Marketing [International] Source of Value-Creating Capability Period covered by the report Diversifying the Portfolio on a Global Basis Centered on activities during fiscal 2015 (April 1, 2015 Transformation to Adapt to the Digital Economy through December 31, 2015), but also describes some activities from [International] Capability to Increase the Value-Creating Capability preceding or more recent periods. M&A Strategy to Accelerate Growth Business Expansion of the Dentsu Group Network Brands Organizations covered Dentsu Inc. and Dentsu Group companies 034 Corporate Governance The Dentsu Group’s Management Structure Publication date Dentsu’s Corporate Governance Implementation Structure September 2016 Response to Implementation of the Corporate Governance Code (Next edition scheduled for publication in June 2017) Communication with Shareholders and Investors Dentsu Group Internal Control System Contact info Information Security CSR Department, Legal Division, Dentsu Inc. Promotion of Compliance TEL: +81-3-6216-8718 FAX: +81-3-6217-5709 Email: dentsucsr@dentsu.co.jp 044 Sustainability Message of the Chairperson of CSR Committee Investor Relations Department, Executive office, Dentsu Inc. Dentsu Group CSR TEL: +81-3-6216-8015 Social Responsibility Report Email: irmail@dentsu.co.jp Environmental Report Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities Data Summary 074 Financial Report Consolidated Operating Highlights (IFRS) Forward-Looking Statements Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Operating Results This integrated report contains statements that constitute “forwardConsolidated Financial Statements looking statements” regarding the intent, belief or current expectations of Dentsu Inc. or its management with respect to the results of operations and financial condition of Dentsu or the Dentsu Group. Such forward146 Corporate Data looking statements are not guarantees of future performance and Subsidiaries and Affiliates involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from those in the History forward-looking statements as a result of various factors. The information Board Members/Management contained in this integrated report identifies important factors that could Information for Shareholders cause such differences. These forward-looking statements speak only as Share Information of the date hereof. Dentsu disclaims any obligation to update or publicly announce any revisions to these forward-looking statements to reflect Fiscal Year 2015 under Review future events, conditions or circumstances. Third-Party Evaluation and Share Price Changes 006 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents About Dentsu CEO Message Creating new social values Tadashi Ishii Representative Director President & CEO The business environment surrounding the Dentsu Group is continuously and significantly transforming with an emphasis on two keywords—global and digital. Furthermore, our clients and a wide variety of business partners are working toward various innovations. These innovations harness the evergrowing power of digital technology and include new business development, and business structure and business model innovation. The series of changes extended to all areas pose a threat to us. However, they also bring significant opportunities for the Dentsu Group to achieve further growth. The broad sense of creative capability that supports the fundamental element of the Dentsu Group can be effectively demonstrated not only in media business, but also in other areas, such as marketing, promotion, entertainment and sports. In addition, the recent environmental changes, as typified by digitalization, are dramatically expanding the scope and areas where we can demonstrate the creative capability we have cultivated over the years. By incorporating the various environmental changes progressing on a global scale as the driving force for our evolution and growth, we can deliver the Dentsu Group’s unique solutions in combination with our creative capability—a capability that has been heightened to date—and a variety of imagination, technical capabilities, and expertise. To create such unique solutions, and execute them, steadily offers a source of differentiation that gives the Dentsu Group an edge over our competitors, such as specialized digital agencies and consulting firms. Furthermore, the target field of our solutions is no longer limited to the field of communication. I firmly believe that the role we should play is to evolve into a partner that can support client success and social advancement from multiple angles, by developing and executing myriad innovative, creative solutions for the success of our clients’ various businesses and to address diverse social problems. “Good Innovation.” the Dentsu Group’ s corporate philosophy, encapsulates the strong Groupwide drive to create new value and lead the way toward transformation while emphasizing our commitment to supporting innovation within business enterprises and society. The Dentsu group, having a global network across over 140 countries and territories, will continue to accumulate a history of innovation to tackle challenges worldwide, undertake innovation toward the creation of new social values, and meet the expectations of all stakeholders. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 007 Contents About Dentsu CFO Message Pursuing sustainable profit growth Shoichi Nakamoto Director and Senior Executive Vice President & CFO Consolidated financial highlights (calendar-year basis) and performance outlook for fiscal 2016 The performance of the Dentsu Group remained strong in CY2015. The group posted 761.9 billion yen in gross profit (an increase of 8.51 billion yen year-on-year), and the organic gross profit growth rate, factoring out the effect of acquisitions and exchange rates, was 7.0%. Underlying operating profit increased to 160.4 billion yen (a 20.3% increase year-on-year), and the underlying operating margin also increased by 1.4 ppt year-on-year to 21.1%. The Group’s Japan business remained brisk, and the gross profit increased 4.3% year-on-year (including a 3.9% increase in organic growth), reflecting the contribution of sponsorship sales associated with the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games. The international business continued to show high growth, and the gross profit increased 20.6% year-on-year (including organic growth of 9.4%), reflecting the effect of M&A projects and the contribution of new clients, in addition to the strong business momentum maintained in Europe, the Middle East and Africa (EMEA) and Asia Pacific, excluding Japan (APAC). With regard to the consolidated performance outlook for fiscal 2016, we forecast 768.7 billion yen in gross profit (a 0.9% increase year-on-year) and 104.5 billion yen in underlying operating profit (a 7.8% decrease year-on-year). Capital management strategy and return to shareholders In order for the Group to achieve sustainable improvement of its corporate value and continue to meet the shareholder expectations under the intensified competition both within and outside Japan, the Group must develop and reinforce the business foundation for enhancing the integrated and professional capabilities in Japan and globally, and drive acquisitions and the creation of new growth opportunities. Based on such recognition, we continuously aim to ensure investment in growth domains in Japan and globally as our top priority, and pursue sustainable profit growth. Furthermore, we will steadily enhance capital efficiency by combining the longterm improvement in shareholder value through business growth, ongoing and stable dividend payments, and flexible share repurchases in order to provide comprehensive return to our shareholders. Regarding the dividend for fiscal 2015, we carefully and comprehensively considered the operating results for the current fiscal year, the mediumand long-term performance forecast, the financial status, including the future investment plans, and financial soundness. After such consideration, we decided to pay out 75 yen per share by means of an interim dividend of 35 yen and a year-end dividend of 40 yen. Your continued understanding and support of the management of the Dentsu Group is highly appreciated. 008 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents About Dentsu Road to Value Creation Review of CY2015 and the medium-term management plan Changes in the business environment, which are driven by globalization and digitalization, are forcing big changes in the advertising industry and its business model. Under such circumstances, with the completion of the acquisition of Aegis Group plc, and the subsequent formation of Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd., in March 2013, the Dentsu Group has evolved into a truly global network. Taking this opportunity, we formulated the medium-term management plan Dentsu 2017 and Beyond (from FY2013 to FY2017). In recent years, various advancements in technology have been made, and as consumer behavior changes, it has become difficult for many companies to achieve satisfactory results from marketing activities in the absence of coordination among initiatives. The medium-term management plan aims for the Dentsu Group to evolve into the world’s leading global network to contribute to raising corporate value for every type of client, under such circumstances. Accordingly, we believe promotion of the plan is the road to value creation for our Group and for our clients. The following summarizes the progress and achievements by the fiscal 2015 year-end, which was the halfway point of the current medium-term management plan, as well as the future outlook. Progress and Achievements, Future Outlook Part 1: Evolving into a Global Network Steady performance of our core Japan business Gross profit from the Japan business in 2015 (calendar-year basis, the same applies hereinafter) remained brisk and recorded 348.2 billion yen (a 4.3% increase year-on-year, including a 3.9% increase of organic growth). With the expansion of Japanese companies’ operations outside Japan and the entry of foreign companies from outside Japan into the Japanese market, we have won much new business in markets, both within and outside Japan, since the inauguration of the Dentsu Aegis Network (DAN) to date. We will continue to work aggressively on winning new business in every market and in enhancing the competitiveness as a unique global network with a solid business foundation in Japan. (For more information on key initiatives in Japan, please refer to pages 17–22.) Continued high growth in international business Gross profit from the international business in 2015 significantly outperformed market growth in each region, underpinned by strong business momentum maintained in EMEA (Europe, the Middle East, and Africa), which recorded a profit of 157.1 billion yen (a 15.4% increase year-on-year, including a 12.2% increase of organic growth), and the APAC (Asia Pacific, excluding Japan), which recorded a profit of 117.5 billion yen (a 23.5% increase year-on-year, including an 11.4% increase of organic growth). In the Americas, the organic growth rate showed a 4.9% increase and fell slightly behind the market growth rate, as affected by the contract renewal of large accounts, etc. However, the gross profit increased by 24.6% year-on-year to 139.3 billion yen through the significant contribution of the Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 009 Contents About Dentsu M&A effect. The strong momentum of our Group is supported by the smooth integration of the former Aegis Group into our Group, as well as the progress of Group-wide collaboration. The entire leadership team of the former Aegis entity have been retained within DAN to drive our growth, which is supporting the momentum of our Group. (Please also refer to the comments from the general manager of international business on pages 23–26.) Further enhancement of competitiveness as a global network The consolidated gross profit of the Dentsu Group almost doubled from that of FY2013 with the acquisition of Aegis. Thereafter, we have maintained strong momentum, so our Group’s gross profit steadily grew, both in our Japan and international businesses. Consequently, the ratio of international business reached 54% in 2015, and our Group has evolved into a global network with about 47,000 professionals in more than 140 countries and territories. With regard to One P&L, which is our unique operating model introduced at all locations outside Japan, we have made continued efforts to improve it and have already introduced a next-generation model in some regions. (For more information on One P&L, please also refer to page 31.) We will further promote personnel exchanges between our Japan and international businesses, mainly in the growing digital field, and continue to engage in innovation to strengthen our competitiveness as a global network. International business ratio*/No. of countries and territories (billion yen) 800 150 600 100 Gross profit No. of countries 400 50 200 54％ 51％ 48％ 15％ 0 0 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 CY2015 ■ International business ■ Japan business ◆ No. of countries * International business ratio is on a gross profit basis. For more information, please refer to page 75. 010 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents About Dentsu Progress and Achievements, Future Outlook Part 2: Continuation of Industry-Leading Organic Growth As described above, we achieved steady organic growth in many areas, and the organic growth of the entire Dentsu Group continues to outperform our mega group competitors. In addition to the winning of new client contracts, we have also been successful in retaining many major clients without competition. This business expansion, which contributes to our organic growth, proves clients’ appreciation of our Group’s performance. (For more information on performance and key initiatives in Japan and each overseas region, please refer to pages 17–22 and 23–28.) In the fast-growing digital domain, both Japan and international businesses achieved doubledigit growth in gross profit in 2015 with increases of 22.2% and 24.8%, respectively, on a year-onyear basis. Progress and Achievements, Future Outlook Part 3: Maintaining and Improving Our High Operating Margin In terms of operating margin, the Dentsu Group as a whole has maintained a level that outperforms our mega group competitors as we further boosted our Japan business, which was already at a high level, and improved the margin of our international business. Particularly, in 2015, the consolidated margin improved significantly because our international business started to see some effects of its first-phase business platform development and because our Group companies in Japan made a significant contribution. We will continue to restructure our value chain, including our Group companies. In 2016, we will continue investment to improve our competitiveness in the medium term and to further strengthen the level of our business platform across the Group. Through a series of initiatives, we aim to constantly achieve a consolidated operating margin of 20% or higher, which is one of the KPIs of the current medium-term management plan. Organic growth* Operating margin* (%) (%) 8 25 6 20 4 15 2 10 0 0 FY2013 FY2014 CY2015 FY2013 CY2014 CY2015 ◆ Dentsu consolidated ● Peer mega group average ◆ Dentsu consolidated ● Peer mega group average * Organic growth is on a gross profit basis. For more * Operating margin is on an underlying operating profit basis. information, please refer to page 75. For more information, please refer to page 75. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 011 Contents About Dentsu Progress and Achievements, Future Outlook Part 4: Continuing Various Measures to Establish Sustainable Growth Foundation Executing M&A to establish a business foundation outside Japan M&A is an important means for establishing a foundation for sustainable growth, and we aggressively executed M&A outside Japan in recent years. After the completion of the acquisition of Aegis in March 2013 to the area, end of 2015, we carried out 76 acquisitions, which totaled about 760 million pounds in value terms. Contribution of past acquisitions to profit has reached the level of 90 million pounds or higher at the end of 2015. Furthermore, M&A in the fast-growing digital domain accounts for 43% of total transactions. M&A outside Japan (from April 2013 to December 2015) 760m£ 76transactions 91m£ 43% M&A investment No. of M&A Contribution of M&A Digital domain ratio in transactions investment to PBT M&A investment (2015) Capability enhancement through M&As in growing business areas continues In the digital domain, we have expanded our acquisition target areas, not only in the digital media but also in newly developing areas since 2015. Specifically, we successfully acquired companies in rapidly growing domains, such as content marketing, experiential marketing, e-commerce solutions, mobile, CRM, and data analytics. (Our M&A strategy and three case examples are described on pages 29–30.) We believe these rapidly growing business areas will become extremely important in Japan going forward. We will conduct acquisitions to enhance our capabilities as one of the important growth strategies to cope with changes in consumer behavior and the progress of marketing convergence. Aiming to achieve growth opportunities created by the acceleration of digitalization in Japan We are actively working on gaining growth opportunities derived from marketing convergence in Japan. We are proud of having strong competitiveness in the traditional domains of media content, creative, and marketing in Japan. (For more information on our competitiveness in the Japan market, please refer to pages 17–18.) Our clients have urged us to proactively broaden and merge these core competences with new capabilities such as CRM, e-commerce, system solutions, and data analytics. To respond to such demands from our clients, we formed a new organization by integrating and restructuring our professional services in the digital marketing domain in January 2016, and then we spun off this organization and established a new company, Dentsu Digital Inc. (for more information, please refer to pages 19–20). We aim to gain further growth opportunities in the Japanese market by providing one-stop service in all areas of digital marketing through Dentsu Digital Inc. 012 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents About Dentsu Seeking growth opportunities through contribution to the revitalization of Japan In association with the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games, there will be numerous world sports events held in Japan up to 2020 and beyond. Moreover, various action plans, such as “Vision of the Future Society Brought by Accelerated Advancement of Intelligence in ICT” and “Infrastructure Improvement in Metropolitan Tokyo,” are gaining momentum in Japan toward 2020. Through our commitment to these social projects, which are not purely in the advertising domain, we will contribute to their success, as well as to the growth and realization of innovation in Japan and, ultimately, the revitalization of the “Japan” brand. Toward 2017 As a result of the above-mentioned initiatives, we made good progress according to the mediumterm management plan and in moving toward achieving our 2017 KPI goals. Centering around our Japan business while making the best of the global coverage of DAN, we continue to focus on innovation and new challenges to further expand our business. Furthermore, we will improve our integrated problem-solving ability and revenue-creation ability in order to become a partner that supports its clients’ success in diverse ways. Progress of medium-term management plan (from FY2013 to FY2017) FY2012 CY2015 (pro forma) FY2017 (Actual) (Actual) (Target) Gross Profit 7.0% 3-5% Organic Growth Rate Gross Profit 43% 54.3% 55% or higher International Business Ratio Gross Profit 24% 34% 35% or higher Digital Domain*¹ Ratio Underlying Operating Profit 17% 21.1% 20% or higher Operating Margin*² Note: The fiscal period of FY2012 is from April 1 to March 31. Dentsu Inc. and its subsidiaries with closing dates other than December 31 changed their closing dates to December 31 in fiscal 2015. *1 Digital domain: Internet-related marketing services and the contracted development and sales, etc., of the IT system *2 Underlying operating profit operating margin: Underlying operating profit ÷ Gross profit × 100 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 013 Contents Special Feature T h e D e n t s u C G a r p o a u b p i 's l i t y C r t e o a t e v a l u e s 014 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Special Feature OUTPUT The Dentsu Group’s Capability to Create Values Value creation The Dentsu Group’s Value Creating Process Dentsu’s strengths The success of clients’ businesses INPUT Source of value creation Contribution to an Business affluent life through model communication Global network Social issues and business Enhancing our challenges Good Innovation. value-creating ability Realization of a One P&L sustainable society Capabilities by business domain Development of resilient infrastructure and promotion of innovation Digital shift in marketing activities of clients Formulation of sustainable consumption and production patterns Personnel development Changes in consumer behavior, diversified consumer needs, marketing communications, the impact of the activities on consumers, Business domain ▶ Medium-term management plan management of the social impact of the supply chain P.009-013 Climate change and mitigation Integrated of its impact, etc. communication Reduction of the environmental design ▶ Medium-term CSR strategy 2020 burdens of business activities P.049 Eradication of poverty and hunger, and elimination of domestic and interstate disparities Expansion of the community to develop business activities on a global scale ▶ Corporate governance P.035-043 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 015 Contents Special Feature It is the Dentsu Group’s social mission to develop and implement all kinds of solutions for the success of clients’ businesses. Not only are we responsible for the success of clients’ businesses, but we are also responsible for the social development and innovation of society as a whole. Under the medium-term management plan, Dentsu 2017 and Beyond, the Group takes on challenges that exceed the traditional business framework through strengthening competitiveness in the digital domain. The Group also hones its integrated problem-solving and revenue-generating capabilities, aiming at creation of new social value. Additionally, under the Dentsu Group Medium-term CSR strategy 2020, formulated in December 2015, we provide responsible marketing communications services and engage in a wide range of CSR activities in collaboration with our business partners within the supply chain. By improving the ESG value in conjunction with our business activities, we pursue the realization of a better society. 016 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Special Feature [Japan] Source of Value-Creating Capability: Solid Business Foundation Competitiveness in the Market – Japan The Dentsu Group’s leading position in Japan derives from success in combining our creative and execution capabilities with the creation of innovative solutions. In addition, the global platform has further strengthened the business foundation of the Dentsu Group by capturing the untapped needs of major Japanese companies, the principal clients of Dentsu Inc., looking to expand their business outside Japan, as well as the needs of major global companies, the principal clients of DAN, seeking to enter the Japanese market from outside Japan. We take advantage of the movements, actions and sports events taking place around Japan and continue to seek growth opportunities in Japan business through contribution to the revitalization of Japan. Future movements, actions, and sports events taking place around Japan 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 and Beyond Sophistication of various services toward 2020 brought by accelerated advancement of intelligence in ICT in future society Movements and actions related to Social infrastructure improvement toward the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games TOKYO 2020 and digital society Expansion of content distribution on the Internet (sports and entertainment, etc.) Host for 2024 Host for 2026 Olympic and Paralympic Games Rio (Summer) Pyeonchang (Winter) Tokyo (Summer) Beijing (Winter 2022) will be chosen will be chosen Hangzhou Asian Games Sapporo (Winter) Jakarta (Summer) (Summer 2022) FIFA World Cup™ Russia France (Women’s) Qatar (2022) World Sports Events FIFA Club World Cup Japan UAE UAE World Championships London Doha Oregon (2021) in Athletics World Aquatics Championships Budapest Gwangju Fukuoka (2021) FIVB Volleyball World Japan (Women’s) Championship Rugby World Cup Japan Commencement of practical Other major events inside and G7 Ise-Shima EXPO Astana 2017 World Masters broadcasting for EXPO 2020 Dubai outside Japan Summit (Kazakhstan) Games Kansai (2021) 4K/8K ultra-highdefinition televisions Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 017 Contents Special Feature Japan business of the Dentsu Group pursues the vision to increase clients’ corporate value and disseminate such corporate value to the world from Japan Yoshio Takada Director and Executive Vice President The Dentsu Group’s Japan business is a unique operating model. It is neither a brand agency nor a media agency. We deliver solutions to the myriad challenges clients face—a business model so unique that it might be called “Dentsu business.” Through this model, we have fostered trusting relationships with more than 6,000 clients in Japan and built a solid business foundation and competitiveness in the Japanese market. By making full use of ideas and digital technology, the Dentsu Group has recently gained capability in delivering solutions with greater values. The following are just a few examples of such capabilities: • Deepening digital connections between clients and the consumers who enjoy clients’ content, and producing new experiences and contents • Promptly providing optimal contents and advertisements for consumers by leveraging technologies, such as AI (artificial intelligence) • Creating digital connections between clients and the foreigners planning trips to Japan, prior to their visits In 2014, Dentsu was designated as the exclusive marketing agency for the Tokyo Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games (Tokyo 2020). In relation to the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games, nationwide initiatives that cover not just sports but also culture, urban development, and technology, among other areas, will begin in the fall of 2016. By making positive commitments to clients’ business activities—not only as the exclusive marketing agency, but also as a leading solution provider in Japan—we continuously work on addressing the social challenges in Japan, further enhancing the business foundation and increasing our competitiveness. We aim at expanding the solutions we hone in Japan through “Dentsu business” toward 2020 to the global offices of the Dentsu Group in order to further increase the corporate value while also creating and disseminating the new value of Japan to the world. 018 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Special Feature [Japan] Capability to Increase the Value-Creating Capability: Digital Evolution of Digital Marketing Amid the acceleration of the shift toward utilizing digital solutions in clients’ marketing activities, needs in the advertising industry’s digital domain are becoming more diversified and sophisticated. The roles played by agencies are increasingly expanding, encompassing the following: • Programmatic trading in the media buying domain • Digital solutions, including creative and content-related services • Data analysis that contributes to business decision-making and consumer engagement strategies Under these circumstances, the Dentsu Group continues to work to improve its capabilities and quality of service. On the other hand, there is growing importance to integrate these capabilities. While advances in digitalization and the evolution of various technologies are transforming consumer behavior patterns, the execution of integrated digital marketing—which organically links each process and individual measure of marketing activities that, until now, functioned separately—is becoming the most crucial issue for corporate marketing activities. At the same time, marketing services agencies like the Dentsu Group are expected to provide integrated and specialized support services. To respond to this changing environment, Dentsu restructured its digital-related functions and established the Digital Marketing Center in January 2016. In July 2016, we established Dentsu Digital Inc., a new specialist digital marketing company, by way of the Digital Marketing Center absorbing Dentsu e-marketing One Inc. and Nextage Dentsu Inc. Dentsu e-marketing One Inc. specializes in advertisement planning in the digital domain and business model support services, while Nextage Dentsu Inc. mainly provides digital performance marketing services, such as performance-based advertising, for business expansion of clients. Dentsu Digital, in collaboration with other Dentsu Group companies, will focus on accelerating the capture of demand in the expanding market for digital marketing, as well as in the existing advertising market. Specifically, Dentsu Digital provides a wide range of services, including consulting services, to improve ROI by utilizing digital marketing and the integrated service, from development to operation, in the fields of CRM, owned media management, and EC support. Taking advantage of the total strength of the Dentsu Group, we will continue to deliver consistent services, from strategic planning to implementation, for major clients. Business domains of Dentsu Digital Inc. 3 features Provide advice to the client and support formulation of strategic alternatives Consulting Social media Mass publishing Audience Data of Event participants Prospective Purchasing Customers data data data site visits data customers data data data Establishment of systems and incorporation of new functions and Development and specifications Marketing platform implementation Continuously carry Data analysis Acquisition Social Owned EC site CRM out and support measures media implementation of advertisement management, PDCA Management cycle, contents marketing and others Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 019 Contents Special Feature Aiming to become a leading digital marketing company Toshiya Oyama Executive Officer, Dentsu Inc. CEO, Dentsu Digital Inc. The evolution of digital technology and devices has significantly changed consumer behavior given that all things and information are connected to the Internet, as represented by the “Internet of Things.” Under such unprecedented market change, clients that previously focused on individual marketing processes have started to focus on linking them organically at each stage in an effort to maximize effectiveness and efficiency. On the other hand, the Internet, mainly performance-based advertising, has grown into media now second only to television, and digital market-related spending outside of the traditional advertising market—such as business and IT consulting, Big Data analytics, support for marketing automation, and support for e-commerce—has expanded greatly. In light of the above circumstances, Dentsu Inc. has established Dentsu Digital Inc., a new digital company that provides a one-stop digital marketing solution. Dentsu Digital Inc. will provide functions that include consulting, the development and implementation of marketing initiatives, and operational and execution support for client companies pursuing digital transformation. It will also develop integrated customer journey solutions, from the discovery of potential customers and customer acquisition through to customer relationship management—and build platforms to support them. Furthermore, Dentsu Inc. will strive to provide solutions on a global scale in collaboration with DAN by accelerating technology development and data acquisition. In addition to investment activities and technological development to maintain state-of-the art capabilities, Dentsu Digital will acquire and develop digital marketing professionals with the right experiences and skills. By closely coordinating the experiences and skills with Dentsu’s distinctive capabilities in marketing, creativity, and media—capabilities that competing consulting firms and IT companies cannot offer— we aim to become a leading digital marketing company in both name and reality. 020 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Special Feature [Japan] Capability to Increase the Value Creating Capability: Sports Marketing Creating Movement in Society Our many years of experience and achievements in the area of sports marketing are significant factors in value creation of the Dentsu Group. We believe this accomplishment is underpinned by our highly esteemed, unique approach as an advertising agency that creates major movement centered around excitement inspired by sports. We will continue to strengthen these activities and increase the outreach to society through sports. Sports marketing that Dentsu Group is engaged in: © Tokyo Marathon Foundation © JFA National match against Afghanistan, starting members, March 24, 2016 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 021 Contents Special Feature We will contribute to the success of clients’ businesses and further development of sports by providing solutions utilizing sports Kiyoshi Nakamura Executive Officer The Dentsu Group is involved in a wide variety of sports events, from world-headlining events such as the Olympic Games, FIFA World Cup™, and IAAF World Championships in Athletics to national events such as the Tokyo Marathon. We maintain good long-term relationships with international sports governing bodies, including the International Olympic Committee (IOC), International Paralympic Committee (IPC), Fédération Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF), and Fédération Internationale de Natation (FINA). These relationships have given us access to an assortment of rights, such as broadcasting and marketing rights. In recent years, Dentsu has continued to expand its sports business, mainly through our successful efforts to secure broadcasting rights from the IOC to sell to our clients in some parts of Asia and Central Asia and through event production for the FIFA Club World Cup in the Middle East and Africa. In Japan, we are involved in the development and sale of broadcasting and marketing rights for many sports organizations, including the Japanese Olympic Committee (JOC), with which we have enjoyed a long relationship. With regard to football, in addition to the sponsorship package for Japan’s national team, we acquired exclusive rights to sell the broadcasting and marketing rights for J. League. Dentsu leverages its close business relationships with sports associations and federations in Japan and globally to offer clients unique and powerful solutions utilizing sports. In the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games, Dentsu Inc. has taken on a major responsibility to contribute to the Games’ success by providing support in various areas, such as formulating a marketing plan and conducting sponsorship sales, as its exclusive marketing agent. We will make efforts in creating a legacy, ensuring the benefits of the Tokyo Olympic and Paralympic Games last after 2020, and striving to improve the significance of sports. For the Dentsu Group, the Paralympic Games are just the start of concerted efforts to contribute to the development of the sports practiced by challenged people. The Rugby World Cup is also coming up in 2019, and FINA World Aquatics Championships will be held in Fukuoka in 2021. The Dentsu Group has a record of managing numerous international sports events, as well as a proven history of having the associated know-how. Bringing together the abundant experience we have accumulated thus far, we will support sports organizations and sponsor companies in order to ensure the success of sporting events. 022 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Special Feature [International] Source of Value-Creating Capability: Diversifying the Portfolio on a Global Basis Diversifying the portfolio on a global basis Progress and future strategy Tim Andree Director and Executive Vice President, Dentsu Inc. Executive Chairman, Dentsu Aegis Network Steady progress in diversifying the portfolio The goal of the Dentsu Group is to evolve into a truly global network at the forefront of marketing convergence—one of our strategic objectives toward this goal is “diversifying the portfolio on a global basis.” Our success to date in achieving this objective can be measured by the fact that we now operate in around 140 countries, from just 27 in 2005, and employ over 47,000 people globally, from 14,500 in 2005. In addition, we now have a diversified geographic revenue profile with 46% of our gross profit for the fiscal 2015 generated in Japan, 20% in EMEA, 18% in the Americas, and 16% in APAC. As shown above, we are making steady progress in diversifying the portfolio; however, given the fast-moving nature of our industry, we need to continuously drive toward this strategic ambition. Capability expansion in the digital domain In the global advertising market, digital media is continuously growing. For 10 key markets—including the UK, Ireland, Canada, and Australia—digital has already become the principal media channel for advertising expenditures, driven by the high demand for mobile and online video advertising, especially across social media platforms, and the rise of programmatic buying. Under such circumstances, the Dentsu Aegis Network is expanding its digital capability portfolio through acquisitions and by continuing to invest internally in hiring digital talent and supplementing our product suite with cutting-edge digital tools. In Japan, we established a new company, Dentsu Digital Inc., which provides a total package for clients across digital channels and platforms. Dentsu Digital collaborates with other key business units to ensure our clients have access to the full suite of Dentsu capabilities. Integration of newly acquired capabilities According to Carat’s latest forecasts for the industry outlook (published in September, 2016), global advertising expenditure is expected to grow by 4.4% in 2016. This growth is primarily driven by the continued solid growth of digital media (15.6%) with its share of adspend expected to be 27.7% in 2016. On the other hand, television is expected to remain resilient with a steady 41.1% market share forecast for 2016 as the upcoming Olympic Games and US elections are expected to drive considerable viewership. Importantly, advertisers continue to place significant emphasis on the integration of their marketing plans across these media platforms. While continuing to invest in our digital capabilities, we will also integrate the newly acquired capabilities and skills into the services and operating model of the Dentsu Group. Furthermore, we will enhance our global infrastructure by strengthening partnerships with global media owners with an emphasis on mobile-centric, data-rich, and video-first. In this rapidly evolving and complex environment, through these efforts, the Dentsu Group can continue to innovate for its clients, ensuring they have the best platforms. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 023 Contents Special Feature Continued promotion of intragroup talent migration Talent migration has been a key focus area for us in recent years. We have been successful in sharing some of our key talent between Dentsu Inc. in Tokyo and our global operations at Dentsu Aegis Network. Much of our initial focus in this cross-knowledge transfer has been on the Asia Pacific region, which has the most immediate synergy potential across the Group. We now have over 150 Dentsu Inc. employees, previously based in Tokyo, working across all of our international operations, four of whom manage the entire agency portfolios in those countries. In 2015, we initiated a pilot program to move some of our international talent to Tokyo, and today, we have a small number of people from Dentsu Aegis Network working in Tokyo. We will continue to drive these liquid talent programs as they promote collaboration and enhance the potential for crosslearning opportunities. 024 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Special Feature [International] Source of Value-Creating Capability: Transformation to Adapt to the Digital Economy Aiming at further growth and transformation to adapt to the digital economy Jerry Buhlmann Senior Vice President, Dentsu Inc. CEO, Dentsu Aegis Network Progress of the digital economy fundamentally changes the existing business The digital economy is the only growth certainty of the next five years. Digitally enabled business models, including omni-channel retail and the sharing and service economy, have become the dominant economic form, while traditional business models continue to be significantly disrupted. In the future, the most successful businesses will be those that can leverage the agility and speed of the digital economy, where data will become the new currency of business and hyper-connectivity will become even more predominant. This evolving environment will require businesses to develop and integrate systems, platforms, and transversal workings within their organizations, supported by a significant change in culture. Ultimately, businesses will need digital economy solutions—such as strategic consult, data, analytics, CRM, and customer experience—in order to be truly successful in an increasingly agile and fast world. Focus on strategic objectives and maintaining strong momentum Given a digital economy that advances with increasingly fast-paced changes, the Dentsu Group must maintain its positive momentum in operational and financial performance to remain well-positioned to access high-growth segments, capabilities, and geographies for our clients. We will achieve this objective by continuing to outperform the peer group in organic revenue growth and increasing our utilization of capital through a higher pace and volume of acquisition. Dentsu Aegis Network, while carrying out international business of the Dentsu Group, has consistently outperformed the peer-group average, on an organic revenue basis, by a factor of 2x to 3x over the last four years. DAN’s outperformance has been achieved through (1) leveraging our global scale and a consistent offering across our network, (2) ensuring an efficient and optimal utilization of capital— with a particular emphasis on acquisitions, and (3) using a unique operating model, which ensures we are truly differentiated from the peer group, and others. Furthermore, a key driver of our peer group outperformance over this period is a significant and consistent focus on our key strategic objectives: • Increase exposure to growth markets and segments • Build capability in the digital economy • Transform and broaden service offerings across clients • Grow international client base • Leverage the content and media transformation value chain • Lead, and outperform, in the top 20 markets • Build a scalable organization through innovation Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 025 Contents Special Feature By retaining our focus on these key strategic objectives, and targeting growth organically and through acquisitions, we aim to continue and build upon the positive momentum we have achieved in recent years. This momentum will help drive our business to the heart of the digital economy, maximizing value and impact for our clients while creating value for our stakeholders across the key value chains. Further growth and evolution by using One P&L Dentsu Aegis Network aims to realize a two-fold increase in revenue by 2020. During this timeframe, we expect our business to become a 100% digital economy business. To support our growth aspirations, we will continue building a scalable organization with an organizational structure that enables us to change rapidly. A key element of this is our unique operating model, “One P&L.” One P&L is enabled by a 1P&L per market structure and drives our integrated and specialized approach. To ensure we maintain our market leadership, we are implementing an evolved One P&L model across the business. Under the new model, we deliver broad systemization and integrated solutions while our global network brands and specialist local brands continue to be our interface with clients. The evolved One P&L model organizes our capabilities within the agency brands and enables our agencies to focus on building end-to-end solutions in specific sections of key capability areas. The organization will continue to be supported by a strong foundation of global platforms and global functions. Ultimately, our business will become a solutions business that drives consumer engagement through to transaction with full data and insight integrity. 026 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Special Feature [International] Capability to Increase the Value-Creating Capability: M&A Strategy to Accelerate Growth M&A strategy to accelerate growth of the global network Nick Priday CFO, Dentsu Aegis Network Emphasis on business expansion through M&A Our capital utilization strategy is focused on prioritizing the deployment of capital to drive the growth of the business—by investing in growing our organization and by delivering value-enhancing acquisitions. Acquisitions have helped to supplement our organic growth outperformance in recent years and will help us to achieve the capability transformation required as we move to the center of the digital economy. Specifically, we will continue to focus on the following through M&A: • Increasing exposure to faster-growing markets and segments • Building our presence in North America and China • Enhancing our service offerings, particularly across the digital landscape Clear strategy for acquisitions and target selection method We have a clear strategy for acquisitions—we target scale, geographic and capability in-fill, and innovation, focusing on digital in both emerging and major markets, particularly the US and China. Within the digital area, we are focused on strategic consult, data, analytics, CRM, performance marketing, and customer experience acquisition targets. We will continue to acquire smallto midsized bolt-on acquisitions while also looking at slightly larger deals. There are a number of elements in acquisition targeting: • Country management identifies and targets small, local deals. • Global brand management supports local management with smalland mid-sized deals. • Executive management is responsible for targeting midto large-sized strategic deals. All three teams are supported by central (London) and regional M&A teams. M&A teams manage a pipeline of 50–60 active deals, and we have a monthly review by an M&A Committee, chaired by Jerry Buhlmann, CEO, Dentsu Aegis Network. The teams are supported by well-established M&A policies, practices, and procedures. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 027 Contents Special Feature Successful M&A track record and management retention rate Since 2006, we have invested around £2 billion on over 200 acquisitions. We have a successful track record of executing and integrating deals, supported by well-managed structures and processes, and an experienced and integrated team. In addition, we have consistently delivered shareholder value through acquisitions. We have delivered an average Return on Invested Capital (ROI) of 14.1% on a portfolio basis from 2006 to 2014, which is more than double the Dentsu Inc.’s post-tax weightedaverage cost of capital (WACC). We also consider M&A an effective means to bring excellent talents into the Group. In this regard, we have a strong management retention record—with regard to acquisitions and investments since 2006, 71% of senior vendor management is still with the business. Of that number, 88% has stayed beyond earn-out expiry. In addition, around 50% of our senior operational management came into the business through acquisitions. We believe the Dentsu Group is attractive for vendors as our operating model enables quick integration and provides them with immediate opportunities. DAN’s acquisition investment (£m) 400 350.5 296.3 300 290.4 254.0 230.0 200 143.8 103.7 100 63.9 35.8 16.6 0 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 ■ Initial consideration + earn-outs paid in the year 028 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Special Feature [International] Capability to Increase the Value-Creating Capability: Business Expansion of the Dentsu Group Business Expansion of the Dentsu Group One area of our M&A focus is expansion of the services and acquisition of capabilities all across the digital domain. The particularly important fields are the brand commerce field to maximize consumer engagement through connections with various brands; the mobile field, which is growing rapidly worldwide; and the content marketing field to lead the consumer purchasing behavior to the products and services of client companies. The following examples illustrate the companies that the Dentsu Group has acquired in recent years. eCommera Global Limited (hereinafter “eCommera”) has strengths in the brand commerce field, developing e-commerce solutions for major international retailers and consumer goods manufacturers, as well as providing maintenance and consulting services. Headquartered in London, eCommera’s specialist team is active across the world, providing site management support for more than 150 e-commerce sites in 30 markets. Furthermore, eCommera has established development centers in Bulgaria and India. The Dentsu Group will deepen the collaborative relationship between eCommera and Isobar, integrate their e-commerce solutions technology, brand-building capabilities based on creative design and user experience, and consumer data analysis. This will contribute to maximizing the value of client brands. Mark Fagan CEO, eCommera Global Limited As part of the Dentsu Group, eCommera now has a much richer offering in the field of digital commerce. We are able to leverage Isobar’s brand-building capability and global scale to provide innovative best-in-class cross-channel solutions and guide clients on their journeys to success in an increasingly interconnected and complex brand commerce field. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 029 Contents Special Feature Fetch Media Limited (hereinafter “Fetch”) is a global full-service mobile agency specializing in mobile media planning and buying, and is highly rated for its expertise in advertising planning proposals that utilize mobile media and the buying of advertising space in particular. In addition to its London headquarters, the agency currently has offices in the US, Germany, and Hong Kong. It also has plans to further expand its base. Going forward, Fetch will promote further collaboration with the Dentsu Group’s global network brand companies specialized in mass media, digital media, OOH, creative, and other areas. James Connelly Co-founder and CEO, Fetch Media Limited Our acquisition by Dentsu Aegis Network was a logical next step for Fetch as we sought to deliver our ambitious growth plans and scale our business globally. Dentsu Group has a proven track record of growing digital businesses and a clear appreciation of the increasing importance of mobile in the media landscape. As part of the Dentsu Group, we remain fully focused on delivering world-class mobile capabilities on behalf of an increasing number of mobile-centric clients. UK-based branded content marketing agency John Brown Media Group Limited (hereinafter “John Brown Media”) provides highly credited content marketing services, particularly in the digital domain, to its portfolio of high-profile, multinational clients. In addition to its UK base, John Brown Media has offices in South Africa, Hong Kong, and Dubai, facilitating the expansion of innovative content marketing services on a global scale. The Dentsu Group has to date provided its clients with services in the digital performance domain through iProspect, one of the Group’s global network brands. The acquisition of John Brown Media, one of the world’s leading branded content agencies, will strengthen the cooperative relationship that the company already has with iProspect and other Group companies, and contribute to maximizing client ROI through highly differentiated value-added solutions. Andrew Hirsch CEO, John Brown Media Group Limited John Brown Media has been producing brilliant content for some of the world’s most prestigious brands for the last 20 years. As part of Dentsu Aegis Network, we have the ability to work alongside some of the world’s leading strategists to deliver smarter content and drive even better results for our clients. 030 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Special Feature [International] Capability to Increase the Value-Creating Capability: Network Brands Dentsu Group Brands That Enhance Our Capability The Dentsu Group has a unique operating model designed for marketing convergence and globalization, the major driving forces of the advertising world. This operating model is enabled by a one-P&L-per-country structure, unique in the industry, which empowers our local teams to offer highvalue-added and integrated services to clients at a local level, supported by a global infrastructure. A key element of this infrastructure is our nine global network and six specialist/multimarket agency brands, which deliver our integrated and specialist approach, supported by local agency brands in certain countries. The Group companies of the Dentsu Group collaborate seamlessly toward shared business goals, and our top-class professionals from various fields are incentivized to collaborate across agencies and countries, thus providing integrated and specialist client services. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 031 Contents Special Feature Global Network Brands Carat is the world’s largest media communications company with a presence in more than 100 countries. The company creates better business value for clients by maximizing media value. Dentsu Brand Agencies Advertising companies overseas with Dentsu in the name are Dentsu-branded agencies. Companies that specialize in a particular domain—such as digital, creative, PR, or consulting— are specialized-domain agencies. Dentsu Media As Dentsu’s overseas media agency network, Dentsu Media provides high-quality services to clients around the world through three networks—Media Palette, Media Cubic, and Media Matrix—and digital agency brands, including &c. iProspect is a digital performance marketing agency with a presence in 52 countries. The company supports clients in maximizing online marketing ROI. Isobar is a digital agency, focusing on brand commerce, with a presence in more than 45 countries. The company established the world’s largest global digital network by bringing together digital technologies from all over the world. Clients enjoy full support through Isobar’s outstanding digital marketing capabilities. Dentsu McGarry Bowen Never confined to existing methodologies or preconceptions, agency Dentsu McGarry Bowen always delivers unique insights and smart solutions. Boasting an excellent reputation for creative capabilities, the agency also puts effort into building new communication platforms. MKTG is a lifestyle marketing agency that has an edge in the activation area, focusing on providing consumers with brand experience and experienced value. DAN will enhance and strengthen MKTG as a core company of the Dentsu Group’s lifestyle marketing services. Posterscope is a media agency specializing in out-of-home (OOH) communications and has a presence in about 30 countries. The company’s OOH development expertise is based on an insightful grasp of the procurement behavior of consumers outside their homes. Vizeum is a media agency with excellence in communication planning, particularly involving digital media, and is active in more than 40 countries. The company works with other companies within the Dentsu Aegis Network to bring about innovative change in the ad communications of its clients. 032 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Special Feature Specialist/ Multimarket Brands Amnet With a presence in 33 countries, Amnet—the Dentsu Aegis Network trading desk—organically links all kinds of data to ensure more timely, perfectly targeted online advertising. Amplifi This media investment company raises value across all media—from television to print, digital, and radio—on a global basis, seeking to reinvent the supply side of media through investments, partnerships, and real-time bidding. Data2Decisions This consulting company draws on all types of marketing data and analyzes what has worked and what has not to maximize clients’ ROI. Mitchell Communications Group A communications and PR company, Mitchell Communications Group boasts a diverse client portfolio that includes some of the world’s top-tier corporations and high-profile brands. Covering a wide range of specialized fields, from consumer communications to corporate public relations, this company is known for delivering innovative ideas. 360i Championing the fusion of search marketing and social marketing, 360i has earned top marks in the industry as a next-generation digital agency. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 033 Contents Corporate Governance C o r p o r a t e G o v e r n a n c e 034 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Corporate Governance The Dentsu Group’s Management Structure The Japan business is spearheaded by Dentsu, while the international business is led by Dentsu Aegis Network (DAN), which includes Aegis’s and Dentsu’s legacy international businesses. Management Structure Tadashi Ishii Shoichi Nakamoto Representative Director, Director, President & CEO Senior EVP, CFO Yoshio Takada Tim Andree Jerry Buhlmann Director, Director, Senior Vice President, Executive Vice President, Executive Vice President, Dentsu Inc. Dentsu Inc. Dentsu Inc. CEO, Executive Chairman, Dentsu Aegis Network Dentsu Aegis Network Japan business International business Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 035 Contents Corporate Governance Dentsu’s Corporate Governance Implementation Structure Dentsu Inc., as a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee, transfers authority for important business execution in part from the Board of Directors to the directors to establish an expeditious and effective business execution system and aims to enhance the supervisory function of directors through the Board of Directors. As of March 30, 2016, nine directors (of which three are independent outside directors) comprise the Board of Directors, and four of them (of which three are outside directors) are the Audit and Supervisory Committee members. Diversity in experience, insight, ability, gender, etc., are among the factors considered in nominating members of the Board of Directors. Dentsu has introduced a Director and Executive Officer System to clarify roles and responsibilities and to reinforce the effectiveness of its management and operations systems. We established the Executive Management Committee, which consists of the representative director and executive officers, including executive directors, and is positioned under the board of directors. The committee serves to make decisions on important matters relating to management and conducting preliminary deliberation on the resolution items of the board of directors. Furthermore, we regard the meeting body, to which authority is delegated from the Executive Management Committee, as Key Committee Sessions. The Business Supervision Committee for the Japan business division and the Dentsu Aegis Network Board of Directors for the international business division are regarded as Key Committee Sessions. By having separate committees, we divide the business execution structure into the Japan business division and the international business division and delegate the revenue responsibility and authority respectively. Corporate Governance Structure General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal Appointment/Dismissal Cooperation Audits Audit and Supervisory Independent Auditors Board of Directors Committee Selection/ Supervision Delegates Requests cooperation Audit and Supervisory Representative Committee Office Audits Director Explanation Audits Selection/ Supervision Respective Divisions/ Internal Audit Office Executive Officers Respective Departments Internal audits Executive Management Committee Group Companies in Japan Delegates Delegates Internal audits Key committee Key committee sessions sessions Business Supervision DAN Board of Directors Committee Japan business International business departments departments Delegates Key committee sessions CSR Committee / Investment Committee / Corporate Organization & Personnel Committee <Business execution structure> 036 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Corporate Governance Change of the Governance Structure to a Company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee Dentsu Inc. changed from a company with an audit and supervisory board to a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee on the closing of the General Meeting of Shareholders in March 2016. This change in the Company’s corporate governance structure is in response to the implementation of the “Corporate Governance Code” by the Tokyo Stock Exchange on June 1, 2015. The corporate governance structure of Dentsu was well-organized as a company with an audit and supervisory board. However, in order to enhance audit and monitoring functions and the corporate governance system, as voluntary efforts, we decided to have independent outside directors comprise at least onethird of the Board of Directors, along with transitioning into a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee. Due to the change into a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee, the main role of the Board of Directors become supervision of business execution, which enables expeditious decisionmaking and effective business execution by persons who perform an executive role. With this change, the Dentsu Group aims to improve the soundness and transparency of management and expeditious decision-making in order to further increase the corporate value. Regarding the Dentsu’s Corporate Governance Implementation Structure In 2016, the corporate community is continuously facing a firestorm of corporate governance (CG) reform from the previous year. The “degree of penetration” of the revised Companies Act and the CG Code, which were implemented and became applicable in Japan in May and June 2015, respectively, is currently being put to the test. Dentsu has implemented revolutionary change that is not limited to governance reform. Toshiaki Hasegawa, In addition to changing the accounting closing date from the end of March to the end of Lawyer December, and applying the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) as its accounting Dentsu Inc., standards, the Company also changed its governance structure to a company with an Audit Director and Supervisory Committee, which was created as a result of a legislative amendment on the Member of the Audit and Companies Act. These changes are made for the purpose of strengthening internal control and Supervisory Committee (Outside) governance of the entire group. Representative of T.Hasegawa & Co., Law Offices What is directly related to myself is that I resigned from the office of auditor and was appointed as an outside director and as a member of the Audit and Supervisory Committee at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on March 30, 2016. Some people may view that it is merely a change of the job title and that the responsibility stays just about the same as an officer in charge of audit. However, from the governance enhancement point of view, I realize significant progress. Since a member of the Audit and Supervisory Committee is also a director, I will participate and exercise the voting rights for a resolution at the Board of Directors meeting. While articulating my position on the pros and cons of management decisions, I am also responsible for auditing legality of the Board of Directors’ execution of duties, as a member of the Audit and Supervisory Committee. This system, that the directors establish an auditing committee, is in line with the global standard. On the flip side of the coin, the management and supervisory system in a form of a company with an audit and supervisory board adopted in Japan was so unique and confusing for people outside of Japan. Through this drastic reform, I believe the Dentsu Group has created a governance structure suitable for a truly global company. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 037 Contents Corporate Governance Response to Implementation of the Corporate Governance Code Formulation of the Corporate Governance Policy In response to implementation of the Corporate Governance Code, Dentsu Inc. (the “Company”) has newly formulated its Corporate Governance Policy in order to put effective corporate governance into practice to fulfill its responsibilities to its stakeholders (such as its shareholders, clients, employees, and local communities), ensuring sustainable growth and enhancing midto long-term corporate value. Corporate Governance Policy ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/whoweare/cgp.html The Appointment of Senior Management and the Nomination of Director Candidates In nominating directors who are not members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee, the representative director will submit his candidate plan and, in order to secure transparency, explain to the independent outside directors, who are members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee, the reason, suitability, and other factors for such nomination. Candidates shall be decided upon by the Board of Directors, who will consider the opinions of such independent outside directors. In nominating directors who are members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee, the representative director will submit his or her candidate plan, and after approval from the Audit and Supervisory Committee, candidates shall be decided upon by the Board of Directors. For the policies and procedures for nominating director candidates, please refer to the Corporate Governance Report. Corporate Governance Report ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/csr/pdf/governance_201603_en.pdf Formulation of the Independence Standards for Outside Directors In order to secure transparency of the Group’s corporate governance structure, in November 2015, the Company formulated the Independence Standards for Outside Directors in accordance with the following items. The Company deems that any directors who fall under any of the following items do not meet the standards for independent outside directors. 1. Persons who have certain relationships with the Company or its subsidiaries 2. Persons who hold the position of director or other executive of a corporation and who also perform an executive role in the Company 3. Principal business partners 4. Auditors of the Company 5. Outside experts of the Company 6. Persons who received donations from the Company 7. Major shareholders 8. Persons who have previously fallen under items 2 through 6 9. Close relatives Independence Standards for Outside Directors at Dentsu Inc. ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/whoweare/isod.html Self-Evaluation of the Board’s Effectiveness As a Whole and Disclosure of the Summary of the Results With the transition to a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee starting this business year (from FY2016), every year, directors will conduct self-evaluations with respect to the effectiveness and appropriateness of the Board of Directors’ monitoring of the management of the Company and the performance of their own duties as directors. The Board of Directors will analyze and evaluate the effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a whole based on the results of the self-evaluations. An overview of such analysis and evaluation will be disclosed. 038 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Corporate Governance Training Policy of Directors and Auditors Directors and executive officers shall be given opportunities to gain indispensable knowledge for their offices and for continuous training so that they may appropriately perform their roles and responsibilities. Currently, when directors (excluding outside directors) or executive officers assume their roles, the Company provides them with lectures conducted by inside and outside experts with respect to the Company’s strategies of management, business, finance, and other applicable fields—as well as important matters and laws and regulations related thereto—and enables them to acquire and update the knowledge required for their offices. They are also given opportunities through discussion to find issues to be addressed by the Company group and solutions thereto. Moreover, after becoming directors or auditors, they are given opportunities to hold study seminars every month to gain the latest information regarding the best practices for various megatrend issues, with an emphasis on the positioning of the ESG in the Corporate Governance Code. When new outside directors assume their offices, they are provided with an explanation of the business, organization structure, and other related matters of the Company, and after assuming their offices, the necessary information related to issues to be addressed by the Company shall be periodically provided to them. Remuneration Board policies and procedures in determining the remuneration of senior management and directors Concerning remuneration for directors who are not members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee, a performance-linked framework is in place that considers encouragement of achieving goals set forth in the medium-term management plan in order to focus on the midto long-term profit of shareholders and to enhance motivation for maximizing the corporate value of the Company. The portion of the performance-linked bonuses under the model business results accounts for 40% of the total remuneration. The index for performance evaluation of business results is consolidated operating profit, and the total amount of bonus remuneration varies in accordance with the level of achievement of the budget. The total amount of fixed monthly salaries and performance-linked bonuses shall be within the remuneration limit approved at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders. The amount of remuneration of each director who is not a member of the Audit and Supervisory Committee (including that for the role of executive officers) will be determined by a resolution of the Board of Directors within the above limit of remuneration, to be approved at the same General Meeting of Shareholders. In order to ensure transparency, such decision will be made considering the opinions of the members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee who are independent directors after explaining to them the reasonableness of the amount of remuneration. Remuneration to directors who are members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee will consist solely of a fixed monthly salary in exchange for the execution of their duties. The gross amount of this monthly salary will be determined within the remuneration limit approved at the General Meeting of Shareholders. The amount of remuneration of each director who is a member of the Audit and Supervisory Committee will be determined through consultation by directors who are members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee, within the above limit of remuneration to be approved at the same General Meeting of Shareholders. Total Amount of Remuneration for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Board Directors All Officers Members (of which are Outside Audit & (of which are Outside Directors) (of which are Outside Officers) Supervisory Board Members) Monthly 274 million yen: 12 persons 75 million yen: 5 persons 349 million yen: 17 persons Remuneration (10 million yen) (2 persons) (21 million yen) (3 persons) (31 million yen) (5 persons) 195 million yen: 9 persons yen: persons 195 million yen: 9 persons Bonuses ( yen) ( persons) ( yen) ( persons) ( yen) ( persons) 469 million yen: 12 persons 75 million yen: 5 persons 544 million yen: 17 persons Total (10 million yen) (2 persons) (21 million yen) (3 persons) (31 million yen) (5 persons) 1. The annual remuneration amount for Directors was approved by shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 27, 2013. The resolution limits the amount to 1,200 million yen per year (of which up to 18 million yen per year is applied to Outside Directors). 2. The annual remuneration amount for Audit & Supervisory Board Members was approved by shareholders at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 27, 2013. The resolution limits the amount to 132 million yen per year. 3. The totals for fixed monthly remuneration include amounts for one Director who resigned at the conclusion of the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 26, 2015. 4. Bonuses in the table above shows the amount approved at the meeting of the Board of Directors held in February 2016 within the limit of remuneration for Directors stated in Note 1. above. The Company does not pay bonuses to Outside Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. 5. With the approval by the 167th Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on March 30, 2016, the Company has been migrated to a company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee. At the same meeting, it was also approved that the maximum limit of the annual remuneration of the directors who are not members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee shall be ¥1.2 billion, and the maximum limit of the annual remuneration of the Directors who are members of the Audit and Supervisory Committee shall be ¥150 million. There is no payment of bonuses to Outside Directors. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 039 Contents Corporate Governance Communication with Shareholders and Investors The Company is working on enhancing its midto long-term The General Meeting of Shareholders corporate value by disclosing various information—such as management strategy, financial information, and non-financial information—to shareholders and investors in a timely and proper manner and by continuously engaging in constructive dialogue with shareholders and investors through IR activities. In addition to holding earnings presentations twice a year, we aim for wide-ranging, two-way communication with shareholders and investors through individual briefings for institutional investors and analysts in Japan and overseas. Policy on Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/ir/stockandratings/constructivedialogue.html Exhibition panel for the reception at the General Meeting of Shareholders Capital Policy and Shareholder Return Dentsu employs a capital policy aimed at improving its intrinsic corporate value. To that end, it pursues sustainable profit growth with aggressive M&A into growth areas in and outside Japan as a top priority for capital allocation. Furthermore, through a combination of continued dividend stability and agile treasury stock acquisition, Dentsu aims to consistently improve shareholder returns, raise capital efficiency, and improve ROE in the medium term. General Meeting of Shareholders At Dentsu’s General Meeting of Shareholders, we make efforts to ensure that shareholders’ voting rights are exercised smoothly. This is done through the prompt delivery of notices of General Meetings of Shareholders, introduction of voting through the Internet, and other measures. At the 167th General Meeting of Shareholders on March 30, 2016, 307 shareholders attended to hold deliberations. Earnings Presentation Dentsu places importance on its relationships with analysts and investors. We hold earnings presentations twice a year to explain our financial situation, general overview and management policies. Additionally, the documents used at earnings presentations are posted on the Dentsu website and made widely available to general investors. Earnings presentation materials ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/ir/library/conferencematerials/ Composition of Shareholders The total number of Dentsu Ownership and Distribution of Shares shareholders is 31,928, as of the end of December 2015, and Japanese individuals Japanese financial the percentage of total shares and others institutions issued by type of shareholder (incl. Treasury stock) 28.07% 14.32% is shown to the right. Financial instruments Foreign institutional firm investors 2.25% 28.45% Other Japanese corporations 26.90% 040 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Corporate Governance Dentsu Group Internal Control System We believe that the Dentsu Group Internal Control System encourages compliance among directors, executive officers, and employees while supporting continuous corporate development as Dentsu meets its social responsibilities. The Company has established the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct to ensure that the execution of duties by directors, executive officers, and employees of the Company and its subsidiaries conform to laws and regulations and that business is conducted appropriately. The Code also forms the basis of the Internal Control System. Based on the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct, the Company familiarizes all employees with the relevant business procedures through regulations, manuals, and training. Check items relating to risk management and compliance have been created, and inspections are carried out from various perspectives, discovering problems and working on improvements. In addition, a similar internal control structure is being deployed in Group companies in order to maintain and improve the corporate value of the entire Dentsu Group. Dentsu Group Code of Conduct ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/csr/overview/codeofconduct.html Risk Management The Dentsu Group, as a system to comprehensively manage the risks of the entire group, formed the CSR Committee chaired by the director and executive officer. The CSR Committee monitors the status of the Group’s risk management efforts and manages the PDCA cycle of the efforts, including development and implementation of the policies and risk management process, monitoring, and improvement for continuous enhancement. Dentsu established the Risk Management Rules to maintain and improve a structure that prevents risks from becoming reality and precludes the spread of damage or loss while minimizing the impact of risk progression in the event risks become reality. The Company prioritizes key risks and formulates concrete measures that can be put into effect should a response be required. For each key risk, a responsible department is assigned, and such departments develop and implement the response measures to reduce risks; put together a mid-term progress report, the yearend self-assessment, and the guidelines for the succeeding year; and report to the CSR Committee. Newly extracted key risks and potential risks that may become reality in the mediumto long-term perspective are reported to the Executive Management Committee from the CSR Committee. After confirming the status of risks—such as being avoided, reduced, transferred, or retained—the CSR Committee develops and reviews the response measures. In prioritizing the key risks, the Dentsu Group conducts quantitative and qualitative analysis using a risk map. Taking into consideration the frequency and impact of each risk and implementing correlation analysis, we identify key risks. Potential risk that may occur from a medium and long-term perspective and the response status of the Dentsu Group Potential risk Outline Mitigation plan and implementation status In case of crisis—such as disaster, accident, large-scale system •Developing the initial response manual failure, and health hazard—there is a risk that the business •Developing the management plans for the taskforce Response to large-scale disasters continuity plan (BCP) and contingency plan do not function •Streamlining the safety confirmation operation by centralization properly and that time is required to resume the business. of the safety information system The global strategy may be delayed due to flaw in the •Building an effective governance structure Insufficient coping with international business management systems and inadequate •Fostering global human resources globalization dealing with the measures and local legal system, etc., in the •Strengthening the compliance system countries and regions where the Company engages in business. •Setting the no-overtime days policy Reduction of the workload Health hazards or a decline in productivity of the employees •Promoting the planning and taking of annual paid leave of employees may occur due to long working hours. •Implementing the “work style innovation.” Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 041 Contents Corporate Governance Information Security Development of an Information Security Management System Dentsu established the Dentsu Group Basic Policy for Information Security and established a very strict information security management system to protect important data held by the Dentsu Group, as well as personal and other information received from clients. Based on this basic policy, the Company established the Information Management Rules and the relevant detailed rules. The Company thoroughly informs officers and employees of these rules and specifies compliance with them. Additionally, the Company engages in detailed activities to raise awareness, such as training for new graduate employees, briefings for employees, and distribution of videos and pamphlets. In particular, taking into consideration the importance of managers in information management, Dentsu also established a new manager training course to educate managers on their roles and responsibilities. To further strengthen the management of the entire group, the Dentsu Head Office in Tokyo received BS 7799-Part 2:2002 certification for information management security, the predecessor of ISO/IEC 27001:2005, in March 2003. This was expanded to the entire Company when the Kansai and Chubu offices received the same certification in April 2005. In 2015, Dentsu went on to implement ISO/IEC27001:2013 and JIS Q 27001:2014, the international standards for information security management systems (ISMS). As of March 31, 2015, Dentsu Inc. and 50 Dentsu Group companies in Japan have this certification. Through such measures, Dentsu strives to implement stringent information security management for the entire Dentsu Group to flexibly respond to the ever-changing and increasingly sophisticated environment of information and communication technology. Basic Policy for Information Security Management System Dentsu Group Basic Policy for Information Security All of the companies in the Dentsu Group will address information security management as a unified group. In all business areas, the Dentsu Group will address information security management in order to protect important information held by our group. 1. Compliance with Laws Based on requests from our stakeholders, including clients and other business partners, we will properly address information security management to ensure compliance with the relevant laws and regulations. In particular, personal information will be strictly managed. 2. Strict Information Management We will strictly manage information to prevent any leakage, loss, damage or misuse of information, such as confidential client information and personal information. We will share such business information only among employees and group companies with the appropriate clearances. In selecting our subcontractors, we will fully consider how they are addressing information security. 3. Maintaining & Improving Achievement Level We will maintain the current security level we have already achieved and improve it through our PDCA cycle activities. We will also enlighten and educate all of our employees, from executives downward, about information security so that they can acquire the appropriate knowledge and judgment. 4. Adaptation to Environmental Changes We will flexibly adapt to the environmental changes in our group’s business areas, information assets handled by our group, and the information and communication technology (ICT) field, and will update our information security management system and rules accordingly. 042 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Corporate Governance Promotion of Compliance Compliance Promotion System To promote the fair business activities in carrying out the business on a global scale, the Company formulated the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct based on the elements of the Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises of the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). Under Dentsu’s compliance system, if directors or executive officers discover a violation of the prevailing laws or come across any other serious compliance-related issue, it is imperative that they report it without delay to the Board of Directors or the Executive Management Committee. The Audit and Supervisory Committee must also be immediately advised of the circumstances. If the Audit and Supervisory Committee states opinions on the Company’s compliance system or require steps to improve the system, directors and executive officers must respond without delay and make the recommended improvements. Additionally, in order to maintain and improve the compliance system of employees, the Compliance Digest booklet compliance department develops the rules and manuals, and conducts various training programs under the leadership of the CSR Committee in order to ensure complete compliance awareness among employees. The Compliance Line was established as the designated contact point to receive reports on legal violations within the Company. The Compliance Line has an in-house contact point, as well as an external contact point where calls are handled by a law office. Operational and information management structures are in place to ensure that those seeking consultation or reporting violations are not penalized in any way. In fiscal 2015, a total of 15 reports and proposals (fiscal 2014: 10 cases, fiscal 2013: 13 cases, fiscal 2012: 21 cases) were made by Dentsu and Dentsu Group company employees and dealt with by the Company. In order to prevent illicit behavior, the Dentsu Head Office held a Compliance Caravan and newly produced and showed an educational video to raise employee awareness. Additionally, we set up a compliance website on the Company intranet and distributed the Compliance Digest booklet to all Group companies in order to promote understanding of the importance of compliance issues. The Company also holds compliance training every year for new and mid-career hires at Dentsu and Dentsu Group companies in order to foster compliance awareness. Basic Policy on the Rejection of Antisocial Forces Dentsu and all Dentsu Group companies established the Basic Policy on the Rejection of Organized Crime Groups and Other Antisocial Forces, articulating the determination of Dentsu and Dentsu Group companies to take a firm stand against antisocial forces. The Company also calls on business partners to take the same action. Basic Policy on the Rejection of Boryokudan (organized crime groups) and Other Antisocial Forces ➡ http://www.dentsu.co.jp/csr/compliance/compliance.html Efforts to Exterminate Bribery by the Group Companies Overseas DAN provides compliance training for the Group companies overseas on the intranet, on which the participation rate is as high as 90%. Each company also holds its own training sessions as a follow-up Incident of concern or after the training and strives to raise employee awareness. suspicion of wrongdoing within the workplace Speak Up! Policy • Bullying or harassment The risk of fraud and other wrongdoing is a threat to the Group’s profitability and reputation. • Theft or fraud Therefore, DAN established Speak Up!, which is the internal reporting program for reporting any • Bribery and corruption • Information security breaches incident of concern or suspicion of wrongdoing within the workplace. Employees can make a report to (e.g. loss or theft of line managers, HR contacts, or senior managers, or follow internal grievance procedures. Appropriate personal/ sensitive data) • Abuse or inflation of legal and/or disciplinary action will be taken against the perpetrators of fraud or other wrongdoing. expenses Dentsu Aegis Network also employs Safecall Limited, an independent specialist that employees can • Non-compliance with contractual obligations contact anonymously, 24 hours a day, 365 days of the year, in a number of different languages via • Accounting and tax phone, email, and a website. malpractice Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 043 Contents Sustainability S u s t a i n a b i l i t y 044 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Message of the Chairperson of CSR Committee Improving all ESG values and pursuing the realization of a better society Kunihiro Matsushima Chair of the CSR Committee, Director Dentsu Group’s consolidated performance for 2015 (calendar-year basis) showed significantly robust growth with revenue increasing 12.8% year-on-year and underlying operating profit increasing 20.3%. However, in terms of future forecast, a variety of risks exist, including geopolitical issues and business model innovations. Under such circumstances, it is difficult for many companies to grow and continuously increase corporate value solely by pursuing financial performance. The Corporate Governance Code, for which implementation began in June 2015 in Japan, promotes innovation aiming at mediumto long-term growth of the Company through a constructive dialogue with stakeholders. The Code places importance on the ESG (environmental, social, governance) perspective above all and seeks corporate value creation in the non-financial area. In addition, the institutional investors, both within and outside of Japan, also place importance on the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), and over 1,500 investors have already signed on to the PRI globally. In order to properly respond to such momentum, in December 2015, the Group formulated the Dentsu Group Medium-term CSR strategy 2020, setting targets to be achieved by 2020. The plan aims to increase the corporate value from the ESG perspective and highlights the four key domains: environmental conservation, community, supply chain, and responsible marketing and sustainable consumption. The Company is a “public institution” of society, and it cannot achieve sustainable growth without substantive collaboration with various stakeholders. To that end, the Company will continuously strive to achieve the following initiatives: • Provide responsible marketing communication services to enable our clients to build better relationships with stakeholders through business activities • Engage in a wide range of CSR activities in collaboration with our business partners within the supply chain • Support all employees of the Dentsu Group to act as professionals with high aspirations and energy by further promoting a work-life balance. We believe these initiatives, among others, help ensure our sustainability as a member of society, separate and aside from the pursuit of financial sustainability. We will improve all ESG values in conjunction with our business activities to further enhance the corporate value of the Dentsu Group and pursue the realization of a better society. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 045 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Dentsu Group CSR CSR Philosophy: The Dentsu Group Code of Conduct The Dentsu Group Code of Conduct, which is the Group’s CSR philosophy, is structured around Dentsu’s seven key areas for CSR activities. These activities are, namely, corporate governance, respect for human rights, ensuring a safe and civilized working environment, environmental protection, fair business practices, addressing consumer issues, and contributing to the community. The Code of Conduct articulates what all Dentsu Group managers and employees must undertake in order to fulfill their respective responsibilities to society. Additionally, the Guidance on the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct provides specific and detailed actions that enable the management and employees of the Dentsu Group to deepen their understandings and make voluntary efforts in the seven key areas. Furthermore, as a prerequisite, the Dentsu Group has declared compliance of the laws and regulations in each market where the Group is doing business while respecting the social norms based on regional diversity. Such declaration also serves as the code of conduct shared within the Dentsu Group worldwide. Dentsu Group Code of Conduct • The Dentsu Group of companies, its officers, and employees (‘we’ or ‘us’) are committed to protecting the interests of our stakeholders by conducting business to the highest ethical standards. To achieve this commitment, we have established the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct (‘Code of Conduct’) to serve as our basic principles for conducting business in a socially responsible manner. • We will comply with the Code of Conduct in all respects. Outside of the Dentsu Group, we will encourage compliance with the Code of Conduct by our business partners. • We will comply with all national, local, and international laws and regulations in all markets in which we conduct business. • We will respect diversity and will not discriminate on any basis. We will also respect the diverse social and cultural standards of each region in which we conduct business. 1. Corporate governance We respect the interests of our stakeholders and will refrain from engaging in inappropriate activities or taking inappropriate risks that might harm these interests. Our officers will take responsibility for developing and maintaining appropriate corporate governance systems. 2. Respect for human rights We comply with internationally recognized principles of human rights. We respect the human rights of all people connected with our business activities and will not discriminate on any basis. 3. Ensuring a safe and civilized working environment We will ensure that our workplaces are safe and create civilized working environments. 4. Environmental protection We aim to minimize the impact of our business on the environment and contribute to making society sustainable. 5. Fair business practices In carrying out our business, we will compete fairly in all markets in which we operate. We will avoid or appropriately manage any conflicting interests. We will not knowingly take part in any form of corrupt business practice, including bribery and money laundering. 6. Addressing consumer issues We will strive to address consumer issues in all markets in which we operate, including by providing appropriate information to consumers and giving due attention to safety and security in all of our activities. 7. Contributing to the community We are committed to contributing to the development of all local and global communities in which we operate and to the resolution of social issues in each community. Dentsu Group Code of Conduct ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/csr/overview/codeofconduct.html 046 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Dentsu Group CSR Promotion System Dentsu has established three principal committees under its Executive Management Committee and Business Supervision Committee, which are responsible for all major management decisions. One of the committees established under the Executive Management Committee is the CSR Committee, comprising five board members and chaired by an executive officer. The committee, which met eight times (April to December) in fiscal 2015, makes decisions on all major CSR-related measures in accordance with the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct, which is the Group’s CSR philosophy. Under the CSR Committee, Dentsu has established subcommittees for human rights education and charitable donations, as well as specialist working groups to deliberate on issues in various fields. On the key theme of the environment, the CSR Committee works closely with the Environmental Strategy Council, Dentsu’s in-house body tasked with promoting environmentrelated programs to promote greater Company-wide awareness concerning the environment. For overseas Group companies, a CSR action plan was developed at the Board of Directors meeting of DAN, and the progress of such plan is reported to and shared with the Executive Management Committee and the CSR Committee. We have also designated CSR Promotion Committee members in all Company departments to promote awareness and disseminate information on specific CSR measures so that CSR efforts occur company-wide. At Group companies outside of Japan, we have appointed CSR Champions, who promote CSR activities. Through such efforts, we are advancing CSR activities on a Group-wide level. Dentsu aims to ensure that its CSR measures are consistent across the Group. Dentsu Group CSR Promotion System Board of Directors Executive Management Committee CSR Committee ▪Evaluates and determines CSR policies and measures ▪Receive and confirms activity reports on each measure Environmental Strategy DAN Board of Directors Council Subcommittees Specialist working groups CSR Steering Group • Human rights education • Internal control • Charitable donations • Various task forces CSR Team Group Companies Dentsu Group Companies in Japan Employees assigned to promote outside Japan Directors in charge of CSR CSR promote awareness and CSR champions are assigned implement CSR measures at the disseminate information on speci­fic in each Group base to develop Group company level CSR measures to employees CSR measures in each country The Environment Society Dentsu’s Major Stakeholders Clients Dentsu pursues CSR activities and addresses social issues while maintaining Media Employees interactive communication with its stakeholders. Dentsu Group stresses dayto-day dialogues with stakeholders, strives to disclose information properly, Business and incorporates the expectations and demands of stakeholders into the Partners Consumers corporate activities. Shareholders Regional / Investors Communities Note: In addition to the above, Dentsu has NPO / NGO many other stakeholders, such as the government, administrative agencies, and various organizations. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 047 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Participation in International Initiatives Dentsu actively participates in international initiatives in order to contribute to global social development and strives to address the issues with a focus on the ESG field and to promote information sharing. Dentsu joined the United Nations Global Compact in December 2009 and upholds its ten principles on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. Dentsu submits a CSR report every year to the UN Global Compact and gives an annual activities report (Communication on Progress: COP) aimed at the realization of the ten principles. In addition, Dentsu became a member of CSR Asia, which is the largest CSR-specialized think tank in the Asia Pacific region, and focuses on deliberation of ESG issues in Asia and strengthening of alliances with companies in Asia. Common Ground The Dentsu Group has agreed to participate in a major global initiative with the world’s five other biggest advertising and marketing services groups: Havas, IPG, Omnicom, Publicis, and WPP. At the suggestion of UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon, the Common Ground initiative focuses on specific areas of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which were adopted in September 2015 as an integral part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development at the United Nations. This is an innovative initiative to act globally beyond the business competition. As a first step, the top management teams of each group have gathered at the session of the 63rd Cannes Lions International Festival of Creativity. At the session, we shared awareness of the issues and agreed to work toward addressing the most imminent global issue by fully utilizing creativity as the strength of advertising companies. We plan to jointly run the Common Ground advertising campaign to support the SDGs. Organizing the subcommittee of the United Nations Global Compact Network Japan, Dentsu takes the initiative in Japan toward achievement of SDGs and resolution of global issues. Common Ground ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/csr/commonground.html 048 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Dentsu Group Medium-term CSR strategy 2020 Dentsu formulated a five-year Dentsu Group Medium-term CSR strategy 2020, setting targets to be achieved by 2020. Under the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct as our CSR philosophy, based on the medium-term CSR strategy that specifies the four key areas and common goal in Japan and overseas, the Group will continue to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society by steadily promoting CSR activities worldwide. Background of CSR planning – Toward the realization of sustainable society We are faced with a number of social issues, including environmental issues, at a global scale, such as global warming and human rights violations in some countries or regions. Many of these issues have been caused by corporate activities. With the increase of social expectations and demands, companies are focusing on a variety of activities to fulfill their responsibilities. The advertising industry is no exception, and we have persevered in our effort to manage the impact on the environment and society. However, the role that should be played by the advertising industry is much greater than we expected. We must be aware that we have a significant impact on consumer behavior, from the purchase of daily consumer goods to big purchases for a once-in-a-lifetime opportunity. In addition to self-awareness of the magnitude of the impact that advertising has on consumption, we should also be aware of our responsibilities for fairness of the content and consumers’ purchases of goods and services. Regarding environmental and social impact, we believe advertising companies should give consideration, not only to direct impact, but also to indirect impact. Based on the above, we developed a plan that defines the common goal of the Dentsu Group. We will gather resources and knowledge of the Dentsu Group in Japan and overseas, steadily execute the plan toward the realization of a sustainable society, and promote the integration of business activity and sustainability. Four Key Areas Environment Community To tackle climate change through reducing our environmental To build a more effective civil society through a wide variety of impacts across our operations community activities Supply Chain Responsible Marketing and Sustainable Consumption To develop a more resilient supply chain through developing To promote a sustainable society through implementing responsible sustainable procurement practices marketing practices as well as encouraging sustainable behavior Quantitative Targets in Japan and Overseas Offices of the Group Dentsu Group companies in Japan Environment Reduce our carbon footprint per person by 30% Reduce our carbon footprint per person by 40% Have 90% of the employees participate in Dentsu’s CSR program and Community Enable 500 charities to build communications capabilities contribute to community development Cooperate with 90% of our main suppliers to promote sustainable Achieve 100% compliance with our supply chain charter Supply Chain business activities principles Provide 90% of our employees with training in the responsible Responsible Marketing and Engage 1,000,000 people with sustainable consumption execution of their duties and use their skills and expertise to give Sustainable Consumption campaigns something back to society Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 049 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Social Responsibility Report Respect for Human Rights Ensuring a Safe and Civilized Working Environment Contributing to the Community Fair Business Practices (disclosed exclusively on the website) Addressing Consumer Issues (disclosed exclusively on the website) Respect for Human Rights <Social Issues> • Human rights violations in communication activities <Dentsu Group’s Approach> The Dentsu Group aspires to enrich its advertising and business communications activities from a human rights perspective. It regularly conducts Group-wide employee training programs designed to provide employees with a sound understanding of human rights that they can then apply to their work. We at Dentsu also consider that the thorough prevention of harassment and protection of employees’ human rights are important themes to address to ensure employees can fully exercise their capabilities. Human Rights Policy and Systems The Dentsu Group is aware of the magnitude of the impact of communication activities on society and carries out human rights awareness promotion activities under the Dentsu Group’s Basic Policy on Human Rights Awareness. As a global company, Dentsu supports the international norms on human rights, such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and ILO (International Labour Organization) Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. We also develop due diligence process to identify, prevent, mitigate and address the negative impact on human rights at all corporate activities, in accordance with the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. 050 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee The Dentsu Group’s Basic Policy on Human Rights Awareness 1. In advertising communication activities, there shall be no discriminatory expression. 2. Respect for fundamental human rights is the foundation of our existence and the source of communications. Human Rights Promotion System The Dentsu Group human rights education conference is held twice a year for those responsible for human rights education at Dentsu and human rights education managers at Group companies. In addition to the fundamental human rights issues, including the issue of discrimination against outcast people, the conference covers themes incorporating the highly concerned topicalities. Human Rights Awareness Activities In order to increase human rights awareness, the Dentsu Group systematically runs human rights awareness training programs based on both the employees’ hierarchy and occupational fields. Beyond training programs, there are also various opportunities to raise awareness of human rights. Original textbooks with information on human rights and an explanation on their relationship to advertising expression are distributed to employees when they join the Company. The Human Rights College, a site that collects past examples of advertising expressions related to human rights, is posted on the Company’s intranet. A human rights newsletter containing timely human-rights-related topics is also distributed within the Group twice a month. The Group also established a permanent consulting contact related to advertising expression and human rights in order to maintain the appropriateness of expressions communicated to the world and respond to inquiries from within the Group. Establishment of Internal Reporting System for Human Rights Protection To create a system to perceive the human rights risks associated with advertising expressions, we established “the contact desk for advertising expressions and human rights” to respond to inquiries from employees within the Group. The desk received 63 inquiries during fiscal 2015, which were individually handled, and efforts were made to prevent recurrence. We are working to further improve the awareness of human rights through individually dealing with each case. Additionally, all harassment-related issues are centralized at the Harassment Counseling Section, which has contact points at Dentsu branches, as well as outside the Company, and provides consultation. The Harassment Counseling Section coordinates with harassment contacts at each Dentsu Group company to prevent harassment throughout the entire Group. Moreover, to further employee educational activities to prevent power Site screen of the Human Rights College harassment and sexual harassment within the Dentsu offices, we issue the STOP! HARASSMENT educational guidebook, hold training sessions tailored to each target audience, including new employees and new managers, post messages to call attention to the Company bulletin boards, and provide the heads-up through CSR Promotion Committee members at each office. In fiscal 2015, there were 49 consultations at the Harassment Counseling Section (FY 2014: 53 consultations, FY 2013: 50 consultations, FY 2012: 47 consultations), which were individually handled to make improvements to the working environment. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 051 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Ensuring a Safe and Civilized Working Environment <Social Issues> • Human resources development • Diversity promotion • Promotion of work-life balance <Dentsu Group’s Approach> Maximizing all of our employees’ capabilities and putting them into action is essential to realizing a sustainable society. At Dentsu, where we consider people to be our greatest asset, we believe that the development of an environment where employees can maintain high morale and motivation, and can take on their work enthusiastically, is an extremely important agenda. To this end, Dentsu implements detailed measures from the perspective of developing capabilities, work-life balance, and a structure for managing health and safety. Development of Human Resources The Dentsu Group recognizes human resources as the Group’s greatest asset, and Dentsu provides employees capability development opportunities depending on their career stage and organizational goal, and supports their growth in order to draw out and maximize the various capabilities of our employees and further develop the organization. Human Resources Development Policy 1. For new employees, training to acquire “mind/action” and “knowledge/skills” that are essential capabilities in working at Dentsu. 2. Training to foster solution capabilities and expertise so that employees can play central roles in their business units after several years at Dentsu. 3. Training to foster leadership and facilitate the acquisition of managerial knowledge in more senior employees. In addition to the various training programs, in response to the changes in the advertising and communication domain, Dentsu conducts a variety of human resource development programs, such as programs for developing digital skills and global skills (foreign language ability, crosscultural communication, and others). For instance, New School is a high-level director personnel development program launched in 2011. Through a repeated cycle of assignments and feedback, the program, which is taught by top-level lecturers within Dentsu, a “model” of direction is passed down. Additionally, because accurate and sophisticated direction capabilities are needed in new areas other than advertising as well, sessions taught by external lecturers active in various fields—such as art, technology, and curation—are incorporated. Moreover, we also established the Dentsu Management Institute (DMI) in order to strengthen the management capability of the Dentsu Group and develop human resources that can provide advanced solutions for management issues and business challenges of various stakeholders, including our clients and the media. 052 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Diversity Promotion Promotion of active female participation Dentsu actively carries out the development and growth support for the career development of female employees. In order to maximize the strength of the company, we formulated the following action plan (implementation period: January 1, 2015 – December 31, 2019). In addition to the steady implementation of the action plan, Dentsu strives to create further female-friendly work environments to facilitate active female participation. Summary of the Action Plan Goals 1. Increase the female percentage of new graduate recruitment (permanent employee) to 35% or more 2. Increase the female percentage of managers to 10% or more by 2020 Specific efforts 1. Implementation of PR measures for active recruitment and selection of female employees 2. Enhancement of management skills of the managers 3. Implementation of measures to foster career awareness of female employees 4. Dispelling uncertainty over balancing work and family care (raising children and providing nursing care) by disseminating system revisions and support measures 5. Promotion of “Work Style Redesign” activities to encourage a productive workstyle in order to rectify the long working hours Summary of the Action Plan ➡ http://www.dentsu.com/csr/workingenvironment/workplaceenvironment.html In fiscal 2013, we launched the Female Employees Promotion Project to create a working environment where women can continue to be active without interrupting their careers. In addition to enhancing the system, we give them opportunities to think about their careers at an early stage, such as lunch meetings with senior female employees, so that they can hear about a variety of experiences and career seminars held by lecturers invited from outside the Company. Furthermore, in March 2016, Dentsu approved the Declaration on Action by a group of male leaders who will create “A Society in which Women Shine,” supported by the Gender Equality Bureau of the Cabinet Office. We will promote cross-industry efforts for women to shine. Approval of the Declaration on Action by a group of male leaders who will create “A Society in which Women Shine” supported by the Gender Equality Bureau of the Cabinet Office ➡ http://www.dentsu.co.jp/news/release/2016/0302-008688.html Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 053 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Promotion of employment of persons with disabilities As part of its efforts to promote the employment of people with disabilities, in April 2013, the Company established Dentsu Solari, a wholly owned Group company, which was designated as a special-purpose subsidiary in November. The rate of employment of people with disabilities at three Group-certified companies (Dentsu, Dentsu Works, and Dentsu Solari) is 2.04% (as of June 2016). At Dentsu as well, there are many employees who are active in account management, creative, and other departments. Along with Dentsu Solari, we are making active efforts to further expand employment opportunities for people with disabilities. Creation of a Work-friendly Environment Promotion of work-life balance The Company believes that a fulfilling personal life improves the quality of one’s working life and that satisfying work increases one’s level of self-fulfillment in life. The object of Dentsu’s work-life balance (WLB) program, therefore, is to generate synergy between the two. The most important factor in creating a work-friendly environment is health management. In particular, the starting point is to realize a workstyle reform to increase productivity and efficiency in achieving results. Dentsu has established a special in-house Labor Administration Committee, which is developing and implementing programs to reduce overtime working hours and to make it easier for employees to take holidays. Additionally, the Human Relations Management Department, which responds to employee concerns, was also established to build employee opinions into the system. Labor management The Dentsu Group emphasizes the development of good labor-management relations and strives to maintain and improve the trust relationship between employees and management by regularly having opportunities for conversations between management and the union. Participation rate of the labor union membership at Dentsu is 83.7%, as of December 31, 2015. 054 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Contributing to the Community <Social Issues> • Solving the problems of the local communities through business activities • Human resources development through improved power of communication • Activities to tackle global social issues <Dentsu Group’s Approach> Dentsu considers regional communities to be important stakeholders. The Company contributes to resolving issues and promoting development of regional communities through its business operations and continuously deploys various social contribution activities. We believe that it is our role as a leading company in the sphere of communications to build relationships of trust with regional communities. Community Activities of the Dentsu Group Under the basic policy of “using the power of communication to benefit society,” Dentsu’s social contribution activities engage in efforts that help people and activities that tackle social issues, leveraging the experience and professional skills employees have acquired in the Company’s main business for social contribution activities. Dentsu’s social contribution activities focus on two themes: “supporting human resources development through improved communication skills” and “supporting activities to tackle international social issues.” Dentsu collaborates with NPOs and other partner organizations to engage in activities to resolve social issues and to contribute to the development of communities on all scales, from local to global communities. Supporting human resources development through improved communication skills Support for Fostering the next Improving citizens’ International disaster-affected generation capabilities exchange areas • Advertising Elementary School • NPO Organizations: Keys to Communicating • Dentsu Chinese Advertising Human Resources Development Project • Participation in ‘Michinoku Fukkou Jigyou Partners Supporting activities to tackle international social issues Global education World food issues problem • Support to UNESCO’s World Terakoya Movement • Support to numerous NGOs in connection with the World Food Day Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 055 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Advertising Elementary School The Advertising Elementary School was started in 2006 as a project to foster children’s communication skills. Dentsu developed program materials, together with Tokyo Gakugei University, over three years. In these classes, children express a theme in 15-second commercial skits. Through this process, the children learn skills—such as creative thinking, decision-making, how to express ideas, and group problem-solving techniques—while having fun. With the recognition of the importance of developing communication skills becoming widespread in the education field, use of the program in classes taught by school teachers is increasing, and over 30,000 students at 243 schools across Japan have taken part in this activity, as of March 31, 2016. The special class for junior high school students in Iwaki City We are also conducting activities to contribute to revitalization of regional communities. For example, in September 2015, at the request of the Iwaki City Board of Education, we provided support to a special class that creates commercial message drama on the subject of “Beauty of Iwaki that we want to save for the future.” Advertising Elementary School website ➡ http://www.dentsu.co.jp/komainu/ NPO Support Program: Keys to Communicating For NPOs, communications skills are fundamental and essential skills to lead an organization, increase the number of supporters and collaborators, and engage in activities. Since 2004, in cooperation with the JAPAN NPO Center, Dentsu has been advancing the Keys to Communicating program in a manner that utilizes each organization’s respective specialties, to provide support for the improvement of the communications skills of NPOs. Dentsu employees and members of NPOs serve as presenters at seminars held throughout Japan. As of December 31, 2015, the number of seminars has exceeded 118, with a cumulative total of around 4,700 participants. The program textbook was redesigned in November 2015. The new textbook Redesigned textbook contains further enriched contents—for example, the practical tips have been added in response to the needs. Support for Chinese Advertising Human Resources Development and Contribution to Japan-China Private Sector Exchanges Since 1996, Dentsu has continuously undertaken activities to support advertising education and human resources development in China. Dentsu holds various programs to respond to needs in the Chinese advertising education field, such as selecting young educators from Chinese universities to train at the Dentsu Head Office, Dentsu Student Advertising Seminars for students studying advertising, the establishment of the Dentsu Innovation Lab, and publications activities. In January 2015, Dentsu was presented with the Most Valuable Partner Award from the Chinese Ministry of Education for recognition as a global company that has made a particular contribution to Chinese advertising Chinese educators and a lecturer at Dentsu human resources education and Japan-China private sector exchanges. Dentsu received the award for the second consecutive year. 056 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Participation in Michinoku Fukkou Jigyou Partners Since June 2012, Dentsu has been participating in Michinoku Fukkou Jigyou Partners, a platform to support next-generation leaders engaged in the reconstruction of disaster-affected areas. We work jointly with the NPO ETIC.* and six companies (Isuzu Motors, Kao, JCB, Sompo Japan Nipponkoa Insurance, Toshiba, and Benesse Holdings). Dentsu is engaged in reconstruction of disaster-affected Tohoku areas. For example, we carried out the Business Brush-up Program to enable organizations in the Tohoku area to contribute to the regional revitalization for six consecutive months. Michinoku Fukkou Jigyou Partners ➡ http://www.michinokupartners.jp/ * NPO ETIC.: An organization that trains young, next-generation entrepreneurial leaders and that has Meeting of the Business Brush-up Program produced many operational NPOs that will lead future generations. www.etic.or.jp Supporting Activities to Tackle International Educational Issues Dentsu has been supporting the communication activities of UNESCO’s World Terakoya Movement “Kakisonji-Hagaki Project” for 12 years. This is an effort to globally increase venues (terakoya) to acquire literacy, sponsored by the National Federation of UNESCO Associations in Japan. We are collecting kakisonji-hagaki (unusable prepaid postcards), unused stamps, and pre-paid cards to raise funds for the Terakoya Movement. As a result of our active inducement to a special website through enhanced communication activities “Tansu Isan Sankyodai (three heritage brothers from the drawers)” centered on Tansu Isan Sankyodai (three heritage brothers from the drawers), From the left an equivoque with UNESCO’s World Heritage, the number of postcards we Unused stamp “Harisonjiro” collected dramatically increased by 229% year-on-year and provided learning Unusable prepaid postcards “Kakisonjiro” Unused prepaid cards “Tsukaisonjiro” opportunities for 80,000 people during the project term. Kakisonji-Hagaki Project ➡ http://www.unesco.or.jp/terakoya/kakisonji2016/ * Collecting period: November 1, 2015 to May 30, 2016 Supporting Japanese NPOs and NGOs That Tackle the Global Food Issue The month of World Food Day is the activity for resolution of the food issue in October, organized by 11 NPOs and NGOs and the UN agencies, and Dentsu is supporting its communication activities. To promote the industrial-academic collaboration program, Dentsu jointly produced a song for considering the significance of eating called “Gohan Han Han” with participation of 11 organizations, the Kanto Gakuin University College of Nutrition, and the artists. The song is published on a special website (see below). Furthermore, we implemented demonstration experiments for children utilizing the program and favorable changes were observed such that children became less picky about food by singing (-13 ppt). Through this activity, we are providing an opportunity for children, who will be forging the future, to consider the significance of eating through questions such as “what it is to eat” and “why it is bad to leave food on the plate,” and contributing to the increase of eating-conscious people. a song for considering the significance of eating called “Gohan Han Han” ➡ The singers of the theme song are “DJ Misoshiru and MC http://www.worldfoodday-japan.net/nokomono.php Gohan” from the Kagawa Educational Institute of Nutrition and “Keropons” whose song “Ebikanics” has been a big Note: World Food Day organizers: Africa Japan Council, WE21 Japan, Oxfam Japan, Japan Association hit with children. for International Collaboration of Agriculture and Forestry (JAICAF), Second Harvest Japan, Japan International Food for the Hungry, Hunger Free World, Action for Green Sahel, Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations (FAO) Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 057 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Environmental Report Environmental Protection <Social Issues> • Promotion of environmental communication • Efforts on reducing the environmental burdens by each employee <Dentsu Group’s Approach> Dentsu considers environmental issues a key CSR issue and established the Environmental Strategy Council, chaired by the president & CEO. As an environmental management system, Dentsu Eco Program sets out an environmental policy and environmental targets to advance company-wide efforts for environmental protection. These efforts have been recognized, and Dentsu was certified as an EcoFirst Company by the Ministry of the Environment. Dentsu will continue to advance environmental protection activities, not only through internal activities, but also through efforts in cooperation with our stakeholders and the implementation of environmental communications, in order to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. 058 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Environmental Policy The Dentsu Group aims to make each employee strongly conscious of its corporate philosophy of “Good Innovation” and, based on the Dentsu Group Code of Conduct, reduce the environmental burden generated through its business operations in order to contribute to the realization of a sustainable society. • In order to realize a sustainable society, we will correctly assess the environmental impact of its business activities and work to reduce its burden on the environment. • Work to develop and propose environmentally conscious business activities and contribute to the improvement of environmental issues. • Ensure thorough implementation of environmental compliance and engage in ongoing improvements to boost environmental performance through more precisely defined environmental objectives and outcomes. <Environmental Protection> • Actively endeavor to prevent pollution, alleviate climate change, and conserve biodiversity and ecosystems. <Environmental Communication> • Actively engage in environmental education for the next generation and environmental communication activities to business partners and employees to raise recognition of environmental issues. Environmental Objectives 1. Promotion of activities to business partners, consumers and employees to raise recognition of environmental issues 2. Promotion of activities to prevent global warming and conserve ecosystems 3. Maintaining waste reduction and recycling at a high rate Structures for Environmental Activities In July 2008, Dentsu strengthened its arrangement for implementing environment-related measures with the establishment of the Environmental Strategy Council, chaired by the president & CEO, to promote environmental strategy as a corporate group. Additionally, the CSR Committee, one of the Company’s principal committees, designated environmental managers to advance Group-wide efforts for the environment. CSR Promotion Committee members and Eco Committee members advance environmental activities at respective Dentsu divisions (offices). At each Group company, board members in charge of the Eco Program, environmental managers, supervisors, and promotion committee members are appointed to advance environmental activities. Adoption of the Dentsu Group Eco Program In January 2005, we adopted the Dentsu Group Eco Program (ongoing), and in May 2005, we acquired ISO 14001 certification. Integrated Group certification that included subsidiaries in Japan was acquired in June 2006. Dentsu and 16 Group companies hold this certification as of December 31, 2015. Eco-First Commitment (Revised) Dentsu presented a revised Eco-First Commitment to the Minister of the Environment in March 2012, citing the following three points as focus areas. 1. We will actively promote environmental communications, thereby spreading the environmental message to the public. 2. We will support next-generation environmental communications and the environmental efforts of our employees. 3. We will promote further advancements in “green” office buildings. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 059 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee The revised Eco-First Commitment promised that Dentsu will reduce CO2 emissions at the Dentsu Head Office Building by 21% of the fiscal 2003–2004 average and improve the waste recycling rate to 90% by fiscal 2015. In fiscal 2015, the Company achieved our CO2 emission reduction goal by reducing emissions to 28.5%, and our recycling rate was 89.4%. We continue to play a leading role in the industry and practice our environmental approach. Raising Environmental Awareness Environmental education Dentsu provides environmental education and training in order to nurture employees with a broad range of environmental knowledge who will play a leading role in addressing environmental issues. As an example, Dentsu actively encourages its employees to take the Certification Test for Environmental Specialists (Eco Test), sponsored by the Tokyo Chamber of Commerce and Industry. Employees who acquire the certification are appointed as eco officers to promote Dentsu’s environmental activities. These employees also contribute to the promotion of the Dentsu Group Eco Program in carrying out such roles as inspectors for internal environmental audits and judges for environmental slogans. In fiscal 2015, 89 employees acquired the certification. Awareness-raising using handbooks Dentsu creates handbooks as part of its awareness-raising activities for employees and uses them for new employee training and other purposes. For example, the term “greenwash” is used in reference to labels and advertising that use unsubstantiated information or partial data to give the impression that products or corporate activities are more environmentally friendly than they actually are. This practice is under scrutiny by corporations and NPOs. Dentsu uses the Greenwash Guide in order to eliminate the risk of greenwashing in advertising communications and to enhance employee knowledge. Based on the guidelines on greenwash in Europe and the initiatives of leading overseas companies, Dentsu revised the Greenwash Guide and strives to raise awareness of the Group companies in Japan and overseas from a global perspective. Dentsu defines a “green event” as an event that is an environmentally friendly one, and the Green Event Guide is used for organizing such events. The guide describes how to organize green events from the viewpoint of a PDCA cycle, in line with the flow of event management, from the planning stage to implementation and post-event evaluation. The guide includes case studies that are useful in putting these instructions into practice. Greenwash Guide Green Event Guide 060 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Environment-related slogans and posters To fully utilize its communication resources, in 2005, Dentsu began inviting Dentsu and Dentsu Group employees and their families in Japan to submit environmental slogans. In 2015, there were a total of 8,133 entries in both the employee and family categories. The winning entries are used in posters designed by Dentsu art directors, thereby helping to raise environmental awareness among employees. Dentsu Environmental Posters Produced in fiscal 2016 Prevention of Global Warming Governance concerning climate change The CSR Committee takes a lead in determining the policies and key items on the global climate change issue. We have established a system where key issues will discussed at the Environmental Strategy Council and the CSR Committee and reported to the Executive Management Committee. Strategy and action plan Based on the Dentsu Group’s environmental policy, the CSR Committee conducts the performance evaluation on sustainability and provides feedback to the business units through the CSR Promotion Committee. During the process, the risks and opportunities are discussed from the mediumand longterm perspective. With the environment protection set as one of the key targets of The Dentsu Group Medium-term CSR Strategy 2020, we are working toward reducing environmental impact. Risks and opportunities With the recent expansion of international business through M&A and others, the environmental burden may possibly be increased on a global scale. Therefore, with recognition of the issue as a long-term emerging risk, we are implementing the measures to reduce the environmental burden in collaboration with DAN. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 061 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities CSR Governance Dentsu Aegis Network recognizes that it has economic, social, and environmental impacts beyond its core business. We launched the Future Proof program—our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) strategy—to tackle these impacts and their associated risks and opportunities, and engage all the stakeholders involved. Future Proof reflects the company’s material impacts, responds to the challenges facing its people and the wider industry, and addresses the issues it is concerned about. 062 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee CSR Steering Group The CSR strategy is set by the CSR Steering Group, composed of the leaders of our global functional departments and brand representatives. It is also responsible for setting the CSR targets, as well as ensuring they are aligned to the corporate strategy. The CSR Steering Group, chaired by Nigel Morris, CEO Dentsu Aegis Network Americas & EMEA, also oversees the implementation of Future Proof by the global CSR team and monitors its progress. The CSR Steering Group meets six times a year. CSR Team The global CSR team is responsible for the implementation of Future Proof. The team, consisting of three full-time employees in 2015, coordinates the measurement, reporting, and management of all CSR campaigns and programs—including compliance with the global CSR, Community, and Environmental Policies. The global CSR team manages all internal and external communication and engagement with both CSR champions and stakeholders, and regularly assesses the risks and opportunities related to CSR. These are reported to the company-wide Risk Committees. CSR Champions The CSR team engages on a regular basis with a network of over 300 CSR champions to help execute Future Proof campaigns and programs in every office around the world. These champions are volunteers and come from a variety of backgrounds, both client and functional side. The CSR champions are provided with free campaigns and programs by the global CSR team to implement, but are also encouraged to pursue specific issues and partnerships that are locally relevant to the offices, brands, and culture. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 063 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Why is it important that we “give back” and engage around corporate social responsibility (CSR) as a leading global agency? During my time at Dentsu Aegis Network, I have been working across some of our newest agency offerings, Amnet and Amplifi. To get these off the ground, we really are looking for some of the best and brightest out there, and as they are 100% digital and programmatic, we are increasingly looking for those people who can contribute innovative and creative value to our team. On top of that, these agencies have been some of the fastest growing in our Network, doubling in size year-on-year. Keeping this newly built ship steady and on course means developing a culture of engagement around our brand—and CSR delivers that for us. It helps us build new teams, increase collaboration in the agency itself, and is a springboard for innovation, showcasing the power of what digital and Louisa Wong programmatic can do for charities. What do you want people to know about your involvement with Future Proof? Chief Digital Officer Amplifi In 2015, I joined the global CSR Steering Group, making a contribution alongside functional and brand colleagues to the oversight of the CSR team and CSR strategy. I was so impressed to get a view of everything that is going on around our Network and, most importantly, the hard work behind the scenes by many volunteers to make sure we actually deliver real impact on the ground. I had the pleasure to help develop our new five-year CSR strategy launched in 2016 with some ambitious goals until 2020. We can really build on some of the success of Future Proof over the last five years and take a leadership role in our industry. What are you proud of last year? That’s a really personal story for me. 2015 will stand out in history as the year of the refugee. Rather than a “farfrom-mybed show,” it came close to home for many of us working and living in Europe. I spearheaded our efforts to make a small contribution when we had our annual leadership agency conference in Hungary in 2015. I asked everyone to bring an extra suitcase of winter clothing for a charity that helps refugees that had entered the country. Many of our media partners contributed, too, and together we released an enormous amount of clothing that helped more than 1,000 refugees locally. My little contribution to the bigger picture. Why is it important that we “give back” and engage around corporate social responsibility (CSR) as a leading global agency? First and foremost, I believe that CSR builds a really strong culture of engagement in our agency. Our success depends on our ability to attract and retain the best talent in our industry and make sure that they grow as individuals whilst they are with us. CSR is a key part of our value proposition, and it contributes strongly to the culture of responsibility, ambition, and collaboration that we have. It also helps bring our values alive, off the page, and into hearts and minds. As we’re aiming for continued growth in our region, CSR is more than ever a key building block for an engaged and successful agency. What do you want people to know about your involvement with Future Proof? Dawn Rowlands What I want people to know about South Africa’s contribution in 2015 to Future Proof is really that we are moving from doing “less bad” to “more good.” Environmental responsibility remains important, and of course, our people’s Chief Executive Officer, Dentsu Aegis Network Sub efforts to give blood, raise funds, and give back in a million other small ways are fantastic. But when thinking “more Saharan Africa good,” I firmly believe that in the future we will see more projects like isobar nowlab’s Mandela Day rural coding day—where our people joined in a collaborative project to bring coding to rural young people across South Africa and inspire them to envisage a better future. That’s what we as agencies can do, share our skills and reach as many people as possible to inspire them. What are you proud of last year? Alongisde the nowlab’s rural coding initiative, I am proud of launching our new CSR strategy in South Africa, which has been re-aligned closely with the needs of all the stakeholders. We are focusing very strongly on local impact, adopting local schools in Cape Town and Johannesburg and working with them to identify and address the key issues they are facing. This new two-year partnership, spearheaded by Bongiwe Mhkize, is much more focused on longer-term impact and responsive to the local needs. That is what CSR should ultimately be about: not what is the sexiest, but what is most needed in the world around us. 064 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee CSR Strategy We launched Future Proof in 2010, reflecting our material impacts, responding to the biggest challenges facing our people and our industry, and addressing the issues we are concerned about. As our comprehensive CSR strategy, Future Proof set a clear vision for our business: Become a more responsible business This means doing the right thing from the get-go, reducing our impact on the environment and weeding out illegal behavior. It is about a system of good governance, effective monitoring, and credible reporting. Inspire positive action We have the reach and scope to make a positive impact on society. This means we play an active role in giving back to our communities, and we invest in a better environment. Innovate the way brands are built Future Proof encourages internal collaboration, connections, and trust that help our vision come alive. It means doing things in a different and better way. This vision has inspired the progress and performance of Future Proof since 2010 and enabled us to accept our responsibility as a corporate citizen, make a valuable contribution to our local communities, and start the process of innovating in all the work we undertake. Our Targets As part of our vision for Future Proof, we set four ambitious targets until 2015, on which we have reported progress and performance on an annual basis since 2010. The four targets reflect the most important issues in Future Proof and are set at a global level: • Reduce the carbon footprint per average person by 20% • Increase the community investment to the equivalent of 1% of our people’s time • Enable 90% of employees to understand what Future Proof means in their day-to-day job • Involve 90% of employees in creating the best place to work in the industry Our Delivery Model We have a unique four-part delivery model to help us achieve our 2015 targets. This model explains what steps we are taking to drive positive outcomes across our company. 1. Global campaigns to raise awareness among our mostly digital and young audience. Examples of these in 2015 are Energize, Ignite, and Care. 2. Global programs that leverage the power of digital to inspire positive action across our Network. Examples of this in 2015 are Route to Good and GlobalGivingTIME. 3. Global integration of Future Proof into functional departments, such as HR, Technology, Finance, Facilities, Procurement, and Legal to embed CSR into our day-to-day operations. 4. Local partnerships that unlock meaningful action in the communities and environments near our offices through our Future Proof champions. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 065 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Energize In 2015, we brought a lot of our environmental and workplace campaigns together under the heading of “Energize.” This campaign ran from March 1, 2015, to April 30, 2015, and it focused on raising awareness and unlocking greener and healthier behavior in and around our place of work. The campaign centered on Earth Day on April 22nd as a focal point for activities, but activities were deployed year-round. When it comes to wellbeing, we partner with Human Resources (HR) to further develop the workplace agenda. Local Partnerships Story: Million Trees Moscow As part of its 10th anniversary celebrations, Vizeum in Russia joined the Million Trees global campaign to green Moscow. Following up on an earlier event three years ago, the whole office came together to plant 20 cedars and 20 junipers in the grounds of a local school, the 1550 Lyceum. It is symbolic that the main element of the Vizeum logo is a tree, which reflects an idea of growth and development. This event brought the office together and brought our values alive. By leaving a custom-made sign, we make sure everyone can see what contribution Vizeum made in 2015. This is a permanent and lasting impact on the environment in Moscow and beyond. Functional Integration Story: Germany Going 100% Green Everyone is affected by climate change—whether personally or as a business. With a demand of more than 1.3 million kWh per year, Dentsu Aegis Network in Germany could make a big difference. We already reduced our consumption by 20% since 2010, but in 2015, we aimed to switch all our offices in Germany to 100% green electricity. By bundling our entire consumption together, we had a strong bargaining position. Even though we switched from cheap nuclear electricity to 100% renewable energy, we managed to still reduce the total costs of Germany’s electricity consumption by 100,000 euros. This means Germany is now 100% green since January 1, 2016. Why is it important that we “give back” and engage around corporate social responsibility (CSR) as a leading global agency? In my role, I have to find the balance between our finite resources, our ambitious growth strategy, and the demands of our people and clients. CSR plays a key role in doing this successfully. Taking action on our environmental performance reduces our financial burden and makes us more resilient for the inevitable impacts of resource scarcity and price fluctuations in the future. It also helps us make a stronger case in the pitch to our clients and people: we are an agency that thinks much beyond own four walls, of create wider social and environmental benefits. What do you want people to know about your involvement with Future Proof? I think it’s important to show people that CSR is not only for communications, HR, or brand people; functional Daniel Ahrens leaders in Finance and Technology can also get involved and actually make a huge contribution. It may not involve everyone in the office like volunteering or pro bono work does, but it makes a huge impact. Whether it is better Commercial Director Dentsu Aegis Network procurement of electronic equipment, improving our server or power management, or investing in greener offices, Germany these are all things that functional people can contribute. Bringing these hidden contributions to light is what I want to do and why I take a leadership role. Without these people and their passion, we would not go half as fast on our CSR journey! What are you proud of last year? Together with the Future Proof team here in Germany, we really wanted to make a giant leap forward when it came to our environmental performance and show our leadership in our Network. We were thinking, “How can we have the biggest impact on our environmental performance?” And we realized that, if in some way we could run without any energy consumption, we would really be the greenest in the Network! That’s how we started an energy audit and tender to find ways to save. In the end, we consolidated all energy consumption with one supplier, saving us 100,000 euros whilet also switching us to 100% certified green electricity. We are now the first country in Dentsu Aegis Network to go 100% green. 066 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Ignite In 2015, we brought our non-skilled and team-based volunteering together under the heading of “Ignite.” This campaign ran from May 1, 2015, until July 31, 2015, and it focused on raising awareness and unlocking volunteering time and enthusiasm from our people around the Network. The campaign centered on One Day For Change on June 4th and 5th as a starting point for activities, but community support was deployed year-round. Local Partnership Story: Refugees Welcome In 2015, thousands of refugees from the Middle East, particularly Syria, fled to Europe. In Germany alone, approximately 1.1m refugees arrived after braving the dangerous and uncertain journey across Europe. Led by the Hamburg office, all brands in Germany came together to launch “Refugees Welcome” in response. 40 volunteers formed a core organizing team that delivered 50 boxes of donated clothing, organized several events with the refugee children (such as football games, excursions for the kids, etc.) to create even stronger relations and experiences. Overall, we showed that “Deutschland schafft das” (“Germany can do it”). Carat CEO Christopher Samsinger said, “This is 110% responsible: I love it!” Local Partnership Story: Dryden Primary School Dentsu Aegis Network South Africa recently adopted Dryden Primary School, situated 2.5 km from the Cape Town offices. This partnership will be for the duration of about 24 months to complete a revamp of the school. All brands have adopted a class and each takes its in turn to lead activities. Work on the fabric of the school started in 2015, and helpful materials were fundraised. In addition, we have gone into partnership with one of Carat’s clients, Woolworths Financial Services, who has agreed to assist with 50% of refurbishment costs of the school as well as participate in any Dentsu Aegis Network arranged activities. Why is important that we “give back” and engage around corporate social responsibility (CSR) as a leading global agency? As a global agency, we have the responsibility and the privilege of highlighting issues that concern us. With such a wide reach, we have to take the lead in our industry on the issue of CSR. For me, that means enabling our people to give back and make a difference. That’s why in South Africa we set up some fantastic programs that really involve and engage our people with environmental and social issues. We can show the way for other agencies in our industry. What do you want people to know about your involvement with Future Proof? Coming from a finance background, I took the lead for CSR in South Africa, and we built some fantastic long-term Bongiwe Mkhize programs that deliver real impact. Our main focus is on the key issues that the neighborhood around our offices CSR Coordinator in Cape Town and Johannesburg encounter. We adopted two local schools and are working through a two-year program with them to support them in any way possible. Dentsu Aegis Network South Africa also supports Sani Sisters, bringing female hygiene education and products to the underprivileged. What are you proud of last year? I am most proud of the increase in participation on the various projects we were involved in, across each of our brands and divisions. In addition, we built a partnership with our client Woolworths Financial Services to support our local schools, leveraging our scale for better partnerships. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 067 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Care In 2015, we brought our skilled and pro-bono volunteering together under the heading of “Care.” This campaign ran from October 1, 2015, until December 31, 2015, and it focused on raising awareness and unlocking skilled, pro-bono volunteering time and enthusiasm from our people around the Network. The campaign centered on the #1000cranes global action day on December 4th as a focal point, but activities occurred year-round. Functional Integration Story: Dentsu Maker Lab Kids This innovative and ground-breaking initiative aims to inspire the next generation of advertising stars and stimulate the development of more than 28 children. Children from the local community were invited to take part in a series of 18 workshops (two editions until now), during which kids could learn more about robotics, 3D printing, game programming and creating web pages, composing music, and wise use of media. The program, supported by DAN volunteers from the office, was realized in close cooperation with the Foundation “RUSZYŁA MASZYNA,” which aims to inspire the next generation in Poland. Local Partnership Story: #likeforlife Every day, 70 people across Hungary die of sudden heart attacks. Many of these deaths could be prevented if more people knew the basics of CPR— cardiopulmonary resuscitation. isobar in Hungary tried to do just this. isobar Hungary worked with the Red Cross to raise awareness of the potential of CPR to save lives. For this, they partnered with Instagram. isobar Hungary used this simple tool to ensure that the next time you “tap,” you do it to save a life. As a result of the campaign, the number of followers of the Red Cross Instagram campaign increased by 66%. With an uplift of 2,000 more participants, 37k Hungarians are now trained in CPR. 068 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Data Summary Benchmarks CDP FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Dentsu 83B 86B 93B 94C DAN 79C 81C 90C 97B Employment Data (Basically non-consolidated) Number of Employees (Each year-end) Employee Composition (Dec. 31, 2015) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Male Female Total Consolidated 21,649 37,450 39,427 43,583 47,324 Executive officers, others 34 0 34 Non-consolidated 7,494 7,515 7,425 7,348 7,261 Management staff 1,574 139 1,713 Non-management staff 2,889 1,057 3,946 Contract employees 280 221 501 Clerical staff 2 532 534 Partners / Senior staff 96 35 131 Part-timers, others 20 13 33 Seconded from other entities 289 80 369 Total 5,184 2,077 7,261 Note 1: Executive officers, others: includes senior corporate advisors, special advisors, and executive officers Note 2: Part-timers, others: includes permanent part-timers, non-permanent parttimers, and trainees from overseas Employees by Age and Gender (Each year-end) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Under 30 yrs. 1,592 1,593 1,535 1,403 1,389 30-39 2,764 2,727 2,682 2,618 2,576 40-49 1,845 1,803 1,773 1,798 1,805 50-59 1,144 1,252 1,290 1,380 1,326 60 and over 149 140 145 149 165 Total 7,494 7,515 7,425 7,348 7,261 Average age 38.6 38.9 39.6 39.5 39.5 Male 39.8 40.1 40.9 40.8 40.9 Female 35.7 36.0 36.1 36.4 36.1 Average length of service (yrs.) 12.8 13.1 13.9 13.9 13.3 Male 14.4 14.7 15.5 15.4 14.8 Female 8.9 9.3 9.8 10.2 9.5 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 069 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee New Graduates Hired Average Number of Paid Vacation Days Taken FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015* Total 192 136 135 132 144 Total 10.5 10.6 10.3 10.8 8.4 Male 132 93 91 92 88 Male 9.6 9.7 9.2 9.6 7.5 Female 60 43 44 40 56 Female 13.1 12.9 13.1 13.8 10.6 Female Component 31.3% 31.6% 32.6% 30.3% 38.9％ Leave Taken 52.5% 53.0% 51.5% 54.0% 42.0% Annual Paid Vacation in Hour Increments Taken (Part of paid vacation days) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015* Total Hours Taken 36,094 42,994 45,005 49,712 38,275 Total Number of People Taking Leave 13,632 16,161 17,111 14,568 14,308 Number of Hours Taken at One Time 2.6 2.7 2.6 3.4 2.7 Employees’ Health Check-up Rate Employees Taking Childcare Leave, Reinstatement Ratio FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015* FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015* Total 99.0% 99.1％ 99.2％ 99.0% 76.1% Total 44 44 51 60 81 Male 7 8 11 10 15 Female 37 36 40 50 66 Reinstatement 95.2% 95.5% 96.1% 100% 100% ratio Note: In FY2014, we recounted the number of the employee who took child care leave in the past and revised the number in conjunction with the Post-retirement Employees reinstatement ratio. FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015* Total 41 28 32 55 53 Employment Rate of People with Disabilities Male 34 21 22 45 44 June 2013 June 2014 June 2015 June 2016 Female 7 7 22 10 9 Total 1.62％ 1.79％ 2.01％ 2.04％ * Scope of calculation: 9 months, from April 2015 to December 2015 070 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Environmental Data Dentsu’s Environmental Performance Trends Dentsu Group (Excluding Waste) Calculation of Environmental Performance Data Basic Unit and Individual Criteria Calculation commenced in 2014. The period for calculation is from January 1, 2015, to December 31, 2015. Excluding some of Dentsu group companies. Intensity per full-time equivalent (FTE) employee was calculated based on a figure of 44,059 persons for CO2 and 44,059 for water. For CO2 emissions, Categories 1, 5, 6, and 7 were calculated for Scope 3. * Based on the calculation standards of WRI (World Resources Institute) GHG Protocol CO2 emissions (FY 2015) Amount of waste (FY 2015) Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Total Water consumption (m3) 502,813 Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA) CO2 emissions (tons) 4,482 53,836 51,522 109,840 Water consumption per FTE 11.41 provides third-party assurance on Dentsu’s CO2 CO2 emissions per FTE 0.102 1.222 1.169 2.493 emissions (greenhouse gas emissions). Dentsu Inc. Calculation of Environmental Performance Data CO2 emission intensity per floor space unit 253,193.97m2 Waste and water per floor space unit 252,512.90m2 Basic Unit (FY 2014) The floor space of the Kyoto Account Management Division was excluded from the calculation of the amount of waste generated and water used. Intensity per full-time equivalent (FTE) employee was calculated based on a figure of 7,261 persons. Calculation Period One year from January 1 to December 31 for each year. CO2 emissions The coefficient specified under the Act on the Rational Use of Energy (EnergySaving Act) is applied. Individual Waste The volume of waste generated (in kg) is the sum of general waste and industrial waste (including waste oil, waste plastic). Criteria Water resource usage The volume of water resources used is the sum of municipal water and gray water at the Tokyo Head Office, and the municipal water used at the Kansai Branch Office and Chubu Branch Office. CO2 Emissions FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 2016 (Forecast) CO2 emissions (tons) 20,684 22,656 23,916 23,520 21,515 21,299 CO2 emissions per m of floor space 2 0.081 0.089 0.094 0.093 0.085 0.084 CO2 emissions per FTE 2.760 3.015 3.221 3.201 2.963 2.933 Amount of Waste FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 2016 (Forecast) Amount of waste (kg) 1,818,629 1,878,365 1,862,891 2,195,858 2,456,855 2,432,286 Amount of waste per m2 of floor space 7.135 7.370 7.377 8.696 9.730 9.632 Amount of waste per FTE 242.678 249.949 250.894 298.837 338.363 334.980 Water Consumption FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 2016 (Forecast) Water consumption(m ) 3 156,210 168,236 160,046 153,852 152,452 150,927 Water consumption per m2 of floor space 0.613 0.660 0.634 0.609 0.604 0.598 Water consumption per FTE 20.845 22.387 21.555 20.938 20.996 20.786 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 071 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Employees with Eco Test Certification Environmental Slogan Entries (Dentsu and Dentsu Group Companies in Japan) FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Total 90 90 100 50 89 Total 7,917 6,909 8,230 8,082 8,133 Employee category 6,561 5,740 7,134 7,296 7,169 Family category 1,356 1,169 1,096 786 964 Human Rights Activities Human Rights Slogan Entries Students Participating in the Human Rights Art Project FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Total 9,398 8,430 9,866 8,584 9,913 121 103 74 79 59 Employee category 8,219 7,310 8,723 7,765 9,001 Family category 1,179 1,120 1,143 819 912 Social Contributions Activities Advertising Elementary School Keys to Communicating FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015* FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015* Participating 61 86 90 92 27 Implementation 16 20 14 11 4 schools Participants 4,449 6,051 7,382 6,203 1,785 Participants 678 676 557 414 108 Michinoku Fukkou Jigyou Partners UNESCO’s World Terakoya Movement FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 Participating – 20 18 15 6 Participating 500 500 500 500 500 organizations organizations Participants 925 593 1,277 1,690 1,718 World Food Day Chinese Researchers Invited FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015* Participating Invited organizations 1 1 1 12 12 universities 6 6 6 6 6 Participating Participants 9,365 19,510 17,422 13,995 10,176 researchers 6 6 6 6 6 Advertising Education Forum for Chinese Advertising Educators Advertising Seminars for Chinese Students FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2011 FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015* Participating Participating universities 30 31 34 36 – universities 22 – 19 25 9 Participating Participants 58 64 66 63 – students 1,100 – 1,200 500 480 * Scope of calculation: 9 months from April 2015 to December 2015 072 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Sustainability ◆ Message of the Chairperson ◆ Dentsu Group CSR ◆ Social Responsibility Report ◆ Environmental Report ◆ Dentsu Aegis Network CSR Activities ◆ Data Summary of CSR Committee Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 073 Contents Financial Report F i n a n c i a l R e p o r t 074 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report Consolidated Operating Highlights (IFRS) Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries (Millions of Yen) Consolidated (Financial reporting basis) IFRS Consolidated (Calendar year basis (pro forma)) IFRS 2014/3 2015/3 2015/12 2014 2015 Turnover 4,177,278 4,642,390 4,513,955 4,642,901 4,990,854 Revenue 659,772 728,626 706,469 725,886 818,566 Gross profit 614,654 676,925 669,489 676,882 761,996 Organic gross profit growth rate(1) Consolidated – 5.8% – – 7.0% Organic gross profit growth rate Japan – 2.2% – – 3.9% Organic gross profit growth rate International – 10.3% 9.4% 10.3% 9.4% Operating profit 107,283 132,305 107,265 137,558 128,212 Underlying operating profit(2) 125,593 131,937 133,328 133,402 160,438 Operating margin(3) Consolidated 20.4% 19.5% 19.9% 19.7% 21.1% Operating margin Japan 23.6% 23.9% 24.7% 24.2% 26.0% Operating margin International 16.7% 15.3% 16.9% 15.3% 16.9% Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent 66,507 79,846 72,653 81,409 83,090 Underlying profit(4) 84,395 92,875 94,368 89,179 113,388 Basic earnings per share ¥241.49 ¥276.89 ¥254.05 ¥282.31 ¥289.95 Basic underlying profit per share ¥306.38 ¥322.08 ¥329.98 ¥309.26 ¥395.67 Return on equity (ROE)(5) 9.1% 8.1% 6.8% 8.2% 7.7% Underlying ROE 11.5% 9.4% 8.8% 9.0% 10.6% ROA(6) 4.5% 4.6% 3.4% – – Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent(7) 33.5% 34.2% 34.8% – 34.8% Cash dividend per share ¥33 ¥55 ¥75 ¥55 ¥75 Dividend payout ratio(8) 13.7% 19.9% 29.5% 19.5% 25.9% Underlying dividend payout ratio 10.8% 17.1% 22.7% 17.8% 19.0% (1) Organic gross profit growth rate represents the constant currency year-on-year growth after adjusting for the effect of business acquired or disposed of since the beginning of the previous year (2) Underlying operating profit is a KPI to measure recurring business performance which is calculated as operating profit added with amortization of M&A related intangible assets, acquisition costs and one-off items such as impairment loss and gain/loss on sales of non-current assets. (3) Underlying operating profit ÷ Gross profit × 100 (4) Underlying net profit (attributable to owners of the parent): KPI to measure recurring net profit attributable to owners of the parent which is calculated as net profit (attributable to owners of the parent) added with adjustment items related to operating profit, revaluation of earnout liabilities/M&A related put-option liabilities, taxrelated and NCI profit-related and other oneoff items (5) ROE (IFRS) = Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent ÷ Average equity attributable to owners of the parent based on equity at the beginning and end of the fiscal year × 100 (6) ROA (IFRS) = Profit before tax ÷ Average total assets based on total assets at the beginning and end of the fiscal year × 100 (7) Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent = Equity attributable to owners of the parent÷Total assets (8) Dividend payout ratio = Cash dividend per share ÷ Basic earnings per share × 100 Change in fiscal period Effective from the current fiscal year, the Company and its subsidiaries with fiscal year-ends other than December 31 have changed their fiscal year-ends to December 31. As a result of this change, the consolidated fiscal year-end date has been changed from March 31 to December 31, and the current fiscal year is the nine-month period from April 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. The fiscal year-end date of Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd. and its subsidiaries, which operate the Group’s international business, is already December 31. Consequently, the financial results of these companies for the twelve-month period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 have been consolidated into the Group’s consolidated financial results for the current fiscal year. [On a reporting basis] Figures calculated on the assumption that the Group’s accounting periods for both the previous fiscal year and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 were the periods from January 1 to December 31, and are provided as reference figures for the purpose of making comparisons. [On a calendar year basis (pro forma)] Financial reporting basis Calendar year basis (pro forma) ■2  015/3: Japan business Apr.-Mar. (twelve months) + International business ■ 2014: Japan business Jan.-Dec. (twelve months) + International business Jan.-Dec. (twelve months) Jan.-Dec. (twelve months) ■ 2015/12: Japan business Apr.-Dec. (nine months) + International business ■ 2015: Japan business Jan.-Dec. (twelve months) + International business Jan.-Dec. (twelve months) Jan.-Dec. (twelve months) 2014 2015 2014 2015 Jan.-Mar. Apr.–Jun. Jul.–Sep. Oct.–Dec Jan.-Mar. Apr.–Jun. Jul.–Sep. Oct.–Dec Jan.-Mar. Apr.–Jun. Jul.–Sep. Oct.–Dec Jan.-Mar. Apr.–Jun. Jul.–Sep. Oct.–Dec Japan Japan business business 2015/3 2015/12 2014 2015 International International business business Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 075 Contents Financial Report Gross profit Operating profit (Billions (Billions of yen) of yen) 1,000 150 750 100 500 50 250 0 0 3/14 3/15 12/15 2014 2015 3/14 3/15 12/15 2014 2015 Financial reporting basis Calendar year basis Financial reporting basis Calendar year basis (pro forma) (pro forma) Underlying operating profit / Operating margin Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent / Return on equity (ROE) (Billions (Billions of yen) (%) of yen) (%) 200 40 150 12 150 30 9 100 100 20 6 50 50 10 3 0 0 0 0 3/14 3/15 12/15 2014 2015 3/14 3/15 12/15 2014 2015 Financial reporting basis Calendar year basis Financial reporting basis Calendar year basis (pro forma) (pro forma) Underlying operating profit Operating margin Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent ROE Underlying ROE Cash dividend per share / Dividend payout ratio Ratio of equity attributable to owners of the parent (Yen) (%) (%) 150 30 35.0 34.5 100 20 34.0 50 10 33.5 0 0 0 3/14 3/15 12/15 2014 2015 3/14 3/15 12/15 2014 2015 Financial reporting basis Calendar year basis Financial reporting basis Calendar year basis (pro forma) (pro forma) Cash dividend per share Dividend payout ratio Underlying dividend payout ratio 076 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Position and Operating Results Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries As of June 26, 2015 Any forward-looking statements in the following of advertising, including creative, and various contentdiscussion and analysis are based on the judgment of related services. management as of the date that Dentsu Inc. (hereinafter Revenue from the production of advertising and “Dentsu” or “the Company”) filed its securities report other advertising-related services is recorded based for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 with regulatory on the consideration paid as compensation for such authorities. services to the Group by advertisers and others less costs incurred. In some cases, revenue is also recorded Significant Accounting Policies and Estimates based on a fixed fee or other compensation. Revenue from commissions received from advertisers The Company’s consolidated financial statements for the placement of advertising is generally recognized are prepared on the basis of International Financial when the media is placed. Other revenue is generally Reporting Standards (IFRS), published by the recorded when the service is completed, an estimate International Accounting Standards Board. of the amount of compensation can be reasonably In the preparation of these consolidated financial determined and it is probable that the future economic statements, management discloses the amounts of benefit will flow to the Group. the reported asset and liability figures as well as those Revenue and costs arising from transactions of off-balance sheet transactions such as contingent relating to services other than advertising services are liabilities, as of the date the accounts are closed. presented as a gross amount. Management also estimates the impact of these figures Turnover represents the total amount billed and on the Company’s financial position and operating billable to clients by the Group, net of discounts, VAT results during the reporting period. Management and other sales-related taxes. Disclosure of turnover continuously evaluates forecasts and assumptions information is not required under IFRS. regarding such items as investments, retirement benefits and corporate taxes, as well as contingencies Impairment Loss on Property, Plant and Equipment, and litigation. Management bases its estimates and Goodwill, Intangible Assets and Investment Property assumptions on the consideration of several factors, given past performance and conditions. These results The Group determines whether there is any indication underpin asset and liability book values and reported of potential impairment loss on non-financial assets revenue and expense figures. However, uncertainties excluding inventories and deferred tax assets on the are inherent in such results and estimates may vary closing date. If any such indication exists, an impairment from actual results. test shall be conducted based on the recoverable The critical accounting policies described below amount of relevant assets. Goodwill and intangible are those that management considers to have assets with indefinite useful lives are not subject to specific potential to affect the financial position and amortization, and are instead tested for impairment loss operating results of the Group. Such policies may also annually regardless of whether there is any indication of include important assumptions and estimates used impairment, or every time when there is an indication in creating the Company’s consolidated financial of impairment loss. The recoverable amount of assets statements and therefore have a material impact on shall be either the fair value of assets or cash-generating these statements. units after deducting costs of disposal of the assets, or value in use, whichever is higher. If the carrying Revenue Recognition amount of an asset or cash-generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, the carrying amount of the asset Revenue consists primarily of commissions received for is reduced to its recoverable amount and impairment the placement of advertising into different media and loss is recognized. In the calculation of its value in use, consideration received from advertisers and others for certain assumptions regarding useful life, future cash flow, providing services, such as assistance in the production growth rate, discount rate, etc., of the asset are used. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 077 Contents Financial Report These assumptions are determined based on past Provisions performance, best estimates, and judgments based on business plans approved by the management of Provisions are recognized when the Group has a the Company. The assumptions, however, may be present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of affected by modifications in business strategies and a past event, it is probable that the obligation will be changes in market environment. If any change to these required to be settled, and a reliable estimate can be assumptions is required, the amount of impairment made of the amount of the obligation. Where the effect loss to be recognized may be significantly affected. of the time value of money is material, provisions are measured based on the present value using a discount Valuation of Financial Instruments rate reflecting the risks specific to the liability. Such provisions are calculated based on the best The Group holds financial assets such as securities estimate, taking uncertainties on the closing date into and derivatives, and uses certain assumptions in consideration. However, the amount may be impacted the valuation thereof. Fair values are determined in in case of any unforeseeable event s or changes in accordance with calculation procedures such as the circumstances. If the actual result varies from the market approach, as well as referencing market prices. estimate, the amount of obligations to be recorded In particular, the fair value of stocks that are actively may be significantly affected. traded in the market, among other securities and financial assets, is determined based on the market Collectability of Differed Tax Assets price. The fair value of stocks that are not actively traded in the market is evaluated at the amount Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it calculated by using observable market data, or at the is probable that taxable profits will be available against amount calculated primarily by the market approach which carryforwards of unused tax losses, tax credit using unobservable inputs. carryforwards and deductible temporary differences Management evaluates whether the valuation can be utilized. Deferred tax assets are reassessed at of fair value of financial instruments is conducted the end of the fiscal year and reduced by the amount in a reasonable manner. However, fair value to be of any tax benefits that are not expected to be realized. recognized may be significantly affected if any revision The Group records deferred tax assets based on to the estimate is required due to unforeseeable future taxable income and ongoing tax planning changes in assumptions that underlie the value. that emphasizes cautious and highly implementable approaches. Thus, we determine that the collectability Valuation of Defined Benefit Obligation is evaluated based on reasonable estimates. However, such estimates may be impacted in case of any Defined benefit obligation and retirement benefit costs unforeseeable events or changes in circumstances. are recorded on the basis of pension actuarial calculations. If the actual result varies from the estimate, costs These calculations are dependent upon such factors as to be recognized and assets to be recorded may be the discount rate, future compensation levels, employee significantly affected. turnover, and mortality rates, among others. Management evaluates whether those assumptions Change of the closing date that underlie the above values are reasonable. However, if the actual values of these factors vary Dentsu, Inc. has changed its closing dates from March from the forecast values, or if the assumptions that 31 to December 31, and its subsidiaries with closing underlie these values change, the Company may dates other than December 31 have also changed be significantly impacted by the recognition of such their closing dates to December 31. Accordingly, for costs or by the recording of such liabilities, on a the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015, the reporting consolidated basis. period of the Company and its major subsidiaries 078 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report engaging in the Japan business covers nine months, during the previous consolidated fiscal year. from April 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. The reporting As a result, operating profit for the consolidated period of subsidiaries engaging in the international fiscal year under review reached 107.2 billion yen (see business covers 12 months, from January 1, 2015 to page 76). December 31, 2015. Share of Results of Associates, Finance Income or Operating Results for the Fiscal Year under Review Costs, and Profit for the Year Revenue and Gross Profit Share of results of associates for the consolidated fiscal year under review was 3.9 billion yen, and the Consolidated revenue for the fiscal year under review net difference between finance income and finance (the reporting period from April 1, 2015 to December costs came to 5.1 billion yen in costs. As a result, profit 31, 2015 for the Japan business and the reporting before tax came to 106.0 billion yen. period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 for Of the profit for the year, derived by deducting the international business) reached 706.4 billion yen, income tax expense from profit before tax, profit and gross profit totaled 669.4 billion yen (see page 76). attributable to owners of the parent reached 72.6 Of the gross profit, 255.7 billion yen (up 6.7% billion yen (see page 76). compared to the previous consolidated fiscal year) was generated from the Japan business. The amount Factors Affecting Operating Results exceeded the previous consolidated fiscal year, largely due to the contribution of sponsorship sales, including Consolidated revenue is derived primarily from the 15th IAAF World Championships in Beijing, the advertising services in the four traditional mass 44th Tokyo Motor Show 2015 and the Tokyo 2020 media format s and other advertising services, mainly Olympic and Paralympic Games. interactive media and out-of-home, or OOH, media Gross profit from the international business was (billboard, transit and other), as well as related creative 414.0 billion yen (up 20.6.% compared to the previous services. Commissions from media companies on the consolidated fiscal year). The organic gross profit sale of media time and/or space represent the largest growth rate in the international business continuously contribution to revenue, with the key revenue source expanded and increased by 9.4% compared to the being commissions for advertising time and/or space previous consolidated fiscal year. All regions recorded through the four traditional mass media formats. higher growth than in the previous consolidated fiscal The main factors affecting revenue from advertising year, with EMEA up 12.2%, the Americas up 4.9%, and in these traditional mass media formats are described APAC up 11.4%. below: Selling, General and Administrative Expenses, Other • Overall advertising expenditures, which fluctuate Income, Other Expenses and Operating Profit with changing industry conditions such as general economic conditions, technological innovations, Consolidated selling, general and administrative deregulation and heightened competition; (SG&A) expenses for the consolidated fiscal year under •  The Group’s competitive position vis-à-vis other review came to 566.4 billion yen. advertising companies; Other income was 13.0 billion yen, and other • Rates charged by media companies for advertising expenses came to 8.7 billion yen. time and/or space; and Major factors behind the decreases from the previous • Changing advertiser needs for advertising across consolidated fiscal year in other income and other different media. expenses are related to the sale of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and investment property With increasing popularity in recent years, the Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 079 Contents Financial Report Internet is firmly in second place, behind television, as or interest in, the associated content, and the level of the medium garnering the most contact time in homes demand for these rights, especially by advertisers and across Japan. As the media environment evolves, the broadcasters. needs of advertisers become increasingly sophisticated. In addition, the Group earns revenue from solutions Advertisers are particularly interested in effective and services, including customer relationship management efficient media planning that integrates the Internet, (CRM), e-marketing and system configuration. Revenue mobile phone and other interactive media with the from these services is not only affected by factors that traditional mass media formats. Increasingly, they seek impact advertising services but also investment trends verification of advertising effectiveness. To accurately pertaining to system development. address these client needs, the Dentsu Group strives As the factors that influence revenue, trends in to provide high value-added cross-media campaigns. revenue may differ among the countries in which Recent trends indicate heightened appreciation the Group operates, based on such factors as the for integrated services that cover a broad spectrum business climate in each country, developments in of media domains as well as tools that verify cost specific industries, the competitive position of the efficiency and advertising effectiveness. The Group Group vis-à-vis other advertising companies, as well as believes this will result in an increase in the number market practices regarding remuneration for services of transactions between advertisers and full-service and shifts in demand among clients for advertising in advertising companies. different media. Exchange rate fluctuations between The Group frequently provides promotional services the yen, the reporting currency for the Company’s and other advertising services in combination with consolidated results, and the currencies of other advertising in the four traditional mass media. For countries in which the Group operates also have an example, in promotional services, clients typically effect on revenue. combine advertising campaigns in traditional mass media with point-of-purchase, or POP, displays, Current Status of Management Strategies and Outlook promotional events and other approaches to encourage consumers to buy the client company’s products or (1) Basic Management Policies subscribe to its services. Demand for traditional mass With the completion of the acquisition of Aegis Group media advertising may fluctuate independently of plc (current Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd.) in March 2013, demand for combined services, but the factors that the Dentsu Group has evolved into a truly global influence one type of advertising will impact the other network. Taking this opportunity, Dentsu formulated types as well. the medium-term management plan “Dentsu 2017 The Group also secures revenue from services and Beyond,” implemented in the fiscal year ended related to entertainment and sports marketing. March 31, 2014. These services include the production, marketing In recent years, various advancements in technology and establishment of marketing tie-ins for, and the have been made, and as the behavior of consumers selling or brokering of, sponsorship, broadcasting changes, it has become difficult for many companies to and other rights to such content as movies, sports achieve satisfactory results from marketing activities in events, music and other forms of entertainment. A the absence of coordination between initiatives. breakdown of revenue from such services shows net Under these circumstances, the Group strives to proceeds or commissions on the purchase and sale of evolve into the world’s leading global network to content-related rights, returns on rights or interests in contribute to raising corporate value for every type of content owned as well as consideration for services. client. Revenue may vary depending on such factors as the location and timing of the entertainment and sports (2) Targeted Management Indicators events, the terms under which the Group companies Targets for the fiscal year ending December 31, 2017 acquire the rights, the level of consumer demand for, were set as follows: 080 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report • Gross profit compound annual growth rate 2) Evolving and expanding in the digital domain (CAGR): 3%–5%; Gross profit in the Japanese digital domain on a 2015 • Ratio of gross profit generated from markets calendar year basis increased 22.2% year on year, outside of Japan: 55% or higher; continuing to achieve double-digit growth. • Ratio of gross profit generated from digital Outside of Japan, the Group implemented M&As in businesses: 35% or higher; and various digital domain sectors in the fiscal year under • Underlying operating margin: 20% or higher review as well. Of the M&As conducted over the course Note: U  nderlying operating margin is the underlying operating profit divided by gross profit. of the year, almost half of the total projects were in the digital domain. Due to growth via M&As and internal Furthermore, from the previous fiscal year, the Group growth, the gross profit of the international business has applied the International Financial Reporting operation in the digital domain increased 24.8% Standards (hereinafter, “IFRS”) instead of the Japanese compared to the previous consolidated fiscal year. GAAP. In line with this change, operating margin is As a result, the digital domain ratio across the entire now calculated utilizing “underlying operating profit” Group reached 34% on a 2015 calendar year basis, instead of “operating profit before amortization of making progress toward the goal of 35% or higher for goodwill and other intangible assets.” There has been the fiscal year ending December 31, 2017. no change to target figures. Under the accelerated digital shift of client marketing activities, the needs for the digital domain are further (3) Tasks to Be Addressed by the Group and Its diverse and advanced in the advertising industry. Such Management Strategy needs include the followings: Specific challenges and efforts to achieve the goals • programmatic buying system in the media buying stated in the medium-term management plan are as domain, follows. • digital solution including creative materials and 1) Diversifying the portfolio on a global basis contents, and The gross profit organic growth rate in the Group’s • data analysis which contributes to business international business operations for the fiscal year decision making and consumer engagement under review was 9.4%, achieving a rate higher than strategy those of its competitors in consecutive years. As a As a result, the role played by the advertisement result, the gross profit international ratio reached 54% agency is further expanding. Given the circumstances, on a 2015 calendar year basis. the Group will continue to utilize aggressive M&As and The Group believes the reasons for such robust work to improve its capabilities and quality of service growth is that, each Group company provides onestop solutions to meet client needs by cooperating 3) Re-engineering business processes and improving and coordinating, leveraging their unique strengths, profitability and creating expanded business from existing clients, Due to the continued cost control such as suppression in addition to solid acquisition of new accounts through of the cost increase associated with the revenue the Group’s unique “One P&L” business model for its growth in both Japan and international business international business operations, and that the business operations, the consolidated underlying operating in the digital network domain is steadily growing. margin on a 2015 calendar year basis improved 1.4 ppt Moving forward, the Group will work to globally as compared to the previous consolidated fiscal year expand its strengths in the digital domain as well as to 21.1% (see page 76). in the areas of sports marketing and content creation, While aiming for growth in the top line in both its while making use of M&As to establish and expand a Japan and international businesses, the Group will globally competitive global network. continue to improve operational efficiency and cost controls to increase profitability across the entire Group, toward achieving the goal of “underlying operating Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 081 Contents Financial Report margin of 20% or higher,” as set forth as one of the growing momentum among our stakeholders to seek objectives of the medium-term management plan. ESG (environmental, social, governance), in other words, commitment to CSR activities in the fiscal year 4) F  urther reinforcing the business platform in the under review. core Japanese market In light of this situation, the Group formulated the The Group’s greatest strength is its strong business “Dentsu Group Medium-term CSR strategy 2020” in platform in Japan, and this has not changed. In its December 2015. business in this key market for the fiscal year under The plan has set targets to be achieved by 2020 review, despite concerns over a pullback in demand highlighting the four key domains: environmental after the 2014 FIFA World Cup Brazil™ and stagnant conservation, community, supply chain, and responsible personal consumption, the performance of the major marketing communications. subsidiaries in promotion or digital domain has In addition, as a leading member of the Japan remained strong, yielding positive growth. Network of the United Nations Global Compact, which In Japan, where consumer behavior is drastically is the international CSR initiative, the Company will changing, it is becoming difficult to achieve sufficient continuously strive to identify and solve global social results unless the individual measures in the marketing issues through our cross-industry network. activities are organically linked. Moving forward, we plan to continue our efforts to In light of these environment changes, the entire improve corporate value by enhancing the desirable Group continues to work on strengthening the CSR activities as the leading global group in the capability for digital solutions including the marketing communication domain. intelligence domain and enhancing the system. For details on individual activities, please refer to the In addition, the Group further strengthens its Dentsu Sustainability Report (http://www.dentsu.com/ competitiveness in the mass media business by csr/index.html). accumulating the collaboration with players in the media content domain and by making efforts to establish Analysis of Capital Resources and Cash Liquidity new revenue models and enhancing the value of the diverse media. Furthermore, the Company will work to Assets, Liabilities and Equity increase its problem-solving abilities and capability to create profits in a greater number of domains, in its As of December 31, 2015, total assets decreased by efforts to evolve into a partner who can support the 93,459 million yen, liabilities decreased by 85,139 success of its clients from a variety of angles. million yen, and total equity decreased by 8,320 million Additionally, the Company is providing support for yen compared to the previous consolidated fiscal year creating marketing plans and sponsorship sales as the respectively, as affected by the repayment of bonds exclusive marketing agency for the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and borrowings and the acquisition of treasury stock. and Paralympic Games. Concerning sponsorship sales, six Gold Sponsors (15 sponsors in total) were finalized Cash Flows during the fiscal year under review, and progress has been steady. The Company will continue to fulfill its As of December 31, 2015, cash and cash equivalents role as the exclusive marketing agency. (hereinafter “cash”) amounted to 263,322 million yen The above is the overview of the medium-term down from the 365,379 million yen posted at the end management plan. of the previous consolidated fiscal year. As net cash As the issues to be addressed, we are also striving provided by operating activities exceeded net cash to enhance our global CSR activities in addition to the used in investing activities and financing activities, efforts outlined above. cash at the end of the consolidated fiscal year under As described in the corporate governance code review decreased 102,057 million yen from the end of (implementation began in June 2015), there was the previous consolidated fiscal year 082 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report Net cash provided by operating activities amounted funding to borrow funds acquired for this purpose to 69,554 million yen (112,388 million was posted at from other domestic consolidated subsidiaries with the previous consolidated fiscal year), primarily due to excess cash. Also, a global CMS has been introduced recording of profit before tax. at Dentsu Aegis Network, through which overseas cash Net cash used in investing activities amounted to is consolidated in London. 61,203 million yen (25,510 million yen was posted at The Japanese rating agency Rating and Investment the previous consolidated fiscal year), primarily due to Information, Inc., or R&I, has assigned a rating of AApurchase of investments in subsidiaries. to Dentsu’s long-term debt and a rating of a-1+ to its Net cash used in financing activities amounted short-term debt. to 95,666 million yen (income of 8,391 million yen was posted at the previous consolidated fiscal year), Management Issues and Future Policies primarily due to expenditures in repayment of longterm borrowings, purchase of treasury stocks, and See Current Status of Management Strategies and payment of dividends. Outlook on page 80. Capital Requirements Operating and Other Risks The Group’s principal working capital requirements are The operating results, share price and financial position payments for the purchase of advertising time and/or of Dentsu and, by extension, the Dentsu Group are space and the production of advertisements, as well as subject to various risks, as described below. personnel costs and other SG&A expenses. Any forward-looking statements in the following In recent years, capital requirements have increased discussion are based on the judgment of management for investments in the digital and global domains in the as of the date of filing the securities report. course of exploring different advertising opportunities. Overall Industry-related Risk Financial Policy Risk related to fluctuations in the economic and The Group’s primary source of funds is cash generated business environments from internal reserves, short-term borrowings and The financial results of the Dentsu Group and other the issuance of commercial paper. The Group has companies in the advertising industry are highly generally had positive working capital (current assets susceptible to changes in the market and business minus current liabilities) on a consolidated basis. In the conditions because many advertisers adjust their previous fiscal year and the fiscal year under review, spending in response to changes in these conditions. the Group’s working capital recorded positive amounts Management has taken steps, such as diversifying of 170.6 billion yen and 129.4 billion yen, respectively. the types of services the Group provides and To ensure short-term liquidity, Dentsu established geographic regions in which the Group operates, a bank credit line of up to 50.0 billion yen via a to reduce exposure to the impact of fluctuations in syndication arrangement. Also, Dentsu Aegis Network economic and business environments. Nonetheless, established a bank credit line of 500 million pounds the Group’s financial results may be influenced by (approximately 89.0 billion yen) as a contingency macroeconomic trends in Japan and fluctuations in fund. In addition, to improve cash efficiency within the operating environment of key domestic industry the Group, a cash management system (CMS) was sectors that have significant advertising expenditures. introduced so that Dentsu could borrow cash from In addition, changes in business conditions outside domestic consolidated subsidiaries. A Groupwide Japan, such as an economic slowdown or exchange finance system is now in place that enables nearly rate fluctuations, could also adversely affect business all domestic consolidated subsidiaries that require conditions in Japan, and therefore adversely affect the Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 083 Contents Financial Report results of operations of the Group’s business in Japan. to explore and exploit further business opportunities. In April 2017, Japan’s consumption tax rate is Nevertheless, if the Group cannot cope appropriately scheduled to be raised from 8% to 10%. Such a tax with changes in the media structure associated with increase may adversely affect the Japanese economy the rapid pace of technological innovation, its results in general, and in particular, curb consumer spending, of operations could be adversely affected. which could in turn reduce the demand for the Group’s services and negatively impact its results of operations. Risk related to shortfalls in financial targets and other The Great East Japan Earthquake that occurred in goals March 2011 adversely affected the Japanese economy Pursuant to the Dentsu Group’s new medium-term due to supply chain disruptions, electricity shortages management plan—Dentsu 2017 and Beyond—the and other factors. While economic and business Group has set financial targets and other goals to be conditions in Japan have improved since then, there is achieved by the fiscal year ending December 31, 2017. no assurance that conditions may not deteriorate again For example, the Group intends to continue to increase in the future, including as a result of future earthquakes the proportion of its revenue from business outside or other natural disasters. of Japan by enhancing and extending its new global With the acquisition of the major British advertising network formed with the acquisition of Aegis. However, agency Aegis in March 2013, the proportion of the the Group’s ability to achieve its financial targets Group’s gross profit accounted for by its operations and other goals is based on a number of underlying outside of Japan increased significantly, to 54%, in assumptions, including assumptions regarding factors fiscal 2015. With this development, downturns in the beyond its control such as growth in advertising economies and business environments of the principal expenditures globally, foreign currency exchange rates markets in which the Group operates outside of Japan and interest rates, as well as general economic growth could have an increased adverse impact on its overall rates of countries in which the Group operates. If any results of operations. of these assumptions proves to be inaccurate, the Group may be unable to achieve its financial targets Risk related to technological innovation and structural and other goals. In addition, there is no assurance that changes in the media management will be able to successfully implement Developments in technology and structural changes the medium-term management plan. in the media are having an increasing impact on the Dentsu Group’s business. According to 2015 Risk related to common business practices Advertising Expenditures in Japan (issued by Dentsu), In Japan, Dentsu Group companies are liable for Internet advertising expenditures have continued to payment to media companies regardless of whether grow since the first survey in 1996 and have reached a they receive payment from their clients. This practice level surpassing the amounts allocated to newspaper, exposes the Group to the risk of payment default magazine or radio advertising, which are three of the by advertiser clients, including as the result of the four traditional mass media (newspapers, magazines, bankruptcy of clients. An increase in payment defaults radio and television). by clients could adversely affect the Group’s results Management believes that the development of of operations. The nature of the advertising business Internet-based and other new media advertising is such that sudden changes in advertising proposals should contribute to expanding the overall advertising and actual advertisements are frequent. The Group market by generating synergies between advertising strives to preclude problems related to work for clients in the four traditional mass media and such new through measures such as encouraging the conclusion advertising. The Dentsu Group also believes that it has of basic written contracts with them, but unforeseen already secured a leading position in Japan not only in events or disputes with clients may arise. advertising in the four traditional mass media but also Overseas, especially in Europe and the Americas, in Internet advertising, and the Group continues to seek relationships between advertisers and advertising 084 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report agencies are usually exclusive within a particular Dentsu Group competes with these companies in the industry In Japan, however, these relationships are development and expansion of new businesses. If the typically less exclusive. Accordingly, the Dentsu Group is unable to respond effectively to client needs Group, like other advertising agencies in Japan, in such business domains from either a service or a cost handles multiple clients in a single industry. If the perspective, or if the entrance of new companies into practice in Japan were to change in favor of exclusive these new markets suddenly causes rapid changes in relationships, and if the Group’s efforts to respond to customary advertising business practices, the Group’s such a change were ineffective, its results of operations results of operations could be adversely affected. could be adversely affected. Risk Related to Advertisers and Media Companies Competition-related Risk The Dentsu Group has formed business ties with major Risk related to competition among advertising advertisers in Japan and has maintained stable, longagencies term relationships with a large majority of its current The Dentsu Group faces increasing competition from clients. advertising agencies in Japan and overseas. The Group has also established strong relationships In Japan, mergers among domestic advertising with Japan’s mass media companies, which enhances companies or other reorganizations of the domestic its ability to coordinate operations and sales activities industry, or further entry into the market by large between advertisers and media companies, and global advertising companies, could alter the structure thereby facilitate transactions. of Japan’s advertising industry and increase the However, if the Group is unable to provide services competitive pressure that the Group faces. Going that match the needs of existing or new advertisers forward, the Group’s results of operations could be and media companies, the Group may be adversely adversely affected by increased competition to secure affected, including by the termination of business clients if the Group is unable to respond effectively to relationships, the reduction of accounts or unfavorable changes in the structure of the industry or standard changes in the terms of business. business practices prompted by such developments. In recent years, advertisers have sought to consolidate Outside of Japan, the Group competes with large their media service activities with one advertising global advertising companies, some of which have agency to boost advertising efficiency and reduce greater geographic scope and greater financial, costs. For this and other reasons, the Group and other human and other resources than the Group, as well as advertising companies have experienced a decrease with smaller agencies that specialize in one or more in the profitability of mass media advertising services. countries or local markets. To the extent that the Group If this trend persists, the Group’s results of operations is not able to remain competitive and obtain and retain could be further adversely affected. key clients, its results of operations may be adversely affected. Risk Related to Efforts to Reinforce Domestic Service Capabilities Risk related to competition from new market entries and from adjacent industries Risk related to the development of information The rapid expansion and diversification of the technology processes and databases advertising field is giving rise to competition from an The Dentsu Group is currently involved in research and increasing number of companies in adjacent industries, development on information technology processes including general trading and consulting companies. and databases that verify the effectiveness of clients’ Fields related to Internet advertising and social advertising activities and marketing budgets. Through networking services are also seeing a sharp increase these efforts, management seeks to bring latent in the number of new market entrants, and the demand to the surface and expand its share of the Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 085 Contents Financial Report Japanese advertising market. However, it is unclear if Taking advantage of this opportunity, the Dentsu or when the results of these efforts will be marketable Group has established several specialized companies and put to practical use. Moreover, even if the Group in promotion-related fields such as point-of-purchase is able to develop marketable services from its R&D marketing, flyer production, direct business and client activities, these services may not produce the results access in order to expand its future promotion business. the Group expects, especially if the needs of clients However, if demand for these services falls short of have changed significantly or technological challenges expectations, or if the Group is unable to maintain preclude widespread use of the services. competitiveness with other solutions providers, the Group may not realize the return on investments that Risk related to investments in media and Internet it expects. advertising businesses To reinforce the Dentsu Group’s position in the media Risk Related to Content Business markets and otherwise expand its business, the Group has made investments in the four traditional mass The Dentsu Group actively invests in the acquisition media, OOH media (out-of-home media such as transit of rights to, and in the production of, films, television and billboard) and satellite media (broadcast and programs, sports events and music, and seeks to communication satellites), as well as in related research generate profits from the production, distribution, and business development programs. However, if sale and licensing of films and other content as well as demand for media advertising becomes stagnant from the sale of sponsorships, broadcasting rights and or competition in the media advertising market content-related advertising. However, these projects intensifies, profits and other business results may not may extend over several fiscal years and require be sufficient to generate the return the Group expects significant acquisition costs and financial commitments. from these investments in R&D and commercialization. In addition, media that provide content have been In the Internet advertising domain, as advertising diversifying in recent years. Moreover, the success methods diversify and demands from clients expand, the of the Group’s content business depends primarily Dentsu Group has been actively establishing alliances upon acceptance by the general public, which can be with leading, specialized agencies as well as investing difficult to predict. Therefore, if these investments in in other specialized companies and technologies. content or events do not develop as planned or do These moves support the Group’s efforts to further not realize the benefits expected, the Group’s results promote and propose cross-media campaigns that are of operations may be adversely affected. aimed at creating effective synergies among multiple media and creative outlets that are effective in light of Risk Related to Global Businesses target consumers’ behavior patterns. The Group is also focusing on performance-based advertising, a method Risks related to international business development of ad delivery which utilizes platforms that employ With the acquisition of Aegis, the Dentsu Group’s ad technologies processing vast amounts of data global operations have expanded to over 140 countries to provide automatic or instantaneous optimization and regions. The Group’s global operations are subject of advertising. However, if the Group’s efforts fail to to a number of risks, including but not limited to the adequately address the rapid progress in technologies following: and services associated with the Internet advertising domain, the Group may be unable to realize its initially • Difficulties in monitoring and coordinating operations expected return on these investments. in such a large number and wide range of jurisdictions; • Heightened exposure to any downturn affecting the Risk related to expansion of the promotion business global economy; The importance of promotional activities has been • Risks related to foreign laws, regulations and policies, rising for advertisers, and the market is expanding. including capital and exchange controls; 086 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report • Differences in, or conflicts among, the taxation Risk Related to Maintaining and Developing Human regimes in the different jurisdictions in which the Resources Group operates; • Changes with respect to taxation, including impositions The growth potential and competitiveness of the or increases of withholding and other taxes on Dentsu Group are highly dependent upon attracting, remittances and other payments by the Group’s retaining and developing excellent human resources. overseas subsidiaries; Therefore, Group companies strive to attract the • Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; necessary talent by hiring a stable number of new • Varying standards and practices in the legal, regulatory graduates and by recruiting mid-career professionals and business cultures in which the Group operates, with expertise and experience that will make an including potential inability to enforce contracts immediate contribution. At the same time, the Group or intellectual property rights and restrictions on endeavors to promote personnel development by employment matters; offering training opportunities according to the • Trade restrictions and changes in tariff; position and ability of each individual. However, these • Risks related to political instability and uncertain efforts could be sidetracked for all sorts of reasons, business environments; making it difficult to attract exceptional people or • Changes in the political or economic relationship keep them within the Group. If this were to occur, the between Japan and the other countries and regions Group’s growth potential and its competitive edge in which the Group operates; could be adversely affected. • Acts of terrorism, war, epidemics and other sources of Moreover, the Group is continuing to address issues social disruption; and inherent in the management of a greater number of • Difficulties associated with managing local personnel employees in diverse cultural and geographic areas, and preventing misconduct by local third-party particularly with the integration of a large number alliance partners. of new overseas employees in connection with the acquisition of Aegis. There can be no assurance that the Any one or more of these or other factors could Group will be able to attract or retain key employees increase the Group’s costs, reduce its revenues or and successfully manage them. The Group’s inability disrupt its operations, with possible material adverse to do so could disrupt its business and have a material effects on its business, financial condition and results adverse effect on its financial condition, results of of operations. operations and competitive position. Risk related to impairment losses on goodwill and Risk Related to Reliance on Information Technology other intangible assets Systems The Dentsu Group carries significant amounts of goodwill and other intangible assets on its balance The Dentsu Group relies on information technology sheet, particularly as a result of the acquisition of systems and infrastructure to process transactions, Aegis. Under Japanese GAAP, the Group is required to summarize results and manage its business, including examine such assets for impairment whenever events maintaining client marketing and advertising or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying information. The Group’s information technology amount of an asset may not be recoverable. The systems are potentially vulnerable to system failures recognition of such impairment charges may adversely and network disruptions, malicious intrusion and affect the Group’s business, financial condition and random attack. Likewise, data security incidents and results of operations. breaches by employees and others with or without permitted access to its systems may pose a risk that sensitive data may be exposed to unauthorized persons or to the public. Additionally, the Group utilizes third Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 087 Contents Financial Report parties to store, transfer or process data. While the advertising activities of advertisers or the format or Group has taken prudent measures to protect its data content of advertisements are strengthened, if new and information technology systems, there can be no laws or regulations are introduced, or if existing laws assurance that its efforts will prevent system failures or and regulations are reinterpreted. network disruptions or breaches in its systems, or in Members of the Group handle personal and other systems of third parties the Group uses, which could advertiser information in the course of doing business. adversely affect its results of operations. The Dentsu Group’s information security system is certified to international standards, and the utmost Risk Related to Legal or Regulatory Changes care is given to safeguarding information entrusted to the Group. However, in the unlikely event of an Advertising companies in Japan, including those information leak or other such incident occurring, the under the Dentsu Group umbrella, are subject to Group’s credibility could be severely compromised. a number of laws and regulations, including the Act This could adversely affect its financial results. against Delay in Payment of Subcontract Proceeds, Etc. to Subcontractors and the Act on the Protection of Risk of Litigation Personal Information. At the current time, management does not anticipate that these laws and regulations The Dentsu Group could become involved in litigation will have any material impact on the Group’s business. brought against it directly or indirectly in association However, the financial results of the Dentsu Group with the execution of business by members of the and other advertising companies could be adversely Group, including claims by clients, organizations, affected if existing laws or regulations governing the consumers or owners of intellectual property. 088 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report Consolidated Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries December 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 Notes ASSETS (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) CURRENT ASSETS: Cash and cash equivalents 7 ¥365,379 ¥263,322 $2,183 Trade and other receivables 8, 32 1,224,190 1,263,317 10,474 Inventories 9 25,982 18,724 155 Other financial assets 10, 19, 32 22,732 20,945 174 Other current assets 11 43,575 46,201 383 Subtotal 1,681,861 1,612,510 13,370 Non-current assets classified as held for sale 12 – 5,513 46 Total current assets 1,681,861 1,618,024 13,415 NON-CURRENT ASSETS: Property, plant and equipment 13 199,037 196,782 1,632 Goodwill 14 656,565 656,862 5,446 Intangible assets 14 274,745 256,991 2,131 Investment property 16 42,160 41,642 345 Investments accounted for using the equity method 6, 17 53,042 50,281 417 Other financial assets 10, 32 214,393 218,083 1,808 Other non-current assets 22 22,134 11,515 95 Deferred tax assets 18 15,594 15,893 132 Total non-current assets 1,477,673 1,448,051 12,006 TOTAL ASSETS 6 ¥3,159,534 ¥3,066,075 $25,421 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 089 Contents Financial Report Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries December 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 Notes LIABILITIES AND EQUITY (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) LIABILITIES: CURRENT LIABILITIES: Trade and other payables 19, 32 ¥1,231,220 ¥1,207,347 $10,010 Bonds and borrowings 20, 32 73,653 66,805 554 Other financial liabilities 20, 32 54,082 44,988 373 Income tax payables 21,520 11,177 93 Provisions 21 208 1,819 15 Other current liabilities 130,571 156,156 1,295 Subtotal 1,511,256 1,488,294 12,340 Liabilities directly associated with non-current 12 – 307 3 assets classified as held for sale Total current liabilities 1,511,256 1,488,602 12,342 NON-CURRENT LIABILITIES: Bonds and borrowings 20, 32 335,965 286,977 2,379 Other financial liabilities 20, 32 69,765 72,735 603 Liability for retirement benefits 22 43,674 30,557 253 Provisions 21 4,627 3,096 26 Other non-current liabilities 8,849 11,350 94 Deferred tax liabilities 18 74,331 70,011 580 Total non-current liabilities 537,214 474,729 3,936 Total liabilities 2,048,470 1,963,331 16,278 EQUITY: Share capital 23 74,609 74,609 619 Share premium account 23 99,906 99,751 827 Treasury shares 23 (131) (20,155) (167) Other components of equity 292,652 261,039 2,164 Retained earnings 23 613,327 652,972 5,414 Total equity attributable to owners of the parent 32 1,080,364 1,068,216 8,857 Non-controlling interests 30,699 34,526 286 Total equity 1,111,063 1,102,743 9,143 TOTAL LIABILITIES AND EQUITY ¥3,159,534 ¥3,066,075 $25,421 090 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report Consolidated Statement of Income Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Nine months ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 Notes (Year ended March 31, (Nine months ended (Nine months ended 2015) December 31, 2015) December 31, 2015) (Turnover (Note 1)) 6 ¥4,642,390 ¥4,513,955 $37,426 Revenue 6 728,626 706,469 5,857 Cost 13, 14, 22, 26 51,701 36,979 307 Gross profit 6 676,925 669,489 5,551 Selling, general and administrative expenses 13, 14, 22, 25, 26 572,084 566,487 4,697 Other income 27 39,102 13,030 108 Other expenses 13, 14, 28 11,638 8,766 73 Operating profit 6 132,305 107,265 889 Share of results of associates 17 7,178 3,911 32 Profit before interest and tax 139,483 111,177 922 Finance income 29 7,067 4,926 41 Finance costs 22, 26, 29 12,255 10,059 83 Profit before tax 134,295 106,043 879 Income tax expense 18 49,649 28,339 235 Profit for the year ¥84,645 ¥77,704 $644 Profit attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥79,846 ¥72,653 $602 Non-controlling interests ¥4,799 ¥5,051 $42 Earnings per share (Yen) (U.S. Dollars) Basic earnings per share 31 ¥276.89 ¥254.05 $2.11 Diluted earnings per share 31 ¥276.84 ¥254.03 $2.11 Reconciliation from operating profit to underlying operating profit (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 Notes (Year ended March 31, (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Operating profit ¥132,305 ¥107,265 $889 Amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisi19,784 22,798 189 tions Other adjusting items (selling, general and administra4,972 2,454 20 tive expenses) Other adjusting items (other income) (33,275) (4,565) (38) Other adjusting items (other expenses) 8,151 5,376 45 Underlying operating profit (Note 2) 6 ¥131,937 ¥133,328 $1,105 (Note 1) Turnover represents the total amount billed and billable to clients by the Group, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. Disclosure of turnover information is not required under IFRS; however, it is voluntarily disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Income since management has concluded that the information is useful for users of the financial statements. (Note 2) For the definition of underlying operating profit, refer to “3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (20) Underlying Operating Profit.” Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 091 Contents Financial Report Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Nine months ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 Notes (Year ended March 31, (Nine months ended (Nine months ended 2015) December 31, 2015) December 31, 2015) PROFIT FOR THE YEAR ¥84,645 ¥77,704 $644 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME ITEMS THAT WILL NOT BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT OR LOSS: Net change in financial assets measured at fair value 30, 32 66,704 3,354 28 through other comprehensive income Remeasurements of defined benefit plans 22, 30 7,542 2,849 24 Share of other comprehensive income of investments 17, 30 152 411 3 accounted for using the equity method ITEMS THAT MAY BE RECLASSIFIED TO PROFIT OR LOSS: Exchange differences on translation of foreign 30 46,061 (35,439) (294) operations Effective portion of the change in the fair value of cash 30 1,036 (1,950) (16) flow hedges Share of other comprehensive income of investments 17, 30 221 (589) (5) accounted for using the equity method Other comprehensive income, net of tax 121,717 (31,363) (260) COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ¥206,363 ¥46,340 $384 COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR ATTRIBUTABLE TO: Owners of the parent ¥200,471 ¥42,077 $349 Non-controlling interests ¥5,891 ¥4,263 $35 092 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Nine months ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) Total equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Exchange Effective portion Net change in financial Share differences of the change assets measured at Treasury Notes Share capital premium Share options on translation in the fair value fair value through shares account of foreign of cash flow other comprehensive operations hedges income As of April 1, 2014 ¥74,609 ¥99,906 ¥(104) ¥– ¥160,772 ¥11,127 ¥15,267 Profit for the year Other comprehensive income 45,129 1,004 66,847 Comprehensive income for the year – – – – 45,129 1,004 66,847 Repurchase of treasury shares (27) Disposal of treasury shares 0 0 Issue of share options 48 Dividends 24 Transactions with non-controlling interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control Transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings (732) Transactions with owners—total – 0 (27) 48 – – (732) As of March 31, 2015 ¥74,609 ¥99,906 ¥(131) ¥48 ¥205,902 ¥12,131 ¥81,382 Profit for the year Other comprehensive income (34,769) (1,909) 3,293 Comprehensive income for the year – – – – (34,769) (1,909) 3,293 Repurchase of treasury shares (154) (20,024) Dividends 24 Transactions with non-controlling interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control Transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings (1,037) Other Transactions with owners—total – (154) (20,024) – – – (1,037) As of December 31, 2015 ¥74,609 ¥99,751 ¥(20,155) ¥48 ¥171,132 ¥10,222 ¥83,639 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Total equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Exchange Effective portion Net change in financial Share differences of the change assets measured at Treasury Notes Share capital premium Share options on translation in the fair value fair value through shares account of foreign of cash flow other comprehensive operations hedges income As of March 31, 2015 $619 $828 $(1) $0 $1,707 $101 $675 Profit for the year Other comprehensive income (288) (16) 27 Comprehensive income for the year – – – – (288) (16) 27 Repurchase of treasury shares (1) (166) Dividends 24 Transactions with non-controlling interests in subsidiaries that do not result in a loss of control Transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings (9) Other Transactions with owners—total – (1) (166) – – – (9) As of December 31, 2015 $619 $827 $(167) $0 $1,419 $85 $693 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 093 Contents Financial Report (Millions of Yen) Total equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Remeasurements Retained Non-controlling Notes of defined Total Total Total equity earnings interests benefit plans As of April 1, 2014 ¥(14,456) ¥172,711 ¥553,889 ¥901,012 ¥24,709 ¥925,722 Profit for the year – 79,846 79,846 4,799 84,645 Other comprehensive income 7,643 120,625 120,625 1,092 121,717 Comprehensive income for the year 7,643 120,625 79,846 200,471 5,891 206,363 Repurchase of treasury shares – (27) (27) Disposal of treasury shares – 0 0 Issue of share options 48 48 48 Dividends 24 – (10,669) (10,669) (2,498) (13,167) Transactions with non-controlling interests in subsidiaries – (10,471) (10,471) 2,596 (7,875) that do not result in a loss of control Transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings (732) 732 – – Transactions with owners—total – (684) (20,408) (21,119) 97 (21,021) As of March 31, 2015 ¥(6,813) ¥292,652 ¥613,327 ¥1,080,364 ¥30,699 ¥1,111,063 Profit for the year – 72,653 72,653 5,051 77,704 Other comprehensive income 2,809 (30,576) (30,576) (787) (31,363) Comprehensive income for the year 2,809 (30,576) 72,653 42,077 4,263 46,340 Repurchase of treasury shares – (20,179) (20,179) Dividends 24 – (20,072) (20,072) (3,164) (23,236) Transactions with non-controlling interests in subsidiaries – (13,972) (13,972) 2,743 (11,229) that do not result in a loss of control Transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings (1,037) 1,037 – – Other – – (15) (15) Transactions with owners—total – (1,037) (33,008) (54,224) (436) (54,660) As of December 31, 2015 ¥(4,003) ¥261,039 ¥652,972 ¥1,068,216 ¥34,526 ¥1,102,743 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Total equity attributable to owners of the parent Other components of equity Remeasurements Retained Non-controlling Notes of defined Total Total Total equity earnings interests benefit plans As of March 31, 2015 $(56) $2,426 $5,085 $8,957 $255 $9,212 Profit for the year – 602 602 42 644 Other comprehensive income 23 (254) (254) (7) (260) Comprehensive income for the year 23 (254) 602 349 35 384 Repurchase of treasury shares – (167) (167) Dividends 24 – (166) (166) (26) (193) Transactions with non-controlling interests in subsidiaries – (116) (116) 23 (93) that do not result in a loss of control Transfer from other components of equity to retained earnings (9) 9 – – Other – – (0) (0) Transactions with owners—total – (9) (274) (450) (4) (453) As of December 31, 2015 $(33) $2,164 $5,414 $8,857 $286 $9,143 094 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries Nine months ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 Notes (Year ended March 31, (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before tax ¥134,295 ¥106,043 $879 ADJUSTMENTS FOR: Depreciation and amortization 40,390 41,453 344 Impairment loss 1,824 2,489 21 Interest and dividend income (4,275) (4,136) (34) Interest expense 7,112 6,840 57 Share of results of associates (7,178) (3,911) (32) Increase (decrease) in liability for retirement benefits (215) 1,670 14 Other — net (38,339) 1,838 15 Cash flows from operating activities before adjusting 133,614 152,288 1,263 changes in working capital and others CHANGES IN WORKING CAPITAL: (Increase) decrease in trade and other receivables (114,985) (73,141) (606) (Increase) decrease in inventories (12,201) 7,367 61 (Increase) decrease in other current assets 10,114 (4,179) (35) Increase (decrease) in trade and other payables 101,835 28,483 236 Increase (decrease) in other current liabilities 41,163 4,578 38 Change in working capital 25,927 (36,891) (306) Subtotal 159,542 115,396 957 Interest received 2,046 2,044 17 Dividends received 6,895 5,722 47 Interest paid (6,564) (6,781) (56) Income taxes paid (49,531) (46,828) (388) Net cash flows from operating activities 112,388 69,554 577 CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Payment for purchase of property, plant and equipment, 6 (21,669) (19,652) (163) intangible assets and investment property Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment, 36,074 869 7 intangible assets and investment property Net cash (paid) received on acquisition of subsidiaries (35,528) (41,996) (348) Net cash (paid) received on disposal of subsidiaries – 25 0 Payments for purchases of securities (4,536) (6,755) (56) Proceeds from sales of securities 2,235 9,469 79 Other — net (2,184) (3,163) (26) Net cash flows from investing activities (25,610) (61,203) (507) CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Net increase (decrease) in short-term borrowings (4,055) (12,949) (107) Proceeds from long-term borrowings 52,134 91 1 Repayment of long-term borrowings (16,375) (29,246) (242) Repayments of bonds (8,008) (11,936) (99) Payment for acquisition of interest in a subsidiary from non(580) (2,735) (23) controlling interests Proceeds from sales of interest in a subsidiary to non59 2,952 24 controlling interests Payments for purchase of treasury shares (27) (20,024) (166) Proceeds from disposal of treasury shares 0 – – Dividends paid 24 (10,669) (20,072) (166) Dividends paid to non-controlling interests (2,527) (2,917) (24) Other — net (1,558) 1,171 10 Net cash flows from financing activities 8,391 (95,666) (793) EFFECT OF EXCHANGE RATE CHANGES ON CASH AND 16,856 (14,741) (122) CASH EQUIVALENTS NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 112,025 (102,057) (846) CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT BEGINNING OF PERIOD 7 253,354 365,379 3,029 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT END OF PERIOD 7 ¥365,379 ¥263,322 $2,183 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 095 Contents Financial Report Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Dentsu Inc. and Consolidated Subsidiaries 1. REPORTING ENTITY (5) Change in Fiscal Year End Dentsu Inc. (hereinafter referred to as the “Company”) is a joint stock Effective from the current fiscal year, the Company and its subsidiaries corporation under the Companies Act of Japan located in Japan. with fiscal year ends other than December 31 changed their fiscal year The addresses of the Company’s registered corporate headquarters and ends to December 31 in order to enhance and improve the efficiency principal business offices are available on the Company’s website (http:// of the account closing and management system on a Group-wide basis www.dentsu.co.jp/). by unifying the fiscal year end with the Group’s overseas consolidated The details of businesses and principal business activities of the subsidiaries. Company and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to as the “Group”) are As a result of this change of fiscal year end from March 31 to December stated in “6. SEGMENT INFORMATION”. 31, the current fiscal year was the nine-month period from April 1, 2015 to The consolidated financial statements for the year ended December December 31, 2015. 31, 2015 were approved by Tadashi Ishii, Representative Director and The fiscal year end date of Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd. and subsidiaries President & CEO, and Shoichi Nakamoto, Director and Senior Executive under control (hereinafter, collectively “Dentsu Aegis Network”), which Vice President & CFO, on March 30, 2016. operate the Group’s international advertising business, continues to be December 31 as before, hence the Group consolidates financial results of 2. BASIS OF PREPARATION Dentsu Aegis Network for the twelve-month period from January 1, 2015 (1) Compliance with the International Financial Reporting Standards to December 31, 2015 into the consolidated financial results for the nine(hereinafter referred to as “IFRS”) month period ended December 31, 2015. The Company’s consolidated financial statements meet all requirements For pro forma information of the consolidated statement of income of Article 1-2 “Specified Company” stipulated in the Ordinance on assuming that the fiscal year of the Group had been the twelve-month Terminology, Forms and Preparation Methods of Consolidated Financial period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015, please refer to Note Statements (Ordinance of the Ministry of Finance No. 28 of 1976; (the “37. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (2015 JANUARY– “Ordinance on Consolidated Financial Statements”)) and are prepared in DECEMBER)”. accordance with IFRS under the provisions of Article 93 of the Ordinance on Consolidated Financial Statements. 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (1) Basis of Consolidation (2) Basis of Measurement A. Subsidiaries The consolidated financial statements are prepared on the historical A subsidiary is an entity controlled by the Group. An entity is treated as a cost basis, except for financial instruments and others stated in “3. subsidiary if the Group is deemed, in principle, to have control over that SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES.” entity when it holds a majority of the voting rights of that entity. An entity is treated as a subsidiary even if the Group holds less than a majority of (3) Functional Currency and Presentation Currency the voting rights of the entity, where control is deemed to be achieved The consolidated financial statements are presented in Japanese yen, when the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its which is the functional currency of the Company. involvement with the entity and has the ability to affect those returns For the convenience of readers outside Japan, the accompanying through its power over the entity. Consolidated Financial Statements are also presented in United States Consolidation of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control dollars by translating Japanese yen amounts at the exchange rate over the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control of the of ¥120.61 to U.S.$1, the approximate rate of exchange at the end subsidiary. In cases where the accounting policies adopted by a subsidiary of December 31, 2015. Such translations should not be construed as are different from those adopted by the Group, adjustments are made representations that the Japanese yen amounts could be converted into to the subsidiary’s financial statements, as necessary, to conform with the United States dollars at the above or any other rate. accounting policies adopted by the Group. Amounts of less than one million yen have been rounded down to A change in the ownership interest in a subsidiary without a loss of the nearest million yen and less than one million U.S. dollars have been control is accounted for as an equity transaction, and any difference rounded to the nearest million U.S. dollars in the presentation of the between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted accompanying consolidated financial statements. As a result, the totals in and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognized yen and U.S. dollars do not necessarily agree with the sum of the individual directly in equity and attributed to the owners of the Company. amounts. When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, any resulting gain or loss is recognized in profit or loss. (4) Early Application of New Standards The Group has early applied IFRS 9 “Financial Instruments” (revised in B. Associates and Joint Ventures October 2010) effective the date of transition to IFRS (April 1, 2013). An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence in respect to the financial and operating policies but does not have control. 096 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report When the Group holds between 20% and 50% of the voting rights, the Any excess of the consideration of acquisition over the fair value entity is, in principle, treated as an associate. of identifiable assets and liabilities is recognized as goodwill. If the When the Group holds less than 20% of the voting rights of the entity consideration of acquisition is lower than the fair value of the identifiable but is determined to have significant influence over the entity, such as assets and liabilities, the difference is immediately recognized in profit. through delegation of officers, the entity is treated as an associate. If the initial accounting for a business combination is incomplete by A joint venture is an entity in which two or more parties, including the the end of the fiscal year in which the combination occurs, provisional Group, have contractually agreed to sharing of control of an arrangement amounts of incomplete items are measured based on best estimates. and have rights to the net assets of the joint venture, and in which Provisional amounts are adjusted retrospectively to reflect new information unanimous consent of the controlling parties is required to make decisions obtained during the measurement period, within one year from the date on relevant business activities. of acquisition, that, if known, would have affected the amounts recognized The Group’s investments in associates and joint ventures are accounted at that date. for using the equity method. The investments are measured as the carrying The change in fair value of contingent consideration after the acquisition amount (including goodwill recognized upon acquisition) determined is reflected as an adjustment to the consideration transferred when the using the equity method less accumulated impairment losses. change occurs during the above measurement period, otherwise the The consolidated financial statements include the Group’s share of change is recognized in profit or loss. changes in profit or loss and other comprehensive income of an associate The Group elects to measure non-controlling interests at either fair and joint venture from the date of acquisition of significant influence or value or based on the proportionate share in the recognized identifiable joint control until the date such influence or control is lost. In cases where net asset amounts for each business combination transaction. the accounting policies adopted by an associate or joint venture are Acquisition-related costs incurred to effect a business combination are different from those adopted by the Group, adjustments are made to the recognized as expenses when incurred, with the exception of costs related associate or joint venture’s financial statements, as necessary, to conform to the issuance of debt instruments and equity instruments. with the accounting policies adopted by the Group. If application of the equity method ceases as a result of the loss of (3) Foreign Currency Translation significant influence on associates or joint ventures, gain or loss on the sales A. Translation of Foreign Currency Transactions of shares is recognized in profit or loss, and the valuation difference arising Foreign currency transactions are translated into each functional currency from remeasurement of the residual shares at fair value is recognized in of the group entity using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. profit or loss in the same period the significant influence is lost. At each fiscal year end, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, and non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated C. Transactions Eliminated Under Consolidation in foreign currencies carried at fair value are translated into the functional All intragroup balances, transactions, and unrealized gains resulting currency at the closing rate, and the resulting translation differences are from intragroup transactions are eliminated on consolidation. Unrealized recognized in profit or loss. gains resulting from transactions with associates and joint ventures are Non-monetary items denominated in foreign currencies are translated subtracted from investments, with the Company’s share in an investee at the exchange rate at the date of transaction. company as its upper limit. B. Translation of Foreign Operations (2) Business Combinations For financial statements of foreign operations such as subsidiaries, assets Business combinations are accounted for using the acquisition method. and liabilities are translated into Japanese yen at the closing rate for a Consideration transferred in a business combination is measured as the reporting period, and revenue and expenses are translated into Japanese sum of the acquisition-date fair value of the assets transferred, the liabilities yen using the average rate for the reporting period unless there are assumed and equity instruments issued by the Company in exchange for significant changes in the exchange rate. Resulting translation differences control over an acquiree and includes contingent consideration when are recognized in other comprehensive income, and cumulative appropriate. differences are recognized in other components of equity. At the acquisition date, the identifiable assets and liabilities are When a foreign operation of the Group is disposed of, cumulative recognized at their fair value, except that: translation differences relating to that foreign operation are transferred (i)  Deferred tax assets or liabilities, and assets or liabilities, which are to profit or loss. related to employee benefit arrangements, are recognized and measured in accordance with International Accounting Standards (4) Financial Instruments (hereinafter referred to as “IAS”) 12 “Income Taxes” and IAS 19 A. Non-derivative Financial Assets “Employee Benefits,” respectively. (i) Initial Recognition and Measurement (ii) Assets or disposal groups that are classified as held-for-sale under IFRS The Group initially recognizes trade and other receivables on the date 5 “Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations” are of occurrence. All other financial assets are initially recognized on the measured in accordance with such standard. transaction date when the Group became the contracting party for the Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 097 Contents Financial Report financial asset. B. Impairment of Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost Non-derivative financial assets are classified as financial assets measured The Group assesses whether objective evidence of impairment exists at amortized cost if both of the following conditions are met at the time at each reporting date. Financial assets are determined to be impaired of initial recognition of financial assets. Otherwise, they are classified as when there is objective evidence that loss events occurred subsequent financial assets measured at fair value. to initial recognition of the financial assets and when negative effects on ・The asset is held within a business model whose objective is to hold estimated future cash flows of the financial assets from those events can assets in order to collect contractual cash flows. be reasonably estimated. ・The contractual terms of the financial asset give rise on specified Objective evidence of impairment for a financial asset measured at dates to cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest amortized cost includes, but is not limited to; default or delinquency by the on the principal amount outstanding. borrower, reductions of repayment amounts or extensions of repayment Financial assets measured at fair value are classified as financial assets periods, significant financial difficulty of the borrower, and bankruptcy of in which changes in fair value subsequent to initial recognition are the borrower. recognized in profit or loss (hereinafter referred to as “financial assets The existence of objective evidence of impairment is assessed measured at fair value through profit or loss”) and financial assets in which individually and collectively for financial assets measured at amortized changes in fair value subsequent to initial recognition are recognized in cost. other comprehensive income (hereinafter referred to as “financial assets Impairment losses for a financial asset measured at amortized cost are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income”). measured as the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the At the time of initial recognition, equity financial assets not designated present value of estimated future cash flows discounted at the original as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive effective interest rate of the financial asset, and recognized as losses. If income and debt financial assets that do not satisfy amortized cost criteria the amount of impairment losses decreases due to an event occurring are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss. after the impairment losses were recognized, the previously recognized Equity financial assets not held-for-sale, in principle, are designated impairment losses are reversed by the amount of the decrease through as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive profit. income at the time of initial recognition. The impairment losses are recognized through an allowance for doubtful All financial assets are measured at fair value with the addition of accounts, and the carrying amount of a receivable is directly reduced by an transaction costs that are directly attributable to the financial assets, offset against the allowance for doubtful accounts when it is considered except for when they are classified as financial assets measured at fair uncollectible. value through profit or loss. C. Non-derivative Financial Liabilities (ii) Subsequent Measurement (i) Initial Recognition and Measurement After initial recognition, financial assets are measured based on the The Group initially recognizes debt securities on the date of issue. All classification as follows: other financial liabilities are initially recognized on the transaction date (a) Financial Assets Measured at Amortized Cost when the Group becomes the contracting party for the financial liability. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are measured at Non-derivative financial liabilities are classified as financial liabilities amortized cost using the effective interest rate method. measured at fair value through profit or loss and financial liabilities (b) Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value through Profit or Loss measured at amortized cost at initial recognition. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial assets are remeasured at fair All financial liabilities are measured at fair value at initial recognition. value at each fiscal year end. Changes in fair value and dividends are However, financial liabilities measured at amortized cost are measured at recognized in profit or loss. cost, net of transaction costs that are directly attributable to the financial (c) Financial Assets Measured at Fair Value through Other Comprehensive liabilities. Income Changes in fair value subsequent to initial recognition are recognized in (ii) Subsequent measurements other comprehensive income, and are transferred to retained earnings After initial recognition, financial liabilities are measured based on the if a financial asset is derecognized or the fair value declines significantly. classification as follows: Dividends derived from these financial assets are recognized in profit or (a) Financial Liabilities Measured at Amortized Cost loss. Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities measured at amortized cost are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest (iii) Derecognition rate method. Financial assets are derecognized when the contractual rights to receive (b) Financial Liabilities Measured at Fair Value Through Profit or Loss cash flows expire, or when substantially all risks and rewards of ownership Subsequent to initial recognition, financial liabilities measured at fair value are transferred to another entity. through profit or loss are remeasured at fair value at each fiscal year end and changes in fair value are recognized in profit or loss. 098 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report (iii) Derecognition (iv) Derivative Financial Instruments not Designated as Hedges A financial liability is derecognized when the obligation is fulfilled, Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognized discharged, or expired. in profit or loss. D. Derivative Financial Instruments and Hedge Accounting E. Offsetting of Financial Instruments The Group utilizes derivative financial instruments, such as foreign Financial assets and financial liabilities are offset and presented on a net exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts, to hedge its foreign basis if there is a currently enforceable legal right to offset the recognized currency risks and interest rate risks, respectively. amounts, and if there is an intention to settle on a net basis or to realize At the inception of the hedge, the Group designates and documents the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. the relationship to which hedge accounting is adopted, as well as the objectives and strategies of risk management for undertaking the hedge. (5) Cash and Cash Equivalents The documentation includes hedging relationships, the risk management Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand, demand deposits, and objective, strategies for undertaking the hedge and an assessment of the short-term investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of hedging instrument’s effectiveness. cash and subject to insignificant risk of change in value and due within These hedges are expected to be highly effective in achieving offsetting three months from the date of acquisition. changes in fair value or cash flows and are assessed on an ongoing basis to determine whether they have actually been highly effective throughout (6) Inventories the periods for which they were designated. Inventories are mainly comprised of broadcasting rights and contents Derivative financial instruments are initially recognized at fair value. In related to sports and entertainment. The inventories are measured at the addition, derivatives are measured at fair value after initial recognition and lower of cost or net realizable value. The cost of inventories is determined changes in the fair value are accounted for as follows: mainly by the specific identification method. (i) Fair Value Hedge Changes in the fair value of derivative financial instruments are recognized (7) Property, Plant and Equipment (Excluding Leased Assets) in profit or loss. Property, plant and equipment is measured at acquisition cost using The change in the fair value of the hedged item attributable to the the cost model subsequent to initial recognition less accumulated hedged risk is recorded as part of its carrying amount and recognized in depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. profit or loss. The acquisition cost includes any costs directly attributable to the acquisition of the asset and dismantlement, removal and restoration costs. (ii) Cash Flow Hedge Except for assets such as land that are not depreciated, property, plant For the effective portion of gains or losses on hedging instruments, and equipment are depreciated mainly using the straight-line method changes in the fair value are recognized in other comprehensive income. over their estimated useful lives. The amounts recognized in other comprehensive income are recognized The estimated useful lives of major property, plant and equipment items in profit or loss when the cash flows from the hedged items affect profit are as follows: or loss. ・Buildings and structures: 2 to 100 years For the ineffective portion, changes in the fair value are recognized in Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values are reviewed at profit or loss. the end of each fiscal year and changes are made as necessary. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated or exercised, when the hedge no longer (8) Goodwill and Intangible Assets meets the criteria for hedge accounting, or when the hedging designation A. Goodwill is revoked. Goodwill is not amortized and is measured at acquisition cost less accumulated impairment losses. (iii) Hedge of Net Investment in Foreign Operations Translation differences resulting from the hedges of a net investment in a B. Intangible Assets (Excluding Leased Assets) foreign operation are accounted for similarly to cash flow hedges. Intangible assets are measured at acquisition cost using the cost model Gains or losses on the hedging instrument relating to the effective subsequent to initial recognition less accumulated amortization and portion of the hedge are recognized in other comprehensive income while accumulated impairment losses. those for the ineffective portion are recognized in profit or loss. Intangible assets acquired separately are measured at acquisition Upon disposal of the foreign operation, cumulative gains or losses cost for initial recognition, and the costs of intangible assets acquired in recognized in equity as other comprehensive income are reclassified to business combinations are recognized at fair value at the acquisition date. profit or loss. The acquisition cost for internally generated intangible assets is the sum of the expenditures incurred from the date when the intangible asset first meets all of the capitalization criteria. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 099 Contents Financial Report Except for intangible assets with indefinite useful lives, intangible assets Except for assets that generally do not generate independent cash are amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful flows from other assets or asset groups, the recoverable amount of an lives. asset or a cash-generating unit is determined individually by asset at the The estimated useful lives of major intangible asset items are as follows: higher of its fair value less costs of disposal or its value in use. ・Software: 3 to 5 years Where the carrying amount of the asset or cash-generating unit exceeds ・Customer relationships: Effective period (mainly 18 years) its recoverable amount, the asset is written down to its recoverable amount Amortization methods and useful lives of intangible assets with finite and impairment losses are recognized. useful lives are reviewed at the end of each fiscal year and changes are An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in a made as necessary. subsequent period. For assets excluding goodwill, an assessment is made at fiscal year end to determine whether there is any indication that (9) Leases previously recognized impairment losses may no longer exist or have Leases are classified as finance leases whenever substantially all the risks decreased. If any such indication exists, the recoverable amount of the and rewards incidental to ownership are transferred to the Group. All asset is estimated. In cases that the recoverable amount exceeds the other leases are classified as operating leases. carrying amount of the asset, a reversal of impairment losses is recognized. A. Finance Leases The amount of the reversal of the impairment loss shall not exceed the Leased assets and lease obligations are recognized at the lower of the fair carrying amount that would have been determined (net of depreciation or value of the leased property or the present value of the minimum lease amortization) if no impairment loss had been recognized. payments. Because goodwill that forms part of the carrying amount of an Leased assets are depreciated using the straight-line method over the investment in entities accounted for using the equity method is not shorter of their estimated useful lives or lease terms. Total minimum lease separately recognized, it is not tested for impairment separately. If there is payments are apportioned between the finance costs and the reduction of any indication that an investment in entities accounted for using the equity the outstanding liability, and the finance costs allocated to each reporting method may be impaired, the entire carrying amount of the investment is period are calculated using the effective interest rate method. tested as a single asset. B. Operating Leases (12) Non-current Assets classified as Held for Sale Lease payments are recognized as expenses using the straight-line A non-current asset or asset group whose carrying amount is expected to method over the lease terms. be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use is classified as held-for-sale if the non-current asset or (10) Investment Property asset group is available for immediate sale in its present condition, Group Investment property is property held to earn rentals or for capital management is committed to a sales plan and its sale is expected to be appreciation or both. completed within one year. Investment property is measured at acquisition cost using the cost The Group measures a non-current asset or asset group classified as model subsequent to initial recognition less accumulated depreciation held-for-sale at the lower of its carrying amount and fair value less costs and accumulated impairment losses. to sell. Except for assets that are not depreciated, such as land, investment property is depreciated mainly using the straight-line method over its (13) Post-employment Benefits estimated useful life. Estimated useful lives are between 6 and 50 years. The Group has set up defined benefit plans and defined contribution The depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values of investment plans as employee retirement benefit plans. property are reviewed at the end of each fiscal year and changes are made For defined benefit plans, the Group recognizes the present value as necessary. of defined benefit obligations less the fair value of any plan assets as liabilities or assets. (11) Impairment of Non-financial Assets For defined benefit plans, the Group determines the present value Except for inventories and deferred tax assets, the Group assesses at the of defined benefit obligations, related current service cost and past end of the fiscal year whether there is any indication that a non-financial service cost using the projected unit credit method. The discount rate is asset may be impaired. If such an indication exists, an impairment test is determined based on high quality corporate bond yield rates at fiscal year performed based on the recoverable amount of the asset. end for the discount period which is set for the projected period until the Goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite useful lives are not expected date of benefit payments in each fiscal year. amortized. Impairment tests for such assets are performed once a year, Service costs and interest costs of defined benefit plans are recognized irrespective of whether there is any indication that they may be impaired, in profit or loss, and net interest is determined using the discount rate or in cases where there is an indication of impairment. Refer to Note “14. described above. Remeasurements of defined benefit plans are recognized GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS” for details of impairment testing in other comprehensive income in the period when they are incurred. Past of goodwill. service costs are recognized in profit or loss in the period incurred. 100 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report The cost for retirement benefits for defined contribution plans is substantively enacted, by the end of the fiscal year. recognized in profit or loss in the period in which the employees render Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for temporary the related services. differences between the carrying amount of assets and liabilities in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position and their tax basis amount. (14) Provisions Deferred tax assets or liabilities are not recognized for differences arising Provisions are recognized when the Group has a present obligation (legal from the initial recognition of assets or liabilities in transactions that are or constructive) as a result of a past event, it is probable that the obligation not business combinations and affect neither accounting profit or loss will be required to be settled and a reliable estimate can be made for the nor taxable profit or loss. Deferred tax liabilities are also not recognized amount of the obligation. for taxable temporary differences arising from the initial recognition of Where the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are goodwill. measured based on the present value using a discount rate reflecting the Deferred tax liabilities are recognized for taxable temporary differences risks specific to the liability. associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures. However, deferred tax liabilities are not recognized for taxable temporary (15) Revenue differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and Revenue consists primarily of commissions received for the placement joint ventures to the extent the Group controls the timing of the reversal of of advertising into different media and consideration received from the temporary difference and it is probable the temporary difference will advertisers and others for providing services, such as assistance in the not reverse in the foreseeable future. Deferred tax assets are recognized production of advertising, including creative, and various content-related for deductible temporary differences associated with investments in services. subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures only to the extent that it is Revenue from the production of advertising and other advertising probable that the temporary difference will reverse in the foreseeable related services is recorded based on the consideration paid as future and there will be sufficient taxable profits against which the compensation for such service to the Group by advertisers and others less temporary differences can be utilized. costs incurred. In some cases, revenue is also recorded based on a fixed Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at the tax rates that are fee or another compensation. expected to apply to the fiscal year when the asset is realized or the liability Revenue from commissions received from advertisers for the placement is settled, based on tax rates that have been enacted or substantively of advertising is generally recognized when the media is placed. Other enacted by the fiscal year end. revenue is generally recorded when the service is complete, an estimate Deferred tax assets are recognized to the extent that it is probable that of the amount of compensation can be reasonably determined and it is taxable profits will be available against which carryforwards of unused tax probable that the future economic benefits will flow to the Group. losses, tax credit carryforwards and deductible temporary differences can Revenue and cost arising from transactions relating to services other be utilized. Deferred tax assets are reassessed at the end of the fiscal year than advertising services are presented on a gross basis. and reduced by the amount of any tax benefits that are not expected to Turnover represents the total amount billed and billable to clients by the be realized. Group, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. Disclosure of Deferred tax assets and liabilities are offset if the Group has a legally turnover information is not required under IFRS. enforceable right to set off current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and income taxes are levied by the same taxation authority on the same (16) Finance Income and Finance Costs taxable entity. Finance income mainly consists of interest and dividend income. Interest income is recognized as accrued using the effective interest rate method (18) Equity while dividend income is recognized when the shareholder’s right to A. Share Capital and Share Premium Account receive payment is established. Equity instruments issued by the Company are recorded in share capital Finance costs mainly consist of interest expenses on borrowings and and share premium account. Transaction costs directly attributable to the bonds. Interest expenses are recognized as incurred using the effective issuance of an equity instrument are deducted from equity. interest rate method. B. Treasury Shares (17) Income Taxes Treasury shares are recognized at cost and deducted from equity. No gain Income taxes consist of current income taxes and deferred income taxes. or loss is recognized on the purchase, sale or cancellation of treasury shares. Income taxes are recognized in profit or loss, except for taxes arising from When treasury shares are sold, any difference between their carrying items that are recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in amount and consideration received is recognized in the share premium equity and taxes arising from business combinations. account. Current income taxes are measured at the amount which is expected to be paid to or refunded from the taxation authorities. The tax rates (19) Earnings per Share and tax laws used to calculate the amount are those that are enacted or Basic earnings per share are calculated by dividing profit for the year Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 101 Contents Financial Report attributable to ordinary shareholders of the parent company by the affect the application of accounting policies and the reported amounts weighted-average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year, of revenues, expenses, assets and liabilities. These estimates and adjusted by the number of treasury shares. Diluted earnings per share are assumptions are based on the best judgment of management in light of calculated by adjusting the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares. historical experience and various factors deemed to be reasonable as of the fiscal year end date. However, given their nature, actual results may (20) Underlying Operating Profit differ from those estimates and assumptions. The underlying operating profit is calculated by eliminating from operating The estimate and underlying assumptions are continuously reviewed. profit certain adjusting items such as amortization of intangible assets The effects of a change in estimate are recognized in the period of the incurred in acquisition, impairment losses, gain or loss on sale of property, change and future periods. plant and equipment, intangible assets and investment property and costs Information relating to judgements carried out in the process of the incurred due to acquisition and is used by management for the purpose of application of accounting policies that have a material impact on the measuring constant business performance. consolidated financial statements, is mainly as follows: The underlying operating profit is not defined under IFRS; however, it is ・Scope of subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures (“3. SIGNIFICANT voluntarily disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Income and Note ACCOUNTING POLICIES (1) Basis of Consolidation”) “6. SEGMENT INFORMATION” since management has concluded that ・ Revenue recognition (“3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES the information is useful for users of the financial statements. (15) Revenue”) Estimates and assumptions that may have a material effect on the (21) Reclassfication amounts recognized in the consolidated financial statements are as follows: Certain reclassifications have been made to the consolidated financial ・Impairment of property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible statements for the year ended March 31, 2015 to conform to the assets and investment properties (“13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND presentation of the consolidated financial statements for the nine months EQUIPMENT,” “14. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS,” and ended December 31, 2015. “16. INVESTMENT PROPERTY”) ・Valuation of financial instruments (“32. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS”) 4. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS, ESTIMATES AND ・Valuation of defined benefit obligations (“22. POST-EMPLOYMENT ASSUMPTIONS BENEFITS”) The preparation of the consolidated financial statements requires ・Provisions (“21. PROVISIONS”) management to make judgements, estimates and assumptions that ・Recoverability of deferred tax assets (“18. INCOME TAXES”) 102 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report 5. NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS NOT YET ADOPTED BY THE GROUP By the date of approval of the consolidated financial statements, new accounting standards, amended standards and new interpretations that have been issued, but have not been subject to early adoption by the Group are as follows: The implications from adoption of these standards and interpretations are assessed by the Group at the time of preparing the consolidated financial statements. Mandatory adoption Standards Name of standards (From the year beginning) To be adopted by the Group Description of new standards and amendments Presentation of Financial Fiscal year ending Clarifying the application of materiality in deterIAS 1 January 1, 2016 Statements December 2016 mining what information to disclose Property, Plant and Fiscal year ending Clarifying acceptable methods of depreciation IAS 16 January 1, 2016 Equipment December 2016 and amortization Fiscal year ending Clarifying acceptable methods of depreciation IAS 38 Intangible Assets January 1, 2016 December 2016 and amortization Fiscal year ending Clarifying accounting treatment for acquisitions IFRS 11 Joint Arrangements January 1, 2016 December 2016 of interests in joint operations Revenue from Contracts Fiscal year ending Amendments for accounting treatment for IFRS 15 January 1, 2018 with Customers December 2018 recognizing revenue Amendments for financial instrument classifiFiscal year ending IFRS 9 Financial Instruments January 1, 2018 cation and measurement, impairment requireDecember 2018 ments and hedge accounting Fiscal year ending Amendments for accounting treatment for lease IFRS 16 Leases January 1, 2019 December 2019 arrangements Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 103 Contents Financial Report 6. SEGMENT INFORMATION (1) Description of reportable segments The Group’s reportable segments are those for which discrete financial information is available and the Board of Directors conducts regular reviews to make decisions about resources to be allocated and assess their performance. The Group is mainly engaged in providing communications-related services focusing on advertising, and manages its Japan business and international business separately. Accordingly, the Group has two reportable segments: Japan business segment and international business segment. (2) Information on reportable segments Accounting methods for reportable segments are identical to those described in “3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES.” Segment profit is based on operating profit net of “Amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions” and “Other adjusting items.” Intersegment revenues are based on the prevailing market price. FY2014: Year ended March 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) International Japan business Total Reconciliations Consolidated business Turnover (Note1) ¥1,798,523 ¥2,869,699 ¥4,668,222 ¥(25,832) ¥4,642,390 Revenue (Note 2) 397,637 356,821 754,459 (25,832) 728,626 Gross profit (Note 3) 333,995 343,232 677,228 (303) 676,925 Segment profit (underlying operating profit) (Note 3) 79,735 52,618 132,353 (416) 131,937 (Adjusting items) Amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions – – – – (19,784) Other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative – – – – (4,972) expenses) (Note 5) Other adjusting items (other income) (Note 5) – – – – 33,275 Other adjusting items (other expenses) (Note 5) – – – – (8,151) Operating profit – – – – 132,305 Share of results of associates – – – – 7,178 Finance income – – – – 7,067 Finance costs – – – – 12,255 Profit before tax – – – – 134,295 (Other income and expense items) Depreciation and amortization (excluding amortization of 12,855 7,750 20,606 – 20,606 intangible assets incurred in acquisitions) Segment assets (Note 4) 1,273,922 1,995,777 3,269,699 (110,164) 3,159,534 (Other asset items) Investments accounted for using the equity method 43,705 9,337 53,042 – 53,042 Capital expenditures ¥8,845 ¥12,824 ¥21,669 – ¥21,669 104 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report FY2015: Nine months ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) International Japan business Total Reconciliations Consolidated business Turnover (Note1) ¥1,369,732 ¥3,156,328 ¥4,526,061 ¥(12,105) ¥4,513,955 Revenue (Note 2) 302,237 416,337 718,574 (12,105) 706,469 Gross profit (Note 3) 255,746 414,066 669,812 (323) 669,489 Segment profit (underlying operating profit) (Note 3) 63,293 70,156 133,450 (121) 133,328 (Adjusting items) Amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions – – – – (22,798) Other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative – – – – (2,454) expenses) (Note 5) Other adjusting items (other income) (Note 5) – – – – 4,565 Other adjusting items (other expenses) (Note 5) – – – – (5,376) Operating profit – – – – 107,265 Share of results of associates – – – – 3,911 Finance income – – – – 4,926 Finance costs – – – – 10,059 Profit before tax – – – – 106,043 (Other income and expense items) Depreciation and amortization (excluding amortization of 8,951 9,702 18,654 – 18,654 intangible assets incurred in acquisitions) Segment assets (Note 4) 1,212,941 1,957,884 3,170,825 (104,749) 3,066,075 (Other asset items) Investments accounted for using the equity method 46,819 3,461 50,281 – 50,281 Capital expenditures ¥4,136 ¥15,516 ¥19,652 – ¥19,652 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 105 Contents Financial Report FY2015: Nine months ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) International Japan business Total Reconciliations Consolidated business Turnover (Note1) $11,357 $26,170 $37,526 $(100) $37,426 Revenue (Note 2) 2,506 3,452 5,958 (100) 5,857 Gross profit (Note 3) 2,120 3,433 5,554 (3) 5,551 Segment profit (underlying operating profit) (Note 3) 525 582 1,106 (1) 1,105 (Adjusting items) Amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions – – – – (189) Other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative – – – – (20) expenses) (Note 5) Other adjusting items (other income) (Note 5) – – – – 38 Other adjusting items (other expenses) (Note 5) – – – – (45) Operating profit – – – – 889 Share of results of associates – – – – 32 Finance income – – – – 41 Finance costs – – – – 83 Profit before tax – – – – 879 (Other income and expense items) Depreciation and amortization (excluding amortization of 74 80 155 – 155 intangible assets incurred in acquisitions) Segment assets (Note 4) 10,057 16,233 26,290 (868) 25,421 (Other asset items) Investments accounted for using the equity method 388 29 417 – 417 Capital expenditures $34 $129 $163 – $163 (Note 1) Turnover represents the total amount billed and billable to clients by the Group, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. Disclosure of turnover information is not required under IFRS; however, it is voluntarily disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Income since management has concluded that the information is useful for users of the financial statements. (Note 2) Reconciliations for revenue are due to eliminations of intersegment transactions (same amount as for turnover). (Note 3) Reconciliations for gross profit and segment profit (underlying operating profit) are due to eliminations of intersegment transactions. (Note 4) Reconciliations for segment assets are due to eliminations of intersegment transactions. (Note 5) The breakdown of “Other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative expenses),” “Other adjusting items (other income)” and “Other adjusting items (other expenses)” is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (Year ended March 31, (Nine months ended (Nine months ended De2015) December 31, 2015) cember 31, 2015) Other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative expenses) Early retirement benefits ¥3,947 ¥813 $7 Costs associated with merger and acquisitions 967 1,610 13 Other 56 29 0 Total ¥4,972 ¥2,454 $20 Other adjusting items (other income) Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment, intangible ¥32,194 ¥700 $6 assets and investment property Gain on sale of subsidiaries and associates shares 306 954 8 Other 775 2,910 24 Total ¥33,275 ¥4,565 $38 Other adjusting items (other expenses) Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment, intangible ¥4,261 ¥50 $0 assets and investment property Impairment losses (Note) 1,824 2,489 21 Other 2,065 2,836 24 Total ¥8,151 ¥5,376 $45 (Note) Impairment losses by segment are ¥1,588 million (Japan business) and ¥235 million (International business) for the year ended March 31, 2015 and ¥46 million ($0 million) (Japan business) and ¥2,442 million ($20 million) (International business) for the nine months ended December 31, 2015. 106 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report (3) Information about products and services With regard to advertising services, the Group provides various advertising through media including newspapers, magazines, radio, television, internet, sales promotion, movies, outdoor events, public transportation, and others. The Group also provides clients with event marketing, creative services, marketing, public relations, contents services, and other services. With regard to information services, the Group provides services such as information services and information-related products. The Group also provides other services such as office rentals, building maintenance and fiduciary services of computation. Revenues from external customers for each product and service are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Advertising Services ¥658,657 ¥655,161 $5,432 Information Services 63,498 47,099 391 Other Services 6,470 4,208 35 Total ¥728,626 ¥706,469 $5,857 (4) Geographical information for non-current assets (property, plant and equipment, goodwill, intangible assets and investment property) (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Japan ¥230,612 ¥226,159 $1,875 Overseas (mainly the United Kingdom) 941,895 926,119 7,679 Total ¥1,172,508 ¥1,152,278 $9,554 Non-current assets are allocated according to the location of each group entity. (5) Information about major customers Information about major customers is omitted as the Group does not have a single external customer that contributes 10% or more to Group revenue in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 7. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS The breakdown of cash and cash equivalents as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Cash and time deposits due within three months ¥365,379 ¥263,322 $2,183 Cash and cash equivalents are classified as financial assets measured at amortised cost. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 107 Contents Financial Report 8. TRADE AND OTHER RECEIVABLES The breakdown of trade and other receivables as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Notes and accounts receivable—trade ¥1,196,242 ¥1,229,430 $10,193 Other 29,210 37,887 314 Allowance for doubtful accounts (1,262) (4,000) (33) Total ¥1,224,190 ¥1,263,317 $10,474 Trade and other receivables are presented net of allowance for doubtful accounts in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Trade and other receivables are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. 9. INVENTORIES The breakdown of inventories as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Work-in-process ¥25,126 ¥17,441 $145 Other 856 1,282 11 Total ¥25,982 ¥18,724 $155 108 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report 10. OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS (1) The breakdown of other financial assets as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Derivative assets ¥21,515 ¥22,519 $187 Equity securities 188,996 185,463 1,538 Debt securities 705 715 6 Other 44,720 47,922 397 Allowance for doubtful accounts (18,811) (17,592) (146) Total ¥237,126 ¥239,028 $1,982 Current assets 22,732 20,945 174 Non-current assets 214,393 218,083 1,808 Total ¥237,126 ¥239,028 $1,982 Other financial assets are presented net of allowance for doubtful accounts in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Derivative assets are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss excluding those accounted for under hedge accounting, equity securities are classified as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income, and debt securities are classified as financial assets measured at amortized cost. “Other” includes financial assets measured at fair value through profit or loss of ¥3,110 million and ¥3,005 million ($25 million) as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, respectively. (2) Names of major securities held as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income and their fair values as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: (Millions of Yen) FY2014 Investees (As of March 31, 2015) Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. ¥112,500 Digital Garage, Inc. 6,078 (Millions of Yen) FY2015 Investees (As of December 31, 2015) Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. ¥106,800 Digital Garage, Inc. 7,167 Tokyo Broadcasting System Holdings, Inc. 4,940 Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd. 3,489 TV Asahi Holdings Corporation 3,011 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 Investees (As of December 31, 2015) Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. $885 Digital Garage, Inc. 59 Tokyo Broadcasting System Holdings, Inc. 41 Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd. 29 TV Asahi Holdings Corporation 25 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 109 Contents Financial Report Equity securities are designated as financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income since they are held mainly for strengthening relationships with investees. In order to pursue the efficiency of assets held and to use them effectively, sales of financial assets (derecognition) measured at fair value through other comprehensive income have been carried out. The fair value at the date of sales and cumulative gain or loss that is recognized in equity as other comprehensive income for each fiscal year is as follows: FY2014: Year ended March 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) Cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as Fair value other components of equity ¥2,520 ¥766 FY2015: Nine months ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) Cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as Fair value other components of equity ¥7,976 ¥1,592 FY2015: Nine months ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as Fair value other components of equity $66 $13 The cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity as other components of equity are transferred to retained earnings when an equity instrument is sold or the decline in its fair value compared to its cost is significant. 11. OTHER CURRENT ASSETS Advanced payments included in other current assets which are expected to be recognized in profit or loss after more than 12 months as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Advanced payments which are expected to be recognized ¥10,674 ¥4,289 $36 in profit and loss after more than 12 months 110 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report 12. NON-CURRENT ASSETS CLASSIFIED AS HELD FOR SALE The breakdown of non-current assets classified as held for sale and liabilities directly associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows. Components of Non-current assets classified as held for sale and liabilities directly associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale. (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Non-current assets classified as held for sale Goodwill – ¥2,536 $21 Investments accounted for using the equity method – 2,976 25 Total – ¥5,513 $46 Liabilities directly associated with non-current assets classified as held for sale Other financial liabilities – ¥307 $3 Total – ¥307 $3 Non-current assets classified as held for sale as of December 31, 2015 consist of assets and liabilities related to an equity-method associate located in China. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 111 Contents Financial Report 13. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT (1) Schedule of property, plant and equipment The schedule of the carrying amount at the beginning and end of each fiscal year is as follows: FY2014: Year ended March 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) Buildings and structures Land Other Total Balance at the beginning of the year ¥69,739 ¥117,271 ¥14,889 ¥201,900 Additions 6,417 – 6,857 13,275 Acquisitions through business combinations 510 – 352 862 Sales or disposals (1,265) (388) (334) (1,987) Depreciation (6,225) – (5,080) (11,306) Impairment losses (263) (791) (20) (1,075) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 1,305 49 578 1,933 Other (1,672) (2,106) (785) (4,564) Balance at the end of the year ¥68,546 ¥114,034 ¥16,456 ¥199,037 FY2015: Nine months ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) Buildings and structures Land Other Total Balance at the beginning of the year ¥68,546 ¥114,034 ¥16,456 ¥199,037 Additions 4,361 – 5,999 10,360 Acquisitions through business combinations 77 – 482 559 Sales or disposals (123) (0) (92) (216) Depreciation (5,911) – (5,488) (11,399) Impairment losses – (2) – (2) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (654) (36) (785) (1,475) Other (71) 45 (54) (80) Balance at the end of the year ¥66,224 ¥114,040 ¥16,518 ¥196,782 FY2015: Nine months ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Buildings and structures Land Other Total Balance at the beginning of the year $568 $945 $136 $1,650 Additions 36 – 50 86 Acquisitions through business combinations 1 – 4 5 Sales or disposals (1) (0) (1) (2) Depreciation (49) – (46) (95) Impairment losses – (0) – (0) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (5) (0) (7) (12) Other (1) 0 (0) (1) Balance at the end of the year $549 $946 $137 $1,632 112 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report The acquisition cost, accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, and carrying amount of property, plant and equipment as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: (Millions of Yen) Buildings and structures Land Other Total FY2014 (As of March 31, 2015) Acquisition cost ¥140,097 ¥114,828 ¥52,378 ¥307,304 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 71,550 794 35,922 108,267 Carrying amount 68,546 114,034 16,456 199,037 FY2015 (As of December 31, 2015) Acquisition cost ¥140,195 ¥114,836 ¥53,310 ¥308,342 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 73,971 796 36,792 111,560 Carrying amount 66,224 114,040 16,518 196,782 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Buildings and structures Land Other Total FY2015 (As of December 31, 2015) Acquisition cost $1,162 $952 $442 $2,557 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 613 7 305 925 Carrying amount 549 946 137 1,632 The carrying amount of property, plant and equipment above includes the carrying amount of the following leased assets as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015. (Millions of Yen) Leased assets Buildings and structures Other Total FY2014 (As of March 31, 2015) ¥23 ¥2,424 ¥2,448 FY2015 (As of December 31, 2015) 8 2,135 2,144 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Leased assets Buildings and structures Other Total FY2015 (As of December 31, 2015) $0 $18 $18 There is no property, plant and equipment whose title is restricted or pledged as security for liabilities. Depreciation is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income as “Cost” and “Selling, general and administrative expenses.” (2) Impairment Losses Property, plant and equipment is grouped by the smallest cash-generating unit that generates cash inflows that are largely independent according to each reportable segment. The Group recognized impairment losses of ¥1,075 million and ¥2 million ($0 million) for the year ended March 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended December 31, 2015, respectively, in the Consolidated Statement of Income as “Other expenses.” Impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2015 represent the losses incurred to reduce the carrying amounts of buildings, structures, land and others to their recoverable amounts due to a decline in profitability. Impairment losses for the nine months ended December 31, 2015 represent the losses incurred to reduce the carrying amounts of land to its recoverable amounts due to the assets becoming idle. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 113 Contents Financial Report 14. GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS (1) Schedule of goodwill and intangible assets The schedule of the carrying amount at the beginning and end of each fiscal year is as follows: FY2014: Year ended March 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) Customer relationGoodwill Software Other Total ships Balance at the beginning of the year ¥577,015 ¥183,446 ¥23,226 ¥52,833 ¥836,521 Additions – – 9,704 847 10,552 Acquisitions through business combinations 31,100 13,853 144 1,740 46,839 Sales or disposals – – (137) (12) (149) Amortization – (14,228) (8,220) (5,566) (28,015) Impairment losses – – (509) (234) (744) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 48,769 13,516 250 3,776 66,314 Other (320) 279 – 32 (7) Balance at the end of the year ¥656,565 ¥196,867 ¥24,459 ¥53,417 ¥931,310 FY2015: Nine months ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) Customer relationGoodwill Software Other Total ships Balance at the beginning of the year ¥656,565 ¥196,867 ¥24,459 ¥53,417 ¥931,310 Additions – – 8,980 617 9,597 Acquisitions through business combinations 35,811 14,684 66 3,726 54,288 Sales or disposals (1,905) (391) (503) (55) (2,855) Amortization – (17,080) (6,250) (6,126) (29,457) Impairment losses – (2,060) (143) (278) (2,482) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (31,015) (10,091) (555) (2,251) (43,912) Other (2,592) – (2) (40) (2,635) Balance at the end of the year ¥656,862 ¥181,929 ¥26,052 ¥49,009 ¥913,853 FY2015: Nine months ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Customer relationGoodwill Software Other Total ships Balance at the beginning of the year $5,444 $1,632 $203 $443 $7,722 Additions – – 74 5 80 Acquisitions through business combinations 297 122 1 31 450 Sales or disposals (16) (3) (4) (0) (24) Amortization – (142) (52) (51) (244) Impairment losses – (17) (1) (2) (21) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations (257) (84) (5) (19) (364) Other (21) – (0) (0) (22) Balance at the end of the year $5,446 $1,508 $216 $406 $7,577 114 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report The acquisition cost, accumulated amortization and impairment losses, and carrying amount of goodwill and intangible assets as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: (Millions of Yen) Customer relationGoodwill Software Other Total ships FY2014 (As of March 31, 2015) Acquisition cost ¥656,565 ¥227,439 ¥107,630 ¥72,170 ¥1,063,805 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses – 30,572 83,170 18,752 132,495 Carrying amount 656,565 196,867 24,459 53,417 931,310 FY2015 (As of December 31, 2015) Acquisition cost ¥656,862 ¥229,645 ¥104,424 ¥73,070 ¥1,064,002 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses – 47,716 78,371 24,060 150,148 Carrying amount 656,862 181,929 26,052 49,009 913,853 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Customer relationGoodwill Software Other Total ships FY2015 (As of December 31, 2015) Acquisition cost $5,446 $1,904 $866 $606 $8,822 Accumulated amortization and impairment losses – 396 650 199 1,245 Carrying amount 5,446 1,508 216 406 7,577 The carrying amount of intangible assets above includes the carrying amount of the following leased assets as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015. (Millions of Yen) Leased assets Software FY2014 (As of March 31, 2015) ¥562 FY2015 (As of December 31, 2015) 421 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Leased assets Software FY2015 (As of December 31, 2015) $3 There are no intangible assets whose title is restricted or pledged as security for liabilities. Amortization is recorded in the Consolidated Statement of Income as “Cost” and “Selling, general and administrative expenses.” (2) Significant goodwill and intangible assets The significant portion of goodwill as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, arose from the international business segment which forms a cash generating unit, and amounted to ¥656,552 million and ¥656,590 million ($5,444 million) as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Significant intangible assets other than goodwill as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, consist of customer relationships in the international business segment, which amounted to ¥196,867 million and ¥181,929 million ($1,508 million) as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, respectively. (3) Impairment testing of goodwill Recoverable amounts of the international business segment to which significant goodwill was allocated are determined by the value in use based on the financial budget for the next fiscal year approved by management and the management forecast for the subsequent four years. The continuing growth rate of 3.4%(3.2% as of March 31, 2015 ) is set for cash flows beyond the four-year period. The pre-tax discount rates used for determining value in use are 8.9% and 8.1% as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, respectively. For the goodwill above, the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit sufficiently exceeds its carrying amount. Therefore, it is unlikely that the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit will fall below the carrying amount even with reasonable changes in the key assumptions. (4) Impairment losses Intangible assets are grouped by the smallest cash-generating unit that generates cash inflows that are largely independent according to each reportable segment. The Group recognized impairment losses of ¥744 million and ¥2,482 million ($21 million) for the year ended March 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended December 31, 2015, respectively, in the Consolidated Statement of Income as “Other expenses.” Impairment losses for the year ended March 31, 2015, represent the losses incurred to reduce the carrying amounts of software and other intangible assets Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 115 Contents Financial Report to their recoverable amounts due to a decline in profitability. Impairment losses for the nine months ended December 31, 2015, represent the losses incurred to reduce the carrying amounts of customer relationships, software and other intangible assets to their recoverable amounts due to a decline in profitability. 15. LEASES The Group leases buildings, software and other assets as a lessee. The lease contracts include those with renewal options, while they do not include significant contracts with escalation clauses. There are no restrictions on additional debt, further leasing and others imposed by the lease contracts. (1) Present value of finance lease obligations The total of future minimum lease payments for leased assets recognized based on the finance lease contracts, their future financial costs and present value as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Not later than 1 year Total of future minimum lease payments ¥1,263 ¥1,138 $9 Future finance costs 27 22 0 Present value ¥1,236 ¥1,116 $9 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years Total of future minimum lease payments ¥2,030 ¥1,595 $13 Future finance costs 26 18 0 Present value ¥2,004 ¥1,576 $13 Later than 5 years Total of future minimum lease payments ¥5 ¥6 $0 Future finance costs 0 0 0 Present value ¥5 ¥6 $0 Total Total of future minimum lease payments ¥3,300 ¥2,740 $23 Future finance costs 54 41 0 Present value ¥3,245 ¥2,699 $22 (2) Future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases The total of future minimum lease payments under non-cancellable operating leases as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Not later than 1 year ¥17,041 ¥25,470 $211 Later than 1 year and not later than 5 years 52,077 59,637 494 Later than 5 years 32,964 43,985 365 Total ¥102,083 ¥129,093 $1,070 (3) Total of minimum lease payments The total of minimum lease payments of operating lease contracts for the year ended March 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended December 31, 2015 are ¥21,916 million and ¥24,404 million ($202 million), respectively. 116 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report 16. INVESTMENT PROPERTY (1) Schedule of investment property. The schedule of the carrying amount of investment property at the beginning and end of each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Balance at the beginning of the year ¥45,655 ¥42,160 $350 Additions 24 40 0 Transfers from property, plant and equipment 3,769 Depreciation (1,004) (555) (5) Sales or disposals (6,285) (4) (0) Other 1 0 Balance at the end of the year ¥42,160 ¥41,642 $345 Acquisition cost (balance at the beginning of the year) ¥59,047 ¥53,854 $447 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 13,392 11,694 97 (balance at the beginning of the year) Acquisition cost (balance at the end of the year) ¥53,854 ¥50,950 $422 Accumulated depreciation and impairment losses 11,694 9,308 $77 (balance at the end of the year) (2) Fair value The carrying amount and fair value of investment property as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Investment property (Level 3) ¥42,160 ¥47,715 ¥41,642 ¥48,593 $345 $403 The fair value of investment property is mainly based on real estate appraisal value. The valuation techniques are based on the discounted cash flow model and observable quoted prices for similar properties and others. The investment property that is measured at fair value is categorized into the three levels of the fair value hierarchy according to observability and significance of the inputs used in the measurements. The fair value hierarchy is defined as follows: Level 1: Fair value measured at the quoted price in the active market Level 2: Fair value that is measured using the observable price other than categorized in Level 1 directly or indirectly Level 3: Fair value that is measured based on unobservable inputs The fair value of investment property for each fiscal year end is categorized within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy. (3) Income and expenses from investment property The rental income from investment property and direct operating expenses for each fiscal year are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Rental income ¥2,647 ¥1,833 $15 Direct operating expenses 2,516 1,307 11 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 117 Contents Financial Report 17. INVESTMENTS ACCOUNTED FOR USING THE EQUITY METHOD The carrying amount of investments in associates and joint ventures as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Total of carrying amount ¥53,042 ¥50,281 $417 The financial information of associates and joint ventures for each fiscal year is as follows. The amounts take into account the Group’s ownership ratio. (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Profit for the year ¥7,178 ¥3,911 $32 Other comprehensive income 373 (178) (1) Comprehensive income for the year ¥7,551 ¥3,733 $31 The Group does not recognize the share of the cumulative amount of losses exceeding the carrying amounts incurred in certain investees accounted for using the equity method. Unrecognized losses for each fiscal year and cumulative unrecognized losses for the investments are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Unrecognized losses ¥76 ¥82 $1 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Cumulative unrecognized losses ¥207 ¥347 $3 118 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report 18. INCOME TAXES (1) Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities The breakdown of deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities by major causes of their occurrence as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Deferred tax assets Liability for retirement benefits ¥33,830 ¥33,481 $278 Accrued expenses 12,704 7,969 66 Carryforwards of tax losses 6,603 7,373 61 Other 8,719 6,441 53 Total of deferred tax assets ¥61,858 ¥55,265 $458 Deferred tax liabilities Gain on establishment of retirement benefit trust ¥(14,701) ¥(14,701) $(122) Unrealized gain on securities (38,364) (36,879) (306) Valuation differences on intangible assets (55,269) (50,187) (416) Other (12,260) (7,614) (63) Total of deferred tax liabilities ¥(120,596) ¥(109,383) $(907) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) ¥(58,737) ¥(54,118) $(449) Changes in net deferred tax assets (liabilities) for each fiscal year are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Net deferred tax assets (liabilities) Balance at the beginning of the year ¥(6,923) ¥(58,737) $(487) Deferred income taxes (8,235) 6,444 53 Deferred taxes related to components of other comprehensive income Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 23 (35) (0) Effective portion of the change in the fair value of cash flow (743) 840 7 hedges Net change in financial assets measured at fair value through (30,845) (734) (6) other comprehensive income Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (5,088) (1,220) (10) Changes in deferred tax assets (liabilities) arising from business (6,924) (675) (6) combinations, and others Balance at the end of the year ¥(58,737) ¥(54,118) $(449) Taxable temporary differences, future taxable income determinations and tax planning are taken into account when recognising deferred tax assets. The breakdown of deductible temporary differences and carryforwards of tax losses as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, for which deferred tax assets are not recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Deductible temporary differences ¥12,210 ¥10,977 $91 Carryforwards of tax losses 70,440 60,604 502 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 119 Contents Financial Report The breakdown of carryforwards of tax losses by expiry date as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, for which deferred tax assets are not recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) 1st year ¥53 ¥12,668 $105 2nd year 16,634 354 3 3rd year 558 206 2 4th year 564 783 6 5th year 1,131 355 3 After the 5th year 4,291 3,118 26 No definite term for expiry 47,206 43,118 357 Total ¥70,440 ¥60,604 $502 The total amount of taxable temporary differences associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint ventures, for which deferred tax liabilities are not recognized amounted to ¥140,079 million and ¥142,738 million ($1,183 million) as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Deferred tax liabilities are not recognized for these differences since the Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference and it is probable the temporary difference will not reverse in the foreseeable future. (2) Income tax expense The breakdown of income tax expense for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Current income taxes ¥41,414 ¥34,784 $288 Deferred income taxes 8,235 (6,444) (53) Deferred income taxes increased by ¥3,847 million in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 due to a change in the income tax rate in Japan and decreased by ¥3,038 million ($25 million) in the nine months ended December 31, 2015 due to a change in the tax rate in England. (3) Reconciliation of effective tax rate The breakdown of major items that caused differences between the effective statutory tax rate and income tax rate following the adoption of deferred tax accounting for each fiscal year is as follows: The Company is subject mainly to corporate tax, inhabitant tax and enterprise tax. The effective statutory tax rates calculated based on these taxes are 36.0% and 33.0% for the year ended March 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended December 31, 2015, respectively. Foreign subsidiaries are subject to income taxes at their locations. (%) FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Effective statutory tax rate 36.0 33.0 (Reconciliation items) Permanently non-deductible items, including entertainment expenses 2.9 1.3 Permanently non-taxable items, including dividend income (1.0) (2.9) Share of results of associates (1.9) (1.2) Reduction of deferred tax assets (liabilities) at fiscal year end due to tax rate changes 2.9 (2.8) Other (1.9) (0.7) Income tax rate following the adoption of deferred tax accounting 37.0 26.7 120 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report 19. TRADE AND OTHER PAYABLES (1) The breakdown of trade and other payables as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Notes and accounts payable—trade ¥1,161,112 ¥1,157,663 $9,598 Other 70,107 49,684 412 Total ¥1,231,220 ¥1,207,347 $10,010 Trade and other payables are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. (2) Assets pledged as collateral for liabilities Assets pledged as collateral and corresponding liabilities as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 Assets pledged as collateral (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Other financial assets (current assets) ¥72 ¥72 $1 FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 Corresponding liabilities (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Notes and accounts payable ¥634 ¥509 $4 Other than the above corresponding liabilities, the assets are pledged as collateral for guarantee transactions that are released in the “Official Gazette” (Kanpou) and for opening checking accounts. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 121 Contents Financial Report 20. BONDS AND BORROWINGS (INCLUDING OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES) Breakdown of financial liabilities The breakdown of bonds and borrowings (including other financial liabilities) as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 Date of maturity (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Derivative liabilities ¥27,848 ¥34,971 – $290 Current portion of bonds (Note) 4,413 – – – Bonds (Note) 7,955 – – – Short-term borrowings 39,214 12,190 – 101 Current portion of long-term borrowings 30,026 34,615 – 287 Long-term borrowings 328,009 286,977 2016–2023 2,379 Other 95,999 82,752 – 686 Total ¥533,466 ¥471,506 – $3,909 Current liabilities ¥127,735 ¥111,794 $927 Non-current liabilities 405,730 359,712 2,982 Total ¥533,466 ¥471,506 $3,909 Derivative liabilities are classified as financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss excluding those accounted for under hedge accounting. Bonds and borrowings are classified as financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. The average interest rates of short-term borrowings and long-term borrowings (including the current portion of long-term borrowings) for the nine months ended December 31, 2015 are 3.01% and 1.16%, respectively. “Other” includes financial liabilities measured at fair value through profit or loss of ¥64,790 million and ¥59,269 million ($491 million) as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, respectively. There are no financial covenants on bonds and borrowings that have a significant effect on the Group’s financial activities. (Note) A summary of the issuing terms of each bond is as follows: (Millions of Yen) FY2014 FY2015 Interest rate Company Name of bond Date of issuance (As of March 31, (As of December Collateral Date of maturity % 2015) 31, 2015) Senior Unsecured Notes ¥4,413 Unsecured Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd. July 28, 2005 – 5.50 July 28, 2015 Series B (USD 35 million) bonds Senior Unsecured Notes September 17, ¥6,001 Unsecured September 17, Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd. – 6.29 Series B 2007 (USD 50 million) bonds 2017 (Note 2) Senior Unsecured Notes December 17, ¥1,953 Unsecured December 17, Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd. – 6.50 Series C 2009 (USD 15 million) bonds 2019 (Note 2) ¥12,368 Total – – – – – – (USD 100 million) (Note 1) Since bonds have been issued overseas, the amount denominated in foreign currency is noted in ( ) as of March 31, 2015. (Note 2) The Company called the bond for early redemption in the full amount on July 28, 2015. 122 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report 21. PROVISIONS The breakdown and schedule of provisions for each fiscal year are as follows: FY2014: Year ended March 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) Provisions for asset retireProvisions for loss on Other provisions Total ment obligations order received Balance at the beginning of the year ¥900 ¥165 ¥– ¥1,065 Additional provisions in the year 255 112 3,655 4,024 Interest expense incurred over the discount period 15 – – 15 Provisions used (56) (146) (83) (286) Provisions reversed (3) – (17) (21) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – – 38 38 Balance at the end of the year ¥1,110 ¥132 ¥3,593 ¥4,836 Current liabilities ¥76 ¥132 ¥– ¥208 Non-current liabilities 1,034 – 3,593 4,627 Total ¥1,110 ¥132 ¥3,593 ¥4,836 FY2015: Nine months ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) Provisions for asset retireProvisions for loss on Other provisions Total ment obligations order received Balance at the beginning of the year ¥1,110 ¥132 ¥3,593 ¥4,836 Additional provisions in the year 23 989 1,372 2,385 Interest expense incurred over the discount period 11 – – 11 Provisions used (90) (132) (127) (349) Provisions reversed – – (1,111) (1,111) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – – (1,008) (1,008) Other – – 152 152 Balance at the end of the year ¥1,056 ¥989 ¥2,871 ¥4,916 Current liabilities – ¥989 ¥830 ¥1,819 Non-current liabilities 1,056 – 2,040 3,096 Total ¥1,056 ¥989 ¥2,871 ¥4,916 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 123 Contents Financial Report FY2015: Nine months ended December 31, 2015 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Provisions for asset retireProvisions for loss on Other provisions Total ment obligations order received Balance at the beginning of the year $9 $1 $30 $40 Additional provisions in the year 0 8 11 20 Interest expense incurred over the discount period 0 – – 0 Provisions used (1) (1) (1) (3) Provisions reversed – – (9) (9) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations – – (8) (8) Other – – 1 1 Balance at the end of the year $9 $8 $24 $41 Current liabilities $– $8 $7 $15 Non-current liabilities 9 – 17 26 Total $9 $8 $24 $41 (1) Provisions for asset retirement obligations The probable amount to be paid in the future is recognized based on past performance in settling restoration obligations in lease contracts for offices that the Group uses. These expenses are primarily expected to be paid after one year or more, subject to possible changes due to future events such as business plan changes. (2) Provisions for loss on order received If losses are expected to be incurred from the performance of contracts related to orders received from customers for the subsequent fiscal years and such losses can be reasonably estimated, loss provisions are recognized in the amounts expected to be incurred in the subsequent fiscal years. 124 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report 22. POST-EMPLOYMENT BENEFITS The Group operates defined benefit plans that include corporate pension fund plans, tax-qualified pension plans, defined benefit corporate pension plans and retirement lump-sum payment plans. The corporate pension fund plans, tax-qualified pension plans and defined benefit corporate pension plans are administrated by a pension fund that is legally separated from the Group in accordance with statutory requirements. The Group, or the board of pension funds and asset managers, is required by law to act in the best interests of the plan participants, and is responsible for managing the plan assets in accordance with the designated policy. The Group is obligated to pay contributions to the corporate pension fund, which grants pension benefits, in accordance with laws and regulations. The Company voluntarily operates a retirement benefits trust for corporate pension fund plans and retirement lump-sum payment plans. In addition, the Company and certain domestic consolidated subsidiaries operate defined contribution pension plans while some overseas consolidated subsidiaries operate defined contribution retirement benefit plans. The Company, on April 1, 2015, and regional Dentsu subsidiaries (Dentsu East Inc., Dentsu West Inc., Dentsu Kyushu Inc., and Dentsu Hokkaido Inc.), on January 1, 2016, partially shifted from a defined benefit corporate pension plan to a defined contribution pension plan. (1) Reconciliation of defined benefit obligations and plan assets The reconciliation of the defined benefit obligations and plan assets to the net defined benefit liabilities (assets) recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Funded defined benefit obligations ¥164,439 ¥122,840 $1,018 Plan assets (149,463) (107,123) (888) Subtotal 14,976 15,717 130 Unfunded defined benefit obligations 14,110 14,141 117 Total ¥29,086 ¥29,859 $248 Balance recognized in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Liabilities for retirement benefits ¥43,674 ¥30,557 $253 Assets for retirement benefits (14,588) (697) (6) Net defined benefit liabilities (assets) recognized in the ¥29,086 ¥29,859 $248 Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (2) Schedule of defined benefit obligations The schedule of defined benefit obligations for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Balance at the beginning of the year ¥168,515 ¥178,550 $1,480 Current service cost (Note 1) 8,342 5,366 44 Interest expense (Note 1) 2,144 855 7 Actuarial gains and losses (Note 2) 6,972 257 2 Benefits paid (8,235) (9,711) (81) Past service cost 516 162 1 Changes due to termination (curtailment or settlement) – (38,316) (318) of a defined benefit plans Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 74 (185) (2) Effects of business combinations and disposals 17 3 0 Other 202 – – Balance at the end of the year ¥178,550 ¥136,982 $1,136 (Note 1) Current service cost is recognized in “Cost” and “Selling, general and administrative expenses”. Interest expenses, net of interest income, are recognized in “Finance costs.” (Note 2) Actuarial gains and losses arise mainly from changes in financial assumptions. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 125 Contents Financial Report The weighted average duration of defined benefit obligations as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Years) FY2014 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Weighted average duration 9.1 9.7 (3) Schedule of plan assets The schedule of plan assets for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Balance at the beginning of the year ¥115,329 ¥149,463 $1,239 Interest income 1,562 668 6 Return on plan assets (excluding amounts included in 19,575 4,219 35 interest income) Contributions by the employer 6,891 586 5 Contributions (refunds) associated with the shift to 8,872 (3,211) (27) defined contribution pension plans Benefits paid (3,102) (6,219) (52) Changes due to termination (curtailment or settlement) – (38,316) (318) of a defined benefit plans Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations 111 (67) (1) Effects of business combinations and disposals 10 – – Other 213 – – Balance at the end of the year ¥149,463 ¥107,123 $888 The Group plans to pay contributions of ¥177 million ($1 million) in the year ending December 31, 2016. 126 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report (4) Major breakdown of plan assets The major breakdown of the total of plan assets as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Plan assets with Plan assets Plan assets with Plan assets Plan assets with Plan assets quoted market without quoted quoted market without quoted quoted market without quoted Total Total Total price in an market price in price in an market price in price in an market price in active market an active market active market an active market active market an active market Equity instruments ¥85,053 ¥5 ¥85,059 ¥72,291 ¥0 ¥72,291 $599 $0 $599 Debt instruments 16,770 2,928 19,699 1,148 52 1,200 10 0 10 General account of life – 20,481 20,481 – 18,300 18,300 – 152 152 insurance companies Other – 24,224 24,224 – 15,330 15,330 – 127 127 Total ¥101,824 ¥47,639 ¥149,463 ¥73,439 ¥33,684 ¥107,123 $609 $279 $888 (Note) Plan assets above include retirement benefit trusts established for corporate pension fund plans and retirement lump-sum payment plans of ¥71,328 million and ¥72,563 million ($602 million), as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, respectively. Equity and debt instruments held as of March 31, 2015 are mainly those issued in Japan. As of December 31, 2015, equity instruments are mainly those issued in Japan and debt instruments are mainly those issued in overseas. The objectives of plan asset investments are to reduce long-term contribution obligations and improve benefits within a tolerable risk while securing sufficient assets to grant benefits. To achieve these objectives, mediumto long-term future estimates of fund finance are taken into account, and the effect of uncertainty in the plan asset management on plan assets financing (such as the possibility of fund shortages) and tolerable levels of uncertainty in the rates of return on plan assets are adequately reviewed. In addition, asset investments are managed to achieve these objectives by establishing a policy for future optimal asset composition ratios (hereinafter referred to as “policy asset allocation”), selecting an asset manager and monitoring asset allocation, after setting forecasts of expected rates of returns on appropriate assets for investment. The policy asset allocation is verified annually and reviewed as necessary if any changes are made to the terms and conditions set at the time of the policy’s establishment. (5) Actuarial assumptions The major items of actuarial assumptions as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: (%) FY2014 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Discount rate 1.1 0.8 (Note) The sensitivities of the defined benefit obligations due to changes in major assumptions as of each fiscal year are as follows. Each of these analyses assumes that other variables remain fixed; however, they do not always change independently. Negative figures indicate a decrease in defined benefit obligations, while positive figures indicate an increase. (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 Change in assumptions (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Increase by 0.5% ¥(9,652) ¥(6,298) $(52) Discount rate Decrease by 0.5% ¥10,663 ¥6,840 $57 (6) Defined contribution plans Expenses recognized due to contributions to defined contribution plans by the Company and consolidated subsidiaries amounted to ¥4,263 million and ¥6,534 million ($54 million) for the year ended March 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended December 31, 2015, respectively. Such amounts are recognized in “Cost” and “Selling, general and administrative expenses.” Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 127 Contents Financial Report 23. EQUITY AND OTHER EQUITY ITEMS (3) Reserves (1) Share capital A. Share premium account A. authorized shares Under the Companies Act of Japan, at least 50% of the proceeds upon The number of authorized shares as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, issuance of equity instruments shall be credited to share capital, while the 2015 is 1,100,000,000 ordinary shares. remainder of the proceeds shall be credited to capital reserves included in share premium account. B. Fully paid issued shares The number of issued shares as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 B. Retained earnings are as follows: The Companies Act provides that 10% of the dividends of retained earnNumber of ordinary ings shall be appropriated as capital reserves or as retained earnings issued shares reserves until their aggregate amount equals 25% of share capital. (Shares) FY2014 (As of March 31, 2015) 288,410,000 Increase (decrease) – FY2015 (As of December 31, 2015) 288,410,000 All the shares issued by the Company are non-par value ordinary shares that have no restriction on any content of rights. (2) Treasury shares The number of treasury shares as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: Number of shares (Shares) FY2014 (As of March 31, 2015) 48,602 Increase (decrease) 3,222,337 FY2015 (As of December 31, 2015) 3,270,939 (Note) Out of the increase in treasury shares, 3,218,400 shares were acquired pursuant to the resolution at the Board of Directors Meeting held on May 14, 2015 in accordance with Article 156 of the Companies Act, as applied mutatis mutandis pursuant to the provisions of Article 165, Paragraph 3 of the Companies Act. The remaining 3,937 shares represent an increase due to repurchase of shares less than one unit. 128 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report 24. DIVIDENDS (1) Dividends paid FY2014: Year ended March 31, 2015 Total dividends Dividends per share Resolution Class of shares Basis date Effective date (Millions of Yen) (Yen) Annual Shareholders Meeting (June 27, 2014) Ordinary shares ¥4,902 ¥17.00 March 31, 2014 June 30, 2014 Board of Directors (November 12, 2014) Ordinary shares ¥5,767 ¥20.00 September 30, 2014 December 5, 2014 FY2015: Nine months ended December 31, 2015 Total dividends Dividends per share Resolution Class of shares Basis date Effective date (Millions of Yen) (Yen) Annual Shareholders Meeting (June 26, 2015) Ordinary shares ¥10,092 ¥35.00 March 31, 2015 June 29, 2015 Board of Directors (November 11, 2015) Ordinary shares ¥9,979 ¥35.00 September 30, 2015 December 4, 2015 FY2015: Nine months ended December 31, 2015 Total dividends Dividends per share Resolution Class of shares Basis date Effective date (Millions of U.S. Dollars) (U.S. Dollars) Annual Shareholders Meeting (June 26, 2015) Ordinary shares $84 $0.29 March 31, 2015 June 29, 2015 Board of Directors (November 11, 2015) Ordinary shares $83 $0.29 September 30, 2015 December 4, 2015 (2) Dividends for which the basis date falls before fiscal year end, while the effective date falls in the following fiscal year FY2014: Year ended March 31, 2015 Dividends Total dividends Dividends per Resolution Class of shares Basis date Effective date resource (Millions of Yen) share (Yen) Annual Shareholders Meeting (June 26, 2015) Ordinary shares Retained earnings ¥10,092 ¥35.00 March 31, 2015 June 29, 2015 FY2015: Nine months ended December 31, 2015 Dividends Total dividends Dividends per Resolution Class of shares Basis date Effective date resource (Millions of Yen) share (Yen) Annual Shareholders Meeting (March 30, 2016) Ordinary shares Retained earnings ¥11,405 ¥40.00 December 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 FY2015: Nine months ended December 31, 2015 Dividends Total dividends Dividends per Resolution Class of shares Basis date Effective date resource (Millions of U.S. Dollars) share (U.S. Dollars) Annual Shareholders Meeting (March 30, 2016) Ordinary shares Retained earnings $95 $0.33 December 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 25. SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES The breakdown of selling, general and administrative expenses for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Staff costs ¥385,258 ¥376,274 $3,120 Depreciation and amortisation 36,249 39,092 324 Other 150,575 151,120 1,253 Total ¥572,084 ¥566,487 $4,697 “Other” includes research and development costs of ¥938 million and ¥596 million ($5 million) for the year ended March 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended December 31, 2015, respectively. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 129 Contents Financial Report 26. STAFF COSTS The breakdown of staff costs for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Salaries, bonuses and allowances ¥336,331 ¥328,386 $2,723 Welfare expenses 50,952 50,279 417 Post-employment benefits costs 13,653 12,335 102 Other 3,947 813 7 Total ¥404,884 ¥391,815 $3,249 Staff costs are recorded in “Cost,” “Selling, general and administrative expenses” and “Finance costs” in the Consolidated Statement of Income. 27. OTHER INCOME The breakdown of other income for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Profit distributions ¥4,612 ¥7,134 $59 Foreign exchange gains 225 422 3 Gain on sale of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and 32,194 700 6 investment property Gain on sale of subsidiaries and associates shares 306 954 8 Gain on step acquisitions and gain on remeasurement of residual 516 2,905 24 interests on loss of control or significant influence Other 1,247 912 8 Total ¥39,102 ¥13,030 $108 28. OTHER EXPENSES The breakdown of other expenses for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Amortisation of long-term prepaid expenses ¥2,603 ¥2,377 $20 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and 4,261 50 0 investment property Impairment losses 1,824 2,489 21 Loss on liquidation of subsidiaries and associates – 2,617 22 Other 2,948 1,231 10 Total ¥11,638 ¥8,766 $73 130 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report 29. FINANCE INCOME AND FINANCE COSTS (1) The breakdown of finance income for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Interest income Financial assets measured at amortized cost ¥1,980 ¥1,884 $16 Financial instruments measured at fair value through 19 – – profit or loss Dividend income Financial assets measured at fair value through other 2,276 2,251 19 comprehensive income Changes in fair value of contingent consideration 1,071 – – Dividend income and asset management gains from 552 505 4 insurance Foreign exchange gains (Note 1) 1,119 – – Other (Note 2) 48 284 2 Total ¥7,067 ¥4,926 $41 (Note 1) Valuation gain on foreign currency derivatives is included in the foreign exchange gains. (Note 2) “Other” includes finance income arising from financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss of ¥5 million and ¥29 million ($0 million) for the year ended March 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended December 31, 2015, respectively. The breakdown of dividend income is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Financial assets derecognized during the fiscal year ¥785 ¥2 $0 Financial assets held at the end of the fiscal year 1,490 2,248 19 (2) The breakdown of finance costs for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Interest expense Financial liabilities measured at amortized cost ¥7,112 ¥6,840 $57 Other 564 195 2 Changes in fair value of contingent consideration – 1,662 14 Foreign exchange losses (Note 1) – 66 1 Other (Note 2) 4,578 1,294 11 Total ¥12,255 ¥10,059 $83 (Note 1) Valuation loss on foreign currency derivatives is included in the foreign exchange lossess. (Note 2) “Other” includes finance costs arising from financial instruments measured at fair value through profit or loss of ¥305 million and ¥62 million ($1million) for the year ended March 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended December 31, 2015, respectively. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 131 Contents Financial Report 30. OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Amount arising during the year, reclassification adjustments to profit or loss and income tax effects for each component of other comprehensive income for each fiscal year are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations Amount arising during the year ¥46,040 ¥(35,232) $(292) Reclassification adjustments (3) (170) (1) Before tax effects 46,037 (35,403) (294) Tax effects 23 (35) (0) Exchange differences on translation of foreign operations ¥46,061 ¥(35,439) $(294) Effective portion of the change in the fair value of cash flow hedges Amount arising during the year ¥4,959 ¥(1,034) $(9) Reclassification adjustments (3,180) (1,756) (15) Before tax effects 1,779 (2,790) (23) Tax effects (743) 840 7 Effective portion of the change in the fair value of cash flow ¥1,036 ¥(1,950) $(16) hedges Net change in financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income Amount arising during the year ¥97,550 ¥4,089 $34 Before tax effects 97,550 4,089 34 Tax effects (30,845) (734) (6) Net change in financial assets measured at fair value through ¥66,704 ¥3,354 $28 other comprehensive income Remeasurements of defined benefit plans Amount arising during the year ¥12,630 ¥4,069 $34 Before tax effects 12,630 4,069 34 Tax effects (5,088) (1,220) (10) Remeasurements of defined benefit plans ¥7,542 ¥2,849 $24 Share of other comprehensive income of investments accounted for using the equity method Amount arising during the year ¥373 ¥(178) $(1) Share of other comprehensive income of investments account¥373 ¥(178) $(1) ed for using the equity method 132 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report 31. EARNINGS PER SHARE (1) Basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share (U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Basic earnings per share (Yen) ¥276.89 ¥254.05 $2.11 Diluted earnings per share (Yen) ¥276.84 ¥254.03 $2.11 (2) Basis of calculating basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Profit for the year used for calculation of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share Profit for the year attributable to owners of the parent (Millions ¥79,846 ¥72,653 $602 of Yen) Amounts not attributable to ordinary equity holders of the – – – parent (Millions of Yen) Profit for the year used for calculation of basic earnings per share 79,846 72,653 602 (Millions of Yen) Adjustment Share-based payment held by associates (Millions of Yen) (14) (5) (0) Profit for the year used for calculation of diluted earnings per ¥79,832 ¥72,647 $602 share (Millions of Yen) Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding used for the calculation of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share Weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding used for the calculation of basic earnings per share (Thousands of 288,364 285,984 shares) Effect of dilutive potential ordinary shares (Thousands of – – shares) The weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding used for the calculation of diluted earnings per share (Thou288,364 285,984 sands of shares) Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 133 Contents Financial Report 32. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (1) Capital management The Group’s basic policy for capital management aims to enhance capital efficiency by the long-term improvement of its value through business growth, while maintaining a sound financial structure. Indicators for monitoring the capital management include total equity attributable to owners of the parent and Underlying ROE (ratio of Underlying profit for the year to total equity attributable to owners of the parent). The balances as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Total equity attributable to owners of the parent ¥1,080,364 ¥1,068,216 $8,857 Underlying ROE (%) 9.4 10.6 (Note 1) For management purposes, the Company had traditionally used total equity (attributable to owners of the parent) and ROE (ratio of profit for the year to total equity attributable to owners of the parent). In order to manage capital efficiency on the basis of constant results adjusted for temporary factors, the Company uses the underlying ROE instead of ROE beginning from the current fiscal year. ROE for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 (financial reporting basis) and for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 (determined based on the results for the period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015) are 8.1% and 7.7% respectively. (Note 2) The underlying profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent), the numerator of underlying ROE, is a KPI used to measure recurring profit attributable to owners of the parent which is calculated as profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent) adjusted for adjustment items related to operating profit, revaluation of earnout liabilities / M&A related put-option liabilities, related tax effects, profit or loss attributable to non-controlling interests, and other oneoff items. The underlying ROE for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 is based on the financial data for the period from April 1, 2014 to March 31, 2015 while the underlying ROE for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 is determined based on the results for the period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. Reconciliation from profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent) to underlying profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent) is stated below. (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (From Jaunary 1,2015 to (From Jaunary 1,2015 to (Year ended March 31, 2015) December 31, 2015) December 31, 2015) Profit for the year (attributable to owners of the parent) ¥79,846 ¥83,090 $689 (Adjustment items) Adjustment items related to operating profit (367) 32,226 267 Revaluation of earnout liabilities / M&A related put-option 2,682 3,198 27 liabilities Tax expenses related to the above items and effects from tax 11,097 (5,167) (43) regulation changes Others (383) 40 0 Underlying profit for the year (attributable to owners of parent) ¥92,875 ¥113,388 $940 (Note 3) Total equity attributable to owners of the parent as of December 31, 2015 was used as the denominator to calculate the underlying ROE for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015 (determined based on the results for the period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015). For underlying ROE (or ROE) for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015 and prior years, total equity attributable to owners of the parent as of March 31 of each year was used. (2) Basic policy on risk management associated with financial instruments The Group is exposed to financial risks in the process of its business activities; and it manages risks based on a specific policy in order to avoid or reduce these risks. Derivative transactions for speculative purposes or short-term trading purposes are prohibited and limited to transactions based on the actual demands. 134 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report (3) Credit risk A. Credit risk management Trade receivables, such as notes and accounts receivable, are exposed to customer credit risk. The Group aims to reduce these risks based on credit management rules and guidelines. The Company conducts review of new counterparties and credit management based on credit management rules and guidelines. With respect to trade receivables, based on accounting rules and guidelines, the relevant controlling departments in each business unit, together with the accounting department, manage due dates and outstanding balances for each counterparty and regularly monitor the status of major counterparties to detect and reduce doubtful receivables due to deteriorating financial conditions or other reasons in a timely manner. Consolidated subsidiaries perform credit management and receivables management and have management systems in place that require reporting and approval for certain significant transaction and events. The Group does not have excess concentration of credit risk in specific counterparties. B. Maximum exposure to credit risk With the exception of guarantee obligations, maximum exposure to the Group’s credit risk is represented by the carrying amounts of financial assets in the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position. Maximum exposure to credit risk associated with guarantee obligations amounted to ¥1,761 million and ¥1,745 million ($14million) as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, respectively. C. Financial assets that are past due The analysis of the age of trade and other receivables that are past due but not impaired as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Within 30 days ¥102,218 ¥116,612 $967 Over 30 days, within 60 days 38,029 40,285 334 Over 60 days, within 90 days 18,994 31,371 260 Over 90 days 18,951 18,421 153 Total ¥178,194 ¥206,690 $1,714 D. Schedule of allowance for doubtful accounts The schedule of allowance for doubtful account for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Balance at the beginning of the year ¥18,992 ¥20,073 $166 Addition 3,596 6,247 52 Decrease (intended use) (2,978) (489) (4) Decrease (reversal) (707) (2,761) (23) Other 1,169 (1,476) (12) Balance at the end of the year ¥20,073 ¥21,593 $179 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 135 Contents Financial Report (4) Liquidity risk A. Liquidity risk management The Company manages liquidity risk by having the treasury division establish and update a finance plan based on information collected from each section and also by maintaining liquidity based on cash flow status. The Group raises working capital through internal funds, commercial paper and short-term borrowings. The Group has established credit facilities (commitment lines) to ensure liquidity. B. Financial liability balance (including derivative financial instruments) by maturity The financial liability balance (including derivative financial instruments) by maturity as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: FY2014: As of March 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) Due after 1 Due after 2 Due after 3 Due after 4 Carrying Contractual Due within Due after year through years through years through years through amount cash flow 1 year 5 years 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables ¥1,231,220 ¥1,231,220 ¥1,231,220 ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥– Contingent consideration on acquisition 64,790 64,790 28,058 15,669 10,816 6,850 3,207 189 and others Bonds and borrowings 409,618 428,100 79,538 40,533 11,577 53,063 63,209 180,178 Subtotal 1,705,629 1,724,111 1,338,816 56,203 22,393 59,913 66,416 180,367 Derivative liabilities 27,848 27,848 3,214 3,065 2,476 4,582 4,252 10,258 Total ¥1,733,477 ¥1,751,959 ¥1,342,030 ¥59,268 ¥24,869 ¥64,496 ¥70,669 ¥190,626 FY2015: As of December 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) Due after 1 Due after 2 Due after 3 Due after 4 Carrying Contractual Due within Due after year through years through years through years through amount cash flow 1 year 5 years 2 years 3 years 4 years 5 years Non-derivative financial liabilities Trade and other payables ¥1,207,347 ¥1,207,347 ¥1,207,347 ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥– ¥– Contingent consideration on acquisition 59,226 59,226 26,205 9,743 8,459 7,121 3,708 3,987 and others Bonds and borrowings 353,783 366,499 70,352 5,341 53,268 60,202 81,958 95,375 Subtotal 1,620,357 1,633,073 1,303,905 15,084 61,728 67,323 85,667 99,363 Derivative liabilities 34,971 34,971 4,935 3,345 5,322 4,196 4,558 12,612 Total ¥1,655,328 ¥1,668,044 ¥1,308,841 ¥18,429 ¥67,051 ¥71,520 ¥90,225 ¥111,976 FY2015: As of December 31, 2015 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) $10,010 $10,010 $10,010 $– $– $– $– $– 491 491 217 81 70 59 31 33 2,933 3,039 583 44 442 499 680 791 13,435 13,540 10,811 125 512 558 710 824 290 290 41 28 44 35 38 105 $13,725 $13,830 $10,852 $153 $556 $593 $748 $928 C. Undrawn committed facilities Undrawn committed facilities amounted to ¥310,423 million and ¥291,313 million ($2,415 million) as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, respectively. The undrawn committed facilities include commitment lines of credit, overdraft lines of credit and commercial paper facilities. 136 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report (5) Foreign currency risk A. Foreign currency risk management Monetary receivables and payables denominated in foreign currencies are exposed to foreign exchange fluctuations risks. The Company uses forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge its foreign exchange fluctuation risks identified for each currency in each month. In addition, forward foreign exchange contracts and others are used to hedge foreign currency transactions that exceed a specified amount in accordance with accounting rules and guidelines. Some of the consolidated subsidiaries use forward foreign exchange contracts to hedge significant foreign exchange fluctuation risks. B. Foreign currency derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied The details of foreign currency derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Contract Contract Contract Over 1 year Fair value Over 1 year Fair value Over 1 year Fair value amount amount amount Foreign exchange contracts ¥43,077 ¥27,558 ¥19,196 ¥68,548 ¥51,893 ¥17,423 $568 $430 $144 Option contracts 2,371 – 112 – – – – – – The foreign exchange contracts above are designated as cash flow hedges. The amounts either included in or deducted from the initial cost of a non-financial asset or non-financial liability as a result of execution of a highly probable forecasted transaction in which an acquisition or incurrence of such non-financial asset or liability is designated as a hedged item are ¥2,928 million (deduction) and ¥1,986 million ($16 million) (deduction) for the year ended March 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended December 31, 2015, respectively. C. Foreign currency sensitivity analysis With respect to financial instruments held by the Group, in cases where the functional currency (Yen) increases by 1% in value against the US Dollar or Euro assuming all other variables remain unchanged, the effect on profit before tax as of each fiscal year end is as follows: The impact from the translation of functional currency-denominated financial assets as well as assets and liabilities of foreign operations into yen is not included. (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) US Dollars ¥278 ¥368 $3 Euros (9) (3) (0) (6) Interest rate risk A. Interest rate risk management A portion of the Group’s borrowings is issued with floating interest rates and is exposed to interest rate fluctuation risk. For interest rate fluctuation risks associated with borrowings, interest expenses are fixed using interest rate swap contracts. B. Interest rate derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied The details of interest rate derivatives to which hedge accounting is applied as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Contract Contract Contract Over 1 year Fair value Over 1 year Fair value Over 1 year Fair value amount amount amount Interest rate swap contracts ¥236,751 ¥236,751 ¥(1,840) ¥230,246 ¥230,246 ¥1,536 $1,909 $1,909 $13 The interest rate swap contracts above are designated as fair value hedges or cash flow hedges. Gains or losses on hedging instruments designated as fair value hedges amounted to ¥272 million for the fiscal year ended March 31, 2015. With respect to the nine months ended December 31, 2015, it is not applicable. The gains or losses associated with hedged items are approximately the same as the gains or losses associated with hedging instruments. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 137 Contents Financial Report (7) The carrying amount and fair value of financial instruments The breakdown of the carrying amount and fair value of financial instruments as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 is as follows: The fair value of financial assets and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost approximates their carrying amount, except for bonds and long-term borrowings. (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Bonds ¥12,368 ¥13,376 ¥– ¥– $– $– Long-term borrowings 358,035 362,682 321,592 326,130 2,666 2,704 (Note) Current portion that is scheduled for repayment and redemption within one year is included. The fair values of bonds are determined by discounting the total of the principal and interest using an interest rate for which the remaining period to remaining until the maturity date and credit risks are taken into account. The fair value of long-term borrowings is determined by discounting the total of the principal and interest by the interest rate assumed in a case where the same loan is newly made. The fair value hierarchy of bonds and long-term borrowings is categorized within Level 3. (8) Fair value hierarchy of financial instruments Financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis after initial recognition are categorized into the three levels of the fair value hierarchy according to observability and significance of input used in measurements. The fair value hierarchy is defined as follows: Level 1: Fair value measured at the quoted price in the active market Level 2: Fair value that is measured using the observable price other than categorized in Level 1 directly or indirectly Level 3: Fair value that is measured based on unobservable inputs When multiple inputs are used to measure fair value, fair value levels are determined based on the lowest level input that is significant to the entire fair value measurement. Transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy are deemed to have occurred at the beginning of each quarter. There are no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 for the year ended March 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended December 31, 2015. FY2014: As of March 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Derivative assets ¥– ¥21,515 ¥– ¥21,515 Equity securities 174,871 – 14,124 188,996 Other 500 2,608 4,153 7,262 Total ¥175,371 ¥24,124 ¥18,278 ¥217,774 Financial liabilities Derivative liabilities ¥– ¥4,539 ¥23,308 ¥27,848 Other – – 64,790 64,790 Total ¥– ¥4,539 ¥88,099 ¥92,638 138 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report FY2015: As of December 31, 2015 (Millions of Yen) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Derivative assets ¥– ¥22,519 ¥– ¥22,519 Equity securities 172,235 – 13,228 185,463 Other 513 2,507 6,756 9,777 Total ¥172,749 ¥25,026 ¥19,984 ¥217,760 Financial liabilities Derivative liabilities ¥– ¥3,777 ¥31,194 ¥34,971 Other – – 59,226 59,226 Total ¥– ¥3,777 ¥90,421 ¥94,198 FY2015: As of December 31, 2015 (Millions of U.S. Dollars) Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets Derivative assets $– $187 $– $187 Equity securities 1,428 – 110 1,538 Other 4 21 56 81 Total $1,432 $207 $166 $1,805 Financial liabilities Derivative liabilities $– $31 $259 $290 Other – – 491 491 Total $– $31 $750 $781 The fair values of interest rate swap contracts and foreign exchange contracts included in derivative assets and derivative liabilities are categorized within Level 2 as they are valuated using price estimates obtained from financial institutions or observable market data. In addition, the fair values for some of the derivative financial instruments included in derivative liabilities are categorized within Level 3 as they are valuated based on the discounted cash flow method using unobservable inputs. The fair values of stocks included in equity securities and other (financial assets) for which active markets exist are categorized within Level 1 as they are determined based on market prices. For stocks in which active markets do not exist, the stocks whose fair values are measured using observable market data are categorized within Level 2, while stocks whose fair values are measured based mainly on market approaches using unobservable inputs are categorized within Level 3. Significant unobservable inputs mainly include the price/net asset value multiples, and fair value increases (decreases) based on the increase (decrease) of the price/net asset value multiples. The price/net asset value multiples used at March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015, are 0.73 and 0.73, respectively. The fair values of other (financial liabilities) are categorized within Level 3 as they are valuated based on the discounted cash flow method using unobservable inputs. The fair values of assets and liabilities categorized within Level 3 are measured using asset and liability valuation methods determined by the department in charge in accordance with fair value measurement valuation policies and procedures. Fair value measurement results are approved by the appropriate personnel in charge. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 139 Contents Financial Report The schedule of financial instruments categorized within Level 3 for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) Financial assets ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Balance at the beginning of the year ¥44,020 ¥18,278 $152 Other comprehensive income (Note 1) 660 (1,415) (12) Purchases 4,865 3,908 32 Sales or settlements (2,192) (4,253) (35) Transfers out of Level 3 (Note 2) (29,313) (354) (3) Other 238 3,821 32 Balance at the end of the year ¥18,278 ¥19,984 $166 (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) Financial liabilities ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Balance at the beginning of the year ¥72,209 ¥88,099 $730 Profit or loss (Note 3) 2,986 1,849 15 Purchases 30,915 28,319 235 Sales or settlements (22,355) (25,559) (212) Other 4,342 (2,287) (19) Balance at the end of the year ¥88,099 ¥90,421 $750 (Note 1) “Other comprehensive income” is associated with financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income and included in “Net change in financial assets measured at fair value through other comprehensive income.” (Note 2) “Transfers out of Level 3” recognized for the year ended March 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended December 31, 2015 are due to investees listed on exchanges. (Note 3) “Profit or loss” is associated with financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and included in finance costs. P  rofit or loss arising from financial instruments held at fiscal year end amounted to ¥2,986 million and ¥1,849 million ($15 million) for the year ended March 31, 2015 and for the nine months ended December 31, 2015, respectively. 140 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report 33. RELATED PARTIES (1) Remuneration for the Company’s directors Remuneration for the Company’s directors for each fiscal year is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2015 FY2015 FY2014 (Nine months ended Decem(Nine months ended Decem(Year ended March 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) ber 31, 2015) Remuneration and bonuses ¥711 ¥469 $4 (2) Major subsidiaries The Company’s significant subsidiaries are as follows: Ownership percentage of Company name Location voting rights (%) Dentsu East Japan Inc. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Dentsu West Japan Inc. Osaka, Japan 100.0 Dentsu Kyushu Inc. Fukuoka, Japan 100.0 Dentsu Hokkaido Inc. Sapporo, Japan 100.0 Dentsu Meitetsu Communications Inc. Nagoya, Japan 50.0 The Goal Inc. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Dentsu Ad-Gear Inc. Tokyo, Japan 66.7 Dentsu Young & Rubicam Inc. Tokyo, Japan 51.0 Cyber Communications Inc. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 DA search & link Inc. Tokyo, Japan 55.0 Carat Japan Inc. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Dentsu Tec Inc. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Information Services International-Dentsu, Ltd. Tokyo, Japan 61.8 Dentsu Works Inc. Tokyo, Japan 100.0 Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 Dentsu Aegis London Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 Dentsu Aegis Network France SAS Paris, France 100.0 Dentsu McGarry Bowen,LLC New York, the United States 100.0 Aegis International Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 Portman Square US Holdings Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 Aegis Group Participations Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 Aegis Toriton Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 Dentsu Aegis Network Central Europe Holding GmbH Wiesbaden, Federal Republic of Germany 100.0 Dentsu Aegis Network Central Europe GmbH Wiesbaden, Federal Republic of Germany 100.0 Dentsu Aegis Network Australia Holdings Pty Ltd. Sydney, Australia 100.0 Dentsu Aegis (Shanghai) Investment Co., Ltd. Shanghai, China 100.0 Aegis Media Pacific Ltd. London, the United Kingdom 100.0 360i LLC Atlanta, the United States 100.0 Beijing Dentsu Advertising Co., Ltd. Beijing, China 70.0 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 141 Contents Financial Report 34. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES The contingent liabilities as of March 31, 2015 and December 31, 2015 are as follows: Guarantees of loans and other liabilities (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) FY2014 FY2015 FY2015 (As of March 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) (As of December 31, 2015) Liabilities on guarantees resulting from a loan scheme for housing ¥657 ¥492 $4 funds for employees Liabilities for guarantees of bank loans and others 1,104 1,252 10 Total ¥1,761 ¥1,745 $14 35. NON-CASH TRANSACTIONS In the nine months ended December 31, 2015, the Company dissolved a retirement benefit trust for corporate pension fund plans and established a retirement benefit trust for retirement lump-sum payment plans. As a result, other non-current assets and liabilities for retirement benefits each decreased by ¥12,787 million ($106 million) each. 36. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS Not applicable. 142 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report 37. CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (2015 JANUARY–DECEMBER) Consolidated statement of income assuming that the fiscal year of the Group had been the twelve-month period from January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 is as follows: (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) From January 1, 2015 to From January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 (Turnover (Note 1)) ¥4,990,854 $41,380 Revenue 818,566 6,787 Cost 56,570 469 Gross profit 761,996 6,318 Selling, general and administrative expenses 636,268 5,275 Other income 15,455 128 Other expenses 12,970 108 Operating profit 128,212 1,063 Share of results of associates 4,515 37 Profit before interest and tax 132,727 1,100 Finance income 6,125 51 Finance costs 12,114 100 Profit before tax 126,739 1,051 Income tax expense 37,637 312 Profit for the year ¥89,101 $739 Profit attributable to: Owners of the parent ¥83,090 $689 Non-controlling interests ¥6,011 $50 Earnings per share (Yen) (U.S. Dollars) Basic earnings per share ¥289.95 $2.40 Diluted earnings per share ¥289.92 $2.40 Reconciliation from operating profit to underlying operating profit (Millions of Yen) (Millions of U.S. Dollars) From January 1, 2015 to From January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 December 31, 2015 Operating profit ¥128,212 $1,063 Amortization of intangible assets incurred in acquisitions 22,798 189 Other adjusting items (selling, general and administrative expenses) 6,225 52 Other adjusting items (other income) (5,180) (43) Other adjusting items (other expenses) 8,382 69 Underlying operating profit ¥160,438 $1,330 (Note 1) Turnover represents the total amount billed and billable to clients by the Group, net of discounts, VAT and other sales-related taxes. Disclosure of turnover information is not required under IFRS; however, it is voluntarily disclosed in the Consolidated Statement of Income since management has concluded that the information is useful for users of the financial statements. (Note 2) For the definition of underlying operating profit, please refer to “3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (20) Underlying Operating Profit.” Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 143 Contents Financial Report 144 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Financial Report Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 145 Contents Corporate Data C o r p o r a t e D a t a 146 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Corporate Data Subsidiaries and Affiliates Dentsu conducts its business together with its subsidiaries and affiliates. As of December 31, 2015, the Dentsu Group includes 760 consolidated subsidiaries and 58 affiliated companies accounted for by the equity method. Consolidated Subsidiaries Dentsu East Japan Inc. Carat Japan Co., Ltd. Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Description of Business: Advertising in the Kanto and Tohoku regions as well as Description of Business: Media communication company Shizuoka and Niigata prefectures Dentsu Tec Inc. Dentsu West Japan Inc. Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Description of Business: Planning and Description of Business: Advertising in the Chugoku region and Shikoku as well as production for sales promotions, events, commercials, print, etc. Hyogo, Ishikawa, Fukui and Toyama prefectures Information Services International-Dentsu, Ltd.*² *³ Dentsu Kyushu Inc. Geographic Area: Japan Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 61.9% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 0.0% Description of Business: Advertising in Kyushu Description of Business: Information systems building; software sales and support for various business areas Dentsu Hokkaido Inc. Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Dentsu Works Inc. Description of Business: Advertising in Hokkaido Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Dentsu Meitetsu Communications Inc.*¹ Description of Business: Environment-related consulting, building management, real estate services and business consulting services Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 50.0% Description of Business: Total advertising services, specializing in promotion and OOH Dentsu Aegis Network Ltd.*¹ Geographic Area: United Kingdom The Goal Inc. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Description of Business: Headquarters of the Dentsu Group’s global business, Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% which oversees operations outside of Japan Description of Business: Fashion and accessories industry advertising Dentsu Aegis London Ltd. Dentsu Ad-Gear Inc. Geographic Area: United Kingdom Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 66.7% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Description of Business: Advertising firm specializing in out-of-home media and store promotions Dentsu Aegis Network France SAS*¹ Geographic Area: France Dentsu Young & Rubicam Inc. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 51.0% Description of Business: Advertising company established by Dentsu and Young & Rubicam Dentsu McGarry Bowen, LLC*¹ Geographic Area: U.S.A. Cyber Communications Inc. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Aegis International Ltd.*¹ Description of Business: Internet-based advertising media rep Geographic Area: United Kingdom Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% DA search & link Inc. Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 55.0% Portman Square US Holdings Ltd.*¹ Equity Held Indirectly: 55.0% Geographic Area: United Kingdom Description of Business: Internet advertising Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 147 Contents Corporate Data Affiliated Companies Accounted for by the Equity Method Aegis Group Participations Ltd.*¹ Video Research Ltd. Geographic Area: United Kingdom Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 34.2% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Description of Business: TV audience rating surveys, radio audience rating surveys and other research Aegis Toriton Ltd. Geographic Area: United Kingdom D2C Inc. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Equity Held by Dentsu: 46.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 10.0% Dentsu Aegis Network Central Europe Holding GmbH Description of Business: Advertising for i-mode and other mobile platforms Geographic Area: Germany Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Kakaku.com, Inc.*² *³ Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Geographic Area: Japan Equity Held by Dentsu: 16.0% Dentsu Aegis Network Central Europe GmbH Description of Business: An Internet media company that operates the customer procurement support site Kakaku.com, word of mouth restaurant and gourmet guide Geographic Area: Germany site Tabelog, and other sites Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% and 55 other companies Dentsu Aegis Network Australia Holdings Pty Ltd.*¹ Geographic Area: Australia *1 It is a Specified Subsidiary. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% *2 Although Dentsu’s equity is less than 20%, because Dentsu can have Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% significant impact on its business policy decisions, it is considered an affiliated company. Dentsu Aegis (Shanghai) Investment Co., Ltd. *3 It is a Company Which Submits Annual Securities Report. Geographic Area: China Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Aegis Media Pacific Ltd. Geographic Area: United Kingdom Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% 360i LLC*1 Geographic Area: U.S.A. Equity Held by Dentsu: 100.0% Equity Held Indirectly: 100.0% Beijing Dentsu Advertising Co., Ltd. Geographic Area: China Equity Held by Dentsu: 70.0% and 731 other companies *1 Although Dentsu’s ownership is 50% or less, the company is considered a subsidiary because Dentsu exerts effective control. *2 It is a Company Which Submits Annual Securities Report. *3 It is a Specified Subsidiary. 148 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Corporate Data History 1901 Hoshiro Mitsunaga establishes Japan Advertising Ltd. and Telegraphic Service Co. (currently known as Dentsu). 1913 Dentsu contributes to the establishment of The Japan Newspaper Publishers & Editors Association. 1951 Dentsu establishes the Radio Division at its Head Office and local offices. Commercial radio broadcasting begins in Japan. 1953 Dentsu establishes the Radio and Television Division at its Head Office and local offices. Commercial television broadcasting begins. 1955 The corporate name is changed to Dentsu Inc. 1959 Dentsu establishes the Marketing Department and promotes the introduction of marketing. Dentsu establishes its New York Office. 1964 Dentsu contributes to the support of the Tokyo Olympic Games. 1970 Dentsu contributes to the support of Osaka Expo ’70. 1974 The US-based magazine Advertising Age ranks Dentsu the No. 1 advertising agency worldwide in terms of billings(calendar 1973). 1980 Dentsu establishes its Beijing Office in China ahead of all other overseas advertising agencies. 1984 Dentsu contributes to the support of the Los Angeles Olympic Games. Dentsu and US-based Young & Rubicam jointly establish DYR, an international service network. 1989 Dentsu’s net sales exceed one trillion yen in the fiscal year ended March 31, 1989. 1996 Dentsu contributes to the establishment of cyber communications inc. (cci), Japan’s first Internet advertising agency. 1997 The animated film Princess Mononoke—a co-production between Dentsu, Tokuma Shoten, and others—becomes a big hit. 1998 Dentsu contributes to the support of the Nagano Winter Olympic Games. 2000 Dentsu establishes the Bcom3 Group with the US-based firms the Leo Group and the MacManus Group. 2001 Dentsu lists its shares on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock. Exchange (TSE: 4324). Dentsu commemorates its 100th anniversary. 2002 Dentsu contributes to the support of the 2002 FIFA World Cup Korea/JapanTM. The Bcom3 Group merges with the French company Publicis Groupe S.A. Dentsu acquires a 15% stake in the newly formed group. Dentsu acquires capital in Publicis Groupe. 2004 Dentsu implements a stock split (1:2). 2007 Dentsu’s consolidated net sales reach two trillion yen in the fiscal year ended March 31, 2007. 2008 Dentsu Holdings USA, Inc. acquires mcgarrybowen, LLC of the United States. Dentsu repurchases shares of approximately 60 billion yen. 2009 Dentsu implements a stock split (1:100). 2010 Dentsu establishes Dentsu Digital Holdings. 2012 Dentsu terminates strategic alliance and other agreements with Publicis Groupe S.A. and sells to Publicis a block of the shares of Publicis held by Dentsu. 2013 Dentsu acquires Aegis Group plc and establishes a new global operating unit, Dentsu Aegis Network, in London. The Dentsu Group medium-term management plan “Dentsu 2017 and Beyond” was released. Dentsu raises funds through a public offering. 2014 Dentsu is appointed as marketing agency by the Tokyo Organising Committee of the Olympic and Paralympic Games. 2015 Dentsu repurchases shares worth approximately 20 billion yen. The Dentsu Group medium-term CSR strategy 2020 is released. 2016 Dentsu Digital Inc. is incorporated. Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 149 Contents Corporate Data Board Members/Management (As of March 30, 2016) Board Members Executive Officers Representative Director President & CEO Tadashi Ishii Tadashi Ishii Director Senior Executive Vice President & CFO Shoichi Nakamoto Shoichi Nakamoto Yoshio Takada Tim Andree Executive Vice President Kunihiro Matsushima Yoshio Takada Tim Andree Director / Audit and Supervisory Committee Members Kenichi Kato Senior Vice Presidents Atsuko Toyama (Outside Director) Naoki Tani Toshiaki Hasegawa (Outside Director) Akira Tonouchi Kentaro Koga (Outside Director) Toshihiro Yamamoto Kazufumi Hattori Yasuo Motoi Wataru Mochizuki Jerry Buhlmann Hiroaki Sano Executive Officers Kunihiro Matsushima Tsuneo Ogasawara Nobuyuki Tohya Tsuyoshi Iwashita Seiji Ito Yuichi Ohkubo Yoshiaki Suzuki Keiichi Maeda Kiyoshi Nakamura Yoshiharu Sengoku Takaki Hibino Toshiya Ohyama Norio Kamijo Takashi Yagi Masahiko Hibi Motohiro Yamagishi Yutaka Ishikawa Misao Toyoda 150 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Corporate Data Information for Shareholders Share Information (As of July 1, 2016) (As of December 31, 2015) Corporate Headquarters Breakdown of Shareholders by Type 1-8-1, Higashi-shimbashi, Minato-ku, Tokyo 105-7001, Japan Percentage of Number of Number of Total Number of Phone: +81-3-6216-5111 Shareholders Shares Held Shares Issued Japanese financial 81 80,961,778 28.07 institutions Contact Info Japanese securities Investor Relations Department, 32 6,497,854 2.25 firms Executive Office Other Japanese 569 77,571,265 26.90 corporations Japanese individuals Phone: +81-3-6216-8015 and others (Including 30,675 41,313,061 14.32 Email: irmail@dentsu.co.jp treasury stock) Foreign institutions 571 82,066,043 28.45 and individuals Stock Exchange Listing Total 31,928 288,410,000 100.00 Tokyo Stock Exchange, First Section Securities code: 4324 Capital Major Shareholders 74,609.81 million yen Percentage of Total Number of Major Shareholders Number of Shares Shares Held Issued Total Number of Shares Issued The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust 288,410,000 26,082,800 9.15 accounts) Kyodo News 18,988,800 6.66 General Meeting of Shareholders The Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders is held in Tokyo in Jiji Press, Ltd. 17,228,680 6.04 March each year. Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. 16,135,900 5.66 (Trust accounts) Transfer Agent State Street Bank and Trust Company 10,407,314 3.65 505001 The Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Group Employees’ Stockholding 7-10-11, Higashisuna, Koto-ku, Tokyo 137-8081, Japan 6,186,552 2.17 Association Mizuho Bank, Ltd. 5,000,000 1.75 Internet Address http://www.dentsu.com Yoshida Hideo Memorial Foundation 4,984,808 1.75 Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. 4,929,900 1.73 The Bank of New York Mellon SA/NV 10 4,167,103 1.46 * The number of shares held by each trust bank includes shares related to trust services. * Shareholding ratio is calculated excluding treasury shares (3,270,939 shares). Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 151 Contents Corporate Data Fiscal Year 2015 under Review Investment Stock Held for Reasons Other Than Pure Investment Balance Sheet Amount Company Number of Shares Purpose of Holding (Millions of yen) Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd. 30,000,000 106,800 To maintain and strengthen business relationship Digital Garage, Inc. 3,300,000 7,167 To maintain and strengthen business relationship Tokyo Broadcasting System Holdings, Inc. 2,560,000 4,940 To maintain and strengthen business relationship Asahi Group Holdings, Ltd. 918,400 3,489 To maintain and strengthen business relationship TV Asahi Holdings Corporation 1,434,000 3,011 To maintain and strengthen business relationship SKY Perfect JSAT Holdings, Inc. 4,059,400 2,776 To maintain and strengthen business relationship Toho Co., Ltd. 808,900 2,717 To maintain and strengthen business relationship Lion Corporation 1,794,000 2,052 To maintain and strengthen business relationship Ezaki GlicoCo.,Ltd. 250,325 1,639 To maintain and strengthen business relationship Toei Company, Ltd. 1,300,000 1,543 To maintain and strengthen business relationship Yakult Honsha Co., Ltd. 258,600 1,541 To maintain and strengthen business relationship euglena Co., Ltd. 788,400 1,430 To maintain and strengthen business relationship Seibu Holdings Inc. 544,000 1,349 To maintain and strengthen business relationship ROHTO Pharmaceutical Co.,Ltd. 520,000 1,259 To maintain and strengthen business relationship MORINAGA & Co.,LTD. 1,901,000 1,216 To maintain and strengthen business relationship Shochiku Co., Ltd. 1,000,000 1,155 To maintain and strengthen business relationship Central Japan Railway Company 50,000 1,080 To maintain and strengthen business relationship Meiji Holdings Co., Ltd. 102,400 1,029 To maintain and strengthen business relationship PILOT CORPORATION 200,000 999 To maintain and strengthen business relationship TV TOKYO Holdings Corporation 390,000 891 To maintain and strengthen business relationship Ajinomoto Co., Inc. 299,000 860 To maintain and strengthen business relationship Mitsubishi UFJ Financial Group, Inc. 1,125,900 852 To maintain and strengthen business relationship 152 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 Contents Corporate Data Stocks Held in Trust or Other Legal Entity While Retaining Voting Rights or Voting Instruction Rights Balance Sheet Amount Company Number of Shares Purpose of Holding (Millions of yen) Tokyo Broadcasting System Holdings, Inc. 9,310,500 17,969 To instruct exercise of voting rights Kao Corporation 2,328,000 14,561 To instruct exercise of voting rights KDDI Corporation 2,927,400 9,233 To instruct exercise of voting rights Fuji Media Holdings, Inc. 4,650,000 6,658 To instruct exercise of voting rights WOWOW INC. 1,400,800 4,279 To instruct exercise of voting rights TV Asahi Holdings Corporation 1,271,000 2,669 To instruct exercise of voting rights Seven & i HoldingsCo., Ltd. 324,000 1,798 To instruct exercise of voting rights Shiseido Co., Ltd. 682,000 1,724 To instruct exercise of voting rights Yamato Holdings Co., Ltd. 627,000 1,615 To instruct exercise of voting rights Daiichi Sankyo Co., Ltd. 398,500 1,000 To instruct exercise of voting rights Mizuho Financial Group, Inc. 3,914,000 953 To instruct exercise of voting rights Dentsu Integrated Report 2016 153 Contents Corporate Data Third-Party Evaluation and Share Price Changes The Dentsu Group actively engages in environmental preservation and other corporate sustainability activities. Receiving high recognition for such activities, Dentsu received a score of 94C from the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP)*¹ in 2015. Moreover, in recent years, socially responsible investment,*² which takes into account not only financial aspects such as corporate revenue and growth prospects, but also ethics, legal compliance, efforts to tackle environmental, and other issues has been gaining attention in investment trust management. Dentsu’s CSR efforts received high recognition from SRI rating agencies as well, being included in the Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index*³ (MS-SRI) from January 2015 and the MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes*4 in June 2015. *1 Non-profit organization that institutional investors are collaboratively working with on a project to request that companies disclose their strategies to combat climate change and specific information on emission amounts of greenhouse gases. *2 Socially responsible investment is an investment method that aims for stable revenue by evaluating and selecting companies based on social, ethical, and environmental aspects, such as legal compliance, employment relations, human rights issues, consumer protection, and contribution to society and community, in addition to conventional investment criteria based on financial analysis. *3 The Morningstar Socially Responsible Investment Index (MS-SRI) is the first socially responsible investment index in Japan. Morningstar Japan K.K. selects 150 companies in Japan by assessing their social responsibility and converts their stock prices into the index. https://www.morningstar.co.jp/sri/index.htm (Japanese only) *4 An index developed by Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) in the United States that selects companies that are particularly outstanding in environmental, social, and governance (ESG) assessments. As of June 30, 2015, 1,999 companies (of which 148 are Japanese companies) are included. THE INCLUSION OF Dentsu Inc. IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HERIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF Dentsu Inc. BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. Changes in Dentsu Share Price (Tokyo Stock Exchange) ■ weekly trading volume 1.2 30,000 Dentsu 1.1 25,000 TOPIX 1 20,000 0.9 15,000 0.8 10,000 0.7 5,000 0.6 0 Jun. 1 2016 Jul. 19 2015 2016 Note: The Dentsu and TOPIX figures use 1 as the closing price data for June 1, 2015. Design concept of this integrated report Setting the overall design theme on coexistence with digital, I expressed the imagery of the theme by incorporating the motif of color shades from nature and the environment. Takahiro Kurashima was born in 1970. While he engages in a wide variety of creative direction as an art director for various clients, Takahiro is continuously expanding his activity as an individual artist. His “Poemotion” project aims to present a pioneering perspective of graphic arts and was compiled into an art collection book and published in Switzerland. The book was chosen for the Most Beautiful Swiss Books 2011, and he published the third book in the series this year. 154 Dentsu Integrated Report 2016
