This report is printed on eco-friendly paper with soybean ink. UPA Sustainability Report 2015 UPA Sustainability Report 2015 Ulsan Port Authority 271 Jangsaengpo Gorae-ro, Nam-gu, Ulsan, Korea 680-050 T. 052-228-5300 F. 052-228-5329 www.upa.or.kr About this Report Contents Features of This Report About this Report This is the third sustainability report published by Ulsan Port Authority (UPA). UPA CEO Message 02 fulfills its social responsibility as a corporate citizen. It publishes its sustainability UPA Sustainability Highlights 04 report annually to share with all of its stakeholders its economic, social, and UPA At a Glance 06 environmental sustainability management efforts and performance as well as future activities as a responsible corporate entity in the most transparent manner possible. It published its inaugural sustainability report in October 2014 under the title “2013 UPA Sustainability Report.” SUSTAINABILITY About UPA 08 Major Management Results 10 Standards for Drawing up This Report OVERVIEW Governance 11 This report has been drawn up in accordance with GRI G4 Guidelines Core as the Ethical Management 14 international standards for sustainability reporting. It has also reﬂected ISO26000 Risk and Opportunity Management 18 as the international standards for social responsibility. Stakeholder Engagement 20 Reporting Period, Scope and Boundaries Materiality Test 24 This report is based on the data of UPA regarding its sustainability management Sustainability Management Results 26 activities for two years from January 2014 to December 2015. Some activities that were conducted in the first half of 2016 were included in the report when we deemed such to be significant. This report discloses data for three years from 2013 when deemed necessary for stakeholders to understand better the trends ACCELERATING Invigoration of the Oil Hub Project 30 Invigoration of Hinterland Complex Operation 32 of UPA’s quantitative performance over a longer period of time. We have set GROWTH Promotion of Arctic’s Logistics Hub 34 boundaries taking into account the impacts of each material aspect on the entire value chain. Enhancement of Port Infrastructure Competitiveness 35 Changes over the Previous Year Maximization of Port Efficiency 36 This report includes some information on UPA including its performance that has not changed since the last reporting period, to help readers understand UPA and its efforts more easily. There are no notable changes in the report scope and boundaries between the previous report and this one. Neither have there been INCREASING Expansion of Customer-centered Services 40 HR Management 44 significant changes in the organization’s size, structure, assets, and supply chain VALUES Assurance The reported details have undergone final checking by internal working-level staff, and they have been assured by the Korean Standards Association to enhance REDUCING Eco-friendly Port Operation 52 Safe Port Operation 56 the accuracy and reliability of this report. The assurance provider has confirmed that this report complies with GRI’s G4 Guidelines Core. See the appendix of this RISKS report for the statement Additional Information and Feedback on this Report This report has been published in Korean and English. Its digital copy is available SHARING Sharing Hope with Local Communities 64 Shared Growth through Cooperation 68 at the UPA website (http://www.upa.or.kr), which also includes some additional HOPE information on the Authority’s sustainability efforts. For your input on this report, kindly use the questionnaire at the end of this report or contact us at the following address: APPENDIX Financial Performance 71 ISO 26000 Report on Fulfillment Cover Story Level Diagnosis 74 www.upa.or.kr Ulsan Port Authority (UPA) incorporated mathematical symbols to demonstrate Third-party Assurance Statement 76 Strategic Planning Department how Ulsan is the nation’s maritime logistics GRI G4 Contents Index & ISO 26000 78 hub in port development, management Ulsan Port Authority 271 Jangsaengpo and operations. UPA highlights the port’s outstanding contributions to the Major Awards & Status of Association Gorae-ro, Nam-gu, Ulsan, Korea 680-050 development of the national economy Memberships 82 Tel. 052-228-5343 Fax. 052-228-5349 through proper usage of the signs including addition (+), subtraction (-), E-mail. chohh@upa.or.kr multiplication (x) and division (÷). Reader Questionnaire 83 UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 2 3 CEO Message Dear Stakeholders, As president of Ulsan Port Authority (UPA), I would like to express my deepest gratitude for your continued interest in and support for our Authority. Since the publication of its first sustainability management report in 2012, UPA has striven to expand its window of communication with its various stakeholders regarding its business results and future directions. It is my great pleasure to present to you our third sustainability management report, the outcome of our earnest efforts to upgrade the quality of our communication with you. For nine consecutive years since its inception, UPA has generated operating profits while enhancing its status as the country's key industrial port, thanks mainly to the hard work of its employees and the genuine care of all relevant authorities as well as the support and encouragement of its clients around the globe. Korea's automobile, shipbuilding, and petrochemical industries – which are the staple industries of Ulsan – are bracing for a downturn in 2016. The cargo throughput of Port of Ulsan has been reduced by 0.5% on a yearly basis. Against all odds, UPA will make an all-out effort to realize its vision of “advanced global port operator that leads the national economy and creates values for its customers” while fulfilling its social responsibilities through its sustainability management activities. To that end, UPA will focus its resources on the successful completion of five strategic tasks in 2016 and beyond. First, UPA will foster its future growth potential. Port of Ulsan is the country's largest and the world's fourth biggest liquid logistics hub port. It is laying the cornerstone to serve as the oil hub for the entire Northeast Asia. For Port of Ulsan to make a successful transition into Northeast Asia’s oil hub, UPA is striving to reinforce its infrastructure further such as storage facilities and financial infrastructure, employ global traders, and establish liquid cargo incentive systems. Second, UPA will make the clients of Port of Ulsan the happiest clients. UPA has set “Customer-centered Port Operation” as its strategic goal. It will continue to innovate so that its clients will be able to use the most convenient port facilities and receive the best customer service possible. To that end, UPA has laid the foundation for maximizing customer satisfaction through diverse measures including the expansion of its customer contact points by establishing CS strategies and improving its VOC processes for more proactive response to customers' voices. Third, UPA will continue to strive for the creation of a clean and safe global port. KANG, Jong Yeol In an effort to make Port of Ulsan the cleanest port, UPA has developed an eco-friendly hopper that reduces by more than 80% the President of Ulsan Port Authority scattered dust generated during unloading operations. It has worked out various systematic arrangements designed to promote green port operations, including incentives granted to environment-friendly vessels. Above all else, UPA makes all-out efforts to secure safety throughout its entire operations through regular inspections and timely repairs of its facilities along with port safety education provided to all port users so that they can make the best of all the port facilities in the safest way. Fourth, UPA will share with local communities and grow with them as a responsible corporate citizen. UPA will continue to enhance its CCI (Corporate Community Involvement) activities such as sharing kimchi (a traditional fermented Korean side dish made of vegetables), going on a spring picnic with children in Hyejinwon (a home for children with mental retardation), and painting murals in impoverished communities, guided by the spirit of its CCI brand “Sea Full of Laughter.” It will expand its Port of Ulsan tour programs and student career experience programs as part of its continuous investments in the young generations of the region. Fifth, UPA will continue to grow into a transparent business highly trusted by all its stakeholders. UPA has made earnest efforts to become a leader in ethical corporate management, possessing strong sense of ethics and integrity and rejecting involvement in any form of corruption. As a result, UPA received the “Excellent” grade in 2015 in the Korean government's official appraisal of integrity of all major public institutions. Furthermore, UPA took the initiative in the establishment of the “Port of Ulsan Clean Belt” with all the relevant authorities of Port of Ulsan to ensure its implementation of ethical management throughout its operations. UPA will continue to invest in the enhancement of educational programs and make the systematic arrangements required to raise further the level of its employees' ethics and integrity companywide. UPA will carry out its future-oriented projects successfully. It will continue to seek to develop into a sustainable public company through socially responsible business management so that it will always grow with all its stakeholders while significantly contributing to the welfare of local communities. Thank you. UPA sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 4 5 UPA Sustainability Highlights ~2015 Promotion of Low-carbon Green Port through the Introduction Implementation of Safety Measures to Secure “Golden Time” in of ESI Maritime Industrial Accidents through the Replacement of Port The emission from ships accounts for more than 60% of the total carbon emissions of Port of Ulsan. It is considered to be the major culprit of air pollution in the area. UPA has Facility Functions launched the “Comprehensive Plan to Improve the Environment of Port of Ulsan,” which Port of Ulsan is the country's largest dangerous goods handling port with annual is designed to make Port of Ulsan an environment-friendly green port. UPA takes all the average capacity of 1.54 million tons. The possibility of large-scale industrial accidents necessary measures to improve the environment of the port, realize sustainable growth, remains high largely due to the narrow body of water, marine traffic congestion, and and respond to climate change. As part of such approach, UPA has introduced an ESI existence of multiple dangerous facilities in and around the port. Consequently, in order (Environmental Ship Index) incentive system that offers incentives to shipping companies Laying the Foundation for the Invigoration of Oil Hub to prevent large-scale maritime industrial accidents while trying to eliminate all risky that strive to reduce pollution from their ships – which contributed markedly to the elements from the port, UPA designated certain waters as dangerous body of water in reduction of air pollution of Port of Ulsan – by targeting the major culprit of pollution. UPA The Northeast Asia Oil Hub Project is UPA's new growth engine. It is a large-scale consultation with its stakeholders, installed collision protection facilities, and set up an national project launched in 2010 for the purpose of developing Port of Ulsan will keep up with the ESI incentive system while working hard to increase the proportion emergency communication system with the personnel of tugboats and barges as part into the hub of oil trade in Northeast Asia. UPA has continuously expanded its of its solar power generation as part of its comprehensive efforts to ensure eco-friendly of its comprehensive offshore safety enhancement efforts. On top of that, UPA switched role in laying the foundation for the success of the oil hub project as follows: the role of Namhwa Pier, which housed hull blocks and port construction ships, with port operations for the sustainable growth of the port and local communities First, UPA has established – for the first time in Korea – the “bunkering that of the tug boat mooring facilities at the new port. As a result, it was able to solve Invigoration Support System” designed to develop catalyst cargo and the the problem of insufficient tug boat and barge mooring facilities while shortening the “Customized Incentive Systems” to attract oil traders. Second, UPA has made operation route of the vessels in the event of offshore accidents so that it could boost navigation safety and secure golden time. UPA will spare no effort in spreading a safety improvements in the infrastructure required for flexibly responding to needs culture and maintaining its reputation as “Safe Port of Ulsan” through stringent safety regarding the handling of DPP (Dirty Petroleum Product) including bunker oil. inspections, among others. Third, UPA has prevented the risk of delays in the reclamation project by responding to the issue of seawater intake facility in a consistent, principled manner. UPA will continue to enhance its infrastructure for a successful oil hub project that will help Korea develop into “Northeast Asia’s Energy Hub.” Accreditation by the Korean Government as a “Family-friendly Company” UPA implements various family-friendly systems such as flexible work hours system, Selection as Excellent Port in Seafarers' Welfare by ISWAN for expanded childcare leave, support for prenatal diagnosis, restriction of pregnant the First Time in Korea employees' overtime work, and employee family events so that its employees can Port of Ulsan has been named “Excellent Port in Seafarers' Welfare” by International achieve work-life balance. UPA has been certified “Family-friendly Company” by the Seafarers Welfare and Assistance Network (ISWAN) for UPA's marked upgrade of its Ministry of Gender Equality & Family for its leadership in fostering family-friendly social Promotion of Shared Growth through the Attraction of lounge facilities for ocean-going sailors in response to the sailors' compelling needs. Port environments in the country. The accreditation is given only to public institutions and Businesses to the Hinterland Complex of Ulsan New Port and of Ulsan was included in the list of around 40 candidate ports around the world at the private companies that implement their family-friendly systems in an exemplary manner. It will continue to make proactive, systematic improvements in this field as a way of Support of Businesses recommendation of ocean-going seafarers in terms of the welfare and convenience boosting its employee satisfaction and contribute to the creation of a family-friendly facilities for ocean-going sailors. Port of Ulsan passed the stringent evaluation processes UPA is creating a “region-specific” port hinterland complex in association with the hinterland complex carried out by experts in international maritime organizations such as the International social environment in the country. of Ulsan New Port. The project is divided into three sections. The first section, launched in May 2015, Chamber of Shipping and the International Transport Workers Federation. Port of Ulsan has been completed and is set to be operational ahead of schedule. In an effort to invigorate the 2014~ has been selected as an “excellent port in seafarers' welfare” for the first time among the operations of the port hinterland complex, UPA has reinforced its business attraction strategies and beefed up its administrative and operational support for businesses that will move into the complex. country's numerous ports. UPA will continue to pay keen attention to the needs of oceanAs a result of its active investment attraction efforts, UPA has succeeded in attracting cutting-edge highgoing seafarers. It will spare no efforts in providing them with high-quality welfare services value manufacturing companies to the complex. Furthermore, UPA has joined forces with the Ulsan as a world-class port operator. Metropolitan City government to launch marketing campaigns for the complex while laying the foundation for shared growth with businesses in the complex through preemptive administrative support and customized assistance to the businesses. UPA will complete the rest of the hinterland complex as scheduled. It will attract exceptional companies to the complex so that it will be able to further enhance its values and contribute to the development of the regional economy. UPA sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 6 7 Primary Activities UPA At a Glance UPA has established a value chain that creates revenues and public values through primary activities Port Development Port Construction Port Facility Management Port Facility Operations Customer Service Activities such as port development, port construction, port facility management, port facility operations, and logis● Port market surveys ● Surveys and designs ● Facility maintenance and ● Port-MIS operations ● Establishment of marketing ● New port development ● Contract execution repairs ● Open storage yard operations strategies tical services. The values created by UPA impact its customers and stakeholders. ● Port redevelopment ● Construction supervision ● Port environmental ● TOC pier operations ● Efforts to increase cargo ● Adjustment of pier functions ● Defect inspection ● Berth management management volumes ● Improvement of port ● Discussion on projects awarded ● Port security management ● IR activities productivity by non-administrative agencies ● Port safety management ● Customer service Cargo owners, private companies Value Experts Impact Value Cooperation Preemptive response Purchase Pr ort inc ovis np en ion go po tive of v lin s se cie rt u s re ari un oli on tili ga ous Co p sts ers Ca za rdi tio ng ue att ex go r n eq m po g r ther rt t pim lin h o Exchang e of info se d o of rou rt an s rmation un an Ul gh d f variou Shipping companies vision o sa Local governments coopera on port Co cies n Port tion for various policies li licies and pro licenses and po ort po and perm tion of p es Cooperation its Notifica incentiv Preemptive response Work as signmen s t, data re port call quest, e tion on tc. Informa ts dge n s , bu io *TOC: Terminal Operation Company rect s, d di -relate ss plan anc e Port siness usine perform ope Bu B l ratio ncia n rig fina orts, c. hts TOC Government agencies & p e re data, e t Port anc fees Experts National Assembly erform p Va Preemptive response, Cooperation rio Cooperation, us deepening understanding pe licen ance discussion rm se rm rfo ta its s Dis Pe da & de on h cuss ts ve int io rojec lop er n sonp me lan on nt, d Op ini etc . Government-afﬁliated Media organizations Deepening Cooperation understanding, enhanced interaction UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 8 9 Major Business About UPA UPA manages and operates Ulsan Main Port, Onsan Port, Mipo Port, and Ulsan New Port. Its major business includes the construction, Mipo Port management, and operation of Port of Ulsan, creation, management, Ulsan Main Port and operation of port hinterland complexes, and implementation, inCorporate Overview vestment, or funding in relation to port-related ancillary facility projects UPA is a public institution established to enhance expertise and efficiency in all matters related to the development, management, and operation of Port of Ulsan. It contributes to the development of the national economy by enhancing the competitiveness of Port of Ulsan Mipo Port Length(M): 210 Tonnage : 20(1,000 DWT), 1 to foster it into the hub of maritime logistics in Northeast Asia. Unloading Capacity(1,000 tons): 987 Establishment Background and Goals Purpose of To foster Port of Ulsan into a competitive maritime Ulsan Length(M): 10,085 Establishment logistics center and contribute to the development Main Port Tonnage: 1,819(1,000 DWT), 61 Company Name Ulsan Port Authority of the national economy through the enhancement Onsan Port Unloading Capacity(1,000 tons): of expertise and efficiency of all matters related to the 32,028 development, management, and operation of all its port facilities Onsan Length(M): 5,073 CEO Ulsan New Port Kang Jong-yeol Capital KRW 608.489 billion Port Tonnage: 1,807(1,000 DWT), 33 Operating KRW 32.057 billion Unloading Capacity(1,000 tons): Proﬁts 15,984(220,000 TEU) Date of July 5, 2007 No. of 93 Ulsan Length(M): 4,850 Establishment Employees Tonnage: 633(1,000 DWT), 20 New Port Unloading Capacity(1,000 tons): 21,584(520,000 TEU) Legal Basis Article 4-2 of the Port Authority Act Address Port of Ulsan Marine Center, 271 (Act No. 06918) and Article 1-2 of its Jangsaengpogorae-ro, Nam-gu, Ulsan, Enforcement Decree (Presidential Decree No. 18147) Korea Characteristics of Port of Ulsan Port of Ulsan is a natural harbor with small tidal range (about 60cm) and high level of tranquility. It is an industrial port focused on the support of nearby Organization (2 divisions and 10 teams) 2 divisions and 10 teams Major Tasks heavy and chemical industries including refinery, petrochemical, automobiles, and shipbuilding industries. It is the country's largest liquid cargo handling port (154 million tons, 34% of the total national liquid cargo quantity). • Implementation of projects related to the construction, 2 divisions and 10 teams Auditor(non-executive) remodeling, maintenance, and repairs of port facilities; UPA President dredging; port management and operations Audit Team • P rojects commissioned by the central or local Vision and Strategies governments in relation to the management and operation of port facilities Management Division Operation Division • Studies, research, technical development, and HR At the end of 2015, UPA readjusted its vision, management goals, etc., to promote its sustainable growth more effectively. training on port management and operations Strategic Planning Innovation Results Management Finance and Logistics Port Operations Future Growth IT Security Team PortConstruction • Construction and operation of commercial and welfare Team Team Support Team Accounting Team Planning Team Safety Team Team Team facilities for the benefit of the port users • Projects commissioned by central or local governments Mission We make contributions to national economic development by fostering Port of Ulsan into a competitive maritime logistics center. Customer Port Security • Construction, management, operation, etc., of overseas sea Support Center ports Vision An advanced enterprise that leads the national economy and creates customer values UPA History Core Values & Management Core Values Management Policies Policies Creativity and Communication Empathy and 2007 ~ 2008 2011 ~ 2012 2013 2014 ~ 2015 Creativity Specialty Trust Passion and Cooperation Satisfaction 2007 July. Ulsan Port Authority established 2011 Dec. Acquired ISO 14001:2004 certification for its 2013 Jan. Designated as a semi-market-type public 2014 May. Establishment of the Maritime Safety Belt 2008 Jan. UPA designated as a environmental management system agency (participated in by 12 organizations) 2020 Management Goals Total throughput of 260 million tons Highest level of customer satisfaction Annual turnover of KRW 110 billion miscellaneous public agency 2012 Feb. Opened its new Jangsaengpo H/Q building Feb. Establishment of the Port of Ulsan Clean Belt June. Opening of the Onsan Port Customer 2012 Nov. Won the presidential prize at the 38th National (participated in by 23 organizations) Support Center Quality Management Competition July. Won the grand prize at the 2013 National July. Completion of Section 1 of the Ulsan New Four Major Strategic Goals 1. Realizing a high value-added port 2. Securing future growth engines 3. Operating a customer-centered port 4. Establishing a sustainability management system Sustainability Management Awards (CCI sector) Port Hinterland Complex (2010-2014) Sep. Celebrated the 50th anniversary of Port of Ulsan Aug. Succeeded in the development of an eco1. Building and invigorating the oil hub in a 1. Implementing companywide creative friendly hopper 1. Boosting port infrastructure competitiveness 1. Expanding customized services Oct. Publishing/Distribution of Safety Manual on timely fashion innovations 12 Major Strategic Tasks 2. Maximizing port efficiency 2. Realizing a safe port Dec. Corporate restructuring (2 divisions and 2. Developing into an Arctic logistics base 2. Enhancing financial soundness General Cargo Unloading 3. Invigorating hinterland complex operations 3. Building an eco-friendly port 10 teams) 3. Expanding R&D on new business 3. Enhancing CSR activities Nov. Selected as the Best-HRD organization Nov. Commencement of the Northeast Asia Oil Hub 2015 Feb. Won the gold prize at the LACP 2013/2014 Sustainability Management Awards Project Implementation Tasks 11 implementation tasks 10 implementation tasks 11 implementation tasks 12 implementation tasks June. Won the grand prize at the Korean Innovation Frontier Awards UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 10 11 Major Governance Management Economic Performance Composition and Roles of the Board of Directors Results Economic Performance For the effective operation of its BOD, UPA has set the direction of its BOD operation as follows:. 2013 2014 2015 Sales 74,405 (Unit: KRW million) Sales (KRW million) 65,166 71,674 74,405 71,674 Objective To boost management transparency and efﬁciency through the enhancement of roles of BOD Net profit (KRW million)(KRW million) 18,383 24,964 30,211 Net profit to sales ratio (%) 28.21% 34.83% 40.60% 65,166 Directions Early establishment of BOD Invigoration of the operation of BOD Enhancement of specialization of non-executive directors Assets (KRW million) 592,293 662,307 743,261 Debt (KRW million) 25,774 76,319 134,773 Implementation Tasks Timely provision of management information Securing an expert pool in each relevant field Agenda pre-briefing system Invigoration of policy proposals and Capital (KRW million) 566,519 585,988 608,488 Organizing the Executive Recommendation Meeting date pre-notification system management counseling Subcommittee and the 3rd Subcommittee Site-centered BOD operation Active participation in meetings to solve Debt Ratio 4.55% 13.02% 22.15% pending issues Performance Indices (8) 2013 2014 2015 No. of BOD agenda items Port Operation Performance Appropriateness of BOD composition Securing women executives BOD attendance rate Agenda pre-review rate No. of management proposals Management proposal reﬂection rate No. of BOD meetings Ships that arrived at Port of Ulsan in 2015 numbered 25,705, constituting 12.8% of the total number of ships that arrived in Korea. Cargo throughput declined slightly due to a reduction in liquid cargo, which is attributable to the ﬂuctuations in oil prices during the year followed by a slowdown of the country's petrochemical industry, and the negative impact on Port of Ulsan Management System Plan Do Check Action Total Ship Arrival considering its high proportion of liquid cargo. General cargo throughput slightly increased due to the development of a new (no. of ships) 4,000 TEU-class vessel sea route. Establishment of BOD Timely meetings and operation of 25,717 25,705 Quarterly monitoring Resolution of problems 25,200 organization & operation plans BOD Annual Cargo Throughput 2013 2014 2015 Total Ship Arrival (no. of ships) 25,200 25,717 25,705 Port Committee members are recommended by the Executive Recommendation Subcommittee and appointed by the Port Committee (Term 3) National Proportion 12.9% 13.3% 12.8% Minister of Strategy and Finance through recommendation and review by the Public Institution Operations Committee. Thus, UPA has secured seven non-executive directors possessing outstanding expertise in their respective fields, Total Cargo Throughput (unit: 1,000 tons) 191,031 191,720 190,870 representing the academe of maritime logistics, businesses, user organizations, research institutions, and groups of National Proportion 14.1% 13.5% 13.0% cargo owners, maritime pilots, and legal experts. Liquid Cargo Throughput (unit: 1,000 tons) 154,149 154,074 152,429 To publish the BOD operation manual, enhance the efficiency of BOD operation and encourage its employees to 2013 2014 2015 General Cargo Throughput (unit: 1,000 tons) 36,882 37,646 38,441 participate actively in its management, UPA has organized the following subcommittees: Subcommittees (Specialized Committees) Roles Composition Budget Review Subcommittee Review of major projects and their budgets 2 non-executive directors Distribution of Economic Values Investment Review Subcommittee Review of major projects and their budgets 1 non-executive director UPA shares its economic values with its stakeholders including the government, public institutions, shareholders, employees, Comprehensive evaluation and review of internal Performance Management Subcommittee 1 non-executive director and local communities. performance Recommendation and review of executives and non(Unit: KRW million) Executive Recommendation Subcommittee 3 non-executive directors executive directors Donation Corporate Tax Review of the operation and implementation of ethical Ethical Management Subcommittee 1 non-executive director Local Central and Local management 119 Communities Governments 9,127 UPA and its employees made Paid taxes on economic donations to local communities performance achieved through its Port of Ulsan Forum management activities Non-executive directors take part in Port of Ulsan Forum meetings to engage actively in the discussion of compelling issues facing Port of Ulsan. Salary Dividend To carry out research and discussion about the pending issues of Port of Ulsan with its stakeholders including the 3,298 Employees Shareholders 10,779 Purpose central and local governments, academe, and port organizations and submit its policy alternatives to the relevant authorities Paid to employees as salaries, Paid 36% (35.7%) of net income allowances, welfare benefits, bonuses, to shareholders 204 stakeholders of Port of Ulsan (as of January 2016) severance pay, etc. Composition Non-executive directors participated in a total of five forum meetings as forum chairman or panelists in 2015. A total of 13 current and former non-executive directors participated UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 12 13 Governance Port of Ulsan Forum and UPA join forces to review, resolve, and offer counseling on UPA's major policies regarding all of its operations. Utilization of Non-executive Directors' Expertise Organization Roles Composition Time of Establishment 2015 Operation Results Investment Review Review of investments in major 1 non-executive director ‘Review of 2016 new investment business (11 projects, Utilization of Non-executive Directors' Expertise 2013 2014 2015 Women directors' input Nov. 2015 Subcommittee new business (shipping, logistics, safety) KRW 13.3 billion): 1 meeting Reﬂection of management proposals Management counseling (cases) 3 3 6 Ethics (2), investment (1), forum (2) (Unit: %) Review of differentiated departmental distribution Performance Management Comprehensive evaluation and 1 non-executive director 100 100 July 2015 (proposal) in the 2014 government management Women directors' input 5/5 8/9 11/11 Management policies (5), port policies (6) 88.9 Subcommittee review of internal performance (shipping, port research) evaluation Reﬂection of management proposals (%) 100 88.9 100 Discussion on ways to hire new Port Committee 3 non-executive director Executive Recommendation Recommendation and review by members publicly, document review, evaluation and (shipping, administration, Feb. 2015 Subcommittee Port Committee members recommendation * 21 persons (thrice the number of port management) people to be hired): 2 meetings Discussion on ways to hire the new head of Executive Recommendation Recommendation and review of 3 non-executive director (shipping, logistics, port June 2015 Management Division publicly, document review, and Cases of Policy Reﬂection of Management Proposals Subcommittee executive candidates candidate recommendation * 3 persons (thrice the management) number of person to be hired): 3 meetings 3 non-executive director Classiﬁcation Management Proposals Policy Reﬂection Review of the 2016 budget and business plan 2013 2014 2015 Budget Subcommittee Review of project budgets (shipping, logistics, port Nov. 2015 (KRW 131 billion, 3 meetings scheduled) management) Compliance with government guidelines, working out Implementation of normalization Need for solution to increasing debts for two years in a improvement ideas, and promoting the reduction of Review of planning and of lax management practices row Ethical Management 1 non-executive director 2015 ethical management promotion plan, etc. overhead implementation of ethical Committee (shipping, port research) Apr. 2015 (2 resolutions, 2 reports): 2 meetings management Need to tighten control of the budget (funds) and process Monthly supervision of budget execution, monthly Policy proposals for budgets and management for Northeast Asia’s Oil Hub and to minimize oversight SOC project implementation records, and Participation as executives/ 7 non-executive director Discussion on major pending issues (twice) investment projects Port of Ulsan Forum panelists and cooperation for (shipping, logistics, port Feb. 2014 Request for early opening of access road to Ulsan New the amount of carryover and non-use weekly monitoring of progress rates progress research) Port Development of policies designed to boost Port of Ways to increase Port of Ulsan’s TFT operations, forum discussions, and review and Ulsan’s cargo throughput and payment of efficient BOD Operation Results cargo throughput incentives implementation of incentive systems To invigorate the BOD meetings, UPA holds its monthly BOD meeting every last Thursday of the month. It notifies its nonExpansion of mooring facilities, establishment of Safety management for Securing safety in maritime transport and hazardous Maritime Safety Belt, publishing of safety manuals, executive directors of the results of the policy reﬂection of their management proposals. In addition, to boost meeting efficiency hazardous materials handling at materials handling in relation to the explosions in education and port operations monitoring, and Port of Ulsan Tianjin, China implementation of drills Attendance rate of non-executive further, it holds pre-briefings on agenda items. It encourages its non-executive directors to participate actively in various directors gatherings aimed at promoting the development of Port of Ulsan Review of justification of supplementary budget for (Unit: %) 96.2 Safety of vessel navigation at Port maintenance dredging designed to secure navigation Securing KRW 2.5 billion in supplementary budget for 87.3 83.7 Classiﬁcation 2013 2014 2015 Performance against Target of Ulsan safety in connection with the increasingly shallow maintenance dredging water of Port of Ulsan No. of BOD meetings 10 8 9 100% Efforts to invigorate organizational vitality through Year-end awards to high-performance employees, No. of resolved items 30 22 24 104% Organizational invigoration active search and compensation of high-performance awards for various proposals, hiring of extra personnel, employees etc. No. of revised resolution items (cases, %) 5(16) 3(13.6) 2(7.4) No. of reported items 15 21 24 109% UPA president attendance rate (%) 100 88.9 100 106% 2013 2014 2015 Attendance rate of non-executive directors (%) 87.3 83.7 96.2 109% Composition of the Executive Recommendation Subcommittee Pre-review rate (cases/%) 30(100) 22(100) 27(100) 100% UPA has organized the Executive Recommendation Subcommittee composed of experts in various fields pursuant to Minutes of meeting public disclosure period (days) 14 14 6 100% the Act on the Management of Public Institutions, Public Company HR Management Guidelines, articles of incorporation of UPA, and operation rules of the Executive Recommendation Subcommittee. UPA secured a pool of experts equipped with extraordinary knowledge and experiences in diverse fields such as legal circles, mass media, Enhancement of Non-executive Directors' Specialization academe, and labor relations and appointed five people including two women as committee members. To select non-executive directors possessing expertise, UPA secured an expert pool in various fields and carried out prediscussion with individuals and agencies in charge of recommendation and appointment so that qualified specialists will be Classiﬁcation Field of Expertise Remarks nominated. Pilot pool Port committee members Related agency 관 Local Classiﬁcation Total Economy Academe Public Service Legal Circles Communities Research institution 관 Recommended Candidates 21 10 3 4 3 1 Professor in public administration Person representing UPA External members Women Candidates 4(19%) 1 2 1 Professor in business management UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 14 15 Ethical Management Enhancement of the Ethical Management System Upgrade of Ethical Management Systems an Exclusive Organization UPA declared year 2015 as the first year of a companywide promotion of ethical management. It worked out its ethical Ethical management tasks have been transferred from the Audit Team to the Strategic Planning Team, which carries out overall control of management promotion plan in April 2015. Since then, it has enhanced its ethical integrity management. ethical management by promoting and monitoring companywide ethical management efforts. Every August, UPA checks and gives feedback on the company's ethical management achievements. Every November, the Ethical Management Promotion Committee shares the company's ethical management promotion status companywide while urging the relevant departments to take actions for their unsatisfactory matters and meet their goals for ethical management. Ethical Management Committee Port of Ulsan Clean Belt ● Chairman: President ● Composition: 12 Port of Ulsan● Members: about 10 persons related authorities ● Collaboration to boost the level ● Decisions on major policies regarding ethical management promotion of integrity Love-sharing Volunteer Group Strategic Planning Team Audit Team Clean Reporting Center 2017 called Sea Full of Laughter ● Overall control of anti● Checking employees' Spread of empathic ● Overall control of ethical 2016 corruption drives compliance with the Code of ethical management management ● Promotion of implementation of ● Implementation of and collaboration Conduct Internalization of ● Institutionalization of ethical 2015 for CCI programs Code of Conduct ● Code of Conduct ethical management management ● Operation of reporting systems Overhaul of the ethical implementation management promotion Ethical Management TF Clean Ombudsmen ● Building consensus on ethical system management and enhancing ● Composition: 10 employees ● 8 external experts ● Support for Ethical Management ● Enhancement of ethical collaboration among stakeholders ● Monitoring, inspection, and Committee management auditing and ● Review of ethical management resolution of unjust (unfair) ● Re-establishment of the supervision administration cases ● Invigoration of autonomous promotion tasks, plans, etc. promotion system through ● Systematic arrangement ethics implementation culture the operation of an exclusive organization of ethical management implementation programs ● Stabilization of corporate ethics and enhancement of level of ● Overhaul of code of ethics Ethical Management Committee integrity UPA has expanded its Ethics Committee into Ethical Management Committee headed by its president to promote ethical Ethical Management Committee management more aggressively. The Ethical Management Committee was initially composed by a chairman, five internal members, three external members, and a secretary. In an effort to reinforce the organization's performance further, UPA has added two Companywide Link Strategies Customer-centered port operations Establishment of sustainability management systems college professors who are extremely proficient in their respective fields. UPA has also appointed three women members to the committee so that the organization makes decisions from a gender-neutral perspective. Vision Realization of Clean UPA, the Center of Port Ethics External Members Proposals Officer from the Ulsan Regional Office of Oceans and Fisheries Collaboration on port ethics among related authorities Strategies Enhancement of ethical Internalization of antiUpgrade of ethical Official from the Port of Ulsan Development Council Promotion of participatory ethical management among Port of Ulsan users integrity implementation corruption practices and Spread of clean UPA culture management systems Counseling on ethical management policies, etc. as a member of the competency management transparency Member of the Port Committee Port Committee Economics professor (new addition) Counseling on business management activities Strategic Tasks Law professor (new addition) Counseling on the operation of Code of Ethics Enhancement of ethics Implementation of ISO Enhancement of antiEnhanced preemptive organization's functions 26000 self-assessment corruption competitiveness information disclosure for and roles implementation activities customer convenience The Ethical Management Committee makes decisions on ethical management policies and carries out discussions and reviews Establishment of ethics & Invigoration of ethical integrity educational systems Invigoration of internal checking Spread of consensus on about various ethical management regulations and activities. It holds regular meetings twice a year and extraordinary meetings management self-diagnosis procedures ethical management among whenever necessary. Expansion of communication programs with stakeholders through ICT Reinforcement of integrity stakeholders Classiﬁcation Agenda Items Proposals Improvements in ethical assessment of high-ranking Enhancement of internal and implementation performance officials external PR on ethical 2015 ethical management promotion plan, operation plans To include the protection of human rights and prohibition of 1st regular for the clean mileage system, revision of the Ethics Charter, discrimination in the ethical management action plan and evaluation and feedback Realization of zeromanagement promotion meeting and establishment of operational procedures for the Ethical preparation of an invigoration plan for the operation of the Port systems results (Apr. 22) corruption status Management Committee of Ulsan Clean Belt Invigoration of ethical management networks 2nd regular Status of the 2015 ethical management promotion and revision of To secure the link between ethical management strategies and meeting operational procedures of the Ethical Management Committee and performance goals of individual tasks, establishment of clear(Nov. 16) employees’ Code of Conduct cut goals regarding ethical management areas UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 16 17 Ethical Operation of Internal Ethical Management TF Classiﬁcation Educational Contents Ethical management and organizational culture, management strategies and trends, ethical management and implementation tasks, Management In December 2014, UPA established the “Ethical Management TF Composition & Operation Plan” according to the necessity to Standard Courses ethical management and organizational management, ethical management and management strategies, ethical management and win-win management boost its ethical management and formed the Ethical Management TF as required by the plan. The plan requires each departEthical management and implementation, crisis management and ethical management, integrity improvements, ethical management and ment to designate a person in charge of ethical management. UPA checks its ethical management performance at the department decision making, job processes and ethical management, ethical management leadership, ethics implementation management, ethical Customized management and sustainable growth, ethical management and social responsibility, ethical management implementation systems and level every quarter through cooperation with said personnel. Courses education, ethical management and ways to boost creativity/innovation, ethical management and cultivation of competent employees, Classiﬁcation Agenda Items ethical management and global standards, and CCI and ethical management Revision of Ethics Charter, establishment of operational procedures for the Ethical Management Committee, and review Category Education Topic 1st quarter of progress in ethical management Ethical management and Insight into UPA’s ethical management culture from the perspective of a corporate ethical Aug. 2nd quarter Plan to raise employee's awareness of ethical management and revision of Ethical Norms organizational culture management specialist Ethical management and Sharing opinions on the development of ethical management from the perspective of an Nov. As a result of such companywide ethical management efforts, UPA has achieved its goals for transparency self-assessment and implementation external specialist member of the Ethical Management Committee level of integrity Comparison with Achievement Transparency selfassessment (Unit: points) Classiﬁcation 2014 Record 2015 Goal 2015 Record 2014 Record Rate Enhancement of Ethical Norms Transparency self3.2 points 85.7 points 89.3 points 88.9 points 99.6% assessment (3.7%)↑ UPA enhanced its Ethical Norms twice in 2015 in an effort to boost its ethical management implementation. 88.9 85.7 Level of integrity Level 5(7.84) Level 2(8.49) Level 2 Level 3 ↑ 100% Time Establishment/Revision Contents Revision of Ethics Charter Reﬂection of the company's ethical vision and management policies +3.2 Enhancement of Competency to Implement Ethics and Integrity Mar. Establishment of operational procedures of Regulation of details of operations of the Ethical Management Committee the Ethical Management Committee UPA has worked out plans, implemented them, and overhauled norms based on the conviction that systematic comprehensive Revision of operational procedures of the Stipulation of the obligation to include women members in the committee Nov. education and training are necessary to promote the strategy of “enhancing competency to implement ethics and integrity” Ethical Management and grounds for disqualification of committee members 2014 2015 among the company's ethical management strategies. Classiﬁcation Implementation Plans Internalization of Anti-corruption and Integrity Culture Creation and spread of an active ethics and integrity implementation culture Short-term Raising awareness of ethics and integrity implementation (Educational programs) Role plays about integrity, integrity (2015) education by experts, self-directed study on integrity, special lectures on ethical management, education to prevent To boost its employees' commitment to the fostering of an anti-corruption and integrity culture through active participation in the sexual discrimination, online programs, etc. implementation of integrity activities, UPA has introduced an integrity mileage system that awards mileage to employees who Implementation of customized education & training for different levels and positions carried out diverse integrity activities including the use of integrity meal ticket and return of prohibited goods. Furthermore, to Raising awareness of the importance of ethical management and building a culture of integrity companywide prevent corruption, UPA operates the Clean Reporting System and Help Line, an anonymous reporting system, on its website. Promotion of education and training designed to enhance participants' specialized competency Help Line is run by an outside independent organization, which does not keep the IP information of reporters to guarantee their privacy. Through the channels, reporters can file reports on UPA employees' embezzlement, bribery, abuse of rights or positions, Classiﬁcation Purpose Timing Contents granting of special favors, seeking of special favors and putting of unfair pressure, unreasonable budget execution and wastes, New Recruits Internalization of integrity Within a year of employment Basic attitude as an employee of a public company other job-related irregularities, unethical acts including sexual harassment, and unreasonable systems and practices. To heighten and key provisions of the Code of Conduct the accessibility of its corruption reporting channels to customers, UPA strives to invigorate the operations of its relevant systems Education on how to deal with ethical dilemmas by enabling customers to file reports through the QR code on the bills of port facility charges as well as a mobile app. in different situations and corruption risks in Port of Ulsan Clean Belt Working-level Within a year of job placement different job categories (ex. HR management, Midto Long-term employees Conscientious job budget, contract, environment, construction, port performance operations, tax and accounting, etc.) Expansion of the Port of Ulsan Clean Belt to the Private Sector Within a year of promotion to Mandatory online education offered by the Integrity Department heads departmental head Training Center To lead the integrity culture and co-promote anti-corruption measures, UPA launched the Port of Ulsan Clean Belt in February Improvement of integrity Mandatory completion of integrity education for 2013 with the participation of six other agencies: Ulsan Regional Office of Oceans and Fisheries; Ulsan Coast Guard; National Executives Every year leadership high-ranking officials Ulsan Quarantine Station; Ulsan Branch of Korea Marine Environment Management Corporation; Ulsan Branch of Korea Role plays about integrity, education by internal Immigration Service, and; Ulsan Customs. Stabilization of ethics & & external experts, online and commissioned In 2015, the representatives of UPA and the seven agencies decided to expand the Port of Ulsan Clean Belt to include 16 private Companywide integrity implementation Year-round (regular) culture education offered by the private sector, and selforganizations and enterprises for the purpose of boosting interaction with the customers of Port of Ulsan in line with Government directed integrity education 3.0, a new paradigm for government operation based on communication and cooperation. Efforts to Raise Awareness Companywide Before (7 agencies) After (plus 16 private organizations and enterprises) Port of Ulsan Logistics Association, Ulsan Harbour Pilots, Port of Ulsan Tank Terminal Association , Ulsan Branch of Korea Tugbusiness Corporation, Port of Ulsan Shipping In line with the first year of promotion of the companywide ethical management, UPA held a companywide ethical management UPA, Ulsan Regional Office of Oceans and Company Association, Port of Ulsan Agency Association, Cargo Owner Logistics implementation resolution gathering aimed at boosting its employees' commitment to implementing ethical management in June Fisheries, Ulsan Coast Guard, National Ulsan Association, Korea Port Corporation, Ulsan Branch of the Korea Shipping Association, 2015 in order to fulfill its social responsibilities as a public enterprise and improve its stakeholders' trust in it. Moreover, to deepQuarantine Station, Ulsan Branch of Korea Marine Ulsan Branch of Korean Register, Shin Heung Co., Ltd., Vopak Terminals Korea Ltd., en understanding about ethical management, UPA developed its own ethical management educational courses dealing with variEnvironment Management Corporation, Korea Port of Ulsan Operations Corporation, Piers 6 & 7 Operations Corporation, Busan ous areas. In September 2015, it discovered and shared its excellent ethical management policies and cases companywide. Immigration Service, Ulsan Customs Branch of the Korea Ship Safety Technology Authority, Jangsaengpo Branch of Korean Register UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 18 19 Risk and Opportunity Risk and Opportunity Elements and Response Strategies Risk Management System Management In order to boost its sustainability management activities, UPA has identified risk and opportunity elements and reﬂected UPA manages the risks that can occur in its port operations through an internal audit system based on continuous them on its companywide strategies and strategic tasks. monitoring operations enabled by an e-audit system. UPA analyzes the continuous monitoring data, identifies the risks involved, and eliminates them through proper explanation by the parties concerned. External Environments Opportunities)(O) Threats(T) ● Continuous expansion of the world logistics market ● Expanded low growth trends in the national and global economies ● Government's Northeast Asia Oil Hub cultivation policy ● Increasing fluctuations in the global oil markets Monitoring Risk Identiﬁcation Request for Explanation Actions ● Operation of ESPO* and full-fledged development of Far East Russia natural ● Increasingly severe competition among domestic and overseas ports resources ● Strengthened restrictions on port environment and safety ● Realization of commercial operation of Arctic Sea logistics ● Increased cyber attack and security threats ● Rapid growth of the Asian cruise market ● Increasing expectations regarding public companies' CSR activities Internal Competencies ● Expanded application of ICT to the port industry A total of 52 risks in 6 Dispatch of monitoring Request for explanation Implementation of audits ● Stable financing conditions including low interest trends categories including budget, results to auditors twice a about items requiring further depending on the clarification accounting and HR day clarification results SO1. Enhancement of ST1. Maximization of port Strengths(S) competitiveness of port efﬁciency ● Management's strong commitment to management innovations infrastructure ST2. Establishment of ● Geographic advantages of the port by being located on the country's key sea SO2. Timely establishment eco-friendly port routes and invigoration of Oil ● Leading infrastructure investments in the Northeast Asia Oil Hub project ST3. Expansion of Hub ● Accumulated port development and operations knowhow customized services SO ST ● Financial robustness including continuous operating profits SO3. Development into the Arctic’s logistics hub ● High organizational commitment and cooperative labor-management relationships Operation of Risk-based Audit System WO1. Expansion of new WT1. Implementation of To reduce the number of risks under supervision, UPA places its focus on a prevention-centered audit system. It carries Weaknesses(W) business R&D companywide out regular inspections and encourages the relevant parties to reduce the number of remaining risks through creative innovations improvements in their job performance in an effort to help realize its vision and create results. ● Slowdown in the growth of cargo throughput WO2. Invigoration of ● Dependence on a small number of companies in cargo throughput opera rations of WT2. Realization of a safe port ● Limitations in attracting new companies due to the small hinterland space hinterland complexes WT3. Enhancement of CSR activities ● Demand for financing due to large-scale development investments WO3. Enhancement of Risk Selection Risk Identiﬁcation Risk Evaluation Actions WO WT ● Continuing risks involved in hazardous materials ﬁnancial soundness ● Lack of global marketing expertise *Eastern Siberia-Pacific Ocean oil pipeline Compilation of weaknesses Identification of risks Evaluation of risk levels Use of the data in actual Response Strategies 4 Major Midto Long-term Strategies 12 Major Strategic Tasks involved in each task and through the job analysis of through interviews with audits after carrying out analysis of past audits each department persons in charge periodic checks SO1. Enhancement of competitiveness of port infrastructure 1 1 1 1 Enhancement of competitiveness of port infrastructure concerned Realization of a high SO2. Timely establishment and invigoration of Oil Hub 1 2 Maximization of port efficiency value-added port SO3. Development into the Arctic’s logistics hub 1 3 Invigoration of operations of hinterland complexes WO1. Expansion of new business R&D 2 2 1 Timely establishment and invigoration of Oil Hub Category No. of Items Audit Cycle Outstanding Risks Plan to Reduce Remaining Risks WO2. Invigoration of operations of hinterland complexes Securing future growth engines 2 2 Development into the Arctic’s logistics hub Expanded interpretation Comprehensive review of the reasons for no-bid WO3. . Enhancement of financial soundness 2 3 Expansion of new business R&D Key Control Items 16 Permanent of reasons for sole-source contracts contract execution ST1. Maximization of port efficiency 3 3 1 Expansion of new business R&D Inappropriateness of bids Operation of customerSeparate review of matters related to bids and ST2. . Establishment of eco-friendly port 3 2 Realization of a safe port Control Items 15 Twice a year limiting the scope of bidders' centered port contracts work experiences ST3. Expansion of customized services 3 3 Establishment of eco-friendly port Errors in the calculation of port Interest Items 20 Once a year Comprehensive check upon general audits WT1. Implementation of companywide creative innovations 3 4 1 Implementation of companywide creative innovations facility charges Establishment of sustainable WT2. Realization of a safe port 4 2 Enhancement of financial soundness management systems WT3. Enhancement of CSR activities 4 3 Enhancement of CSR activities UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 20 21 Stakeholder Stakeholder Communication Channels UPA has identified a diverse stakeholder pool according to the criteria of ISO 26000 in the process of compiling this report. UPA has divided its stakeholders into three Engagement UPA sets its stakeholder groups according to their inﬂuences on its operations and the significance of such inﬂuences. groups according to their legal, financial, and operational responsibilities and the level of their impact on UPA: core stakeholders, strategic stakeholders, and environmental stakeholders. UPA has identified governments/relevant agencies, employees, Port Committee, labor union, suppliers, customers, and local communities The groups include employees, Port Committee, central government, related organization, partner firms, customers, meas its core stakeholders after considering the level of their impact on its operations. dia, and communities. UPA utilizes diverse communication channels with its stakeholder groups given their different preferences in terms of the means of communication. Mapping Grouping Boa • Major Characteristics In the event that UPA has legal, financial, or s rd o operational responsibilities yee f Dire • Sharing Channel mplo ctor E s gies Environment rate an d st etings s e s ion s; m yee orate vis brieﬁng plo Em lize corp ssions; g •C hec rea ring se ntin king Por Temporary employees, s to to n ese deli and s t Co ction /moni nio repr u mm interns or U a n ber ing osis izat io ting s •P atio pporti itte l tak agn Lab n organterests s); mee t ort n on ng U e Strategic nne nt di Com /res PA Perso geme s as a ’s in tim e oin n t J io mit olu man tion Labor union • ana nce ership uncil (4 emen iscuss pol tee (8 age of k men •M ﬂue b g d r icy adv .5 ses Suppliers g in mem ent Co -mana n and ); Labo risor sion ey i ssu t throu Port committee xertin e m b or g o e s bo y se s); m es gh •E nag O; La rieﬁn (3 tim ival; la ssio ions a ns eeting mbly d funct Employees al Asse roles anssions; r-m CE ); b es st er abo the ime issu y Fe nte s s; •L with op (1 t labor armon nt volu Nation of UPA’s ization Governments/ ment / pervision ultation s sh ng nt H t joi ps e i Govearngement and suing); policy coonnss with officiaalsnce; rk d r Wo of pen ageme gemen ice co Relevant agencies Core n a serv organ ma man an (consu lt anizati perform ing; m e publi b cy mak porting public org rts on jo Mass media Customers The underprivileged •Poli ance re ads of s; repo gs Performeetings of he ment office tions; meetin c, resid •Thos and elated overn Affairs NPO m nta its of g policy prese e indir aritime ents •Aud Local communities Comm ectly re ents, M tion t and r overnm inistra l the ▶ Core Stakeholder contro unities late Local g Port Adm to operate andareas comm d to Port of U Essential for the survival hts ive l, nmen ving rig their respect Counci cil, Port unities ties ha , citize lsan users, lo •Enti rt of Ulsan in tration Coun ns ▶ Strategic Stakeholder •CSR Gover Po dminis sessio activitie eries A s, consulting Vital to the organization to ns cal ne Fish ons s; med g •Mari meetin rporati Those affecting the Those impacted by the address certain issues port coy national portss; and sustain ia publicity; Public Th performance of UPA operations of UPA of ke licie ▶ Environmental Stakeholder rators perate on po gies ability n report ewsletter; •Ope to co o n strateharing; Other than core & strategic stakeholders ations peratio s organizshare port oeting ; policy es EO me u key iss •PA C eetings on m Regarding the question about the most important factor for the long-term efforts of UPA to boost its corporate values and enhance its sustainability management, • nt M Pa ss me • utu rtn the core stakeholder groups of UPA answered as follows: Pre lop Me al er • ns eve as e eti coo ﬁrm tio e d ng pe ele s w ra What do you think is the most important factor for the long-term efforts of UPA to boost its corporate values and enhance its sustainability management? iza g th res sr ith tion sa nd an cizin fp pa for org criti lsan ion o rtn bu er s org Government ﬁrm ine an Supplier 1 dia ng o of U ibut r s a ss e iza Ethical management, crisis management, Me cizi Port ; distr s) Port Logistics Planning nd xec tio Dongbang Co., Ltd. (pier Diversification of customer needs li org uti ns Division, Ministry of Oceans governance-related competency, CCI ub of ) es ime Port of Ulsan business organizations an on a operator) ,p tim 7 t iza nd and Fisheries ing (5 (12 tio o ort ce •Port of Ulsan users and operators; UPA’s key ns pe Relevant agencies pp (8 rati ren customer organizations Su tim on Supplier 2 Diversification of customer needs and indirect • nfe es Ulsan Regional Ofﬁce of Job training and education co •Collection of VOC; consultation sessions; meetings; ) ﬁrm Shin Heung Co., Ltd. economic impacts newsletters s Oceans and Fisheries dia Pa Me Port of Ulsan users rtn er Customer 1 Local Community 1 Boosting the relationship with and trust of key •Users of infrastructure and services offered by UPA Port of Ulsan Shipping Agency Efficient port operations and port development Hyejinwon stakeholders •Collection of VOC; consultation sessions; meetings; newsletters Association Customer 2 Righteous management and responsibility for Port of Ulsan Cargo Owner the nation and society Local Community 2 Logistics Association Capability to share information with local Volunteer Service Center, Ulsan communities and stakeholder groups Organization's facilities and loyalty to the Metropolitan City Labor Union organization, commitment to improving Customers processes and customer service UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 22 23 Interview with Suppliers Stakeholder Interviews Competition among ports is becoming severe not only domestically but also internationally. For Port of Ulsan to emerge as a world-class port under such circumstances, UPA needs to benchmark an outstanding specialized international port overseas to emphasize the characteristics of the port. Given the fact that various businesses including Vopak, a world-class logistics company, operate at the port, UPA needs to enhance its competitiveness further through continuous investments in port infrastructure. In terms of UPA's social responsibility and sustainability, I think members must internalize their obligation regarding integrity and ethics while UPA strives to discover port operation experts and continue to educate and train them Interview with Government through exchange education programs with the world's most advanced port authorities. Increasingly diverse kinds of businesses engage in production activities in and around Port of Ulsan. Their needs for port services continue to be diverse. I hope UPA will keep up with the diversifying demands for specialized services and provide various port-related businesses with Among local port authorities, UPA is relatively small in terms of organization and assets, yet it has a low debt ratio. It has continued to generate operating profits since its establishment. support that can practically help them improve their production capacity. With such strengths, UPA must strive to make further investments in the expansion of its port infrastructure according to a long-term master plan designed to boost the development of Lee Neung-hwan, director of Shin Heung Co., Ltd. Port of Ulsan through close cooperation with the local government, relevant public agencies, Port of Ulsan businesses, and various organizations to develop Port of Ulsan into a global liquid cargo hub. In addition, UPA needs to take preemptive actions regarding changing business environments such as the ongoing restructuring of the local shipping industry and changes in the global shipping alliance as well as correspondent diverse demands of its stakeholders. Finally, I hope UPA will continue to foster port operation experts possessing inInterview with Labor Union depth knowledge and outstanding competence as well as high moral standards to improve organizational competencies and competitiveness further and develop into a public institution that continues to realize sustainable growth together with its local communities. I believe that the successful establishment and invigoration of the Northeast Asia Oil Hub Project can help secure the sustainable growth and development of UPA and boost its Jeon Jae-hoon, deputy director of the Port Logistics Planning Division | Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries organizational values over the next 10 years. To succeed in the project, it is most important for UPA to complete the crude oil storage base and berth development on time. The Port of Ulsan area is where Korea's major world-class businesses carry out their production and logistics activities. UPA continues to strive to boost cooperation with its stakeholders and contribute to the development of local communities. To make Port of Ulsan grow into one of the world-renowned ports, UPA must further develop its port operation system, establish a Interview with Related authorities green port at the port of Ulsan in response to climate change, and make its service quality on a par with that of the world's best sea ports. I believe that, to achieve all of those, UPA needs to secure its employees' loyalty to the organization and commitment to engage in continuous service improvement efforts. UPA is a specialized port operations agency tasked with the development of Port of Ulsan into a competitive shipping and logistics hub to contribute to the development of the national Kim Seong-yeol, chairman of the UPA labor union economy and creation of values for its customers. In order to meet such objective, UPA must secure personnel possessing expertise in port operations and management and continue to strive to enhance their competencies through lifelong education and training. To that end, UPA needs to arrange for people in certain positions to work over an extended period of time instead of job rotation in order to maximize their expertise and work efficiency in an effort to prevent any possibility of problems caused by employees' incompetency. Finally, I think that effective open communication with outsiders including the relevant agencies and customers as well as a ﬂexible organizational culture will enable UPA to boost social support for its Interview with Local communities management activities, helping enhance its sustainability further. Jeong Byeong-geon, section chief of the Seafarers and Maritime Safety Division | Ulsan Regional Office of Oceans and Fisheries I think UPA is “a company that grows together with local communities” by implementing “sharing management” that shares its business outcomes with local communities while achieving outstanding business results year in and year out. Unlike other companies, UPA carries out CCI programs customized to the needs of its beneficiary institutions. Through continuous interaction with them, UPA offers them specialized practical support through its CCI programs, helping boost the mutual trust between UPA and local communities in a significant way. What I can mention from the perspective of a beneficiary institution is that UPA can share its CCI plans, operation policies, and budgets, among others, and expand Interview with Customers opportunities for all the relevant parties to get together and exchange opinions on them. If UPA further invigorates its communication with local communities, the merits of UPA's CCI programs customized to the needs of local communities can be maximized. Port of Ulsan is one of the country's ﬂagship industrial ports. It serves as the driving force behind the economic development of not just Ulsan but also the entire country. Consequently, Kim Seon-young, social worker of Hyejinwon the sustainability of UPA depends on the sustainability of Port of Ulsan, which can be secured through continuous development and improvement of the port’s competitiveness. From the perspective of a shipping agent that represents the interests of ship owners and cargo owners, efficient port operations backed by increases in cargo throughput and expansion of surrounding infrastructure as well as continuous port development must be considered as the basis for the sustainable growth of UPA and the focal point of its management efforts. I hope UPA will continue to develop diverse programs that can meet its diverse customers' needs and impact the changes and development of local communities in a positive manner for the purpose of making Port of Ulsan one of the most advanced ports in the region and UPA a world-leading sustainable port authority. Interview with Local communities Seo Jae-cheol, chairman of the Port of Ulsan Shipping Agency Association I think what counts most when it comes to the implementation of sustainability management is fostering the relevant sustainable values. For companies to expand their sustainability, they must focus not only on the creation of their economic values but also on the increase of their social values, which is attracting considerable attention worldwide. There are numerous ways to create social values. Top priority can be placed on the strategic approach to the social issues faced by each community and the enhancement of communication with stakeholders Interview with Customers in local communities. Currently, UPA carries out diverse CCI programs that can invigorate local communities in keeping with the dynamic features of Port of Ulsan, a relatively young port in the country. I believe that UPA will be able to fulfill its social responsibilities as a public enterprise by actively participating in the development of local communities, sharing information Due to sharp ﬂuctuations in international oil prices, the liquid cargo throughput of Port of Ulsan has plateaued. UPA's surplus has slowed down for the first time since the company’s on the diverse issues of local communities, and building partnerships with specialized institutions in a genuine effort to find solutions to such issues. establishment particularly because of the implementation of the Northeast Asia Oil Hub Project. Meanwhile, China continues to expand its refinery facilities and tank terminals Jeong Eun-ok, team leader of the Volunteer Service Center of Ulsan Metropolitan City considerably. Port of Ulsan is expected to face severe competition. Its internal and external risk factors are on the rise. Under the circumstances, UPA must seek to promote transparent and reasonable management activities based on the morality required of a public enterprise. It needs to maintain various port facilities in the best condition possible while striving to increase its cargo volumes through new cargo attraction strategies. I think the promotion of new projects based on mutual trust and communication with its stakeholders is a crucial factor that determines the sustainability of UPA while maintaining its current productivity and competitiveness. Kim Tae-yong, chairman of the Port of Ulsan Cargo Owner Logistics Association Stakeholder Questionnaire In the process of compiling this report, UPA conducted a survey among its stakeholders for the purpose of gathering their opinions and expectations as to the organization's sustainability management. The survey was composed of questions designed to identify the materiality of CSR (sustainability) trends, impact, and Interview with Suppliers internal competency issues on a scale of 1-5. UPA has reﬂected the survey results on the identification of its material aspects. The stakeholders of Port of Ulsan, a gateway to the country's industrial capital, are diverse, including those involved in the port logistics business represented by cargo owners and shipping companies as well as the port users. Most notably, customers of the port have diverse needs related to the utilization of the port including product management, service ● Period: May 10-20, 2016 Classiﬁcation Ratio Response Rate(%) improvements, and upgrade of logistics information systems. I think UPA needs to specialize the piers of Port of Ulsan through the rearrangement of its pier functions for different products ● Sampling: Employees (complete enumeration), customers, Employees 65 41.94% related authorities, local communities, and suppliers (quota Interna Employees 41.94% (ex. liquid cargo/oxide/steel products/general merchandise/automobiles) in order to operate the port more systematically and efficiently. In keeping with its sustainable growth, UPA Subtotal 65 41.94% sampling) Customers 29.03% needs to focus on making further improvements in the safety of the port, including the upgrade of its safety manuals, enhancement of safety features at port facilities, and prevention of ● Survey method: Questionnaire dispatch through online survey Customers 45 29.03% Questionnaire Related authorities 3.23% industrial accidents in unloading processes. Finally, I hope UPA will be able to make the port eco-friendlier through the establishment of diverse processes and systems designed to tool and e-mails followed by the analysis of raw data Related authorities 5 3.23% reduce air pollutants including airborne dust. ● Major survey contents: Trends of sustainability management Response Rate External Suppliers 5 3.23% Suppliers 3.23% that affect UPA, impacts and materiality assessment of Lee In-cheol, general manager of Dongbang Co., Ltd. (pier operator) internal competency (R&C) Local communities 35 22.58% Local communities 22.58% ● Evaluation method: Issues evaluated on a scale of 1-5 Subtotal 90 58.06% Total 155 100% UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 24 25 Signiﬁcance Assessment Material Impact Issues Materiality Test 4.50 1 1 Anti-corruption Materiality to Stakeholders UPA has selected its sustainability management issues according to the materiality test criteria 4.40 Indirect economic impacts 2 (investments in infrastructure) presented by the GRI G4 Guidelines based on the results of its stakeholder survey. This UPA report is 4.30 3 9 centered on the identified material aspects. 4 Compliance with laws related to 7 3 4.20 2 social affairs 15 5 8 6 4 Local communities (CCI) 4.10 10 12 Processes and Results of the Materiality Test 4.00 15 13 5 Employee diversity and equal opportunities 16 11 To identify its material aspects for sustainability management, UPA has carried out internal and external environment 3.90 6 Industrial safety & health 17 analysis and materiality test based on the principles of sustainability context, materiality, completeness, and 18 3.80 7 Customer safety & health stakeholder inclusiveness. 3.70 8 Employee training and education 3.60 9 Marketing communication 10 Product and service labeling Step 1 3.50 Identiﬁcation of Issues related to Sustainability Management 3.50 3.60 3.70 3.80 3.90 4.00 4.10 4.20 4.30 4.40 4.50 11 Labor relations Impact Materiality to UPA •Media Analysis 12 Economic performance To analyze its internal and external awareness, UPA analyzed a total of 2,285 effective articles for three Material Trend Issues Material Internal Competency Issues 13 Employment years from 2013 to 2015 and identified its material issues. 1 Increasing demand for the company's 4.44 Capabilities to understand, develop, and implement transparency and ethical management 1 4.33 UPA's strategies Environmental impact of products •Diagnosis of ISO 26000 Implementation Level 2 Increased significance of securing talents 4.41 14 Individuals' competitiveness, experience, and and services To diagnose its internal CSR implementation level, UPA conducted ISO 26000 diagnosis among the 3 Increased demand for product and service safety 4.31 commitment to innovation in relation to UPA’s 2 4.30 relevant employees. governance system, risk management approaches, 15 Efﬂuents and waste 4 Diversification of customer needs 4.25 and ethical values •Benchmarking 5 Increasing demand for fair economy and shared growth 4.16 Loyalty to the company and commitment to 16 Emissions (GHG, dust) 3 4.22 UPA identified issues considered significant by the relevant companies through the analysis of the Prevention of environmental pollution (air, water, improving processes and services 6 soil pollution) 4.09 sustainability reports of a total of five similar businesses (2 domestic, 3 overseas firms). 4 Relations and trust with key stakeholders 4.19 Public policy (lobbying, political 17 7 Increasing demand for employment welfare rights 4.04 donations) •In-depth Stakeholder Interviews 5 Organization’s facilities for production and service 4.16 8 Increasing interest in governance (responsible 4.04 delivery UPA selected nine stakeholders based on the stakeholder identification management) Human rights grievance 18 criteria of ISO 26000 and conducted in-depth interviews with them. Increasing interdependency of the world 6 Securing social support for UPA's project 4.10 mechanisms 9 following globalization 4.00 implementation Step 2 Material Issues and Reporting Boundaries Prioritization Rank Material Impact Issues GRI G4 Aspect Internal Boundarie External Boundaries Page •Relevance Assessment 1 Anti-corruption Anti-corruption ● ● 14-17 UPA identified a total of 44 relevant topics following the relevance assessment based on comprehensive Indirect economic impacts (investments in 2 Indirect economic impacts ● ● 30-37 consideration of four environmental analyses: mass media analysis, diagnosis, benchmarking, and infrastructure) in-depth interviews with stakeholders. 3 Compliance with laws related to social affairs Compliance ● ● 14-17 4 Local communities (CCI) Local communities ● ● 64-67 •Materiality Assessment After conducting an online survey among its internal and external 5 Employee diversity and equal opportunities Diversity and equal opportunities ● ● 44-49 stakeholders on May 10-20, UPA determined the priority of the relevant 6 Industrial safety & health Industrial safety & health ● ● 56-61 topics and selected a total of 33 material issues. 7 Customer safety and healthcare Customer safety and healthcare ● ● 56-61 8 Employee training and education Training and education ● ● 45-46 9 Marketing communication Marketing communication ● ● 40-43 10 Product and service labeling (customer satisfaction) Product and service labeling ● ● 40-43 Step 3 Validation 11 Labor relations Labor relations ● ● 48-49 12 Economic performance Economic performance ● ● 10 UPA carried out validation on the 33 issues identified through its materiality 13 Employment Employment ● ● 44-45 assessment process, finalized the selection, and used them in the content planning of this report through validation. 14 Environmental impacts of products and services Environmental impacts of products and services ● ● 52-54 15 Efﬂuents and waste Efﬂuents and waste ● ● 54 16 Air pollutants (GHG, dust) Emissions ● ● 53-54 17 Public policies (lobbying, political donations) Participation in the establishment of public policies ● ● Not applicable 18 Human rights grievance mechanisms Human rights grievance mechanisms ● ● 48-49 UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 26 27 Sustainability Management Results Strategic 전략목표 Goals Strategic 전략과제 Tasks Performance 성과 지표 Indices Unit 단위 2013 2014 2015 2020Targets 2020 년 목표 Pier productivity (Unit: Ton/hour) 600 Progress 항만건설공사 rate of port공정률 construction projects % 100 100 100 100 Enhancement 항만인프라 경쟁력 of port제고 infrastructure 537 competitiveness Operation 신항북측 two new2선석 rate of신규 berths in가동률 Northern Ulsan New Port % 100 517 Realization of high value-added port Pier productivity* 부두생산성 Ton/hour 톤/시간 517 517 537 600 고부가가치 항만 구현 Increasing 선박대형화 ship지수 size index Ton/ship 톤/척 13,649 14,023 14,197 15,000 항만운영 효율성 Maximization 극대화 of port operation efficiency Demurrage 체선율rate Progress rate of port construction projects % 3.00 2.52 2.22 2.00 Total cargo Progress 총 물동량 ratethroughput of port construction projects 1,000 천톤tons 191,031 191,720 195,825 260,000 2014 2015 2020 Invigoration of hinterland complex Land 부지임대 rental rate 목표 달성율 % 54.9 64.6 100 배후단지 운영 활성화 operations Progress 배후단지건설 rate of hinterland 목표공정 complex달성율construction project % 100 100 100 Attraction 오일트레이더 of new신규 oil traders 유치 건 1 2 Reduction of GHG emissions Timely establishment and invigoration of Oil (Unit: %) 오일허브 적기 구축 및 활성화 30.0 Hub Cargo 오일허브 1단계of물동량 throughput Oil Hub, phase 1 1,000 천톤tons 10,100 Securing미래성장 future 동력확보 growth engines 22.6 22.8 Cargo 북극해항로 volume on the Northern Sea Route 이용화물량 10,000 만톤tons 11 0 0 25 Promotion 북극물류 거점화 of Arctic’s Logistics Hub of ships on trial시범 No.북극해항로 operation 운항선박 for the Northern Sea Route Ship 척 1 0 0 4 Discovery 신성장 사업 of new 발굴 growth business Case 건 1 1 1 2 신사업 R&D Expansion of 확대 new business R&D Proportion 신사업 매출액 of new비중 business turnover % 17.2 Customer 고객만족도 satisfaction 점 92.0 91.1 91.4 90.0 Expansion 맞춤형 서비스 of new확대 business R&D 2014 2015 2020 정부3.0 3.0 Government 점 55.3 56.3 87.6 Customer-centered 고객중심 항만운영 port operations of major accidents No.선박통항 중대사고during 건수 vessel navigation Case 건 7 3 12 0 Management Strategy Index Realization 안전항만 실현 of a safe port of major중대사고 No.하역안전 accidents건수 during unloading Case 건 1 3 1 0 (Unit: points) 95.8 Degree 항만시설 of safety 안전도 of port facilities % 100 100 100 100 85.3 78.3 Percentage 친환경 호퍼 확보율 hopper installation of eco-friendly % 60 100 Establishment 친환경항만구축 of an eco-friendly port Reduction 온실가스of저감량 GHG emissions % 13.6 22.6 22.8 30.0 1) Management 경영전략지수 Strategy Index 1) Point 점 69.4 78.3 85.3 95.8 2) Performance 성과관리만족도 management2) satisfaction rate Point 점 78.2 79.8 81.4 82.6 Implementation 전사적 창의혁신of실천 companywide creative innovations Sustainability 지속가능성지수 index3)3) Point 점 54.39 56.92 60.20 65.0 2014 2015 2020 Establishing a sustainability 4) 지속가능 경영체계 구축 Labor-management 노사협력지수4) cooperation index Point 점 73.3 82.2 82.9 87.0 Debt 부채비율ratio % 4.55 13.02 22.15 54.41 Enhancement 재무건전성 강화 of financial soundness Turnover 매출액 \100M 억원 652 717 744 1,100 1) Management Strategy Index: Survey on the recognition beneficiaries' CCI사회공헌 수혜자 만족도 rate satisfaction Point 점 95.2 93.8 94.5 97.0 of and consensus on UPA's vision and strategic systems 2) Performance management satisfaction rate: Survey Degree 청렴도 of integrity Point 점 8.2 7.2 8.5 8.8 among internal employees on the operation of Enhancemet 사회적 책임활동 of CSR강화activities performance management and evaluation systems 3) Sustainability index: Results of the Korean Sustainability Implementation 정부권장정책 government-recommended policies rate of이행실적 % 86.6 84.8 88.1 96.0 Index (KSI) of the Korean Standards Association 4) Satisfaction index regarding labor-management Purchase 중소기업제품 rate of SME구매율 products % 77.3 81.5 82.8 84.5 cooperation in terms of trust, cooperation, communication, and performance ACCELERATING GROWTH UPA, Accelerating Growth Performance Invigoration of the Oil Hub Project_30 I Invigoration of Hinterland Complex Operation_32 I Promotion of Arctic’s Logistics Hub_34 Enhancement of Port Infrastructure Competitiveness_35 I Maximization of Port Efﬁciency_36 77.0 68.6 Context Progress Next Step Progress of the Oil Procurement rate of UPA is an advanced port operator that leads the •Expansion of Oil Hub-based infrastructure •Creation of the world's top 4 Oil Hubs through Hub Project, phase 1 hinterland complex site national economy and creates customer values. •Efﬁciency of hinterland complex management the establishment of Northeast Asia’s Oil Hub (Unit: %) (Unit: %) It lays the foundation for another leap toward •Establishment of international networks and •Korea's largest industrial port a new hub port for the world economy through promotion of Arctic logistics marketing Establishment of roadmap 2.22 the establishment of diverse kinds of growth •Timely completion of Ulsan New Port Recording the lowest infrastructure and copes with the rapidly changing demand for cutting-edge port environments. infrastructure •Effective management of demurrage for the invigoration of the demurrage (2.22%) ever Northern Sea Route (Unit: %) UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 30 31 Invigoration of the Collaboration Structure for the Oil Hub Project Oil Hub Project Facility Agent Roles New business opportunities are emerging in the crude oil market of Northeast Asia in line with the high Support facilities Government Breakwaters demand for crude oil in Korea, China, and Japan coupled with the perceived limitations of Singapore with Mooring facilities UPA Berths and site renovation (bottom) regard to its role as Asia’s oil hub. Against such backdrop, the Northeast Asia Oil Hub Project is designed Operation facilities Korea National Oil Corp. & KOT Storage facilities and their operation (top) to secure the infrastructure required for crude oil storage and trade in a timely manner in order to preoccupy the crude oil logistics market. Laying the Foundation for Oil Hub Invigoration Attraction of Global Oil Traders Progress of the Oil Hub Project It is mandatory to attract new physical oil traders to Port of Ulsan in order to secure a midto long-term growth engine as a liquid logistics hub and invigorate the promotion of the Northeast Asia Oil Hub Project. Overview of the Oil Hub Project To lay the foundation for the attraction of overseas oil traders, UPA introduced, for the ﬁrst time in Korea, the liquid cargo incentive system, which exempts traders from paying port facility charges for new cargo weighing In February 2008, the Northeast Asia Oil Hub Project was selected as one of the government’s 100 national tasks, and the Ministry more than 10,000 tons per carter base for up to three years. Bird's-eye View of the Oil Hub Project of Knowledge Economy (presently the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy) decided to take part in the project around the same UPA established a collaborative system with the KOTRA Middle East Head Office in Dubai, one of the three time. The project gained momentum. Port of Ulsan was designated as the site of the Oil Hub Project in March 2009. Port and storage largest world crude oil markets, to promote its oil hub project, its infrastructure as oil trading logistics base, the facilities have been constructed since then. The Port of Ulsan Oil Hub Project includes 10 berths including one that can attractiveness of the regional market, and its incentive system actively to the oil traders of the Middle East. As a accommodate a 300,000-ton crude oil tanker as well as tank facilities that can store up to 28.4 million barrels of oil. A total of KRW result, UPA signed a memorandum of understanding with OOO, an oil trader based in the Middle East, regarding 2.2 trillion is expected to be spent between 2010 and 2025 on the construction of the North Port and the South Port of Ulsan New the arrival of new cargo at the port of Ulsan. The agreement is expected to result in the attraction of about 1.2 Port in stages. million tons of petroleum products, including bunker oil produced in the Middle East, per year starting in 2016. In addition, UPA publicized the merits of Port of Ulsan in terms of liquid cargo infrastructure and port incentive systems to Korean agents of global oil traders and attracted new joint venture companies of two Singaporean Outline of the Oil Hub Project oil traders to the Ulsan area. Such is expected to contribute to the arrival of 1.8 to 2.4 million tons of Singaporean and Russian petroleum products including bunker oil every year beginning 2016. Classification Total Phase 1 (North Port) Phase 2 (South Port) Nine 10,000to Five 10,000to 60,000-ton Three 200,000-ton berths Project Berth facilities 200,000-ton berths berths One 300,000-ton buoy2) Establishment of the Bunkering Invigoration Incentive System One 300,000-ton buoy One 120,000-ton dolphin1) Outline Storage capacity 28.4 million barrels As representative overseas oil hubs, Singapore and Fujairah started to develop by attracting bunker oil as • Progress of the Oil Hub Project 9.9 million barrels (303,000m2) 18.5 million barrels (604,000m2) International Trading Conference (land) (907,000m2) catalyst cargo. Bunkering markets are active there. In contrast, the bunkering market at the port of Ulsan Oct. 2008 Selected by the government as one of Top: KRW 605.3 billion Top: KRW 1.0867 trillion remains sluggish. To overcome the difference, UPA has launched a bunkering invigoration incentive system for the top 100 national tasks (Ministry Budget KRW 2.26 trillion Bottom: KRW 103 billon Bottom: KRW 431 billion the purpose of attracting bunker oil as catalyst cargo and invigorate its bunkering market. of Land, Infrastructure and Transport and Ministry of Knowledge Economy) Unlike other types of vessels, oil tankers cannot engage in cargo loading/unloading and bunkering Period 2010-2025 2010~2019 2017~2025 Aug. 2009 Conducted a preliminary feasibility simultaneously on grounds of safety. Therefore, they have to use piers or mooring facilities additionally for study for the Oil Hub Ulsan Area bunkering. UPA has decided to exempt ocean-going takers from paying port dues for up to12 hours for the Project (KDI) purpose of bunkering in an effort to foster catalyst cargo (bunker oil) and to invigorate bunkering. Nov. 2010 Analysis of qualiﬁcation and Progress of the Oil Hub Project It is estimated that, if the number of bunkering cases at Port of Ulsan increases by 10% (64 times) with the feasibility of private investments (KDI) introduction of the bunkering incentive system, the direct and indirect value-added at the port will reach Dec. 2011 Awarded an engineering contract for As of June 2016, the progress rate of Phase 1 is 77%. In line with the trend of increasingly bigger ships, the project approximately KRW 11.1 billion each year. the basic design of the Oil Hub North outline of Phase 1 has changed from four 10,000-50,000-ton berths to three 60,000-ton berths to attract more largePort Project (Ministry of Knowledge sized vessels to the port. Meanwhile, to cope with the demand for the port entry of small tankers, UPA has secured two Economy) additional berths at the unloading Pier. June 2012 Fixed the direction of the Oil Hub For Phase 2 of the Oil Hub Project, UPA has carried out a preliminary feasibility study and completed the analysis of the Establishment of Oil Trader Network and Enhancement of Publicity development (agreement between the project’s economic feasibility, the project’s ﬁnancial soundness, and the risks involved in the decrease of anticipated Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and demand. Currently, KDI (Korea Development Institute) is conducting a preliminary feasibility study on behalf of the UPA has selected Netpas Distance3), a world-class online shipping media, to carry out overseas publicity for its Transport and Ministry of Knowledge government. Oil Hub project and its outstanding tank terminals. It has gained notable publicity effects. Economy) To discover more potential investors and port users and strive to invigorate its Oil Hub project and increase Aug. 2012 Started the working design for the infrastructure of the North Port area port demand, UPA has carried out diverse IR activities including participation in international conferences, Nov. 2013 Commencement of the infrastructure Current Status and Plan for the Oil Hub Project visits to global oil traders, and provision of support for international trading conferences. project for the North Port area (second-half portion) Classification ~2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 ~ Feb. 2014 Established KOT (Korea Oil Terminal), Completion of a joint venture for the Ulsan North Port Support facilities 1) Moorign facilities consisted of numerous independent structures installed offshore to use for cargo loading/unloading Project North Breakwater 2) Buoy type mooring facilities ﬂoating offshore used for crude oil loading/unloading (Crude oil loaded/unloaded is delivered through Project commencement in 2013 (design modiﬁcations made for optimal submarine pipeline.) Phase 1 Mooring facilities operations) 3) Netpas Distance: A world-calss routing & map software that provides information on marine routes, maps, distance calculation, Basic design Investors secured, working vessel navigation proﬁtability calculation Operation facilities Project launched (to be completed by 2019) completed design recommended Support facilities South Breakwater kicked off in 2014 (to be completed by 2024) Basic and Mooring facilities Project commencement Phase 2 Preliminary feasibility study and working designs Feasibility study establishment of investment plans Working design and project Operation facilities Basic design commencement UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 32 33 Invigoration Hinterland Complex Creation Project: Current Status and Plan Classification 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 of Hinterland Section 1 Designs and permits/ Construction: May 2010 ~ June 2014 공사시행 공사시행 공사시행 Rate of Hinterland Complex Area Secured 100.0 Phase 1 Discussion about Hanjoo Relocation of Hanjoo seawater Integrated work with Oil (Unit: %) Complex Redesigns and permits/ 86.4 UPA plans to lay the foundation for the development of sea-and-rail transportation networks to support Section 2 licenses for Section 1 relocation and designs for licenses intake facilities and compensation Hub: Nov. 2013 ~ Nov. Namhwa Pier of illegal ﬁshing devices 2017 imports and exports of the Yeongnam region and the Northeast Asia Oil Hub Project, boost the logistics 68.6 Operation Phase 2 Section 3 및 Designs and permits/licenses Construction: Nov. 2012 ~ Nov. 2016 및 service support functions of industrial complexes near Port of Ulsan, and cope with the future invigoration 56.4 Rate of Hinterland of the pan-East Sea and trade with the country’s northern neighbors through the creation of a hinterland ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------56.4% 68.6% 86.4% 100% Complex Area Secured complex that reﬂects the industrial characteristics of the region surrounding Port of Ulsan. Attraction of Businesses to the Hinterland Complex Boosting the Competitiveness of Hinterland Complex 2014 2015 2016 2017 The Port of Ulsan Hinterland Complex was created using UPA’s own ﬁnancial resources. Its rental fee is calculated differently from that of Timely Creation of Hinterland Complex other port hinterland complexes. Since the Ulsan area has yet to be designated as a free trade zone, tax exemptions are not given to companies operating in the area. As such, the complex suffers a disadvantage in price competitiveness. To overcome such weakness, UPA has come up with a strategy to cultivate the complex into “a region-speciﬁc” complex linked to other industrial complexes in the region. Sections 1 and 3 specialize in the support of manufacturing and export activities of regional ﬂagship industries such as shipbuilding, Plan for the Creation of Hinterland Complex petrochemical, and plant industries, whereas Section 2 has been designated as the support zone for the Oil Hub Project -creating a synergistic effect -and a class-2 hinterland complex (commercial and business convenience facilities). To secure the land required for the support of import/export logistical activities of Port of Ulsan Hinterland Complex In addition, UPA has executed rental contracts that reflect the characteristics of Port of Ulsan and business environments of businesses and promotion of the services of Ulsan Oil Hub as a national task, UPA established in 2009 its hinterland complex operating in the complex in order to prevent any legal dispute and expand win-win cooperation with the businesses.Through improvements in its various systems including revisions and modifications of its management guidelines and basic plans, UPA has complemented the development plan, which has been implemented in stages. According to the results of a quantitative regression weaknesses of the Port of Ulsan hinterland complex and maximized the synergistic effect of land use. analysis taking into account various variables such as Port of Ulsan’s cargo handling capacity, port facility size, and demand for logistical service land, UPA plans to develop a total of 679,000m2 of land by 2017 with 423,000m2 in Execution of Rental Contracts Reflecting Port of Ulsan’s Characteristics and Business Environments of phase 1 and 256,000m2 in phase 2. Current Status of Hinterland Complex Businesses Operating in the Complex Outline of the Hinterland Complex Creation Project Land use plan Characteristics of Hinterland Complex Solutions Progress (Unit: ㎡) Phase 1 Phase 2 Not covered by the Act on the Establishment of Free Study of other port authority cases and review of legal 438 Classification Total Protection of UPA's rights and interests and prevention Section 1 Section 2 Section 3 Export Zones; cannot use standard rental contracts used justiﬁcation → reﬂection of the characteristics of Port Integrated logistics and of legal disputes over contract terms and conditions manufacturing facilities by other port hinterland complexes of Ulsan hinterland complex Integrated logistics and 165,000㎡ 105,000㎡ 168,000㎡ 438,000㎡ Business convenience manufacturing facilities Increasing ﬁnancial burdens (rent and Revision of the rental contract to allow partial Expanded win-win cooperation with facilities businesses operating in the complex through maintenance fees) of businesses operating in payment of the annual rent and deferred Public facilities (roads, Business convenience 35,000㎡ 25,000㎡ 60,000㎡ the hinterland complex due to the slowdown of payment of maintenance fees until project the execution of a rental contract that takes into green space, etc.) 181 Land use plan facilities key industries and national economy completion account the lessees' business environments Public facilities (roads, green 77,000㎡ 41,000㎡ 63,000㎡ 181,000㎡ space, etc.) 60 Total 242,000㎡ 181,000㎡ 256,000㎡ 679,000㎡ Attraction and Support for Businesses Operating in Hinterland Complex Total project budget KRW 451billion KRW 284billion KRW 510billion KRW 1,245billion To attract businesses to the hinterland complex of Port of Ulsan, UPA carried out strategic target marketing in cooperation with the 2013 2014 2015 Construction period 2010~2014 2016~2017 2012~2016 2010~2017 relevant government authorities. UPA emphasized lower rents compared to the complexes in the Seoul metropolitan area, proximity to berths, and ease of management of the supplier network based on surrounding industrial complexes. It also provided the businesses that were to move in with beneﬁts in local taxes, subsidies, and administrative support for permits/licenses by Ulsan Metropolitan City. Thanks to such efforts, UPA succeeded in attracting a super high-performing manufacturer based in the Seoul metropolitan area despite the worst economic situation. Progress of the Hinterland Complex Creation Project In order to address the difficulties faced by businesses that have moved into the complex following the nationwide economic slowdown and provide with them with the best business management environments, UPA has offered customized support through Section 1 of Phase 1 of Port of Ulsan Hinterland Complex was completed in July 2014. Section 2 will kick off in 2016 in various communication channels such as meeting with businesses that have moved in and working-level hinterland complex meeting. connection with the North Port of the Oil Hub. The progress rate of Section 3 as of December 2015 was 86%. The This way, UPA has prevented businesses that have moved in from leaving the complex and invigorated the operations of the complex. section is slated to be completed by December 2016. UPA secured 68.6% of its planned hinterland complex in 2015. Bird's-eye View of the Hinterland Complex It plans to secure 100% by 2017. In 2015, UPA made improvements in the road network in the complex to help ease Creation Project Efforts to Support Businesses that Have Moved in cargo trafﬁc in the complex while reducing the logistics costs of businesses operating in the complex. Previously, trafﬁc congestion occurred among cargo trucks due to the difference in road width (from a three-lane road to a two-lane road) Communication channels Businesses' difficulties Improvement efforts and results between the hinterland complex and the main link road to the Pier quay. UPA secured the connectivity of the link road within the hinterland complex and made improvements in the access road to the existing container Piers. Moreover, Improvement of rent payment terms: once a year → multiple times a year Deferred payment of maintenance expenses during the construction disruption in work progress was anticipated due to a class action by those with illegal ﬁshing devices within the project Increasing burden of investment costs and rents due to period (for up to 1 year) perimeters. UPA ﬁnished paying compensation to about 5,526 illegal ﬁshing devices through a specialized agency, economic downturn Approval of ﬂexible schedule of move-in permits and paving the way for the timely completion of Phase 2. licenses depending on each company’s situation Meeting with Businesses that have UPA will solve logistical difﬁculties faced by businesses based in the Ulsan area and continue to enhance its role as the Moved in (twice a month) Difﬁculties raising investment funds due to non-permission Support for raising investment funds through the approval of changes in country’s largest industrial logistics port through the timely completion of the hinterland complex project. of changes in investors' stakes investor companies' stakes within the limit of 10% (June 2015) (collaboration) administrative support (including construction Support for a move-in company (M Company) permits) for port projects awarded by organizations other than through preliminary review and counseling service regarding a building permit UPA linked to the payment of wastewater treatment costs Working-level Hinterland Complex Marketing difﬁculties with cargo owners of a company that has Arrangement of marketing opportunities with cargo owners through a tour of the logistics Meeting moved in due to economic downturn facilities of the Ulsan Cargo Owner Logistics Association (Nov. 2015) UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 34 35 Promotion of Enhancement of Arctic’s Logistics The Northern Sea Route as a new maritime transport route is attracting considerable attention. Compared to the route between Korea and Europe via the Suez Canal, the route is about 7,000 kilometers shorter, UPA continues to improve and develop the infrastructure of Port of Ulsan, boost the competitiveness of the port, and improve port users’ convenience for the purpose of creating a huge free trade area in its Port Infrastructure Hub taking around less than 10 days. To secure its future growth engine, UPA has selected the “Promotion of hinterland, expanding Onsan National Industrial Complex, and coping actively with changes in domestic Competitiveness Arctic’s Logistics Hub” as one of its strategic tasks. It carries out diverse activities to advance into the and international logistical environments. Arctic logistics market. Emergence as a Hub Port for the Northern Sea Route Timely Construction of Ulsan New Port Infrastructure Establishment of Roadmap to Invigorate the Northern Sea Route Building the Northern Quay of Ulsan New Port To cope with the “Development of the Arctic Sea and Participation in the Northern Sea Route” as one of Korea’s national tasks and discover new “The Northern Quay 2 Berth Building Project” for Ulsan New Port started as the Northern Quay 4 Berth Building Project for growth engines, UPA carried out the “Research on Port of Ulsan Development Strategies in association with the Arctic Sea and Far East Russia Ulsan New Port as specified in the “Revised Master Plan for Nationwide Trading Ports” announced in 2006. In 2009, UPA Logistics” and established its strategies and roadmap to develop Port of Ulsan as a hub for Arctic Sea logistics in stages ahead of its competition. In produced the basic and working designs of the project. In the process, it decided to build 2 berths instead of 4 considering the 2015, UPA strengthened its network and institutional foundation through its activities in Arctic-related international organizations. Over the long changes that had occurred in the port. The 8-year project is scheduled to be completed in November 2016. It involves building term, it plans to open a regular Europe-Asia container line and help Korean companies advance into the Arctic Sea so that Port of Ulsan can emerge one 30,000 DWT-class berth and one 50,000 DWT-class berth and developing a 120,000m2 port site. The budget for the as a hub port for the Northern Sea Route. project is KRW 55.7 billion including engineering fees and facility construction costs. UPA completed the berth for the Northern Quay ahead of schedule and boosted the operation efﬁciency of the hinterland Roadmap to Develop Port of Ulsan into an Arctic Sea Hub Port complex of Ulsan New Port, which used to lack a nearby berth and suffered from low operation efﬁciency. The berth that had Classification Activities originally been planned for completion in 2016 was ﬁnished in 2015 through design modiﬁcation. The other berth will be completed in 2016 as planned. Laying the base for Leading the implementation of the government's Arctic policies and enhancement of activities in 2015 Arctic-related international organizations invigoration Cooperation with domestic R&D institutions and collection of related information Bird’s-eye View of the Northern Quay of Ulsan New Port Expansion of liquid cargo handling infrastructure and establishment of systems to attract and support Full-ﬂedged cargo shipping companies and cargo owners 2016 ~ 2020 attraction Laying the foundation for international cooperation and sharing the relevant information with the Russian government, among others Active support for advancement by regional offshore plant and energy companies into the Arctic Sea 2020 ~ Invigoration stage Launch of regular container sea routes between Europe and Asia and fostering of experts in the Arctic Sea International Seminar on the Northern Sea Route Introduction of the Incentive System for Vessels Using the Northern Sea Route In consultation with the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries, UPA has introduced a volume incentive system for import cargo owners using the Northern Sea Route. According to the system, all cargo owners importing cargo through Port of Ulsan via the Northern Sea Route are paid an incentive amounting to KRW 10 ~ 50 million. The system is designed to motivate cargo owners to use the Northern Sea Route and invigorate the sea route and enhance the role of Port of Ulsan as a hub port for the route. Establishment of Industry-Academe Cooperation System with the Arctic Logistics Research Center of Youngsan University UPA has signed an MOU with the Arctic Logistics Research Center of Youngsan University for industry-academe cooperation for the purpose of facilitating the attraction of the Northern Sea Route, which is rapidly emerging as a new logistics route to Port of Ulsan as a way of promoting the growth of the relevant industry and development of college education in the ﬁeld. UPA plans to promote actively research activities designed to invigorate the Port of Ulsan Northern Sea Route with experts in the route, educational activities aimed at furthering its employees’ expertise, and seminar attraction activities that can help boost the international stature of Port of Ulsan. Building Namhwa Pier Dedication Ceremony for Namhwa Pier Attraction of International Seminar on Northern Sea Route In order to secure mooring facilities for tugboats using Ulan Port, UPA built Namhwa Pier1) with a budget of approximately KRW 30 billion for three years from 2013 to 2016 on a 16,000m2 site. The quay is more than twice as big as the tugboat mooring UPA held the “4th International Seminar on the Northern Sea Route” in November 2015 in collaboration with the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries and facilities of Onsan Port. It is 420m long, with a 280-meter long wavebreaker and a 360-meter long quay. The completion of Ulsan Metropolitan City. The “International Seminar on the Northern Sea Route” is Korea’s largest seminar on the subject of the Northern Sea Route. Namhwa Pier has reduced the inconvenience suffered by tugboats using Port of Ulsan due to the shortage of mooring facilities. UPA held the annual seminar for two years in a row. The seminar features presentations and discussions about four topics such as the navigation The exclusive mooring facilities, which are more than two times bigger than the previous facilities, have not only improved circumstances of the Northern Sea Route, Arctic Sea resources development projects, transport infrastructure development for the Northern Sea Route, navigation safety; tugboats are also expected to reduce their operation costs due to the geographical beneﬁts. On top of that, and Asia’s Northern Sea Route. It was participated in by experts in the Arctic Sea from many countries around the world as well as high-ranking Korean initial response will be made faster in emergencies. Port users’ convenience as well as port operation efficiency will be government ofﬁcials. Companies based in the Ulsan area were able to obtain diverse kinds of valuable information on maritime navigation in the Arctic improved considerably. Sea and promising cargoes on the route. Participation in the International Seminar on Korea-Russia Logistical Cooperation In September 2015, representatives of UPA participated in the “International Seminar on Korea-Russia Logistics Cooperation” held in Vladivostok, Russia by Korea’s Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries. Russia is rather conservative when it comes to information disclosure and administrative procedures, 1) Pier: A vertically raised structure, with water depth of less than 4.5 meters at its front face, built along the edge of a body of water so that ships can dock there to and Korean companies experience difﬁculties in that regard. Building a network with local government agencies will help companies based in the Ulsan handle their cargo and passengers safely region make inroads into Russia. UPA will continue to strive to assist local companies in their effort to advance into the Arctic Sea region. It will be relentless in its efforts to invigorate the Northern Sea Route by taking full advantage of its strength of having huge industrial complexes right behind it , in particular those in petrochemical shipping and offshore plant industries. UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 36 37 Maximization of Enhancement of Productivity through Pier Operations by a Single Operator Due to the slowdown of the global economy and sluggish performance of the regional key industries (refinery, chemical, and Port Efficiency UPA contributes to the development of its local communities and enhancement of national competitiveness through the efﬁcient operation of Port of Ulsan. It continues to improve port productivity shipbuilding industries), Port of Ulsan suffered an excessive competition for securing cargo and an inefﬁcient operation of its port facilities, including the protracted field storage of general cargoes; all of which contributed to the deterioration of its overall competitiveness. UPA decided to have a single Pier operator run the entire port. As a result, UPA has been able to make innovations in by identifying inefﬁcient elements in its port operations and making prompt improvements accordingly. its Pier operations and boosted the efﬁciency of its Pier operations. In keeping with the trend of increasingly bigger ships arriving at the port, it continues to make upgrades in It has enhanced bargaining power against cargo owners to prevent unfair unloading contracts, including dumping, through the The Size of Arriving Vessels arrangement of a single Pier operation consortium (Main Port Piers 1-3 and 6-8), which has reduced unnecessary competition. UPA has (Unit: tons/ship) its port facilities and improve its port operation systems and practices. prevented repetitive investments through the joint use of unloading equipment, warehouses, and an open storage yard, and by 16,435 15,818 15,997 improving the efficiency of facilities and unloading operations. The efforts have resulted in a 3.55% increase (17.72 tons) in the productivity (= cargo handling volume per hour) of Main Port Piers compared to the previous year, and a 2.96% increase (2,776 tons) in terms of total cargo throughput in 2015. In addition, through the uniﬁcation of non-consortium Pier operations (Piers 5-6), UPA acquired Enhancement of Port Productivity the highest rank (3rd) in the evaluation of Pier operation results, as compared to the lowest level in the country (35th). UPA’s measure is widely recognized as a benchmark case for other ports and Pier operators in the country. Improvements in Demurrage Rates through Efficient Port Operations Increasing Proportion of the Arrival of Large Vessels 1) Demurrage is a cause of increase of cargo owners’ logistical costs and decrease in the productivity of Port of Ulsan. It stems In line with increasingly large vessels arriving at Port of Ulsan, UPA has striven to further increase the proportion of the arrival of large from inefficiency in port operations and/or lack of port facilities. UPA has sought the maximization of efficiency of its port vessels through a word is missing like “implementing” comprehensive improvements in its port operations. It has secured water 2013 2014 2015 • Performance in Demurrage operations through a three-dimensional approach to demurrage involving improvements in port operations, expansion of port depths that can accommodate large vessels, improved its port infrastructure for the attraction of large vessels’ port calls, and has Management facilities, and collaboration of port users. In 2015, it recorded the lowest demurrage rate since the opening of the port, helping enhanced its incentive systems. Such efforts have led to an average growth of 2% in the size of arriving vessels a year, reaching 16,435 raise the port’s credibility nationally and internationally and save users’ logistical costs. 2013 2014 2015 tons/ship in 2015, which is the largest in its history. Demurrage rate (%) 2.97 2.52 2.22 •D  ifferences in Vessel Size According to ESI Demurrage Management Efforts Economic loss due to Promotion of Optimized Dredging Plans Certification demurrage 511 444 358 (KRW 100 million) Improvements in Port Operations Improvements in Port Facilities Collaboration Between Port Users UPA carries out optimized dredging projects to secure water depths for large vessels. UPA promoted the deepening of water depths at the Average Tonnage Average Tonnage port of Ulsan for all of the water zones of the automobile Pier in accordance to with its business plan. Yet, as a result of the survey of water Classification (G/T) of Arrival (G/T) of ESI ● Relaxation of restrictions on the kinds of cargoes ● Implementation of dredging for mooring facilities ● Systematic port operations in collaboration with Vessels Certified Vessels handled at Piers and routes to improve vessel navigation conditions port users on the basis of government 3.0 depths at the site, the water zone that needed to be dredged far surpassed the estimated area. Thus, despite the temporary worsening of Economic loss due to demurrage Onsan Pier 4: cement port → multipurpose port Expansion of the collective mooring space at Port Berth Operation Meeting for the optimization of conditions for the arrival of large vessels, UPA is carrying out a large-scale water-depth deepening project in association with Section 2 of Automobile 53,073 tons 61,824 tons (Unit:KRW 100 million) ● Creation of environments for simultaneous berthing of Ulsan (Mar. 2015) berth turnover rates the Ulsan New Port Hinterland Complex creation project. UPA will rise to the occasion and make improvements in the conditions for the vessels via linked pier operations Implementation of the dredging work Establishment of a berth operation system and arrival of large vessels through a concentrated investment of resources in the fundamental securing of planned water depths instead of Liquid cargo 14,158 tons 62,066 tons 511 commissioned management and support for the optimization of vessels Linked operations of Yeompo Piers 1-3 and 5-6 conducting “welding-style” temporary dredging. 444 ● Operation of substitute Piers in the event of an for Route 5 a vessel schedule via upgrading the berth obstacle to port use awkward. do you mean “an ● Establishment of solutions for the cause of operation support system 358 obstacle that renders a port unusable”? demurrage through the rolling of does not make Reflection of Water-depth Surveys Modification of the Dredging Plan Earthquake resistance work at berth Nos. 1 & 2 → sense the harbor facility dredging plan Classification Original Plan (2015) (increased low water depth areas) through an Economic Feasibility Study Berth No. 1 of Pier 8 used as a substitute Pier Securing a dredging budget of KRW 9.7 billion for 2016 Budget KRW 2 billion KRW 23.3 billion KRW 9.7 billion (△KRW10.955 billion*) Dumping site 2015: Dumping in the open sea 2015: Dumping in the open sea 2016: Disposal in the hinterland (transport distance) (65km) (65km) complex (8.3km) • T he Rates of Immediate Berthing and Standby Time of Large Vessels 2013 2014 2015 Enhancement of Pier Productivity through the Maximization of Port Facility Usage * Modiﬁcation of the Dredging Plan for the Dredging of All Low Water Depth Areas Classification 2013 2014 2015 UPA enhanced Pier productivity through improvements implemented in the usage of the port facilities. The productivity of Yeompo Immediate 98.24% 99.56% 100% Pier was low, which was due largely to the small cargo shed meaning is completely unclear unless this is a technical phrase Introduction of the Incentive System to Promote the Arrival of Large Vessels berthing rate compared to its berths and coupled with its complex possession structure and high dependency on a small number of cargo Standby owners. Thus, UPA worked out a Pier restructuring and link-operation plan to develop Yeompo Pier into a Pier that specializes in Paying keen attention to the fact that new ships are increasingly adopting eco-friendly fuel (e.g. LNG) in addition to the trend of the vessels (mooring) 393 hrs 76 hrs None steel cargo. It did do through working in close cooperation with stakeholders and laying the foundation for the recovery of normal becoming larger in size, UPA has introduced an ESI (Environmental Ship Index)3) incentive system as way of promoting large vessels for time Pier functions. UPA also carried out a comprehensive hinterland clearance of Pier 6 with the purpose of cultivating it into a Ro-Ro carrying liquid cargoes and automobiles. The system involves a 10% reduction in arrival and departure vessel charges for those that have cargo specialization Pier. As a result, it secured 51,506m2 in cargo2) storage space that can accommodate up to 6,000 compact received more than 30 points in the ESI scoring system or for newly arriving vessels. In a survey conducted among shipping companies automobiles. In addition, it made improvements in the efﬁciency and productivity of its Pier operations through the reallocation of and shipping agents, their willingness to make port calls through the rearrangement of its ﬂeet of vessels was conﬁrmed. It is anticipated • Improvements in Large Vessel Port Call Pier functions, including the adjustment of cargo allocations between the Main Port and the New Port, and the transfer of handling that the arrival rate of large vessels, based on the case of automobile cargo ships, will increase by 16% and that Pier productivity for the Conditions cargoes and functions customized to stakeholders’ needs. port of Ulsan will rise following the expanded arrival of other types of large ESI vessels. Before Arrival → Mooring facilities → Berth allocation → Improvements in the Arrival Conditions of Large Vessels Approach to unloading Pier (Arrival to Berthing: Adjustment and Specialization of Pier Functions Due to a shortage of mooring facilities and the consequent trafﬁc congestion at the port of Ulsan, the ship/cargo owners of large vessels 14 hrs. at least) Classification Performance Record Performance Results and Expectations have tended to avoid Port of Ulsan. UPA created conditions whereby large vessels can go directly to unloading Piers as soon as they arrive. This has reduced their stay at the port and cut down on their expenses, including demurrage, due to their not using the mooring facilities of After Pier 9 General cargo Pier → “Sand Pier” Users reduce logistical costs due to the nearer Pier Main Port the port. In addition, in case large vessels do need to use the mooring facilities, UPA extended its collective mooring facilities from Arrival → Berthing Closing in 2020 → Transfer to the New Port in relation Prevention of residents' grievances through being relocated 14.51km2 to 19.61km2 and enlarged its vessel accommodation ratio by 50%, making a marked improvement in the conditions for vessel (Time reduced to 1/8 of the previous hours) Coal Pier to demand farther from residential areas arrival. Pier 6, New Port Other iron ores → addition of liquid cargo Investment attraction to install liquid cargo storage tanks Onsan • E xpansion of Collective Mooring Facilities Port Tugboat mooring Tugboat mooring facilities → co-use as a temporary Support for the active implementation of national policies 1) Demurrage: Ships being on standby for more than 12 hours due to a shortage of berths among others facilities CO2 storage Pier through the provision of submarine storage port facilities 2) Ro-Ro cargoes: Wheeled cargoes such as automobiles and heavy equipment that can move in and out of a vessel on their own Classification Before After TS Pier at North Liquid T/S Pier → liquid chemicals Pier (exclusive Synergistic effects and invigoration expected for the Oil Hub 3) Enviromental Ship Index (ESI): The ESI measures a ship's emissions and issues the ship a score and a corresponding certiﬁcate every six months. It is Area 14.51㎢ 19.61㎢ New Port accredited by IMO (Internaional martime Organization) and WPCI (World Ports Climate Initiative). Breakwater use and the arrival of large ships) Project through increased facility usage No. of Ships 20ships 32ships INCREASING VALUES UPA, Increasing Values Performance Expansion of Customer-centered Services_40 I HR Management _46 Expansion of Customer-centered Services Context Progress Next Step UPA listens to the voices of its stakeholders through diverse •Establishment of an exclusive customer •The rate of actions on VOC: 100% communication activities with these stakeholders as a way to enhance satisfaction organization •Enhancement of VOC management •Stabilization of the customercooperation with them. With a sense of responsibility as an advanced port enterprise that leads the national economy and creates values for •Enhancement of employee CS competency centered corporate culture its customers, UPA will continue to improve its port operation services •Opening of the Onsan Port Customer Support Center and do its very best to increase customer satisfaction. 83.0 •Improvements in welfare services for seafarers using the port The rate of Achievement of Class A Selection as one of the HR Management actions on VOC (Unit: %) A in customer satisfaction world's top 5 seafarer among public institutions welfare ports Context Progress Next Step 22.5 74.9 84.7 UPA’s present and future depend on its employees. UPA cherishes •Merit-based open employment •Cultivation of experts in various ﬁelds Proportion of Satisfaction Satisfaction the values of each and every one of its employees. It spares no efforts •Enhancement of employees' expertise in port •Stabilization of an organizational to provide support and deliver compensation so that all of them can operations ﬂexible work with HR with fringe culture ensuring a work-life balance hours management beneﬁts continue to make improvements in the quality of their lives through •Improvements in employees' quality of life maintaining a happy work-life balance. •Building a win-win labor-management culture (Unit: %) (Unit: points) (Unit: points) UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 40 41 Expansion Enhancement of Customer Service Quality of CustomerEnhancement of VOC Management centered Services UPA has established its own customer satisfaction strategic system. It realizes customer satisfaction management from the perspective of pursuing the growth and development of Port of Ulsan and all its With the VOC process optimized for port services, UPA continues to make improvements in the quality of Port of Ulsan’s operation services. It collects customers’ opinions through diverse channels, including meetings, council meetings, forums, • VOC Management Record customers. business orientations, and questionnaires. After carefully analyzing the VOCs, it identiﬁes fundamental causes, establishes Description 2013 2014 2015 plans, and takes actions on them. Given the characteristics of port services, UPA strives to maximize its customer values VOC registered (cases) 84 48 34 through the concentrated management of repetitive VOCs and to realize the best customer services. As a result of its proactive VOC handling (cases) 54 35 28 customer satisfaction efforts, UPA was granted Class A in the government’s customer satisfaction survey among public institutions in 2015 as compared to Class B in the previous year. Handling rate (%) 64 73 83 VOC Management Process Customer Satisfaction Management Promotion System VOC Review of VOCs to VOC Handling rate VOC Solution VOC Analysis Feedback (Unit: %) 83 Registration be acted on Strategies for Customer Satisfaction Management 73 Review by related 64 UPA has set “The best port logistics partner that is cherished by its customers” as its customer satisfaction vision. It has departments VOC resolution VOC analysis VOC management, establishment a midto long-term CS strategic system that is aimed at achieving 100% in the actions on VOC, 100% in port Customer Online/ Presentation as and notiﬁcation Identiﬁcation monitoring, and facility safety, and the highest rank in customer satisfaction. The customer satisfaction management of UPA is not only targeted telephone proposal agenda items at CS of the solutions to of customers' performance at satisfying the customers using Port of Ulsan. It is aimed at encouraging its customers to join forces with UPA to strive to meetings Working-level Council customers fundamental needs evaluation further develop Port of Ulsan down the road. meetings Midto Long-Term CS Strategic System Companywide An advanced port enterprise that leads the national economy and creates values for its customers 2013 2014 2015 vision Communication Channels with Customers CS vision The best port logistics partner cherished by its customers Classification Major Contents CS goals VOC handling (100%) Port facility safety (100%) Customer satisfaction (the highest rank) ● Press releases, interviews with inﬂuential media, and publicity on UPA's major projects and Mass Media pending issues Public Service Customer Strategic goals Establishment of a customer-centered corporate culture Expansion of customer-tailored services Upgrade of CS performance management ● Discussions with relevant businesses and port users about UPA’s development strategies and Satisfaction Discussions 92.0 91.4 their grievances and proposals Index(PCSI) 91.1 Strategic tasks Enhancement of CS strategy Systemization of VOC handling and Upgrade of UPA-CSI survey system (Unit: points) implementation capabilities usage Invigoration of CS improvement activities ● Solutions for pending issues and discussions about the development directions of Port of Ulsan Expansion of CS competency education Provision of customer-tailored services Enhancement of the CS performance Meetings with the central and local governments at councils meetings as well as gathering of VOCs at Disseminating a customer-oriented Discovery of creative customer services compensation system business association meetings mindset Port of Ulsan Forum ● Discussions with invited ofﬁcials about the ways to energize Port of Ulsan container Piers Request for cooperation on the opening of regular lines and new routes to forwarders and Organization to Promote Customer Satisfaction Management ● Business Orientations shipping companies located in Seoul To improve the inefﬁciencies involved in the previous CS management promoted by the Strategy Team and Operation Team, International seminars (Arctic ● Sharing the latest information and building networks through the holding or sponsoring of UPA established the Customer Support Center in its operations department and arranged for it to take full control of all CSSea, Najin Port) seminars related to the development of routes designed to discover new markets 2013 2014 2015 related tasks. Furthermore, UPA holds CS Management Committee meetings twice a year in order to carry out evaluations of the company’s key CS management-related decisions and actions thereof. The committee also reviews major VOCs and the ● Visiting customer companies, like tanker terminal and cargo owners, to ﬁgure out their cargo company’s actions plans. UPA also runs the CS Promotion Council the customers of Port of Ulsan participate in. The council One-on-One Target Marketing throughput and to gather VOCs gathers opinions about everything related to the port operations from internal and external stakeholders. It carries out in-depth discussions about the pending issues. UPA holds CS Working-level Committee meetings whenever necessary in order to ● Holding the Contest for Port of Ulsan Safety & Logistics Innovation Cases as an idea contest discuss responses to VOCs, identify deﬁciencies in customer satisfaction services, and make improvements in UPA’s workﬂow. Public Idea Contest amongst the general public in partnership with Ulsan Metropolitan City on different ways to enhance the competitiveness of Port of Ulsan Questionnaire on Customer User satisfaction evaluations and VOC gatherings via government-sponsored surveys on the CS Management Promotion Organization ● Satisfaction, etc. degrees of customer satisfaction and policy acceptance CS Management Committee CS Promotion Council CEO, heads of headquarters, (External) 5 ﬁrms/organizations Service Standard Monitoring executive director of Operations (Internal) 4 heads of departments UPA measures the quality of its customer contact point services and identiﬁes matters that need to be improved through quarterly monitoring based on its Customer Charter and Service Implementation Standards. Major management items include quick and accurate handling Customer Support Center CS Working-level Committee grievances, stable port operations, building optimized port facilities, disclosing management information, conducting service evaluations, and Customer Support Center making improvements in service sectors with lackluster performances. UPA identiﬁes things to that need to be improved through monitoring Overall control of CS tasks Employees at customer contact points results and reﬂects them in its CS management. UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 42 43 Expansion of CustomerResults of the Implementation of Customer Service Quality Standards To prevent cyber terror, UPA ﬁnished a trial separation operation of the intranet in 2013 and embarked on a full-ﬂedged implementation in 2014, thus blocking the inﬂow of malicious codes through external emails and enhancing its defense against cyber threats. Furthermore, Management Items Implementation Standards Goal Performance Achievement Rate through a joint operation agreement, UPA set up a 24-hour-a-day control system through the commissioned operation of the Oceans centered Services Public Service Counseling and inquiry (responded within a day) 95% 100% 100% and Fisheries Cyber Safety Center 2014, and analyzed and evaluated vulnerabilities in major information and telecommunications infrastructure facilities to prevent cyber terror threats. UPA has also conducted cyber mock hacking and email drills among its employees. Petition and proposal (responded within 7 days) 100% 100% 100% It took actions to prevent internal security infringement accidents through the specialized education of employees who are particularly Request for disclosure of information (responded within 10 days) 100% 100% 100% vulnerable to infringement accidents. Port Facility Operations Port service suspension period Within 5 days 0일 100% Reduction of port demurrage 2.5% 2.22% 100% Disclosure of Management Public disclosure on the website and ALIO public management Less than 3 points in 11 points Improvement needed Customer Satisfaction Promotion Activities Information information disclosure system the penalty score Service Evaluation Surveys on customer satisfaction degree Class A Class A 100% Service Improvements Implementation of service education for uncaring employees Fewer than 2 cases 0 case 100% Improvements in the Welfare Services for Seafarers Using Port of Ulsan Certiﬁcate for the World's Top 5 Seafarer Welfare Port Customer compensation for customer service that has gone wrong Fewer than 10 cases 0 case 100% Previously, the welfare faculties for seafarers at the port of Ulsan were limited and antiquated, with the users showing a low level of satisfaction with the facilities. UPA organized a TFT to make improvements in the welfare for seafarers arriving at Port of Ulsan with the purposes of coming up with ways of revitalizing the Seafarers’ Lounge at Ulsan Main Port and maximizing the level satisfaction of seafarers arriving at the port. It expanded convenience facilities for seafarers in accordance with the ways to improve the Seafarers’ Enhancement of Competency for Customer Satisfaction Management Lounge while increasing the operation hours and launching a shuttle bus service to the lounge. To provide customer service that can surprise and delight its customers, UPA continues to enhance its employees’ VOC response In 2016, it plans to make improvements to the interior of the lounge with an additional budget for the work. In recognition of its efforts to competency through CS and job-related education and training. To enhance the usage of the results of the country’s public-service improve seafarers’ welfare, Port of Ulsan has been selected as the World’s Top 5 Seafarer Welfare Port by International Seafarers Welfare customer satisfaction index, UPA’s CS working-level officials participated in a CS workshop on the public institution customer and Assistance Network (ISWAN). satisfaction index to learn about the latest trends of CS management and to benchmark outstanding cases through information exchange amongst the representatives of public institutions. For the employees of the relevant agencies at Port of Ulsan, UPA implemented CS 3.0 education based on the country’s government 3.0 core values, including dialog skills based on “collaboration and communication,” learning NVC (nonviolent communication), and establishing the visions of individuals for the purpose of Improvements in the Reporting System of Cargo Transported Inside the Port maximizing customer satisfaction. In addition, to help solve grievances related to the use of port facilities as early as possible, UPA has launched study clubs composed of the employees working at the company’s customer contact points and motivated them to In line with increasing claims by users that “cargo within the port” should be regarded as “inner harbor cargo” and that the reduced carry out study activities about relevant topics. It has maximized its employees’ CS competency so that they can solve diverse rate of 70% should be applied for coast cargo vessels, UPA has implemented a VOC management process, reviewed the relevant grievances on their own under the guidance of the leader of the Port Operation Safety Team serving in the capacity as an advisor. legislation, and made institutional improvements through consultations with the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries in order to lessen the burden on port users. Through the application of a new reduction rate, the port users’ port charges dropped by KRW 120 million CS and Job-related Training a year. UPA also secured a database for 3 million tons of cargo throughput through the integration of the Port-MIS (Management Information System) of cargo transported inside the port. Title of Training Course Contents CS3.0 cooperating and ● Understanding of the necessity of collaboration and communication communicating Port of Ulsan for improving customer satisfaction at Port of Ulsan Upgrade of the Berth Operation Support System Berth Operation Support System CS Education and Workshop ● Ways of boosting CS management Externally, demand was growing for the upgrade of user-centered port services and for there to be a stable port information provision • E valuation of Information Security CS invigoration workshop ● Sharing other agencies’ outstanding cases of customer contact service in keeping with changes in information technologies. Internally, enhanced efﬁciency in port operations was required through point services an expanded berth allocation management in line with Onsan Piers 1-4 being returned to government control and the expansion of Management Performance port facilities at the Ulsan New Port. In response to such needs, UPA made improvements in its berth operation support system. It ● Port unloading practices and port logistics understanding 2013 2014 2015 Port unloading experience expanded the scope of its berth allocation while reorganizing its website functions so that its berth allocation results can be ● Understanding of and practice with using port unloading equipment Evaluation of displayed in maps and on mobile screens for users’ easier reference. In addition, the website now includes crucial information like Information Security 67.96 81.45 74.90 ● Basic port plans, port related international treaties, port policies, cargo owners, loading/unloading companies, and cargo volumes, which has enabled the company to systematically generate its Port policies statistical information. By upgrading its berth operation support system, UPA was able to provide its stakeholders with customized Management Status investment-related regulations, etc. services and maximize conveniences for its customers. It laid the foundation for the efﬁcient port operations of Onsan Port Piers 1-4 Amount of Personal Understanding of the effective management system of on-site and Ulsan New Port through the optimization of its berth allocation 0 0 0 Job-related Training ● Information Leakage Job competency improvement of logistics logistics personnel ● Understanding of measurement methods of logistics performance management UPA Sports Facilities Evaluation of Information Security Installation of Sports Facilities for Port of Ulsan Users Petrochemical processes and ● Development flows and processes of the petrochemical industry Management 81.45 74.90 new technologies and understanding of the petrochemical technology industry Following the closing of the access road to Maeam Pier, UPA has transformed the site into a space for sports and recreation so that Performance (Unit: %) port users can use it at any time. UPA installed various sports facilities according to the request of Port of Ulsan users, including the 67.96 Port of Ulsan Logistics Association for sports facilities, and the results of a survey on the demand for such facilities. The poor conditions at the site coupled with a shortage of funds forced UPA to downsize its plan for the sports facilities. Yet it overcame the challenge by maximizing space efﬁciency while reducing tree-planting costs among other items. Protection of Customer Privacy and Enhancement of the Prevention of Cyber Terror To protect its customers’ personal information, UPA carried out a personal information impact evaluation and diagnosed the Through the installation of sports facilities, UPA shares its unused space with port users and employees, thus boosting its customer weaknesses involved in its personal information handling system and taken preventive measures against the leakage of satisfaction levels, promoting social contact between them, and helping them improve their health. information. It also runs a personal information self-inspection team on a quarterly basis, which carries out inspections of all the processes involved, including the collection, storage, use, and disposal of personal information, as a way of thoroughly protecting all the personal information in its possession. 2013 2014 2015 UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 44 45 HR Management Employment Record and Manpower Operation Status T/O 93 (Unit:people) Classification 2013 2014 2015 86 T/O 71 86 93 71 Current employees (including executives and security UPA respects the competency and diversity of each of its employees. It denounces any sort of 97 111 116 guards) discrimination in its HR management. It has built an organizational culture that can maximize each Retirement 3 5 member’s merits. It treasures the principle of a work-life balance, and it strives to make the workplace Early retirement 1 more fulﬁlling for its employees. UPA considers win-win cooperation between labor and management the Inﬁnite-period contract workers 11 10 11 highest value in its personnel management. Directly hired irregular workers 2 0 0 Indirectly hired irregular workers 58 61 61 2013 2014 2015 Females 7 2 2 Handicapped Local (outside the Seoul 8 3 8 Local (outside the Seoul New recruits Metropolitan Area) (regular) High school graduates 4 1 2 Metropolitan Area) Merit-based Open Employment Vocational high school graduates 2 1 (Unit: people) 8 8 (Unit:people) Engineering college graduates 2 0 2 Total 14 3 15 Satisfaction 74.9 Principles of Personnel Management and the Traits of an Ideal Employee Interns 12 6 16 3 74.5 with Personnel New recruits (irregular) Fixed-period 2 Management 63.6 UPA adheres to the principles of personnel management centered on job duties, respect for humans, ability system, Disadvantaged (Unit: points) 9 8 5 performance system, and ensuring fairness with the ultimate goals of implementing performance-oriented personnel policies, (temporary) improving productivity and sustainability, and ameliorating employees’ work lives. UPA has established four talent models: A No. of females (ratio) 21(19.6%) 21(18.9%) 20(17.1%) 2013 2014 2015 person dedicated to the development of the nation and UPA, a person fulfilling his/her responsibilities with a sense of Proportion of No. of female managers (ratio) 0 0 1(0.8%) ownership, a person who contributes to the organization with passion and hard work, and a person who thinks and behaves females, etc. from the customer’s perspective. It actively uses all of these for the recruitment, education, and training of its staff. In No. of disabled employees (ratio) 6(4.9%) 6(5.7%) 6(4.8%) employment, UPA never discriminates against candidates based on gender, age, region, religion, educational attainment, or physical disabilities. UPA prohibits child labor and forced labor in accordance with the Labor Standards Act and other related regulations of the Enhancement of Port Operation Expertise country. It provides equal opportunities to all employees and conducts a fair evaluation of their performance according to its 2013 2014 2015 employment rules and personnel regulations. HR Cultivation Promotion Strategies • E ducation Courses by Strategy Task Job Competency Centered Employment In connection with the fact that the retirement of its experts of Class-3 or above is on the rise and their posts have to be ﬁlled by new recruits, UPA has set “the development of human resources for a successful shift in generations” as its HR cultivation goal 4 Strategies Education Courses and worked out a HR development plan accordingly. It has put forth 21 detailed implementation tasks under the four strategic 3 courses, including tasks, such as the creation of an organizational culture, cultivating performance-centered leaders, fostering job specialists, and Creation of an UPA has introduced the NCS (National Competency Standards)-based employment process in order to transition from performanceencouraging self-directed learning, and has come up with its education and training plan, which is composed of in-house organizational employment based on the length of service, careers, and educational backgrounds to on that is centered on merits. It changed achievement experience training courses (90), external commissioned education courses (8), and self-directed learning courses (4). culture the previous career-based application review process into a review of the four specific areas actually related to one’s job activities competency, such as qualiﬁcations, experiences, job-related activities, and foreign language proﬁciency. It replaced the written 9 courses, including tests about one’s specialization and common sense with an evaluation of basic job performance abilities. It also transferred the HR Development System Cultivation of the enhancement of focus of its job interviews from character and competency to job competency, in order to hire those who can achieve their performancemanagement leadership potential at sites. Through its NCS-based employment process, UPA hired a total of seven regular employees, including one centered leaders (middle managers) and person with job experience and six new recruits. female employees Goals HR Development for a Successful Shift in Generations 5 courses, including the Fostering job Port of Ulsan tour on Expansion of Socially Equitable Employment Core Values Creativity Specialty Trust specialists foot and port loading/ unloading practice 4 courses, including UPA has continued to expand its proportion of female employees over the past three years. It also works hard to foster female Talent Model People who devote themselves to the development of the nation and UPA People who fulfill their responsibilities with a sense of ownership Self-directed e-Learning and foreign managers and to hire women as managers. It carries out a regional employment allocation system. It has hired a person who learning People who contribute to organizational performance with passion and hard work People who always think and act from the customers' perspectives language education graduated from a local university and nine people from areas outside the Seoul Metropolitan Area through a limited competition. It employs students of the University of Ulsan as interns in accordance with a MOU that it has executed with the university to offer them opportunities to experience work at UPA and acquire required job competency so that they can equip Promotion HR cultivation based on core Cultivation of specialists who Site-initiated creation of a themselves with robust employment qualiﬁcations. Furthermore, it continues to offer temporary job opportunities to senior Strategies values contribute to the creation of results lifelong study atmosphere citizens, veterans, and the underprivileged, including those with disabilities, to implement socially equitable employment. Strategic Tasks Creation of an organizational Cultivation of performanceFostering job specialists Self-directed learning culture centered leaders UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 46 47 HR Management Implementation of Site-centered Customized Education Improvements in the Quality of Life For a successful shift in generations, UPA has developed leadership courses and site-centered training courses. For employees of Class 2 or above, it runs the SERICEO course, which has been designed to cultivate convergent thinking through education on leadership, business management, and the humanities. For those with practical experience in port logistics, SERICEO provides education on port Fringe Benefit System • Welfare Benefit Support logistics and port loading/unloading through a port loading/unloading practice course. For new recruits, UPA provides a foot tour of Classification Programs (Systems) Port of Ulsan, which deepens trainees’ understanding about the facilities, and logistics of Port of Ulsan. It has maximized the effects of UPA pursues a three-dimensional welfare model to boost employees’ morale and increase labor productivity through improvements in these diverse courses through offering courses tailored to the needs of trainees. employees’ professional life. It provides fringe benefits services including educational assistance, housing assistance, health • Support for infant childcare costs management, voluntary benefits, and family-friendly support. In line with the government’s policy direction of improving welfare Educational • Support for children's high school systems built through lax management practices, UPA has modiﬁed its welfare beneﬁt system so that its monetary welfare beneﬁts assistance tuition fees decrease and its non-monetary welfare benefits increase. UPA’s welfare benefit expenses per person stood at KRW 3,654. UPA • College tuition fee loans Fostering Port Specialists continue to cut down its employees’ welfare beneﬁt expenses. Also, UPA offers the same fringe beneﬁts to both regular and irregular Housing • Housing loans To foster port specialists equipped with creativity and reliability, UPA has established the four major competency models of common workers with at least one year of service. This way, it fundamentally prevents discrimination. assistance competency, global competency, leadership competency, and job performance competency. It has also set up a mid-term expert • Checkup once a year Health cultivation roadmap in association with the CDP (Career Development Program). All UPA employees are required to establish their • Medical expense discounts management own plans (IDP: Individual Development Plan). UPA cultivates them into job specialists according to a systematic career Expansion of Non-monetary Welfare Benefits afﬁliated medical institutions • Results of Employees Training and development program in the eight areas of port planning, port construction, port operations, R&D, marketing, planned audits, Voluntary • Provision of customized welfare Classification Programs (Systems) welfare points Education HR and labor relations, and ﬁnancial management. • Agreement with six local hospitals regarding discounts on medical expenses • Provision of resort facilities Classification 2013 2014 2015 Medical Roadmap for Cultivating Job Specialists • Expansion of employees' choice about collective medical insurance • Provision of funeral services Education budget per • Counseling program support • Agreement with two hotels regarding discounts on accommodation Family-friendly person (Unit: KRW 3,475 2,691 3,248 Resort (EAP) fees (Ulsan & Busan) 1,000) • Implementation of day of leaving• In-house recreation facility support (electrical ﬂoor-heating installation, Education hours per Stage 3 Recreation work-on-time 84.6 83.0 93.0 three massage chairs) person (Unit: hour) No. of courses 165 179 261 Stage 2 • Purchase/Rental of books and DVDs requested by employees (6,222 books and 355 DVDs) Trainee satisfaction Stage 1 Culture • Going to the movies with employees' families 69.1 82.8 84.9 (points) • Movie screening at the company's multi-purpose hall • Designation of Culture Day • Welfare Benefit Costs Per Person • Joint purchase of clothing and footwear 2018 ~ Others • Joint purchase of gifts (agricultural products) at traditional festivals Classification 2013 2014 2015 2016 ~ 2017 Integration of IDP & • Distribution of discount tickets for concerts & music festivals Welfare beneﬁt Introduction CDP expenses per Trainee satisfaction 3,967 3,663 3,654 2015 and upgrade of person (Unit: points) (Unit: KRW 1,000) Competency-based IDP competency82.8 84.9 design based IDP Creation of Work-life Balance Culture 69.1 ● Cultivation of competency UPA has established a basic plan to create a corporate culture of work-life balance in order to enable its employees to strike a balance • Satisfaction with Welfare Benefits leaders in each relevant area ● Design of job-specific IDP between work and family while building a great workplace. Under the vision of “UPA built by Happy Employees,” UPA has selected 6 ● Operation of job specialist ● Linking competency-based Classification 2013 2014 2015 implementation tasks including assistance in childbearing and childcare and invigoration of family-friendly support system as part of ● Plan to link competencycourses education and CDP Satisfaction with its continuous efforts to create a corporate culture of work-family balance. based educational system ● Upgrade of existing welfare beneﬁts 77.57 86.46 84.65 to job-speciﬁc IDP competency-based educational (points) courses Basic Plan for the Invigoration of Work-life Balance] • Ratio of Flextime Vision Pleasant UPA Built by Happy Employees 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Promotion Goals (Work Family Balance) Great Workplace) Flextime ratio 8.6 14.0 22.5 IDP & CDP Integrated Career Development Model (%) Implementation ① Support for childbearing and childcare ④ Invigoration of ﬂextime Tasks ② Invigoration of family-friendly support ⑤ Support for safety, development, and U_Beginner(Grade-6 or below) U_Junior(Grade-5) U_Senior(Grades 3-4) U_Master(Grades 1-2) system grievance settlement Setting self-development plans for job Management/Job specialists ③ Implementation of family-participating ⑥ Improvements in the corporate culture Job experiences Job specialization & career management programs competency improvement & exploration (8 types) Port development Port operation management Business management Specialists Personnel Financial Family-friendly Management Accreditation (8 types) Port planning Port construction Port operations R&D Marketing Planning & audit management & management Accreditation of Family-friendly Business Management labor relations ⇧ Advance into job specialists (8 types) and management specialists To further raise employees’ awareness UPA has invited an expert working for the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family to give a lecture E1~E2 on family-friendly organizational culture. As part of its efforts to complete its support for employees’ childbearing and childcare, UPA (Grades2-3) ⇧ Job specialization and leadership enhancement has added to its employment rules a provision about the guarantee of time for females employees’ prenatal diagnosis as well as a provision preventing pregnant employees from working overtime at night or on holidays. Moreover, UPA has extended female E3~E4 ⇧ Job specialization and enhancement, career management, job posting & IDP change management employees’ childcare leave of absence from one year to three years. The number of employees that availed themselves of childcare (Grades4-5) ⇧ Setting and operating a career path taking into account the main/auxiliary path in each area/department leave of absence increased from 2 in 2014 to 4 in 2015. UPA invites the new recruits’ families to the new employment appointment E5~E7 ⇧ Job competency improvement, career exploration, and IDP (Individual Development Plan) setting ceremony. It has expanded its employees’ family participation in its diverse corporate community involvement programs. UPA boosts (Grade-6 its employees’ pride through the development and implementation of such family-participating programs. In recognition of such efforts, ⇧ Understanding of organizational culture, competency-based job experiences, cultivation of job activity competency or below) UPA acquired family-friendly management accreditation from the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family in November 2015. UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 48 49 HR Management Win-Win Labor-management Culture Upgrade of Employee Grievance Mechanism UPA made overall improvements in the grievance mechanism, aware that the previous one was not fully understood by • Grievance Settlement Record employees and that it had to be improved in terms of accessibility and systematic management. UPA enhanced in-house Advanced Labor Relations publicity for its grievance system to enhance its employees’ awareness. Upon receiving a grievance, the company ranks the Classification No. of Cases Resolved Settlement Cases Rate level of severity and sets the direction of settlement accordingly in an effort to settle the matter within the shorter time possible. UPA has set up an advanced labor relations strategy. It has selected four strategic tasks: “establishment of a labor-management Grievances 26 17 It runs the Grievance Committee and Expert Counseling Committee, which offer specialized assistance to the employees culture based on laws and principles”; “creation of results through labor-management partnership”; “invigoration of involved at the grievance handling stage. It takes follow-up measures for the purpose of monitoring the expertise and Ombudsman 3 2 communication and enhancement of expertise in labor-management relations,” and; “creation of leading examples through the 67.7% improvement of grievance handlers in their job. Help 2 2 fulfillment of social responsibilities.” It strives to build a creative labor-management culture to ensure that the company can The company has launched an ombudsman system that collects employees’ grievances and reports them directly to the top achieve sustainable growth with emphasis placed on the accomplishment of 10 implementation tasks. UPA has issued a laborTotal 31 21 executive. It has established Help Call, an in-house bulletin board devoted to grievance settlement where employees can freely management joint declaration in September 2015, pronouncing its commitment to playing a leading role in the creation of results post their opinions and proposals about the working conditions. Such direct involvement by employees in efforts to settle by building a labor-management culture based on win-win cooperation for sustainable growth, promoting institutional grievances or conﬂicts have helped raise their satisfaction with the company’s grievance mechanism to a signiﬁcant degree. improvements in work-life balance, and fulﬁlling its social responsibilities through the active implementation of the government’s Satisfaction with policies. Grievance Mechanism (Unit: points) 3.81 Strategic Systems for Advanced Labor-management Relations Invigoration of Labor-management Communication 3.10 Through invigorated two-way communication between labor and management, UPA boosts harmony and cooperation companywide. It 2.36 Goal Building a creative labor-management culture for sustainable growth operates unidirectional communication channels between management and staff and labor and management as well as between employees in an effort to build a sound labor-management culture through active sharing of information, solution of pending issues, establishment of Labor-management Strategic Tasks Establishment of a laborInvigoration of communication and Creation of leading examples consensus, and harmony between employees. UPA holds the “CEO 123 Day” wherein the CEO is obligated to meet three employees for two Cooperation Index management culture based on Creation of results through laborenhancement of expertise in through the fulfillment of hours once a month in a private setting. The mechanism is designed to boost employees’ sense of ownership and the mutual trust between (Unit: points) 82.21 82.85 management partnership laws and principles labor-management relations social responsibilities labor and management through face-face contact between top management and employees. To invigorate horizontal communication, UPA 73.31 uses an online bulletin board and a messaging app to share creative ideas about improvements in work performance. It also encourages Implementation •Enhancement of •Establishment of merit•Implementation of UPA's •Shakeup of external emotional interactions among employees through club activities, mentoring arrangements, and various gatherings designed to boost 2013 2014 2015 Tasks implementation capabilities based organizational own communication corporate image through interpersonal bonds. to carry out the culture strategies ethical management advancement strategy •Building a creative •Systemization of •Qualitative improvement of •Building a response system organizational culture enhancement of labor its CCI activities Operation of Omni-directional Communication Channels for labor situations •Increased effectiveness in management capabilities •Execution of an exemplary grievance settlement Classification Contents Annual Performance collective bargaining Labor-management Harmony Promotion Event • Meeting with Executives: invigoration of communication between departments and between agreement according to the As needed employees at different ranks 2013 2014 2015 government guidelines • Monthly Management Diagnosis Meeting: Sharing key management information and collecting Management ↔ Employees 12 times feedback •Pending Issue Brieﬁng and Discussion Forum 5 times Operation of Labor-management Joint Promotion Organization •Labor-management Working-level Pending Issue Handling Meeting As needed •Labor-management Council: Discussion and decision making about pending issues between labor 4 times UPA runs a number of labor-management joint promotion organizations such as Labor-management Council, Compensation Welfare and management Benefit Improvement Committee, Labor-management Culture Advancement and Management Innovation TFT, and Sea Full of UPA ↔ Labor union •Compensation and Welfare Beneﬁts System Improvements Committee 4 times Laughter Volunteer Corps, which not only discuss pending issues including improvements in working conditions, introduction of •Labor-management Joint Innovation Workshop: Reaching labor-management consensus on ways merit-based annual pay scheme and wage cap system, and restructuring of departments but also implement sharing with local Once to improve management performance communities through CCI activities participated in by all its employees. •Bulletin Boards, etc.: Employees' free expression of opinions on pending issues and grievances As needed • Labor-management One-mind Harmony Picnic: Building trust between labor and management Operation Status of Labor-management Joint Promotion Organizations Employees ↔ Employees through harmony-focused picnic activities Once Organization Operation Performance • UPA Cinema: Labor-management harmony by sharing cultural activities Once Labor-management • Improvements in working conditions and promotion of • Invigoration of ﬂextime, improvements in the compensation Council major agreements through Labor-management Council for inﬁnite-period contract workers, and improvements in Labor Union Activities meetings (4) working conditions Founded in December 2010, UPA’s labor union has 59 members out of the 66 eligible for membership as of the end of 2015, which • Agreement on the introduction of a wage cap system for • 4 labor and management representatives, main meetings represents a union membership of 98.5%. Those who are not eligible for membership include: grade-1 employees; heads of departments; (4 times) all employees and follow-up measures (criteria for the Compensation Welfare Beneﬁt calculation of early retirement allowance, etc.) employees in charge of HR management, labor management, auditing, and contingency planning; employees who are grade-3 or above and Improvement Committee • Regular discussion through Communication Team, • Expansion of the merit-based annual pay scheme to all are responsible for information, data processing, and payroll; secretaries and drivers; and temporary employees and interns. Security guards Working-level Team, Support Team, Inspection Team, and employees (including expansion of difference between are also excluded from the union membership so that port security management will not be affected in case of labor disputes or other types of Counseling Team individuals) and simpliﬁcation of the allowance system emergencies. The collective bargaining agreement of UPA requires that a written notice be served to the labor union in the event of major changes in the company business structures. Thus, UPA ensures that labor and management have sufficient discussion and reach an • Restructuring aimed at maximizing future growth and agreement ahead of time to minimize labor disputes. Labor-management Culture • Composed of major team leaders and labor union ofﬁcials customer satisfaction (establishment of the Future Growth Advancement and Management •Preparation of ways to implement the promotion tasks Team and Customer Support Center) Innovation TFT determined at the Labor-management Workshop •Manpower rearrangement Building a Culture of Gender Equality • Invigoration of talent donation (operation of job experience program, etc.) and support for multicultural families and the In the entire range of personnel management including employment, wage, evaluation and promotion, and education and training, UPA Sea Full of Laughter Volunteer • Implementation of diverse CCI activities unique to UPA underprivileged Corps with the participation of all employees guarantees gender equality as reﬂected on its employment rules, personnel management regulations, compensation rules, and performance •Lighthouse experience, offshore camping, and marine culture management regulations. It regularly offers employees education on sexual harassment at work. UPA also reminds them that any form of concerts involvement in sex trade is illegal in the country. In addition, it stipulates in its employment contracts that pregnant women and minors can neither take on excessive workload nor do overtime work including CCI activities on holidays. REDUCING RISKS UPA, Reducing Risks Performance Eco-friendly Port Operation_52 I Safe Port Operation _56 Eco-friendly Port Operation Context Progress Next Step As an institution that manages and operates Port of Ulsan, which is a national •Comprehensive response to climate change •Stricter environmental asset, UPA keeps Port of Ulsan clean and safe. Furthermore, it does its very best •Minimization of air pollutant emissions management than the to become a sustainable organization to all its customers, present and future government criteria •Introduction of Environmental Ship Index (ESI) alike. It minimizes environmental impact due to port operations through the •Building an eco-friendly clean port •Active promotion of new and renewable maintenance of Port of Ulsan as a clean port. It copes with environmental risks energy business and climate change through efforts toward the introduction of an environmental management system. 437.76 59.0 97.2 HGH LED Green emissions lighting product Safe Port Operation (Unit: tCO2eq) replacement purchase rate (Unit: %) rate (Unit: %) Context Progress Next Step UPA continues to enhance its safety system to prevent industrial accidents at •Enhancement of stevedoring safety •Zero port industrial accidents the port while doing its utmost to secure offshore security for vessels within the management •Stabilization of preventionRecording 100% in port Achievement of zero Building the Port of port, among others. UPA will continue to work hard to establish the best safety system possible through preemptive disaster management and by fostering a •Management of offshore industrial accidents centered safety management system facility safety index for industrial accidents in Ulsan Marine Safety Belt prevention-centered safety culture. •Securing safety in port construction •Safety management during disasters three years in a row construction sites UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 52 53 Eco-friendly Building an Eco-friendly Port Port Operation Research on Eco-friendly Hopper to Reduce the Generation of Scattered Dust Through all-out efforts to build a voluntarily eco-friendly port, UPA minimizes the environmental impact of its port operations. It takes proactive actions on environmental hazards and climate change through its environmental The chronic scattered dust generated during the unloading and storage process of animal feed emerged as a health and safety Port of Ulsan Eco-friendly Hopper hazard among port workers and local residents of Port of Ulsan. To solve the issue once and for all, UPA joined forces with the management system. stevedoring companies and a hopper developer to develop an eco-friendly hopper. After about two years of R&D efforts, UPA succeeded in the development and commercialization of an environmentally sound hopper in 2015. The result of the measurement of effect of the eco-friendly hopper on corn gluten (corn ﬂour), which generates plenty of scattered dust due to its tiny particles, revealed that the new hopper reduced scattered dust by more than 80% compared to existing hoppers. UPA ﬁled a patent application for the hopper as a hopper device restricting the generation of scattered dust at ports. In the second half of 2015, UPA and its stevedoring company invested KRW 1 billion each to install electrical facilities and purchase 6 eco-friendly hoppers, which currently operate at Piers 1-3 of Ulsan Main Port since November 2015. UPA plans to increase the number of eco-friendly hoppers not only at the port of Ulsan but also at other ports around the country to help improve the air quality at the country's ports. Building a Green Port Development Processes of the Eco-friendly Hopper • What is a “Green Port”? Systems to Build a Green Port A “Green Port” is a policy promoted by the Ministry of Through its green port policies, the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries of Korea promotes port operations characterized by low Oceans and Fisheries of Korea to enhance efﬁciency Aug. 2013 Mar. 2014 Apr. 2014 Apr. – Jun. 2014 Aug. 2014 Apr. Aug. 2015 Aug. Dec. 2015 in the consumption of resources including energy carbon emissions, high energy efﬁciency, eco-friendliness, proper response to climate change, and prevention of disasters for throughout the entire port development and operation not only ports but also their surrounding areas. As a responsible corporate citizen, UPA has set up its own plan to build a green Improvement of dust Manufacture of 5 process and realize a low-carbon green port to strike R&D on eco-friendly Fabrication and trail port that not only meets the international environmental regulations and the government's policy directions to cope with global 1st reduction judgment collector at the top 2nd reduction judgment additional hoppers and a balance between economic development and hopper operation of Hopper #1 facility full-ﬂedge operation environmental protection. climate change but also develops Port of Ulsan into an environmentally sustainable port. • Green Port Promotion System Roadmap for Green Port Implementation Introduction of Eco-friendly Stevedoring Equipment Vision Takeoff as a First-class Liquid LogisticsStage 3 centered Port through the Realization of a Classiﬁcation Contents Low-carbon Green Port Stage 2 Trial manufacture of two eco-friendly stevedoring equipment and improvement of problems through trial operations Stage 1 Development of eco-friendly Establishment of a collaboration system among four companies (UPA, developer, 2 stevedoring companies) for the development of an eco-friendly hopper Implementation Establishment of green port building strategies stevedoring equipment -Success in the development of compact stevedoring equipment befitting the situation at the port of Ulsan (vessel berthing tasks capacity and stevedoring equipment size) to boost stevedoring efficiency CO2 reductions through facility improvements Support for the installation of electrical facilities to secure 950kw for Piers 1-2 and 340kw for Pier 3 for the safe operation of Commercialization and operation of Expansion of purchase of eco-friendly materials stevedoring equipment 2022 ~ 2025 eco-friendly stevedoring equipment Stevedoring companies' purchase and on-site installation of 4 pieces of eco-friendly stevedoring equipment Transplantation of the Sea Jungle at Namhwa Pier 2018 ~ 2021 2014 ~ 2017 Design and Introduction of ESI (Environmental Ship Index)-based Charge Reduction System • E xpected Effects of ESI System Operation ● Projects that need long-term plans ● Projects that need large budgets Effect on a vessel: ● Projects requiring consultation between At the port of Ulsan, carbon emissions from vessels account for more than 60% of its total emissions. In keeping with ● Projects for which budgets are (1) 20% reduction in nitrogen oxides agencies the national effort to reduce GHG emissions, UPA has introduced the Environmental Ship Index (ESI) system developed ● Projects with high conservation effects hard to come by (2) 96.3% reduction in sulfur oxides ● Projects that need time to introduce Project ● Projects that need continuous efforts by World Ports Climate Initiative (WPCI) under International Association of Ports and Harbors (IAPH). In 2015, UPA (3) 0.82-ton reduction in carbon dioxide (GHG) ● Projects that need technical veriﬁcation types designed its own ESI-based port charge reduction system. Currently, UPA offers a 10% discount on port dues for vessels (equivalent to KRW 1 million) ● Projects with proven effectiveness ● Covered coal storage that have garnered more than 31 points in ESI. ● Hybrid tugboats ● CNG-powered vessels ● High-efficiency unloader, e-RTGC, ● High-efﬁciency LED lighting and ecohopper AMP ● What is ESI? Project ● High-efﬁciency conveyor belts, idling contents prevention devices A web-based vessel environment evaluation system developed by WPCI ● Solar power generation Nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, and GHG generated by vessels are scored on a scale of 1-100. A higher grade is offered to one with higher scores. A port authority attracts the arrival of eco-friendly vessels through the payment of incentives to ESI vessels to encourage vessels to reduce emissions on their own. UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 54 55 Eco-friendly Response to Climate Change Port Operation UPA's Implementation of GHG Emission Reduction In line with the government's policy of promoting GHG emissions reduction by public institutions, UPA monitors its GHG emissions from buildings. UPA buildings subject to the monitoring efforts include all the buildings of its headquarters except Security Headquarters of UPA. UPA cooperates with the government in setting companywide plans to boost energy conservation and GHG emission reduction. UPA continues to check its progress through constant monitoring. UPA's GHG Emissions 2013 2014 2015 UPA's GHG Emissions (Unit: tCO2eq) GHG Emissions 489.60 483.93 437.76 489.60 483.93 (tCO2eq) 437.76 Efforts to Reduce GHG Emissions at the Port As part of its efforts to reduce its GHG emissions through energy-efﬁcient port operations, UPA transferred the onshore transport of cold-rolled coil to offshore transport at Port of Ulsan Yeompo Pier in 2014. From February to November 2014, UPA transported about 150 tons offshore, reducing oil consumption and GHG emissions by around 2,052tCOeq(tCO2eq). In 2015, UPA carried out offshore 2013 2014 2015 transport of approximately 207 tons, cutting down the port's GHG emissions and associated social costs. Photovoltaic Power Generation Facility at the Marine Center Installation of Photovoltaic Power Generation Facilities at Port of Ulsan As part of its efforts to cut down the energy consumption of the Marine Center, UPA carried out the “Port of Ulsan Marine Center Photovoltaic Power Generation Facility Project” for the ﬁrst time among the country's public institutions. UPA completed the project in July 2014 after three months of work that cost a total of KRW 630 million, KRW 65.13 million of which was subsidized by the Korea Energy Agency. As a result, 102kW and 18kW photovoltaic power-generating facilities have been installed at the parking lot of the Marine Center and the security headquarters of Pier 5, respectively. Through the operation of combined 120kW photovoltaic powergenerating facilities, UPA complies with the government policy that encourages the use of new and renewable energy while making Port of Ulsan cleaner and more environmentally sound. Expansion of New & Renewable Energy Facilities through the Development and Installation of LED Floodlights Water Consumption (Unit: ton) 5,594 To join in the global efforts to respond to climate change, the Korean government declared its policy objective of reducing the country's 5,534 CO2 emissions by 30% by 2020. UPA has planned to complete the replacement of its lights with high-efﬁciency LED lighting by 4,642 2020 to take part in the government's endeavors and help reduce the country's GHG emissions. It has also developed LED floodlighting for the first time in Korea. By 2015, it replaced 59% and 65.9% of port lighting and building lighting, respectively, remaining No. 1 in the use of LED lighting among the domestic port authorities. UPA's LED Lighting Ratio 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Port lighting 27.6% 35.8% 59.0% ※ Without a separate wastewater treatment facility, used water goes to the UPA sewage Building lighting 35.5% 60.5% 65.9% system. UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 56 57 Safe Port Offshore Industrial Accident Management •S  tatus of Marine Industrial Accidents 2013 2014 2015 Operation Securing Safety for Arriving Vessels Status of Marine Industrial Accidents 7 cases 3cases 12cases To boost the competitiveness of Port of Ulsan through safe port operations, UPA inspects the port Expansion and Operation Improvement of Mooring Facilities ※ In 2015, UPA concentrated on the safety management infrastructure and raises the safety awareness of all those engaged in port operations through various Port of Ulsan continued to expand with the gradual opening of Ulsan New Port. Increased vessel trafﬁc resulted in greater risks of large vessels at the port, which ﬁgured in a relatively large number of accidents involving small vessels activities designed to prevent industrial accidents. It makes an all-out effort to continue to make of accidents caused by the shortage of mooring facilities. Thus, UPA expanded its collective mooring facilities E1 and E2 in an due to their negligence of safety measures. Thus, UPA effort to meet the increasing demand for mooring space and prevent ship collision accidents. In close cooperation with related joined hands with the relevant authorities to provide improvements in offshore and onshore safety particularly in terms of the prevention of six major offshore agencies, UPA discussed safety measures in relation to the expansion of collective mooring facilities, determining the mooring education designed to raise safety awareness among industrial accidents such as collision, running aground, sinking, rollover, ﬁre, and explosion. capacity of the facilities and ways of using the space as emergency evacuation facilities for vessels. Moreover, it carried out those involved in small vessel operations within the port in a bid to curb industrial accidents at the port. “Research on Improvements in the Operations of Mooring Facilities and Evacuation Standards during Inclement Weather.” Through the research, it analyzed the level of vulnerability of Port of Ulsan in different weather patterns and took actions to prevent ultimate sinking accidents at its mooring facilities. Publishing a Safety Manual for Port of Ulsan Mooring Facilities & Vessel Navigation 1) Anchored: to be ﬁrmly moored to the sea bottom Enhancement of Stevedoring Safety The mooring space at Port of Ulsan is characterized by relatively great depth of water uninterrupted by an island, for instance. with an anchor Stevedoring Safety Manager Council 2) Dragging anchor: A phenomenon when a vessel Therefore, when high waves pour in from oceans with southerly winds, dragging anchor1) phenomena involving anchored2) drifts without holding power when the holding vessels at the mooring facilities occur from time to time; hence the ever-present risk of vessel accidents at the port. For instance, power of its anchors gets overwhelmed by outside Creation of Stevedoring Safety Culture four vessels sank at the mooring facilities of Port of Ulsan in November 2013 because of inclement weather, incurring KRW 400 power million in recovery costs and requiring more than 1,800 man-days. Therefore, to boost the safety of anchored vessels at the port In an effort to reduce stevedoring accidents, UPA has prepared and distributed safety manuals for different types of cargoes mooring facilities and prevent vessel accidents at the port, UPA has published a safety manual about the use of the port mooring including general cargoes and bulk and Ro-Ro cargoes. It offers port workers continuous safety education so that they will make it a facilities and the safety measures required for navigation within the port for vessels arriving at Port of Ulsan. It has printed an habit to comply with the manuals on a daily basis. UPA has organized the Port of Ulsan Council of Safety Personnel participated in English version for foreign vessels, too. by Port of Ulsan stevedoring companies' safety personnel, Port of Ulsan & Transport Workers' Union, and Port of Ulsan Logistics Association. The council holds meetings on a quarterly basis to take preemptive actions on safety-related issues and enhance mutual cooperation. Establishment of Customized Local Marine Weather Information System It has designated every 4th of the month as the Day of Safety Checks. It also holds the Safety Week on a yearly basis. In collaboration with the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency, UPA runs a Port Safety Patrol based on government 3.0. Through such To prevent accidents due to inclement weather, UPA provides “customized local marine weather information service” for the ﬁrst Outstanding Manager Awards for Industrial Accident diverse safety inspection activities, it continues to make improvements in safety facilities and stevedoring procedures, among time among the country's ports. Having received local marine weather information for Port of Ulsan from a private weather Reduction and Safety Culture Creation others. In the second half of 2015, it invested around KRW 100 million in the additional installation of life-saving devices -including company, UPA delivers the information to arriving vessels twice a day through the PA system of its operations control center, a portable safety ladder that it had developed on its own -at the Piers of Ulsan Main Port to prevent injuries caused by falls during which leads offshore evacuation during inclement weather, too. Three times a week (Monday, Wednesday, and Friday), between cargo operations. Moreover, it operates an incentive system that rewards outstanding safety managers who have contributed to 12:10 and 12:15, UPA provides a three-day weather forecast of Port of Ulsan including wind directions, wind speed, and wave reducing industrial accidents and promoting a safety culture in the company as a way of motivating the relevant companies and heights broadcast by YTN Weather & Life Channel. It also offers a weekly marine weather forecast on its website. During organizations to participate actively in safety management activities while working to ensure that a culture of stevedoring safety can Safety Manual for Mooring Facilities inclement weather, UPA sends text messages to all the relevant parties to enable them to take prompt preventive measures.. take root at the port of Ulsan. Establishment of Safety Management System for the Stevedoring of Hazardous Cargo Implementation of Weather Warning System Customized for Port of Ulsan Port of Ulsan lacked a safety management system for hazardous cargo even as 80% of its annual cargo throughput was categorized as hazardous goods; thus, threats to safety remained serious despite the establishment and operation of safety standards by each Use of Berth Manager System Broadcasting Local Marine Weather Forecasts organization involved. As such, UPA carried out a research project to set up a safety management system for the stevedoring of hazardous cargo for the first time in Korea. UPA conducted on-site investigations at hazardous cargo Piers combined with Education on Testing benchmarking of overseas advanced ports. It worked out its own standards for the safety management of hazardous cargo stevedoring, which reﬂect the characteristics of each Pier of Port of Ulsan and major cargo thereof. Based on such accomplishments, UPA is seeking to establish the “Institution for Specialized Education on Hazardous Cargo Management” for the ﬁrst time in Korea. ✚ Enhancement of Expertise for Hazardous Cargo Stevedores Port of Ulsan is No. 1 in Korea and No. 3 in the world when it comes to hazardous cargo volumes. UPA makes all-out efforts to prevent industrial accidents in stevedoring hazardous goods. With hazardous goods wharves operating round the clock, UPA ● Provision of weather warnings in the form of graphics, ● Daily broadcasting before and during typhoons provides on-site education through world-class professional dangerous goods inspectors at various wharves in an effort to upgrade texts, and tables ● Additional warning right before a typhoon lands the level of expertise of Port of Ulsan in handling hazardous cargoes. Besides the on-site education, UPA conducts test-based safety ● Broadcasting weather warnings through the Local education to deepen understanding of the level of the danger of each hazardous cargo. It runs a study club composed of 24 ofﬁcials of ● Issuing weather warnings through Berth Manager UPA, Ulsan Regional Office of Oceans and Fisheries, and related companies and organizations. The club conducts research and Marine Weather Information System Installation of Pier Lamps discussion on the development of safety management of hazardous materials on a quarterly basis. Moreover, UPA carries out on-site Hazardous Cargo Education Tour inspections at stevedoring wharves along with ofﬁcials of related authorities. It conducts daily inspections at the stevedoring wharves of Ulsan Main Port. Facility Improvements for the Prevention of Marine Industrial Accidents To prevent marine industrial accidents, UPA identiﬁes risk factors and takes all the necessary actions to eliminate them. The Ulsan Comparison with the Nation's Major Ports in Stevedoring Industrial Accidents New Port North Breakwater was constructed for the purpose of securing tranquility at the port yet poses a danger to vessel navigation due to lack of visibility at night. Thus, UPA installed lamps at the breakwater and made the necessary repairs to existing lighting Port of Ulsan Busan Port Incheon Port Pohang Port facilities. UPA also installed LED lamps at the major curves of various port facilities. It installed additional security cameras for the 2015 stevedoring industrial accident injuries (person) 12 24 9 9 purpose of vessel control to eliminate blind sports and boost safety at the port. To prevent ship block-moving barges from ﬁguring in accidents during their mooring process when they are not engaged in particular 2014 stevedoring industrial accident injuries (person) 10 27 26 23 tasks, UPA offers them a barge-exclusive Pier. It has also set up tugboat mooring facilities near the port's key seaway with the heaviest port trafﬁc. UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 58 59 Securing Safety for Port Construction Maintenance of “Very Good” Grade for Port Facilities Subject to General Safety Safe Port Control Operation Maintenance of Zero Accident Rate through Systematic Safety Management UPA carries out preventive inspections of various port facilities subject to general safety control -besides the port facilities covered by the Special Act on the Safety Control of Public Structures -and prompt repairs for all those facilities demonstrating an inadequate level of safety. As a result, UPA received the “very good” grade for all of its 33 facilities, a ﬁrst among the country's Port construction sites are vulnerable to large-scale industrial accidents because they involve offshore work characterized by changeable ports. weather. Still, UPA did not record any fatality in 2015 when it carried out KRW 62.4 billion worth of construction work. Such feat was attributed to the efforts of UPA to establish safety management plans for Port of Ulsan construction sites and add standardized rules Safety Status of Port Facilities regarding offshore work safety management and crisis management implementation system to its safety management manual. UPA also designates safety personnel for each construction site on a monthly basis to carry out safety inspections and eliminate safety hazards in Intensive Inspection Results advance. Furthermore, it commissions outside safety experts to carry out monitoring in a bid to deliver comprehensive safety management. Classiﬁcation Facilities Class 2014 2015 Grain Pier 1 very good very good Safety Management at Construction Sites Coal Pier 2 very good very good Port of Ulsan Pier 2 2 very good very good Classiﬁcation 2013 2014 2015 Port of Ulsan Pier 2 (2) 2 very good very good Facility integration safety index 100.0 Offshore accidents at construction sites (case) 0 0 0 (Unit: %) Port of Ulsan Pier 3 2 very good very good 92.1 88.1 Facility integration safety index (%) 92.1 88.1 100.0 Port of Ulsan Pier 4 2 very good very good Class 1 & 2 Port of Ulsan Pier 5 2 very good very good Facilities under the Port of Ulsan Pier 6 2 very good very good Efforts for Construction Safety Special Act on the Port of Ulsan Pier 6 (2) 2 very good very good Safety Control of UPA's differentiated safety activities are typically demonstrated in the Oil Hub infrastructure work (Phase 1) and Hinterland Public Structures Port of Ulsan Pier 7 2 very good very good Complex construction work (Section 2). At the Oil Hub construction site, UPA has gotten rid of all risk factors that may cause slip Port of Ulsan Pier 8 2 very good very good and fall accidents so that workers can work in the safest environment possible. In other construction sites, scaffolding and Automobile Pier 2 very good very good handrails are installed only at the ends of caissons, leaving plenty of room for workers' fall accidents. The Oil Hub construction site covers all openings with scaffolding for the complete elimination of risks of fall accidents. In addition, UPA has assigned safety staff Yeompo Pier 2 very good very good 2013 2014 2015 to the site who regularly checks the safety practices of the site in an effort to boost safety at the site further. Onsan Port Pier 1 2 very good very good Onsan Port Pier 2 2 very good very good Onsan Port Pier 3 2 very good very good Enhancement of Visibility of Offshore Caissons A caisson is a large steel concrete structure in the shape of a chamber. It is usually used for the construction of a port to be used as a mooring facility. In other construction sites, caissons are not particularly marked. At night, they pose risk of collision with ships. At Promotion of Improvements in the Stability of Port Facilities Safety Education at Construction Sites the Port of Ulsan Oil Hub construction site, boards warning of a collision risk are installed at the top of offshore caissons with ﬂags and LED blinkers used during daytime and at night, respectively, in order to boost the visibility of the objects. In addition, UPA UPA applied the hi-tech panel technique1) and Hybrid Reinforcement System (HRS)2) to the top board of jetties at the automobile 1) Hi-tech Panel Technique: A technique Pier when it recently carried out its facility repair and reinforcement work to make improvements in the safety of its port facilities. that reinforces a jetty type Pier through the operates an Offshore Assistance Vessel equipped with a large-sized LED signboard to carry out safety control for vessels in application of panels to weak spots operation. The application of excellent patented techniques also helped promote the further development of new technologies. 2) HRS Reinfrocement Technique: A technique that prevents the degradation of steel concrete structures installed under water and improves Implementation of Consulting on Construction Safety Before the application of a patented After the application of a patented their safety and durability through the repairs and reinforcement of the damaged parts of the outstanding technique outstanding technique structures UPA has provided the Oil Hub construction site with its own consulting and inspection service. For the inspection service, it checked the risk factors, safety & health-related facilities, machinery and devices, safety management organizations, safety education, use of the budget of industrial safety & health, and protective gear. For the consulting service, it had two teams of construction safety experts (with each team composed of one professional engineer and one grade-1 technical engineer) offer safety consulting service especially for facilities with high risk of large-scale accidents, such as scaffolding, tower cranes, and Publication of Safety Management Manual for underground utilities. Focus was placed on the structural and technical safety of those facilities. Construction Sites for the First Time among Korean Ports Port Facility Safety Disaster Safety Management Execution of MOU for Marine Safety Belt Maintenance of “Very Good” Grade for Port Facilities Covered by the Special Act on the Safety Control of Public Structures Operation of the Port of Ulsan Marine Safety Belt To protect the port from the dangers of loss of functionality and deterioration of safety due to the aging of its major facilities, UPA enhanced its facility inspection considerably, increasing the inspection frequency from quarterly to monthly and carrying out facility UPA established the “Marine Safety Belt” of Port of Ulsan, a coalition of eight organizations responsible for safety management at repairs (at least four times a year) as part of its efforts to make safety management a daily routine of the entire organization. Given the port for the purposes of eliminating blind spots in safety management due to the individual activities of the organizations and the aging port facilities, UPA also carries out intensive inspection on a yearly basis. In 2014, it undertook 10 port maintenance and solving the issue of delayed response to accidents due to the lack of control tower and collaboration among them. The heads of repair projects according to the results of the previous year's intensive inspection. As a result, UPA has maintained the “very good” eight related organizations such as Ulsan Metropolitan City, Ulsan Regional Ofﬁce of Oceans and Fisheries, and Ulsan Coast Guard grade for 16 ﬁrst-class and second-class facilities as categorized in the Special Act on the Safety Control of Public Structures for 3 set up an organization to discuss and make decisions on major marine safety issues every six months. In addition, UPA also years in a row. organized a working-level meeting held monthly among the ofﬁcials of the 12 relevant organizations to undertake comprehensive systematic measures to prevent marine industrial accidents at the port UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 60 61 Safe Port UPA will achieve great synergy in its efforts to boost marine safety at Port of Ulsan through joint endeavors among all the member organizations in various areas such as sharing safety-related policies and information, cooperation in safety 2015 Public-private Joint Disaster Response Drill Operation management and safety inspections of various kinds, joint response to safety threats, joint mock drills, establishment of marine safety education systems, and operation of networks designed to promote marine safety. Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Composition of the Port of Ulsan Marine Safety Belt Regular Meeting (participated in by heads of organizations) Working-level Meeting (participated in by working-level ofﬁcials) UPA, Ulsan Regional Ofﬁce of Oceans and Fisheries, Ulsan Coast Guard, Drill observers Drill progress brieﬁng Lifesaving mission from a whale-watching ship UPA, Ulsan Metropolitan City, Ulsan Regional Ofﬁce of Oceans and Port of Ulsan Offshore Trafﬁc Control Tower , Ulsan Metropolitan City Fisheries, Ulsan Coast Guard, Ulsan Branch of Korea Marine Environment (Dept. of Oceans & Fisheries, Fire Response Headquarters), Ulsan Branch Management Corporation, Ulsan Harbour Pilots, Port of Ulsan Tank Stage 4 Stage 5 Stage 6 of Korea Marine Environment Management Corporation, Ulsan Harbour Major Roles of Marine Safety Belt Terminal Association and Ulsan Branch of Korea Tugbusiness Corporation Pilots, Port of Ulsan Tank Terminal Association, Ulsan Branch of Korea Members Tugbusiness Corporation, SK Energy Co., Ltd., S-oil, and Sin Heung Co., Classiﬁcation Major Roles Ltd. Assuming leadership in the organizational operations UPA and implementation of safety measures Ulsan Regional Ofﬁce of Management of hazardous Implementation of Public-Private Joint Disaster Response Drills Oceans and Fisheries goods businesses Offshore rescue operation Commitment of pararescue jumpers Transport of emergency patients Support for joint response UPA has identiﬁed seven types of accidents that can occur at the port of Ulsan, and it carries out public-private joint simulation Ulsan Coast Guard drills disaster response drills of the accidents on an annual basis. In 2014, more than 250 people from 24 organizations took part in Ulsan Metropolitan City Budget support and the drill of ﬁre & explosion that supposedly occurred during the stevedoring process from a liquid cargo ship at Pier 3 of Ulsan ﬁreﬁghting service Main Port. UPA enhanced the initial response system through the clariﬁcation of each participating organization's tasks in the Ulsan Harbor Pilot Association event of such disaster while raising safety awareness among Port of Ulsan Pier operators through their observance of the drill. Setting up an emergency Enhancement of Port Security and Ulsan Branch of Korea Tugbusiness Corporation support system In 2015, UPA carried out the “2015 Public-private Joint Disaster Response Drill” at Pier 6 of Ulsan Main Port. It was a comprehensive drill that included accident type No. 7, which could happen at the port of Ulsan (collision of whale-watching Private businesses and other Identifying risk factors and organizations sharing excellent cases ships requiring large-scale lifesaving efforts), lifesaving (aviation, offshore, ship-climbing), pollution prevention, and ﬁreﬁghting Intelligent, Comprehensive Port Operation practices. It was a large marine accident response drill participated in by a total of 380 people from 23 organizations, 23 System warships and vessels, 1 helicopter, and 12 ambulances. Operation of the Intelligent, Comprehensive Port Operation System For secure, speedy, and convenient port operations, UPA runs an intelligent, comprehensive port operation system. The system installed at the General Port Control Center controls the entire process from ship arrival to departure. From the moment a ship arrives at a dock, UPA starts to monitor the entire Pier through security cameras in an effort to prevent acts of terror and take 2015 Public-private Joint Disaster Response Drill Processes immediate actions in emergencies Enhancement of Port Security Activities Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 UPA has further beefed up its port security to prevent smuggling and acts of terror through Port of Ulsan in line with the government's enhancement of security requirements for various national security-related facilities. It has increased its security staff ● Disaster report → Captain → Ulsan VTS ● Operate the rescue headquarters. ● Launch an air rescue operation. from 78 to 96 persons who are now required to carry out patrols on an hourly basis instead of every two hours. It has also ● Notify related agencies of the situation ● Operate an on-site command center. Rescue persons in the water and send reinforced its physical security infrastructure including the expansion of infrared security cameras and replacement of security and request assistance. ● Designate OSC (On-scene Commander). the injured to the hospital. fences. For the ﬁrst time among the country's ports, UPA has installed a real-time video transfer system between its control center ● Dispatch rescue personnel. ● Get the Control Center to continue to ● Make urgent repairs on damaged vessel and patrol cars to enhance its capabilities to respond to emergency situations. monitor the on-scene situations and take parts. It has arranged for its security guards to put their names on any security-related activity they do in an effort to raise their initial response actions. awareness and responsibility further. Externally, it enhances cooperation with all other security-related agencies in the area to make security at the port of Ulsan watertight. In recognition of such endeavors, UPA was given the Prime Minster Award at the 2015 Integrated Defense Council Awards. UPA's efforts were also recognized as an exemplary case in the Security Promotion Contest of the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries. Stage 4 Stage 5 6단계 Cooperation with Related Agencies to Enhance Port Security ● Rescue people who have escaped from ● Climb the ship and engage in rescue operations. ● Extinguish the ﬁre onboard. the ship. Evacuate onboard passengers and ● Compare the passenger list with those who Classiﬁcation Contents Send in emergency response teams. recheck the ship for remaining have been accounted for. ● passengers. Check all rescued people through communication Concentrated scrutiny of people banned from entering the country and vessels on the blacklist through UPA Install an oil fence around the ship ● Install an oil fence to prevent secondary pollution. between different rescue teams. increased security manpower, etc. involved in the accident. ● Patrol the surrounding body of water for Operate oil spill recovery devices. (Ulsan Regional Ofﬁce of Oceans and Fisheries) Cooperation for the provision of information on seafarers who the very last time. need to be put on the black list (Immigration Service) Sharing information on seafarers banned from entering the country Related Agencies (Customs/military/police) Implementation of regular joint security drills and cooperation for initial response regarding vessels that have sailed to North Korea (Police) Patrols the port during wee hours SHARING HOPE Sharing Hope with Local Communities Performance Sharing Hope with Local Communities_64 I Shared Growth through Cooperation _68 Sharing Hope with Local Communities Context Progress Next Step UPA regards sharing the love and interest that it receives from local • Launch of “Sea full of laughter,” its CCI •Continuous spread of sharing communities and growing together with them as due CSR efforts. brand culture and implementation of Based on its characteristics and capabilities, UPA will continue to carry • Implementation of CCI activities linked to sharing management out corporate community involvement (CCI) activities and implement its business specialization sharing as required by local communities, fulfilling its social • Implementation of Port of Ulsan-allied CCI •Expansion of CCI networking responsibilities as a public institution. efforts Accreditation by the Shared Growth through Cooperation Context Progress Next Step CCI hours per employee (Unit: hour) 18 CCI beneﬁciaries' satisfaction (Unit: points) 93.86 government as an excellent institution in education donation Based on trust and cooperation with its partners, UPA strives to • Establishment of a shared growth •Prevention of losses due to unfair 82.77 92.02 realize shared growth with them beyond win-win outcomes. As a promotion system transactions through enhanced leading public institution in the industry, UPA intends to contribute to • Creation of a culture of fair transactions subcontractor management Purchase rate Rate of electronic No. of violations of fair minimizing economic bipolarization and achieving social integration • Support for the growth of SMEs •Enhanced support for expanded from SMEs contracts transaction regulations: through the creation of a culture of fair transactions among big and small businesses while helping SMEs realize sustainable growth. sales networks of SMEs (Unit: %) (Unit: %) None UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 64 65 Sharing Hope CCI Roadmap with Local Maturity Period Communities UPA intends to carry out effective CCI activities through collaboration with all the relevant agencies by discovering CCI activities that reﬂect its business specialization and characteristics and securing, allocating, Expansion Period Takeoff Period and implementing an appropriate level of CCI budget. 2018 2016 ~ 2017 Realization of 2014 ~ 2015 Expansion of socially responsible socially responsible management Laying the foundation for socially responsible management management ● Stabilization of its CSR culture ● Enhancement of its CSR brand ● Emergence as a leading company in CCI Promotion System ● Creation of common values of the creation of common values ● Laying the base for its CSR the marine industry through ● Upgrade of infrastructure of management system collaboration with Port of Ulsan traditional culture and arts ● Establishment of its CSR brand stakeholders ● Establishment of partnership with Strategic tasks Sharing with local communities Launch of UPA's CCI Brand “Sea Full of Laughter” its stakeholders ● Establishment of infrastructure for traditional culture and arts ● Re-establishment of CCI organization and operating system Implementation ● Enhancement of CCI sharing In a bid to materialize the spirit of its unique CCI competency and service for the general public, UPA has launched its CCI • Creation of CCI Funds (Unit: KRW 1,000) tasks activities brand “Sea full of laughter.” In terms of its CCI strategies, UPA continues to join forces with its suppliers to make sure that ● Expansion of PR for local its CCI activities will help solve social issues (job creation, shared growth, etc.) by connecting the activities to its major Classiﬁcation 2013 2014 2015 communities projects. In addition, it carries out its CCI activities with the citizens in creative and innovative ways with emphasis on the 24,820 13,290 12,710 Matching funds ● ● Re-establishment of CCI brand Operation of PR Hall and establishment of infrastructure designed to discover and invigorate the traditional cultural and artistic heritage of the Ulsan area coupled with continuous support for cultural and artistic activities. CCI Promotion Results CCI funds and observatory 345,000 203,243 124,458 donations ● On-site education donation ● Support for one-company-oneschool sisterhood CCI Promotion Strategies CCI Promotion Results ● Execution of Teach-for-Ulsan Matching funds MOUs (Unit: KRW 1,000) ● Payment of Red Cross 2013 2014 2015 membership dues Up 3.76% compared to the ● Couple Marathon Contest Vision UPA sharing happiness with citizens through sharing Participants' satisfaction 83.43points 84.0points previous year 24,820 ● Happy Picnic with disabled children Detailed Up 3.76% compared to the ● Full of Laughter wall painting Beneﬁciaries' satisfaction 95.23points 93.76points 94.5points business pool previous year ● Making young radish water kimchi Directions Expansion of sharing with local Support for cultural and ● Coastal cleaning activity Promotion of CCI activities related communities adjacent to artistic invigoration of local ● Hunger experience camp to Port of Ulsan 13,290 12,710 Port of Ulsan communities ● Helping neighbors in need during Chuseok ● Making Dream-kets (dream + Strategies Collaboration in CCI Promotion of specialized activities Major Activities of “Sea Full of Laughter Volunteer Corps” of UPA basket) ● Cultural picnic for multicultural To meet its social demands, UPA runs a value-sharing program customized for a port authority as the manager 2013 2014 2015 families Strategic tasks ● Development of allied CCI organization ● Expansion of CCI linked to local communities ● Kimchi Making Day ● Collaboration with the Ulsan Regional Ofﬁce of ● Enhancement of port-related CCI and operator of the port of Ulsan. UPA has donated more than 0.5% of its annual turnover over the past few ● Hope Windmill Walking event Oceans and Fisheries in CCI ● Communication with local communities through years. Its voluntary service hours per employee in 2015 stood at 18 hours, showing steady increase over the ● Year-end sharing campaign ● CCI carried out with citizens the support of Mecenat last three years and even surpassing the national average for the country's public institutions. Satisfaction with UPA, Jack of All Trades CCI activities has been on the rise over the years for both participants and beneﬁciaries. ● No. of programs carried out by the Allied Volunteer ● Budget implementation rate except for support Performance Index Group for the underprivileged ● Collaboration with the Ulsan Regional Ofﬁce of ● Specialization in CCI • Employee Volunteer Service Hours Oceans and Fisheries in CCI ● Satisfaction with CCI UPA, Jack of All Trades : UPA's Talent Donation Activities ● Hours of volunteer service per person ● Outsiders' CCI participation rate Classiﬁcation 2013 2014 2015 UPA, Jack of All Trades” is an after-school talent donation program. UPA employees share their knowledge Service hours 1,231 1,486 1,515 and experiences with students in local communities through talent donation. The program was launched for Monitoring Quarterly Management Diagnosis Semiannual management Annual management evaluation Service hours Meeting evaluation & analysis & analysis the purpose of helping the youth discover their potential and start to develop a long-term career. Launched in per employee 17.6 18.0 18.0 2013, the program has become UPA's ﬂagship customized CCI activity participated in by its voluntary service groups such as “Sea Full of Laughter” and “Blue Buddy.” UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 66 67 Implementation of Donation for Specialized Education ● Major Activities of “Sea Full of Laughter Volunteer Corps” of UPA UPA Won the “Education Donation Grand Prize” Grand Prize at the National Education Donation Awards In 2015, UPA was accredited by the Ministry of Education as an outstanding institution in the area of education donation. It also won the grand prize at the 4th National Education Donation Awards held during the year in the ﬁeld of maritime and port logistics. The award was in recognition of the efforts of UPA to open its facilities (PR Hall and observatory) by taking appropriate safety measures and develop a traditional tour program into a systematic educational program. UPA will continue to diversify its education donation programs in a bid to help foster outstanding talents in the area and boost the competitiveness of the port of Ulsan. Invigoration of Donation for Youth Vocational Experience • Donation for Youth Job Experience Support for one-company-one-school sisterhood: Support for culture and arts projects in the Ulsan area: Meeting of representatives of companies committed to “U-Port School,” an on-site expert staff's special lecture Cash donation for after-school class at Jangsaengpo Donation to Cheoyong Traditional Music Orchestra as the “Making Ulsan a Happy City” CCI campaign UPA has signed an MOU with Nam-gu of Ulsan Metropolitan City and Youth Career Vocational Experience Center of the Elementary School part of its Mecenat activities district for “Win-win Cooperation to Invigorate Donations for Youth Vocational Experiences” and made donations for the city's youth vocational experience programs. “U-Port School” is an on-site career mentoring program. UPA's expert staff visit schools that have requested the service and give lectures to students. It has developed into UPA's unique CCI activity in terms of the development of talents in the ﬁeld of marine and ports industry. In addition, UPA runs “Port of Ulsan Hope JobGo,” a job experience program wherein the company's specialists in various ﬁelds give a 180-minute presentation on the prospects in their respective areas for younger generations. The presentation is composed of not only in-depth information on the fields but also students' career test, an introduction of the jobs available in the marine and port industry, and 40 questions for self-diagnosis. It has earned raves among students. “Port of Ulsan Hope JobGo,” a career experience program 3rd Ganjeolgot Literary Concert designed to energize Sharing love during Chuseok: Delivering rice to the Making water kimchi for the disadvantaged local cultural and artistic activities underprivileged Port of Ulsan Allied CCI Implementation Realization of Collaboration-based CCI UPA joined forces with the Ulsan Regional Ofﬁce of Oceans and Fisheries to build a strategic alliance designed to maximize their CCI results at Port of Ulsan, where their interests cut across. The working-level officials of the two agencies discuss new types of CCI activities, ways to implement them, and review feedback on a quarterly basis. The alliance enables them to integrate their resources to double the outcome of their CCI activities while maximizing the PR effect of their contributions. Delivery of employees' voluntary donation for Nepal One-day lighthouse experience for students as part of Companywide voluntary blood donation campaign earthquake victims its CCI activities in cooperation with the Regional Ofﬁce 2015 Joint CCI Programs of Oceans and Fisheries Classiﬁcation Time Contents CCI Agreement of Port of Ulsan Allied Volunteer One-day Lighthouse A lighthouse experience program designed to help elementary school students in mountain Service Corps May/Oct Experience towns become friendlier with the sea A camp for elementary school students, offering chances to enjoy marine leisure and raise Ulsan Marine Camp August awareness of marine safety Lighthouse Literary July-Dec. A contest of marine literary works in various ﬁelds to boost maritime culture Contest Port of Ulsan Literary A program designed to invite multicultural families and introduce them to the Korean Sep. Concert culture and the functions of the port of Ulsan Port of Ulsan Healing A concert held at Ganjeogot, a famous coastal park, to offer Ulsan citizens healing Oct. Concert opportunities while publicizing Port of Ulsan Cash donation to impoverished households in the area Delivery of matching funds in support of the Hope-sharing Carrying out the MOU for Joint CCI Efforts at Port of Ulsan during Korean New Year Campaign 2015 UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 68 69 Shared Growth Creation of Environments for Fair Competition through Institutional improvements Operation of Clean Reporting Center on the Website through UPA continues to make concerted companywide efforts to realize shared growth with its partners as a For the purposes of motivating its stakeholders to promote fair transactions and setting up a system dedicated to the investigation of unfair transactions, UPA carried out benchmarking of exemplary cases of fair transactions and analysis of its way of fulﬁlling its social responsibilities as a leading public institution in the industry. It intends to realize past contract documents. As institutional arrangements designed to help create environments for fair competition, it worked Cooperation a bigger Port of Ulsan community where everyone thrives through the creation of a culture of fair out operational guidelines for the Unfair Transaction Reporting Center and set up an awards system recognizing outstanding fair transaction construction sites. transactions and support for the sustainable growth of SMEs. Enhancement of Subcontract Management for Fair Transactions Shared Growth Promotion System To enhance its subcontract management and prevent losses on the part of subcontractors, UPA has organized the Subcontract Evaluation Committee and expanded direct payment to subcontractors. The committee is composed of 8 persons, 3 of whom are insiders and 5 of whom are outsiders. UPA has minimized the number of insiders for the committee in terms of • Composition of the Subcontract Shared Growth Promotion Strategies enhancement of transparency and specialization of the organization by getting more outside experts from the private sector. Evaluation Committee The committee secures the fairness, transparency, and appropriateness of subcontracts through strict evaluation of the UPA strives to establish the foundation for sustainable management through the realization of fair transactions and shared growth. construction ability of subcontractors and propriety of subcontracts depending on the contract amount. To prevent Chairman It has set “Creation of Environment for Fair Transactions and Shared Growth” and “Guarantee of Fair Opportunities for Bidding and subcontractors from suffering losses due to delays in payment by prime contractors, UPA has discussed with its prime Head of UPA Contract Execution” as its core promotion strategies. UPA actively implements the detailed promotion tasks it has identiﬁed. contractors and expanded the proportion of its direct payment to subcontractors. Management Headquarters Vice Chairman Administrator Shared Growth Promotion Strategies Shared Growth through Special Considerations Leader of UPA Finance & AccountUPA Employee in charge of Contracts ing Team Goals Establishment of foundation for sustainable management through the realization of fair transactions and shared growth Promotion of Stable Management of SMEs Internal Members External Members Strategies Creation of environment for fair transactions and shared growth Guarantee of fair opportunities for bidding and contract execution Three members For effective support for the operational funds of SMEs, UPA has worked out a support plan for each relevant company, Five members including chairman Tasks ● Win-win cooperation between prime contractors expanded the limit of advance payment to 70%, and introduced a public purchase loan. To contribute to subcontractors' ● Expansion of disclosure of contract information business stability through timely payment for subcontract work, UPA has continued to expand the proportion of direct payment and subcontractors for major projects ● Prevention of contract concentration on a to subcontractors, recording KRW 16.3 billion in 2014 and KRW 27.7 billion in 2015 or approximately 70% increase ● Prevention of unfair transactions particular contractor ● Expansion of advance payment and introduction compared to 2014. UPA has had its prime contractors use a standard contract upon executing subcontracts; thus recording ● Elimination of bribery and corruption of public purchase loans zero cases of unfair transactions. The proportion of advance payment of subcontract amounts rose from 30.7% (KRW19.2 ● Obligation of limited competition between SMEs ● Expansion of direct payments to subcontractors billion) in 2014 to 38.1% (KRW 11.6 billion) in 2015, up 24% compared to the previous year. Shared Growth with Women-owned Businesses and Social Enterprises Education on Buyer-seller Meeting Shared Growth through Fair Transactions In order to expand the product sales and project bidding opportunities of women-owned businesses and social enterprises in the area, UPA has held meetings to promote “Purchase of Products Supplied by Women-owned Businesses and Social Enterprises.” UPA has also provided its purchase ofﬁcials with sessions on the system regarding the purchase of products from Major Accomplishments in the Promotion of Fair Transactions women-owned businesses and social enterprises to boost product purchase from such companies. In addition, UPA has 2013 2014 2015 arranged for ofﬁcials of women-owned businesses and social enterprises in the Ulsan area to come to the ofﬁce for the display Direct payment to subcontractors and publicity of their products as well as one-on-one buyer-seller meetings. (uNIT: KRW million) Direct payment to subcontractors (KRW million) 0 16,309 27,682 No. of violations of fair transactions (case) 0 0 0 27,682 No. of corruption cases (case) 0 0 0 Win-win Efforts with Small to Mid-sized Suppliers Rate of electronic bidding (%) 100 100 100 16,309 Rate of electronic contracts (%) 78.72 91.7 92.02 In order to maximize the impact of its shared growth efforts through the enhancement of competitiveness of its small and midsized suppliers, UPA has made the adoption of electronic bidding procedures mandatory and banned any single supplier from executing contracts (worth over KRW 10 million per contract) with itself for more than five times a year. Through the establishment of principles of preferential purchase of products, including those from SMEs, UPA has eliminated the practice of Implementation of Win-win Agreement to Create an Environment for Fair Transactions dividing a project into multiple small, no-bid contracts as a way of providing a supplier with illegitimate favors and promoted shared growth with SMEs in the fairest way possible. UPA recorded 100% proportion of electronic bids for 3 years in a row in 0 In November 2014, UPA signed a win-win agreement designed to boost the creation of an environment for fair transactions for the 2015. It also reduced its dependency on its largest supplier by 21% during the year compared to 2014. purpose of setting up an effective communication and cooperation system between prime contractors and subcontractors. UPA also 2013 2014 2015 had meetings with the relevant parties to eliminate unfair transactions and gather grievances and proposals for improvement. Having carried out the necessary verifications it acted on the ideas immediately and consolidated the foundation for win-win cooperation with them. Purchase from SMEs Enhancement of communication with stakeholders Checks and management Improvements Improvement of on-site unfair transactions 2013 2014 2015 ● Meeting with prime contractors and ● Request for cooperation in the prevention of ● subcontractors (June 2015) unfair transactions Identiﬁcation of minor matters to be improved SME products (%) 77.37 81.50 82.77 Brieﬁng on UPA's promotion plan for the year ● Implementation of on-site inspection to prevent at the site of Namhwa Pier Construction Project Newly developed products (%) 13.11 4.59 7.54 and request for cooperation in relation to the unfair transactions during an on-site inspection tour and completion Products by women-owned companies (%) 0.47 3.88 3.31 creation of fair transaction environments Concentrated inspection of unfair transactions of improvement through on-site guidance (Sep. Collection of proposals and grievances including wage payment delays in major projects Social enterprise products (%) 4.53 7.9 1.03 2015) and identiﬁcation of matters to be improved Products supplied by people with severe disabilities (%) 1.54 0.76 0.88 Products from veterans' villages (%) 12.6 10.1 15.13 UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 70 71 APPENDIX Financial Performance Financial Statement (unit: KRW won) 2015 (Current Term) 2014 (Previous Term) Category Amount Amount Assets I. Current assets 60,419,606,661 35,767,849,036 1. Cash and cashable assets 36,973,251,834 18,875,655,422 2. Current financial assets 18,000,000,000 13,000,000,000 3. Trade receivables and other receivables 2,902,735,243 2,228,796,821 4. Current non-financial assets 2,543,619,584 1,663,396,793 II. Non-current assets 682,841,151,468 626,539,140,061 1. Non-current financial assets 2,587,448,440 2,518,059,630 2. Long-term trade receivables and other receivables 290,000,000 640,000,000 3. Tangible assets 222,113,275,567 146,133,240,481 4. Investments in real estate 188,149,779,173 197,790,703,634 5. Intangible assets other than goodwill 267,412,039,208 277,840,114,322 6. Deferred tax asset 2,288,609,080 1,617,021,994 Total assets 743,260,758,129 662,306,989,097 Liabilities I. Current liabilities 29,388,495,359 15,618,067,517 1. Accounts payable and other payables 14,123,880,229 2,023,455,516 2. Current corporate tax liabilities 5,934,119,262 4,618,358,764 3. Current non-financial liabilities 8,912,165,285 8,595,508,794 4. Current estimated liabilities 418,330,583 380,744,443 II. Non-current liabilities 105,383,747,746 60,700,899,231 1. Long-term trade payables and other payables 130,000,000 130,000,000 2. Non-current non-financial liabilities 9,841,185,454 10,364,549,126 3. Payroll liabilities 412,562,292 206,350,105 Total liabilities 134,772,243,105 76,318,966,748 Stakeholders’ equity I. Paid-in capital 470,212,442,399 470,212,442,399 1. Capital 440,487,652,927 440,487,652,927 2. Paid-in capital in excess of par value 29,724,789,472 29,724,789,472 Financial Performance_71 I ISO 26000 Report on Fulfillment Level Diagnosis Report_74 I Third-party Assurance Statement_76 II. Retained earnings 138,276,072,625 115,775,579,950 GRI G4 Contents Index & ISO 26000_78 I Major Awards & Status of Association Memberships_82 I Reader Questionnaire _83 1. Earned surplus reserve 53,806,905,264 45,165,746,575 2. Other legal reserve 53,806,905,263 45,165,746,574 3. Voluntary reserve 452,921,783 452,921,783 4. Unappropriated earned surplus 30,209,340,315 24,991,165,018 III. Other components of equity 1. Accumulated other comprehensive income Total equity 608,488,515,024 585,988,022,349 Total liabilities and equity 743,260,758,129 662,306,989,097 UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 72 73 Statement of Comprehensive Income (unit: KRW won) 2015 (Current Term) 2014 (Previous Term) 2015 (Current Term) 2014 (Previous Term) Category Category Amount Amount Amount Amount I. Net sales 74,405,443,104 71,673,679,789 V. Operating income 32,057,129,406 32,337,869,648 1. Revenue (net sales) from the rendering of services 74,405,443,104 71,673,679,789 VI. Other income 231,877,574 228,629,046 II. Cost of sales 30,552,760,244 28,153,347,202 1. Rental income 115,944,749 1. Cost of sales for revenue (net sales) from the 2. Income on consignment projects (non-operating) 31,381,619 30,552,760,244 28,153,347,202 rendering of services 3. Other miscellaneous income 200,495,955 112,684,297 III. Gross proﬁt 43,852,682,860 43,520,332,587 VII. Other expenses 150,643,967 268,208,906 IV. Selling and marketing expenses 11,795,553,454 11,182,462,939 1. Donation 119,262,340 268,208,900 1. Employee welfare fund 250,000,000 2. Salaries 2,812,764,200 2,341,501,270 2. Expenses on consignment projects (non-operating) 31,381,619 3. Severance pay 199,378,640 230,984,282 3. Other miscellaneous expenses 8 6 4. Fringe benefits 286,363,405 273,287,159 VIII. Other proﬁts (losses) 6,183,200,158 (36,600) 5. Insurance premiums 512,377,491 621,291,227 1. Loss on disposition of tangible assets (36,600) 6. Depreciation expenses 2,244,551,149 2,122,507,345 2. Gains on disposition of investment property 6,183,200,158 0 7. Intangible asset depreciation expenses 744,342,704 750,868,265 IX. Financial income 1,017,262,063 1,095,963,065 8. Bad debt expenses 33,209,670 1,477,460 1. Interest income 1,017,262,063 1,095,963,065 9. Bad debt expense returns (735,051) (42,196,710) X. Financial costs 1,029,237,527 10. Commission 846,340,488 823,216,578 1. Interest expense 1,014,871,239 11. Advertising expenses 282,740,088 355,292,579 2. Loss on disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 14,366,288 12. Education and training costs 158,307,407 136,695,264 XI. Gross proﬁt 39,338,825,234 32,364,978,726 13. Vehicle maintenance costs 40,974,977 33,438,112 XII. Income tax expense 9,127,399,910 7,401,093,837 14. Publishing costs 174,426,441 120,165,924 XIII. Net income 30,211,425,324 24,963,884,889 15. Business task force costs 36,607,950 28,683,852 XIV. Other comprehensive income (after-tax) (2,085,009) 20,335,009 16. Rent 353,174,359 206,790,914 1. Other comprehensive income unreclassifiable as 17. Telecommunication charges 61,259,676 138,200,642 (2,085,009) 27,280,129 profit or loss subsequently 18. Tax and public dues 1,420,378,911 614,150,456 (1).Remeasurements of defined benefit plans (2,085,009) 27,280,129 19. Supplies expenses 65,532,815 57,766,488 2. Other comprehensive income reclassifiable as (6,945,120) 20. Utility costs 123,619,899 123,053,023 profit or loss subsequently 21. Repair charges 451,264,268 987,547,978 (2). Available-for-sale financial assets (6,945,120) 22. Travel expenses 219,310,791 205,531,398 XV. Total comprehensive income 30,209,340,315 24,984,219,898 23. Clothing expenditure 17,928,364 16,245,636 24. Association dues 21,523,909 15,892,505 25. Sales commission 174,898,125 107,896,250 26. Other selling and administrative expenses 515,012,778 662,175,042 UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 74 75 ISO 26000 Report on Fulfillment Level Diagnosis Labor Practices I UPA updates its HRD policies related to labor practices on an annual basis. It is commendable that it carefully monitors its progress regarding the implementation of the policies, and that it operates an on-site medical checkup program regularly in collaboration with the National Health Insurance Service. UPA is advised to prepare itself institutionally for issues that may arise from the performance-based wage system that the government is about to launch in 2016 nationwide. Environment I It is laudable that UPA promotes the establishment of an eco-friendly port as one of its strategic tasks, and that it has made considerable progress in this regard such as the development of an eco-friendly hopper and the expansion of warehouses for auxiliary raw materials of animal feed. Also considered to be an industry-leading initiative is UPA’s introduction of Environmental Ship Diagnosis Standard Index (ESI) developed by WPCI under the International Association of Port and Harbors in January 2016 and installation of Alternative The Korean Standards Association (KSA) has developed a checklist to be used for the diagnosis of the level of an organization’s fulfillment of Maritime Power (AMP). UPA is expected to continue to strive to build an eco-friendly port given the characteristics of the port of Ulsan, social responsibility based on ISO 26000, the international standards for social responsibility, as part of the service for the Korean Agency for which frequently houses vessels transporting petrochemicals. Technology and Standards. This diagnosis report is the result of the diagnosis of UPA’s sustainability management processes and performance Fair Operating Practices I UPA holds various meetings designed to create an environment for fair transactions as well as the sound in 7 core subjects according to the checklist of KSA. operation of the Subcontract Evaluation Committee. It is impressive that UPA has transferred overall control of its ethical management to the Strategic Planning Team, which sets detailed plans for ethical management and manages them through the PDCA method. It is also Scope notable that UPA runs the Audit Council with the country’s four other port authorities and works out a midto long-term roadmap to KSA has diagnosed the processes used by UPA to fulfill its social responsibility and its performance outcomes. For the diagnosis, KSA has make improvements in its fair competition and contract services. UPA is requested to continue enhancing its current system of fair looked into UPA’s companywide strategies and the major measures taken by UPA to execute them, stakeholder engagement, and social operations and ethical management systems. responsibility activities. Consumer Issues I Currently, two organizations of UPA deal with customer issues for the purpose of enhancing its customer service: Strategic Planning Team for overall CS planning and VOC Department for the management of VOC. UPA is advised to consider having an Method organization deal with all matters regarding consumers in terms of consistent consumer strategies. KSA has conducted the following activities to collect the relevant and proper data under the rules for assessment of the implementation level of ISO 26000: Community Involvement and Development I In an effort to help develop the local culture and arts, UPA sponsors various events in local Reviews of UPA’s companywide strategies and management performance reports communities including Madangguk (traditional outdoor theatrical performance), Ulsan City Volunteer Service Festival, and Ulsan Whale Interviews with UPA staff in charge of sustainability management by area together with review of related documents Festival. Moreover, it operates the “Sea Full of Laughter” volunteer service group. It arranges for the Korea Social Enterprise Promotion Identification of sustainability issues that can impact its stakeholders Agency to join hands with a local social enterprise to run a snack bar (cafe) at the Seafarer Welfare Center of Ulsan Main Port. UPA expanded its corporate community involvement considerably in 2015 compared to the previous year. UPA also contributes to the cultivation of local talents in the areas of shipping and port through the support of a “free learning semester system” for middle school students and job Diagnosis Results by ISO 26000 Social Responsibility Process experience programs like Port of Ulsan Hope JobGo as well as its employees’ talent donation activities. In recognition of such efforts, UPA UPA is judged to be outstanding in “execution” in the area of processes. Nonetheless, it needs to take supplementary measures in the areas of was accredited as an outstanding institution by the Ministry of Education in the area of professional education and awarded the grand prize at the National Education Donation Awards. UPA is urged to continue on its current path and enhance its involvement in local communities. “Setting Priority and Execution Strategies and Plans,” “Improvements,” and “Verification Carry out activities to uphold the social responsibility principles and integrate them Organizational Governance Recognizing Social Responsibility Recognizing Social Responsibility Review the current status of the organization based on the commitment of managers. Organizational Governance into existing systems, policies, and practices. Stakeholder Identification 5.00 Carry out activities to respect, protect, and uphold human rights within the Improvement 5.00 and Engagement Stakeholder Identification and Review the interests and requests of stakeholders and establish engagement 5.00 Human Rights 4.00 4.00 organization and areas under the inﬂuence of the organization. 4.00 Engagement strategies. 4.40 Community Human Rights Implement policies and practices affecting the labor environments of workers of the 3.90 3.00 3.00 Labor Practices Analysis of Core Subjects and Issues Compile a list of issues by reviewing issues and analyzing internal competencies Involvement and 4.29 organization and its business partners. 2.00 2.00 3.50 Prioritization and Establishment of Prioritize the issues to be improved considering the organization’s competencies and Development Carry out activities to take integrated approaches considering the implications of the 1.00 organization’s decisions and activities to minimize the organization’s environmental 1.00 Analysis of Core Execution Strategy establish targets and execution plans. The Environment Verification Subjects and Issues 0.00 impact. 3.60 0.00 Implement the strategies, visions, objectives, and action plans and periodically 4.40 3.38 Execution Consumer 4.33 Labor Carry out activities to bring attention to ethical practices in transactions between the monitor the social responsibility outputs. Fair Operating Practices Issues Practices organization and other organizations, such as partners and suppliers. Communication Compile and communicate the performance reports to stakeholders. Carry out activities to protect the rights of consumers, including 4.20 3.80 Communication Prioritization and Verification Carry out activities and reporting to improve the reliability of performances 4.33 4.42 Consumer Issues consumer education, fair and transparent marketing information and contract, and Establishment of promotion of sustainable consumption. 4.70 Execution Strategy Improvement Review performances periodically to ensure continuous improvements Execution Fair Operating Practices The Environment Community Involvement and Carry out activities to recognize and respect the rights of local Development communities and to maximize their resources and opportunities. Diagnosis Results as per the 7 Core Subjects of ISO 26000 Conclusion The Korean Standards Association is a special As a result of the diagnosis of UPA’s ISO 26000 response level, UPA has been found to belong to SR level IV, having scored a total of 818 points -Organizational Governance I The fact that UPA has selected the “establishment of a sustainability management system” as one of its corporate body estab-lished 330 points out of 400 as full marks in the process aspect and 488 points out of 600 as full marks in the performance aspect. Thus, UPA, having companywide strategic goals shows the authority’s particularly strong commitment to promoting the cause compared to other public pursuant to the “Law on Korean Industry Standarreached consensus among its employees on the organization’s social responsibilities, is judged to be committed fully to expanding its sustainability institutions in Korea. In order for UPA to realize more systematic governance, it is recommended that the Port Committee as its top decisiondization” enacted in 1962. It is a knowledge service management through active corporate community involvement based on its potential. The UN member countries are striving to meet the making body increase the frequency of its review of the authority’s sustainability management issues and consider the possibility of integrating the Ethical Management TF -which was launched at the end of 2014 to promote the cause at the level of each department with institution that supplies and international body’s 17 sustainable development goals (SDGs). The assurance provider recommends that, to develop the port of Ulsan into a worldexpands industrial appointed working-level personnel -into a “Sustainability Management System.” standardization, quality management, sustainability class port, UPA apply the goals relevant to itself (e.g., SDG 14: “Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas, and marine resources”) as its management, and KS/ISO accreditation to companies. KSA is also a national administrative organization for ISO 26000, strategy and realign its direction in a way that can help it realize globally sustainable growth most efficiently. The assurance provider hopes that UPA Human Rights I Considered to be an exemplary case, in terms of the protection of human rights, is UPA’s introduction of a promotion system a designated educational institution for GRI guidelines, an will continue to develop into a globally competitive port authority. for irregular workers -short-term, long-term, and unlimited term contract workers -as part of its efforts to comply with the rules on the AA1000 assurance institution, and an operational institution of the Korean Sustainability Index (KSI), an operational prohibition of discrimination. It is recommended that UPA carry out education on awareness of human rights among its employees in line with organization of the UN CDM, and an assurance agency of the June 2016 the government’s enhanced human rights management policy. GHG target management system. It makes significant contributions to the country’s sustainable development. Baek Soo-hyun, Chairman & CEO, Korean Standards Association UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 76 77 Third-party Assurance Statement Dear UPA management and stakeholders, Responsiveness I Has UPA responded to the requests and interest of its stakeholders appropriately? The assurance provider has confirmed that UPA strives to respond to its stakeholders’ requests and interest by reﬂecting opinions collected from its stakeholders in this report. The provider has not found any evidence that UPA’s response to the company’s key stakeholders’ issues has been reported inappropriately. Introduction The Korean Standards Association (“assurance provider”) was asked to carry out independent assurance for “UPA Review of GRI G4 Application Level sustainability report (“the report”)”. Having reviewed the integrity of the data included in the report, the assurance provider presents its independent opinions on the report herein; UPA is responsible for the accuracy of all the The assurance provider has confirmed that this report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI G4 Core Option, and statements and performance data contained in the report. that, based on the data provided by UPA, the information related to the following General Standard Disclosures and Specific Standard Disclosures is accurate: Independence General Standard Disclosures The assurance provider has no interest in any of the businesses carried out by UPA except the provision of this third-party The provider has confirmed that the report complies with the General Standard Disclosures of Core Option as a result of review assurance for this report as an independent assurance provider. Neither does it have any relationship with UPA that could of the following indices: G4-1, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 26, 27, 28, 29, affect its independence or pursue commercial interests. 30, 31, 32, 33, 34, 56 Assurance Standards and Level Speciﬁc Standard Disclosures The assurance provider has verified whether the report complies with the principles of inclusiveness, materiality, and The assurance provider has confirmed the DMA of the material aspects identified through the reporting item determination responsiveness according to the assurance standards of AA1000AS (2008). It offers “moderate” level of assurance regarding process as a result of review of the following indices: G4-EC1, EC7, EC8, EN6, EN15, EN19, EN22, EN27, LA1, LA2, LA3, LA4, the credibility of all the information contained in the report. It has also applied GRI G4 Guidelines and ISO 26000 to its LA6, LA9, LA11, LA12, HR12, SO1, SO4, SO6, SO7, SO8, PR1, PR5, PR7, PR8 verification of the report. Opinions and Recommended Improvements per Category [Implementation Performance & Issue Level] Assurance Type and Scope The assurance provider recommends the following so that UPA can set up companywide sustainability management strategies The provider has carried out Type 2 verification in accordance with AA1000AS, which means that it has evaluated the accuracy and cope with sustainability management issues more effectively: of performance information contained in this report and other statements of UPA. The assurance scope is the company’s performance between January 1 and December 31, 2015, including some key information valid as of the first half of 2016. The Economic Category assurance provider has undertaken the assurance by placing emphasis on the company’s systems and activities such as The port of Ulsan is the driving force of the economic growth of the country and the hub of its international logistics. UPA sustainability management policies, objectives, projects, standards, and performance during the reporting period. The continues to realize stable growth to develop the port into the world’s top-tier port equipped with the most sophisticated provider has also verified the company’s environmental and social data as well as the financial data about its economic facilities so that Korea can realize its dream of becoming the world’s maritime powerhouse. To boost the business performance in a broad sense. It has limited the verification of the company’s stakeholder involvement to the review of competitiveness of Port of Ulsan, the hub of liquid logistics in Northeast Asia in the 21st century, it is crucial for UPA to materiality test processes. enhance its risk management for more effective preparations for uncertain economic situations down the road. Most notably, it is helpful to refer to the financial management plans that UPA is preparing to implement to address anticipated economic Assurance Methodologies uncertainties caused by the global recession in the shipping industry. The provider has collected information, data, and evidence related to the assurance scope using the following methodologies: Environmental Category •Analysis of media reports related to the sustainability management of UPA for the past three years As a public institution, UPA attempts to take the lead in the creation of safety work environments, showing outstanding •Review of the company’s compelling issues selected through consultation with UPA commitment to continuous improvements in this area. The assurance provider has confirmed that UPA fulfills its port •Interviews with those in charge of sustainable management and persons responsible for major issues at the headquarters of management duties faithfully according to the country’s green port policies. The provider expects UPA to enhance its own UPA efforts to bring about more impressive results in the area of GHG reduction and energy conservation in accordance with its •Review of management systems and processes used to make improvements in the company’s sustainability management green management system that it is about to launch. and to prepare this report • Review of the consistency of the company’s financial performance data and the disclosed information and audit report about Social Category UPA’s financial statements The assurance provider has confirmed that UPA is making efforts for sustainable management in various areas such as re•Review of the company’s internal documents and backup data establishment of its companywide vision and management goals, establishment of its ethical management plans, preparation of roadmap for the cultivation of maritime experts, implementation of joint labor-management declaration, and launch of its Assurance Results and Opinions [Assurance Principle/Process Level] CCI brand. Most notably, UPA strives to improve its risk management system and expand its stakeholder involvement as a way The assurance provider reviewed the draft report and presented its opinions on the contents. UPA made revisions accordingly. of continuously managing its strategic task performance according to the companywide strategic goals, which in turn aim at In the process, however, the provider could not find any serious errors or inappropriate statements in the report. The assurance building social trust through socially responsible business management and growing together with its stakeholders. The provider presents its opinions on the final version of the “2015 UPA Sustainability Management Report” as follows: assurance provider recommends that, since the industry is witnessing an overall upgrade in the level of companies’ ethical management, sharing management, and shared growth, UPA enhance its evaluation of and reporting on the outcome and the Inclusiveness I Has UPA included its stakeholders in its strategic response processes as to the issue of sustainability? ultimate impact of the company’s activities in the area. The provider has confirmed that UPA strives to include its core stakeholders in its promotion of sustainability management, and that it operates diverse forms of communication channels to boost interaction with them. The provider could not find any crucial stakeholder group isolated from the company’s abovementioned efforts. Materiality I Has UPA included the material aspects required for its stakeholders’ prudent judgment? July 2016 The assurance provider has determined that UPA has neither omitted nor excluded key information for its stakeholders. The Baek Soo-hyun, Chairman & CEO, Korean Standards Association 000-129 provider has also confirmed that UPA has undertaken a material test with key issues identified in its internal and external environmental analysis and prepared this report according to the results. The Korean Standards Association is a special corporate body established pursuant to the “Law on Korean Industry Standardization” enacted in 1962. It is a knowledge service institution that supplies and expands industrial standardization, quality management, sustainability management, and KS/ISO accreditation to companies. KSA is also a national administrative organization for ISO 26000, a designated educational institution for GRI guidelines, an AA1000 assurance institution, and an operational institution of the Korean Sustainability Index (KSI), an operational organization of the UN CDM, and an assurance agency of the GHG target management system. It makes significant contributions to the country’s sustainable development. UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 78 79 GRI G4 Contents Index & ISO 26000 General Standard Disclosures General Standard Disclosures Indicators Contents ISO 26000 Page External Indicators Contents ISO 26000 Page External Assurance Assurance Strategy and Analysis For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: * Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) about * If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following two G4-1 4.7/6.2/7.4.2 2-3 76-77 the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-20 approaches and report either: 25 76-77 – The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or Organizational Proﬁle – The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material G4-3 Report the name of the organization 8 76-77 * Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 8-9 76-77 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: 5.2/7.3.2/7.3.3/7.3.4 – Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 8 76-77 G4-21 – If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the 25 76-77 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has significant Aspect is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified G4-6 8 76-77 operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. – Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 8 76-77 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. About this Report 76-77 G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). 9 76-77 Report the scale of the organization, including: G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. About this Report 76-77 Total number of employees Total number of operations Stakeholder Engagement G4-9 8-9 76-77 Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 20-21 76-77 Quantity of products or services provided G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 20-21 76-77 a. Report the total number of employees by`and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. G4-26 5.3 20-23 76-77 and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. G4-10 8, 45 76-77 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. 6.3.10/6.4.1/6.4.2/ Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism or G4-27 20-23 76-77 6.4.3/6.4.4/6.4.5/6.8.5/7.8 topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns. agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 49 76-77 Report Proﬁle G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 6-7 76-77 G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. About this Report 76-77 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain, G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). About this Report 76-77 including: Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). About this Report 76-77 G4-13 Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private About this Report 76-77 sector organizations) G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. About this Report 76-77 Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including selection a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. and termination b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 18-19 76-77 G4-32 7.5.3/7.6.2 About this Report 76-77 c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, if the report has been externally assured. GRI recommends List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the organization the use of external assurance but it is not a requirement to be ‘in accordance’ with the Guidelines. G4-15 82 76-77 subscribes or which it endorses. a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations in which the b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any organization: external assurance provided. G4-33 76-77 76-77 Holds a position on the governance body c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. G4-16 82 76-77 Participates in projects or committees d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues organization’s sustainability report. Views membership as strategic Governance Identiﬁed Material Aspects and Boundaries a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any G4-34 6.2/7.4.3/7.7.5 11-13 76-77 G4-17 b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered 8-9 76-77 committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. by the report. 5.2/7.3.2/7.3.3/7.3.4 Ethics and Integrity a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. G4-18 24-25 76-77 b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 4.4/6.6.3 14-17 76-77 G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 25 76-77 UPA Sustainability Report 2015 A Sustainable Port for the Future 80 81 GRI G4 Contents Index & ISO 26000 Speciﬁc Standard Disclusures Speciﬁc Standard Disclusures Aspects Indicators Contents ISO 26000 Page External Aspects Indicators Contents ISO 26000 Page External Assurance Assurance Category: Economic G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 38-39 76-77 G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 28-29 76-77 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 6.4.7 46 76-77 Training and Education Economic Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6.8.1-6.8.2/6.8.3/6.8.7/6.8.9 10 76-77 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by gender G4-LA11 6.4.7 46 76-77 and by employee category G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 28-29 76-77 G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 38-39 76-77 Indirect Economic Diversity and Equal Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 6.3.9/6.8.1-6.8.2/6.8.7/6.8.9 30-37 76-77 Opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category according to Impacts G4-LA12 6.2.3/6.3.7/6.3.10/6.4.3 12, 45, 49 76-77 gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 6.3.9/6.6.6/6.6.7/6.7.8/6.8.1G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 30-37 76-77 6.8.2/6.8.5/6.8.7/6.8.9 Human Rights Category: Environmental G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 38-39 76-77 Human Rights Grievance G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 50-51 76-77 Mechanisms Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Energy G4-HR12 6.3.6 49 76-77 grievance mechanisms G4-EN6 Reductuin of energy consumption 6.5.4/6.5.5 54 76-77 Society G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 50-51 76-77 G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 62-63 76-77 Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (Scope 1) 6.5.5 54 76-77 Local Communities Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and G4-SO1 6.3.9/6.5.1-6.5.2/6.5.3/6.8 64-67 76-77 develop programs G4-EN19 Reductino of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 6.5.5 54 76-77 G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 14-17 76-77 Anti-corruption G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 50-51 76-77 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.3 16-17 76-77 Efﬂuents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3/6.5.4 54 76-77 G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 76-77 Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.4 Not applicable 76-77 G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 50-51 76-77 제품 및 서비스 G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 62-63 76-77 Anti-competitive G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 6.5.3/6.5.4/6.5.5/6.7.5 53 76-77 Behavior Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their G4-SO7 6.6.1-6.6.2/6.6.5/6.6.7 68-69 76-77 outcomes Category: Social G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 62-63 76-77 Labor Practice and Decent Work Compliance Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance G4-SO8 4.6 68 76-77 G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 38-39 76-77 with laws and regulations Product Responsibility G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age group, gender and region 6.4.3 45 76-77 G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 50-51 76-77 Employment Customer Health and Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees, by Safety Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are G4-LA2 6.4.4/6.8.7 47 76-77 G4-PR1 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.4/6.7.5/6.8.8 56-61 76-77 significant locations of operation assessed for improvement Product and Service G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 38-39 76-77 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 6.4.4 47 76-77 Labeling G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.6 41 76-77 G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 38-39 76-77 G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 28-29 76-77 Labor/Management Relations Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these are specified in Marketing G4-LA4 6.4.3/6.4.5 48-49 76-77 Communications Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning collective agreements G4-PR7 4.6/6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.3 76-77 marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 38-39 76-77 Occupational Health G4-DMA Disclosures on Manaement Approach 38-39 76-77 and Safety Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number Customer Privacy G4-LA6 6.4.6/6.8.8 47 76-77 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender G4-PR8 6.7.1-6.7.2/6.7.7 42 76-77 customer data UPA Sustainability Report 2015 82 Reader Questionnaire Major Awards We at UPA would like to gather our stakeholders’ valuable opinions on our 2015 UPA Sustainability Report. Kindly fill out the following form and send it to us via mail, email, or fax. Your input will be reﬂected on our & Status of sustainability management activities as well as our future sustainability reports. Association Major Awards (2014-2015) Q 1. Which of the following groups do you belong to? Memberships Awards Host Date  Employee  Customer  Government  Local government Gold medal, LACP Sustainability LACP Feb. 24, 2015  Port-related association or organization  Partner firm  Industry sector Management Awards 2013/2014  Academia  Press and media  Community and local resident Selected as one of the top 5 international ISWAN Jun. 16, 2015  Civic and social organization like NGO  Expert in sustainability management seafarers’ lounges Grand prize at the Korea Management  Others ( ) Korean Standards Association Jun. 24, 2015 Innovation Awards Ministry of Gender Equality and Accreditation as a family-friendly company Nov. 25, 2015 Family Q 2. What is your main area of interest? (Multiple answers allowed)  Sustainability Overview  Accelerating Growth  Increasing Values  Reducing Risks  Sharing Hope  Others ( ) Status of Association Memberships Q 3. Please assess the completeness and usefulness of the contents of this report. Status of Association Memberships Year Joined Classification Very good Good Fair Not good Not very good International Association of Ports and Harbors (IAPH) 2008 Sustainability Overview      Accelerating Growth      Sea Explorers of Korea 2008 Increasing Values      Korea Emergency Plan Council 2008 Reducing Risks      Marine Fisheries Emergency Planning Council 2008 Sharing Hope      Korea Ports & Harbor Association 2009 Ulsan Chamber of Commerce and Industry 2009 Q 4. Please give your overall assessment of this report. Security Council of National Strategic Facilities 2009 Classification Very good Good Fair Not good Not very good Design is good, and print type is helpful in understanding the      report (legibility). Institute of Internal Auditors 2011 I trust the contents of the report (reliability).      Korea Institute of Maritime Law 2012 Material issues are sufficiently explained (materiality).      The contents and terminology are clear and easy to Korea Electric Engineers Association 2012      understand (clarity). Korea Fire Safety Association 2012 National Quality Award Winner Companies Association 2013 Q 5. Has this report aided in your understanding of UPA’s sustainability management activities? Federation of Korea Maritime Industries 2013  Very good  Good  Fair  Not good  Not very good International Logistics Research Society 2013 Korea-Russia Business Council 2014 Q 6. Please feel free to state your opinions on UPA’s sustainability management efforts. perforated line Dept. in charge of sustainability report | Address: Strategic Planning Dept., 271 Jangsaengpogorae-ro, Nam-gu, Ulsan, Korea 44780 T. 052-228-5354 F. 052-228-5349 e-mail: chohh@upa.or.kr
