ANNUAL REPORT 2015 A WORLD-CLASS HOTEL COMPANY A STRONG BRAND • UNRIVALLED GEOGRAPHIC NETWORK • STRONG CORPORATE CULTURE • COMMERCIAL AND OPERATIONAL LEADERSHIP • HIGH-QUALITY PIPELINE • CLEAR GROWTH STRATEGY This is Scandic Insert A proven business model 23 Financial reports 54 The leading hotel company Strengths that position 24 Notes 62 in the Nordics Insert Value creation at all levels 27 Auditor’s Report 86 How Rica became Scandic Corporate Governance 88 CONTENTS: Our Nordic DNA A 50-year journey 1 2 in Norway Strategy 2020 shows 28 Board of Directors 96 Management 98 CEO statement 4 the direction forward 30 Sustainable supply chains 100 Our journey, vision, mission Accessibility for all 32 Stakeholder dialogs 102 and our values 8 Actively engaged employees 34 GRI Index 104 Twenty-four hours at Scandic 10 Employees from 120 countries 36 Scandic makes a comeback An attractive market 12 Forerunner in environmental on the stock exchange 106 Unrivalled reach 14 issues 38 Shareholder information 107 A diversified portfolio 16 Sustainable and responsible food 40 Definitions 108 The Swedish national team Scandic in society 42 – always a home game 18 Administration Report 44 How Scandic creates value 20 Risks and risk management 51 Scandic is a Swedish company subject to Swedish laws. All values are expressed in Swedish kronor. Figures in parentheses refer to 2014, unless otherwise specified. Data on markets and the competitive situation is based on Scandic’s own assessments unless a specific source is indicated. Such assessments are based on the best and latest available facts from published sources. Revised Administration Report pages 44–85. THIS IS SCANDIC 41,000 A SOLID BRAND Today, Scandic is the strongest hotel brand in the Nordic region. This is because the company controls its entire value chain – from booking to following up. This creates a secure base. But a strong brand is perishable. To keep it alive, each Scandic employee needs to live up to the expectations of HOTEL ROOMS guests, every time they meet. At the same time, the content and perceived values of the brand need to be constantly developed so that it remains relevant and appreciated. STRATEGIC COOPERATION In the Nordic market, leasing is the most common model for operating hotels, and Scandic focuses on hotels with long-term leasing agreements. 221 120 This model offers financial flexibility and operational control. It also links Scandic and the property owner’s interests and leads to mutual trust. Scandic’s strong market position means that it is the first choice for many property owners when it comes to new hotel projects. HOTELS CITIES CORPORATE CUSTOMERS DOMINATE 1.6 MILLION LOYAL GUESTS About 70 percent of Scandic’s revenue comes from business travelers Over the years, Scandic has been a pioneer and driven development in the and conferences. The remaining 30 percent is from leisure travel. hotel industry. Guests have appreciated Scandic’s innovation and today, the Scandic is a full-service provider of accommodations, restaurants and company enjoys a high percentage of repeat customers. This is manifested conference facilities with a range of services tailored to local markets. in the loyalty program Scandic Friends – the largest in the Nordic region with Scandic constantly differentiates its offering in relation to competitors. more than 1.6 million members. These members earn valuable points each Returning guests should feel that Scandic offers distinct and meaningful night they stay, and Scandic Friends members account for about 40 percent added value. of Scandic’s reservations. 7 14,400 HIGH-QUALITY HOTEL PORTFOLIO Scandic works constantly to optimize its existing hotel portfolio HOTELS through additions and reconfigurations. It has also successfully built a pipeline of new hotels. At year-end, there were seven IN PIPELINE exciting new hotels that will be opened between now and 2018. EMPLOYEES A 50-YEAR HISTORY FORERUNNER IN SUSTAINABILITY Scandic was founded as Esso Motor Hotel in Laxå, Sweden in 1963. Within Doing business responsibly is important to Scandic. And the company has just ten years, Esso was the largest hotel chain in Sweden. The Scandic been a driving force in the hotel industry in the area of sustainability. This brand was established in 1983. The journey since then has been marked leading position was confirmed for the fifth year in a row when Scandic was by strong organic growth combined with strategic acquisitions. The model named the most sustainable hotel operator in last year’s survey by Sustainhas always been to transform the hotels into Scandic ones right away able Brands in Sweden. Scandic’s efforts in this area reduce costs and – a successful strategy that has laid the foundation for Scandic’s strong increase revenues. They also strengthen the company’s brand since guests brand. Ownership of the company has changed over the years. Between – like Scandic – feel increasingly strongly about these issues. 1996 and 2001, Scandic was listed on the stock exchange. The re-listing of Scandic’s shares in the fall of 2015 marks a comeback. THE LEADING HOTEL COMPANY IN THE NORDICS 41,000 hotel rooms. At 221 hotels in operation. In about 120 cities. These three figures underline Scandic’s role as the leading hotel operator in the Nordic region. Scandic focuses on hotels in the mid-market segment. The company’s annual sales total SEK 12.2 billion. Scandic’s employees number more than 14,400. And each person is equally important for creating the positive customer experience that Scandic is known for. NET SALES AND GROWTH ADJUSTED EBITDA AND EBITDA MARGIN REVPAR AND GROWTH MSEK % MSEK % MSEK % 15,000 40 1,400 12 800 30 12,000 30 1,050 9 600 20 9,000 20 700 6 400 10 6,000 10 350 3 200 0 3,000 0 0 –10 0 0 0 –10 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Net sales, MSEK Growth, % Adjusted Adjusted RevPAR, MSEK Growth, % EBITDA, MSEK EBITDA margin, % OUR NORDIC DNA The Nordic way of doing things has been in Scandic’s DNA since its inception over 50 years ago. It is reflected in our design, our service and our people. It steers our culture, our thinking and our leadership. It is reflected in our openness to the world and its diversity. In thinking big, challenging ingrained ideas, working as a team and being driven by the conviction that nothing, absolutely nothing, is impossible. And naturally, it is the foundation of our vision, our mission and our values. A 50-YEAR JOURNEY Scandic’s history as a company started 1990. The first hotel outside of Scandinavia opens and Scandic in the form of a roadside hotel in Laxå, now has more than 100 hotels. Sweden more than 50 years ago. And even if many things have happened since then, this was already the foundation of the culture and creativity that still characterize Scandic – whether you’re visiting a city hotel, conference center or a strategically-located regional hotel. 1966–69. The roadside hotel concept is successful. By 1969, 23 more hotels have opened in Sweden. 1972. 1993. The first roadside hotels open in Denmark and Norway. Scandic’s Sustainability Program is launched with the The following year, Esso becomes Sweden’s largest environmental targets that have become the company’s hotel chain. hallmark. 1963 The first Esso Motor Hotel opens in Laxå. An innovative 1995–2000. concept that is the first of its kind in Sweden. Scandic buys Reso Hotels and Provobis in Sweden and Arctia in Finland. Scandic becomes the largest hotel company in the Nordic region. 1983. 1996. The chain is sold to Ratos and the Scandic brand Scandic is the first hotel company to be listed on the is launched. Stockholm Stock Exchange. 2 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • HISTORY 2001. Hilton Group acquires Scandic and the company’s shares are delisted. 2007. Scandic is acquired by EQT (indirectly) together with Accent Equity. 2015 2014. 2015. Rica Hotels is acquired and integrated into the Scandic Scandic makes a comeback on the stock exchange brand. This further fortifies Scandic’s strong position in December. in the Nordic region. The HTL concept is launched. HISTORY • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 3 “2015 WAS A YEAR OF STRONG FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE FOR SCANDIC.” WHAT WERE THE MOST IMPORTANT companies such as ours. The new platform involves no EVENTS IN 2015? transformative changes to what has worked earlier – it’s – As usual, a lot happened at Scandic last year. First of all, more the next step in our journey. You could say that we’ve we had the initial public offering that the management sharpened our culture and made it more targeted. The catfocused on in the second half of the year. Scandic is now alyst for this was the Rica acquisition. With our more than playing in an entirely new league, with many new demands 70 new hotels, we became the leading hotel company by placed on us. We also worked purposefully on integrating far in the Nordic region, which triggered a discussion about Rica Hotels. In addition, we took over three new hotels in the opportunities this presented. We then created our new Bergen and signed contracts for a number of very exciting vision to become a world-class hotel company. new hotels, both projects and existing hotels. During the – The starting point is our Nordic values and the lifestyle year, we also established the basis for our new strategic they represent. Already from our beginning 50 years ago, we Momentum is very strong at and financial objectives, developed a new cultural platform were pioneers in the Nordic countries in all areas of the hotel and worked proactively to reduce the effects of current business. And our new cultural platform cements this. Our Scandic. Profits in 2015 were headwinds for our hotels at Norwegian oil destinations. guests prefer an informal approach. They appreciate our the highest ever. The company – Parallel to all of this, it was business as usual in 2015. openness, our service and design and our diversity. This is gaining market share and I’d like to add that during the year, we also further strengthforms the foundation on which Scandic is based – what ened our position as the leading hotel operator by far in the Scandic has always rested on. And this is something we take most indicators are pointing in Nordic region and took market share. At the same time, our with us when we consider new business opportunities outthe right direction. In this intercustomer and employee satisfaction again reached high side the Nordic region. We might take Scandic out of the view, Frank Fiskers, President levels. The effective teamwork at Scandic has paid off and Nordics, but we will never take the Nordics out of Scandic. & CEO of Scandic, talks about we delivered the highest results ever. HOW DO YOU GET 14,400 PEOPLE TO the company’s strengths and WHAT WERE THE DRIVING FORCES PULL IN THE SAME DIRECTION? how it is working to develop BEHIND THESE SUCCESSES? – I have personally presented and discussed the new and further cement its position – I spend a lot of time with team members and guests at cultural platform with all of our hotel general managers our hotels and what I see makes me very proud. We don’t and senior employees. And the response has been very as the leading hotel operator make products that we can simply add to our stock. We sell positive. They appreciate that we have raised our level of in the Nordic region. something that is perishable – a mood and an atmosphere. ambition and clarified our values. A hotel can be compared to a stage where everything – The next step, which has already started, is to roll out happens live and the interaction between the guests and the cultural platform and what it stands for in a structured employees is what results in a successful performance. dialog. This will give our employees – at all levels in the You can’t fake a positive culture – it has to come from Group – the chance to discuss what the new platform within and be based on genuine feeling. This is something means to each of them. This way, we can foster the perthat each of our employees carries within them. And what sonal commitment that is so unique to Scandic. you notice when you visit us. – Our values are also extremely important when we – We have a strong network of excellent and ideally recruit new employees. They help us find the right people located hotels that offer pleasant environments and all the and at the same time, they’re a compass for people who facilities needed to make staying with us into a positive want to work for us. I can confirm that our status as a good experience. Naturally, no one checks into a hotel to have workplace is very high. In Universum’s annual survey of busia bad time. Especially if they spend many nights a year ness students, we placed high last year as a dream employer. traveling on business. Then you want everything to work We are the only hotel company listed among Sweden’s and to be treated well. I get a lot of positive feedback from 200 most prominent companies. And we are aiming high. our guests about how much they appreciate our service and In 2020, we will still be a workplace that attracts the best how it makes them feel welcome and at home at our hotels. talents and works actively with inclusion and diversity. – While talking about employees, I’d like to take this YOU MENTIONED A NEW CULTURAL opportunity to thank them for their effort and enthusiasm PLATFORM. WHY DO YOU NEED ONE? that creates the warm atmosphere Scandic is known for. – I think having a strong culture is one of the key drivers for They are the backbone of the company and build our business success – and especially for relationship-oriented success, every time they interact with our guests. GRI: G4-1 CEO'S STATEMENT • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 5 IS THE INTEGRATION OF RICA GOING – Conference activities in this context have become ACCORDING TO PLAN? a significant part of our total business. They are central – Absolutely. Step by step, we’re achieving synergies and to many of our hotels and some of our new locations are realizing potential for improvement. We have put a lot of work fully geared towards this segment. into integrating our new employees. I have met the hotel general managers at the former Rica hotels, and they’re glad WHAT IS YOUR VIEW ON SUSTAINABILITY? to be on a winning team. Scandic is a major employer in Nor– Scandic is a pioneer within sustainability and we work way and we can now also offer them a larger Scandinavian actively to reduce our environmental impact. Our greatest community. This is attractive and offers new opportunities. challenge is to continue to lower CO2 emissions. This is – In a short time, we’ve raised employee satisfaction in partly because we have maximized many of our environNorway to the same high level as in the organization in mental efforts and above all because we are dependent general. This is very satisfying and it shows the power of on the transition to renewable sources at our suppliers our concept and culture. Customers have also been posiof district heating. tive and almost all of the members of the former Rica loy– In 2015, we became signatories of the UN Global alty program have converted to Scandic Friends. Compact. Our sustainability work is based on its ten principles and this Annual Report includes our first SustainHOW DID THE MARKET DEVELOP IN 2015? ability Report and COP to the UN. To meet stakeholder – The macroeconomic climate was good for our industry as expectations, we have developed a new sustainability a whole last year. And most indicators pointed upwards. strategy as an integrated part of our business strategy. The only concern was – and is – the Norwegian economy. This includes our material aspects with scheduled and The Norwegian hotel market is polarized and uncertainty in concrete goals and with 2015 as our new base year. oil destinations such as Stavanger and Bergen had a We also updated our steering documents within all four dampening effect on the market, especially when it comes sustainability areas: environment, human rights, labor to business customers. However, Scandic has a very strong rights and anti-corruption. position in the leisure segment in Norway where the cur– Because thorough sustainability places demands on rency favors positive development at the moment. our entire value chain, we have introduced several new – We have also seen an accelerating trend where the processes and routines to ensure that our suppliers act in Nordic countries in general are becoming more popular as accordance with our sustainability requirements. “A STRONG AND CLEAR tourist and meeting destinations, which is driving demand in our industry. Organizing international conferences in WHAT DOES THE IPO INVOLVE? IDENTITY, A TIGHT TEAM major Nordic cities has become more attractive. The Nordic – Scandic was publicly listed once before, from 1996 to THAT DELIVERS.” way of life inspires people. New venues have been built and 2001. Now we’ve made a comeback and it feels like we communications are better. The Nordic region is no longer belong on the exchange. As the Nordics’ largest hotel comon the edge of the known world. Instead, it’s an easily pany, we are in some ways “everyone’s business.” We have accessible and interesting place to visit. over 1.6 million Scandic Friends members, so we’re an integral part of the daily lives of many travelers. HOW IMPORTANT IS THE CORPORATE – Our business is not changing fundamentally because SECTOR FOR SCANDIC? we’re a listed company. We still have the same strong – Serving corporate customers with hotel and conference focus on our guests and we’re running our commercial and facilities accounts for 70 percent of Scandic’s business. operational work the same way as before, but we’re now Our success in this sector is therefore vital. I would like to more inspired by our new cultural platform. However, there emphasize that our position in this area is strong. With our are obviously new demands on the way we lead our comwide network of hotels, we are able to meet most demands pany. We have worked internally during the year to lay the and handle even the biggest of contracts. We are, for foundation for this, a significant project that has taken a lot example, the “purveyor” of hotels and conference services of time and effort. But it’s also been very exciting. At the to the public sector. This preferential relationship creates same time, our position as a listed company has given us a safe and stable base for all of our activities. Already at an entirely new platform to present ourselves in different the beginning of each year, a large portion of the year’s ways, which will benefit our brand. volume is contracted. 6 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • CEO'S STATEMENT GRI: G4-1 HOW ARE YOU DEVELOPING THE HOTEL hotels together with talented and skilled employees as well PORTFOLIO? “TODAY, SCANDIC IS THE LARGEST as high efficiency and cost control is absolutely right, and – Every year, about 10 percent of our hotel rooms are HOTEL OPERATOR IN THE NORDIC gives us our leading position in the Nordic region. refreshed through renovations and additions. We also have – From this base, we can continue to develop and implea pipeline of interesting and high-quality new hotels. Right COUNTRIES WITH A POPULAR ment our new cultural platform, our concept and our offering now, we have agreements for seven new hotels that will be OFFERING, A WELL-INVESTED HOTEL going forward in 2016. We will, among other things, launch opened between now and 2018. In total, this represents PORTFOLIO AND A POWER­FUL a new digital platform that will further strengthen our already close to 3,000 rooms. We are well positioned to achieve our GEOGRAPHIC NETWORK.” significant dialog with customers and our e-commerce. goal to grow by establishing two to four hotels per year in – Work to implement operational and commercial synerthe Nordic countries at the same time as we intend to move gies from the Rica acquisition will continue. We expect these our position forward in Germany through selective growth in within the Group. Things are going our way. Our commercial to be fully implemented by 2017. attractive locations in the biggest cities. and operational strategies are working well. We are a tight – In the end, however, our success depends on our abso– I am looking forward to when we will open Scandic Contiteam that is constantly taking market share. lutely most important resource – our employees. Their motinental and Haymarket in downtown Stockholm in the first half – Our key ratio RevPAR increased by 7.5 percent LFL vation and dedication is crucial for more satisfied guests, of 2016. These are two big, prestigious hotels. Haymarket is during the year, driven by both increased occupancy and continued revenue growth and our further strengthened the first of our signature hotels. The concept is to offer unique higher average room rates. Net sales increased 12.6 perposition in the market. We must create the conditions so that hotel experiences in characteristic environments. Later in the cent to 12.2 billion SEK and the adjusted EBITDA margin all of our employees can live – and live up to – our brand. year, the existing Grand Central hotel in Stockholm will also increased to 10.2 percent. These are figures we can be Every time they interact with our guests. This is Scandic. become our second signature hotel. It has its own theater that proud of. offers unique possibilities for events. Frank Fiskers, WHAT’S THE OUTLOOK FOR 2016? President & CEO ANY COMMENTS ON THIS YEAR’S – We see a continued stable and strong market. The only area FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE? of concern is the development of the oil industry in Norway. – In a nutshell: The best ever for Scandic. The positive – Our model of scalability and repeatability will ensure results this year confirm the high momentum that exists continued profitable growth. Our strategy of offering attractive GRI: G4-1 CEO'S STATEMENT • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 7 “LOVELY” Just arrived at Scandic. Lovely room, lovely staff as always. OUR @andreatrudi CULTURE IS OUR BRAND “AT EASE” I don’t think I have ever felt so at ease at a hotel before. The staff was so genuine, so down-to-earth in a really good way. mimmi_k “THE DETAILS” Feeling welcome! It’s all about the details. zarahsophie “WOW!” “A VIEW TO KILL FOR” Just wow! Great reception, big and nice hotel room, a real Have you tried the yoga space at Continental, with a view to Nordic feel and the best breakfast I’ve ever had. kill for and giving peace to life. mette2015 @karen78 8 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • VISION AND MISSION We are warm and welcoming, meeting everyone with open arms and open minds, and we care for the people, planet and society around us. “WE MIGHT TAKE SCANDIC OUT OF THE We are ourselves celebrating each others’ unique potential and appreciating the advantage of our differences – just as we see and treat NORDICS, BUT WE WILL each guest as a unique individual. NEVER TAKE THE NORDICS “GREAT RESTAURANT” OUT OF SCANDIC.” Really great restaurant and bar at Scandic, didn’t expect that! Met up with friends and we had so much fun! FRANK FISKERS We are reliable and deliver high, consistent @alwayslisa PRESIDENT & CEO quality in everything we do. But we also go above and beyond what’s expected, knowing that the key to success is about attention to every little detail and a constant obsession with going from good to great. We dare to do things differently, to go outside of our comfort zone and to spend more time looking forward than back – always aspiring to be an inspiration to our guests, to each other, to owners and to society at large. “WHAT A VIEW” Just love the Nordic environment that is always near Scandic. mrright “YES” Party at Scandic last night. Yes, Scandic. therealbob VALUES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 9 Scandic’s millions of guests should be able to relax and feel at home when they visit our hotels. But behind the scenes, there’s a flurry of activity that goes on. Each Scandic hotel is unique, of course. But their daily rhythms are largely the same. And things are happening all the time. TWENTY-FOUR HOURS AT SCANDIC 00:00 04:00 05:30 07:00 07:30 08:00 09:30 10 00:00 Calmness blankets the hotel. 05:30 Time to start preparing breakfast. 07:30 Guests begin checking out. More and 09:30 The chef takes delivery of fresh Any latecomers check in and the lights Everything has to be ready for when the first more people are doing this using Scandic’s produce for the day. are being turned off in the rooms. hungry guests arrive. Scandic’s breakfast mobile checkout solution. The cleaning staff is famous for good reason, and nobody start their shifts and with their iPads, they’re 10:00 The last breakfast guest leaves, 04:00 Freshly baked bread arrives wants to miss it. always on top of the rooms that have been happy and satisfied. Time to clean up for breakfast. vacated. This makes cleaning go smoothly and prepare for lunch. At the conferences, 07:00 While the first breakfast guests are so that guests are not disturbed. it’s time for the important 10 o’clock enjoying the buffet, it’s time to prepare for coffee break. the day’s conferences. 08:00 The first conference begins. Today, there are three activities going on at the same time. 10 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • TWENTY-FOUR HOURS WE USE SCANDIC SERVES 14 MILLION 110,000 CUPS DID YOU ORANGES OF FAIR KNOW? EVERY YEAR COFFEE FOR THE JUICE (FAIRTRADE & UTZ) SERVED AT SCANDIC’S EVERY DAY BREAKFAST BUFFET :00 11:30 13:00 14:10 15:00 17:00 19:00 23:00 11:30 The lunch buffet is served. Our 15:00 The rooms are all clean and ready 19:00 The dining room is set. The first 23:00 Soon another day will have passed. conference participants and outside guests for new guests. guests have already arrived. Some have had It may seem routine, but unexpected things know that we serve a great lunch at Scandic. time to work out in the gym before dinner. always happen. It’s important to be able to 17:00 The conferences have now ended. Others have been relaxing in their rooms, improvise. No two days are alike. And this is 13:00 The conferences start again. The Some will continue the following day reading the evening paper or catching up part of the charm of running hotels. supply of fruit and refreshments is replenand the participants are freshening up on the news. ished. This will help ensure the participants for dinner. New guests arrive and start stay alert. checking in. TWENTY-FOUR HOURS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 11 AN ATTRACTIVE MARKET WITH GROWTH POTENTIAL The Nordic hotel market has been developing positively for many years. There is a huge and growing interest in the Nordic region as a destination among business and leisure travelers alike. Scandic has the Nordic region as its home market and is the leading hotel operator in the area. MARKET DRIVERS remain stable and the region is benefiting from macro­ In line with the Nordic lifestyle, mid-market hotels have Travel & tourism is one of the world’s largest industries. economic drivers such as increased confidence among become the dominant option for both leisure and business According to industry organizations such as Visita, growth businesses and consumers. travelers in the Nordic countries. in the sector is expected to be higher than for the economy Prospects for the hotel industry are expected to be posas a whole. Intranordic travel is expected to increase, and itive in the years to come. There are some concerns regardSTRONG REGIONAL OPERATORS since the millennium, the number of foreign tourists has ing the development of the Norwegian economy, but at the The Nordic hotel market is characterized by regional operarisen more in Northern Europe than in Europe as a whole. same time, the weaker Norwegian krone is expected to tors that have a strong position and domestic travelers are Development in the industry is being driven by a number have a positive effect on leisure travel. loyal to such operators. of factors, of which macro-economic factors such as Low airfares are also contributing positively to developThese Nordic operators are found primarily in the midgrowth in GDP is the most significant, driving demand ment in the industry, as well as the wide range of events, market segment and room rates normally range between through, for example, business travel, tourism, congresses concerts and conferences on offer. premium and economy class. and conferences. Other macro-economic factors that drive The largest Nordic hotel brands include Scandic, Rezidor’s demand for hotels include population growth, employment LIFESTYLE STEERS HOTEL CHOICE Radisson Blu and Park Inn by Radisson, Nordic Choice Hotels trends and consumer buying behavior within the sector and The Nordic lifestyle is reflected in the way people travel and (Comfort, Quality, Clarion), Best Western, Sokos, Restel in the market as a whole. At the same time, an increased how they choose where to stay. Nordic travelers like things (several brands), Elite Hotels, First Hotels and Thon Hotels. number of available rooms has had a dampening impact on to be functional, rational and relaxed. At the same time, Unlike in most other markets, the major global hotel growth in RevPAR (revenue per available room). sustainability is becoming increasingly important when companies – Hilton, Marriott, Accor, IHG and Starwood Like the rest of Europe, the Nordic countries experienced traveling, which is steering guests’ choices. – are underepresented in the Nordic countries. One reason a significant economic recession in 2009. The region The same is true of the Nordic business culture, which for this is that the Nordic hotel concept is primarily based recovered quickly however, and in as early as 2010 –2011, is less formal than in other parts of Europe. At the same on lease agreements. Global chains normally operate using a positive trend began and has continued. time, companies want their employees to stay in comfort a business model based on management and/or franchise Growth in GDP in the Nordic countries is expected to when they travel. agreements. 12 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • THE MARKET DEVELOPMENT OF GDP OCCUPANCY IN THE MARKET (OCC) % % 6 80 4 2 70 0 -2 60 -4 -6 50 -8 -10 40 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 E 16 E 17 E 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 20 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Sweden Norway Denmark Finland SHARE OF INTERNATIONAL TOURISTS AVERAGE ROOM RATES IN THE MARKET (ARR) INTEREST IN THE % SEK NORDIC REGION AS 8 1,200 7 A DESTINATION IS CON6 1,000 5 STANTLY GROWING 4 3 800 2 1 0 600 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Globally Europe Northern Europe Sweden Norway Denmark Finland POSITIVE DEVELOPMENT IN REVPAR Market trends are reflected in the figures. The share of occupied hotel rooms in the Nordic region shows a positive SHARE OF HOTEL NIGHTS IN THE REVPAR IN THE MARKET trend. The most important measure of the performance of NORDIC MARKET, GUESTS (REVENUE PER AVAILABLE ROOM) the hotel market as a whole is RevPAR. Since the financial SEK crisis, RevPAR has increased each year, driven by growth 800 in occupancy. 700 In 2015, RevPAR in the Swedish market went up by 7.9 percent, driven by increased occupancy and higher 600 average room rates. In Norway, higher room capacity together with decreased activity in the oil sector has had 500 a dampening effect on both occupancy and prices, and 400 RevPAR in the Norwegian market dropped by 0.7 percent. Domestic Internordic International RevPAR in the Finnish market increased by 3.2 percent, 300 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 driven by higher occupancy. In the Danish market, RevPAR Sweden Norway Denmark Finland grew by 9.3 percent, driven by both volume and prices. (Source: Benchmarking Alliance and STR Global). Source: Nordea Economic Outlook (December 2015), Benchmarking Alliance & STR Global. THE MARKET • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 13 UNRIVALLED REACH AND STABLE CUSTOMER BASE Scandic is the largest and leading hotel company in the Nordic region. Its current 221 hotels at close to 120 destinations give the company unique geographic reach for both corporate and leisure travelers. Scandic targets the mid-market segment and about 50 percent of its hotels are located in major cities. Corporate customers are the backbone of Scandic’s business. These accounted for 70 percent of Group revenue last year. Close to 40 percent of Scandic’s sold hotel nights were generated by repeat customers. UNRIVALLED GEOGRAPHIC REACH This strong geographic reach has been achieved through FULL-SERVICE PROVIDER WITH A CLEAR Scandic is the Nordic market leader based on number of positive long-term relationships with property owners, in FOCUS ON THE MID-MARKET SEGMENT hotel rooms. At the end of 2015, Scandic had 221 hotels particular in the form of conversions of existing buildings Scandic is a full-service provider of hotel services with with almost 41,000 rooms. About 95 percent of Scandic’s and new construction. a clear focus on the mid-market segment. The segment hotel rooms are located in the Nordic countries, correspondis highly developed in the Nordic countries and the largest ing to about 30 percent of the total room capacity of all hotel THE RIGHT HOTEL IN THE RIGHT PLACE hotel and restaurant segment in the region. Historically, operators in the Nordic region. Today, Scandic has hotels at about 120 destinations in this segment is less cyclical than other segments of the Scandic has a broad geographic reach in the Nordic seven countries. Its portfolio is diversified with different hotel market, and changes in the general economic climate region as well as hotels at selected locations in Germany, types of hotels in different places. This includes centrally affect operations in this segment to a lesser extent. Poland and Belgium. On the national level, Scandic is the located hotels in capitals and other major cities and hotels Scandic’s offering is well in line with demand from both largest operator of hotels in Sweden and Denmark, the secin strategically selected locations outside of major cities, leisure and business guests and as a full-service supplier ond largest in Norway and the third largest in Finland where which broadens Scandic’s offering and means that larger of hotel services, restaurant and conference operations it is the largest operator in the Helsinki area. regions are covered, for example, hotels adjacent to large are an important part of Scandic’s offering in addition to airports and business parks as well as near major highways. accommodations. MARKET SHARE BASED ON NUMBER OF ROOMS IN 2015 TOTAL NUMBER OF AVAILABLE ROOMS Number of rooms per brand Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Total ‘000 Brand 118,000 78,000 44,000 51,000 291,000 140 Scandic 15,700 14,600 3,700 5,500 39,500 120 Nordic Choice 14,600 15,300 900 30,800 100 Best Western 7,400 1,200 1,900 800 11,200 80 Rezidor Hotel Group 4,000 7,200 2,000 1,600 14,800 60 Other brands 1,700 17,400 19,100 40 Other / Non-branded 62,200 30,900 23,800 25,700 142,600 20 Scandic’s market share,% 0 Entire market 14 18 8 9 13 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 By brand 30 29 19 19 26 Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Source: Scandic’s data together with external sources such as company websites. 14 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • THE MARKET GRI: G4-4, G4-8 A DIVERSIFIED CUSTOMER BASE THE LARGEST LOYALTY PROGRAM IN THE NORDIC HOTEL INDUSTRY A DIVERSIFIED CUSTOMER BASE 41,000 ROOMS Scandic Friends is the largest Nordic loyalty program in the hotel industry with over 1.6 million members. LEISURE INDIVIDUAL As members of Scandic Friends, guests earn points GROUPS LEISURE IN SEVEN when they stay at Scandic hotels. Points can be used for reward nights at any Scandic hotel. Scandic Friends has TRAVELERS COUNTRIES four membership levels. The more nights a guest stays during a twelve-month period, the greater the benefits. The number of members is constantly growing and in MEETINGS AND CORPORATE CORPORATE 2015, Scandic Friends members accounted for nearly CUSTOMERS GROUPS 40 percent of room revenues, a very high percentage of repeat guests. Scandic Friends is an important tool for communicating CORPORATE CUSTOMERS DOMINATE directly with guests and increasing brand awareness and SPORTS AND GOVERNMENT AND LEISURE TRAVEL IS GROWING loyalty, creating a steady demand. It is also a low-cost way ASSOCIATIONS AUTHORITIES Scandic attracts a wide range of guests. This makes to attract new guests. it possible to adapt to changing conditions. Revenue can be optimized in different markets and according to local HIGH PERCENTAGE OF BOOKINGS circumstances. THROUGH SCANDIC’S CHANNELS Scandic’s primary customer segments are corporate Scandic sells most of its hotel rooms through its own bookcustomers, conference and corporate groups, individual ing channels: hotels, Scandic’s website and call centers. leisure travelers and groups of leisure travelers. The primary external booking channels are the global disCorporate customers are the backbone of Scandic’s tribution system (GDS), online travel agencies (OTA) and business. Scandic has corporate agreements with about contracted dealers. Online travel agencies are especially 4,000 companies. The customer base for corporate important for reaching international travelers. customers is well diversified, both in terms of company Currently, about 70 percent of Scandic’s rooms are sold type and sector. Scandic has agreements with approximately via its own distribution channels – directly through the 350 agencies that arrange leisure travel, for example, to LOYAL MEMBERS’ SHARE OF ROOM REVENUES hotels themselves, Scandic’s website and call centers. theater and sporting events. This high proportion gives Scandic a favorable position Members, 000’ % In recent years, an increasing number of private travelers in the changeable hotel booking market. Reservations 2,000 100 have chosen Scandic hotels. This number has also grown in through Scandic’s own distribution channels cost less and connection with Scandic’s acquisition of Rica Hotels, which increase the opportunities to establish a smooth and per1,500 75 had a strong profile in the Norwegian retail market. sonal relationship with guests. 1,000 50 About 70 percent of Scandic’s revenue is attributable Scandic expects an increase in bookings through digital to business travelers and conferences and the remaining channels and is continually investing in its digital platform 500 25 30 percent to leisure travel. to adapt to customers’ changing online behavior and digitiThe Nordic hotel market is largely a domestic and intrazation in the industry. 0 0 nordic market. About 85 percent of Scandic’s customers 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 are from the Nordic countries and the remainder are from Scandic Scandic Friends, % of room revenues Germany and Russia, followed by the US, the UK and other countries. GRI: G4-8 THE MARKET • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 15 A DIVERSIFIED PORTFOLIO Scandic’s portfolio is diversified with different types of hotels at various locations. It includes centrally located hotels in capitals and other major cities and hotels in strategically selected locations outside of major cities, for example, hotels adjacent to large airports and business parks as well as near major highways. EXTENSIVE COVERAGE HOTELS ACROSS NORWAY CONCENTRATION IN THE LEADING IN THE HELSINKI IN SWEDEN Scandic is Norway’s second largest hotel COPENHAGEN AREA, AREA, THIRD LARGEST Scandic is the leading hotel operator operator. The acquisition of Rica Hotels in DENMARK IN FINLAND in Sweden by number of rooms and has 2014 has given Scandic a very strong In Denmark, Scandic has a leading Scandic’s Finnish portfolio is concentra­ted in a strong position in major cities. position in both the corporate and leisure market position. Most of its hotels are major cities, particularly in the capital where segments. Among other things, Scandic located in and around Copenhagen. Scandic has the strongest presence. This is now has a strong offering of tourist hotels The hotels in the Danish portfolio have also the focus for continued investment. in the popular area of northern Norway. undergone a complete renovation in recent years. 81 85 22 27 HOTELS HOTELS HOTELS HOTELS 15,778 14,478 3,705 5,449 ROOMS ROOMS ROOMS ROOMS 4,065 3,129 1,127 1,246 EMPLOYEES (FTE) EMPLOYEES (FTE) EMPLOYEES (FTE) EMPLOYEES (FTE) 5,081 3,716 1,264 1,601 SALES, MSEK SALES, MSEK SALES, MSEK SALES, MSEK 16 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • THE MARKET GRI: G4-6, G4-8, G4-9 ESTABLISHMENT RATE OF 2–4 HOTELS PER YEAR IN THE NORDIC REGION AND SELECTIVE GROWTH IN GERMANY SCANDIC IS CONSTANTLY WORKING TO OPTIMIZE ITS EXISTING HOTEL PORTFOLIO THROUGH ADDITIONS AND RECONFIGURATIONS. SCANDIC HAS ALSO SUCCESSFULLY BUILT UP A PIPELINE OF NEW HOTELS. AT THE MOMENT, THERE ARE 7 NEW EXCITING SCANDIC’S HOTELS HOTELS THAT WILL OPEN BETWEEN IN THE NORDIC NOW AND 2018. COUNTRIES AND EUROPE HIGH-QUALITY HOTEL PORTFOLIO ABOUT 3–4 PERCENT OF SALES IS INVESTED ANNUALLY IN RENOVATING THE HOTEL PORTFOLIO. EUROPE: SELECTIVE GROWTH IN GERMANY Scandic has six hotels in the rest of Europe – three in Germany, two in Poland and one in Belgium. Scandic sees good opportunities for further establishment outside of the Nordic region and intends to advance its position in Germany through continued selective growth in attractive locations in the largest cities. 6 HOTELS 1,510 ROOMS 681 EMPLOYEES (FTE) 547 SALES, MSEK GRI: G4-6, G4-8, G4-9 THE MARKET • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 17 ALWAYS A HOME GAME The Swedish Football Association and Scandic have worked together for nearly 20 years, developing a FOOTBALL’S FAVORITE HOTEL Sweden has a strong footballing tradition. Today, there are nearly 3,200 associations with partnership that both value highly. In 2015, Scandic more than a million members. Around 600,000 of them are actively playing in a league signed a new agreement to last over four years. system, from the grassroots level all the way up to elite teams. This means that Scandic will continue to be a As the leading hotel company in the Nordic countries and Sweden, Scandic wants to encourage and foster both health and sports, especially the important and broad-based national partner and the official partner to Swedish youth sports movement. This agreement with the Swedish Football Association provides football at all levels. the Swedish national team and other Swedish groups a chance to enjoy quality accommodations and food as well as meeting facilities. An away game doesn’t need to feel like an away game. Scandic is always home. “THE SWEDISH FOOTBALL ASSOCIATION HAS INCREASED ITS USE OF SCANDIC BY AN AVERAGE OF 20 PERCENT PER YEAR SINCE 2007. THESE NUMBERS SEND A CLEAR MESSAGE AS TO WHICH HOTEL WE PREFER.” Håkan Sjöstrand, General Secretary for the Swedish Football Association RIGHT PREPARATION STEADY RISE At the national and elite levels, a good night’s sleep, healthy food and the chance for “The Swedish Football Association has increased its use of Scandic by an average of players and coaches to interact are obvious ingredients for creating harmony on a 20 percent per year since 2007. These numbers send a clear message as to which team before a game. The same is true for teams playing at the lower levels. But they hotel we prefer. We are especially positive about Scandic’s stated goal to increase of course don’t have the same financial resources to make this happen. Spending the regional cooperation with our local districts,” says Håkan Sjöstrand, General Secretary night in a school or sports hall certainly has its charm, but when it comes to sleeping for the Swedish Football Association. well and waking refreshed before a big game or on tour, being able to spend the night “To perform your best on the field, preparation is key and Scandic delivers high-quality at a Scandic hotel gives a real competitive advantage. And many teams know this. food and accommodations. We are extremely proud of our long cooperation that paves the way for future successes. We’re looking forward to continued cooperation that will take football to the next level,” he concludes. HOW SCANDIC CREATES VALUE FOR STAKEHOLDERS Scandic’s value creation builds on its strong brand and proven repetitive business concept. Together, these have given the company a leading position in the attractive Nordic hotel market. The driving force is to always work close to customers and constantly develop its offering through innovation. By being a pioneer, Scandic creates competitiveness – and thereby continued profitable growth. A PROVEN BUSINESS MODEL STRENGTHS THAT POSITION VALUE CREATION AT ALL LEVELS Scandic owns its brand in full. This allows the company Scandic has the largest and widest network of hotels in Scandic has a uniquely high ESI (Employee Satisfaction to deliver consistent high quality and an offering at every the Nordic region. The hotels are strategically located Index). This gives Scandic a top position in the hotel indushotel that always meets customer expectations. in premium locations, adjacent to business parks, try. As an employer, Scandic is the only hotel operator to The company is positioned in the mid-market segment, airports and selected highways. And since hotels can be be placed in the exclusive Top 50 List in the research comwhich is less cyclical than other segments. The segment is positioned in various ways, several hotels can be located pany Universum’s latest rankings. also dominant in the Nordic markets. at the same place and complement rather than compete Scandic is the strongest hotel brand in the Nordic Scandic’s business model is based on standardized with each other. region. Guest satisfaction is high and has developed concepts and strategies as well as economies of scale. Scandic is a brand. This brand is based on common positively in recent years. Loyal customers are rewarded By centralizing support functions, hotel employees can tools, knowledge about how the hotel market functions through the Scandic Friends program, which in 2015 instead concentrate on taking care of guests. from both the large and local perspectives, and a culture welcomed its 1.6 millionth member. Scandic focuses on lease agreements as a model for that guides all of Scandic’s employees and their actions. During the year, Scandic adopted clear financial goals. operating hotels. These usually involve variable rents This ensures consistent high quality and effective impleRead more about value creation on page 27. based on the hotel’s revenue and a shared investment mentation of clear business concepts throughout the commitment with the property owner. organization. It also means that guests experience Scandic Read more about Scandic’s business model on page 23. as one company and always enjoy the same high level of Scandic care and service. Scandic constantly follows up on activities and results at all levels – on the department, hotel, country and Group levels. Full transparency prevails. This means that key figures can be compared within one country as well as between different countries. Today, Scandic has over 14,400 employees in seven countries. The glue that holds the organization together is a strong common cultural platform on which all employees base their daily work and relationships, both internally and externally. Read more about Scandic’s strengths on page 24. 20 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • HOW SCANDIC CREATES VALUE KEY STRENGTHS LEADING OPERATIONS COMMERCIAL & PROCESSES PLATFORM NETWORK STRONG QUALITY CULTURE & REACH TEAM ENGAGEMENT LEASE MODEL A WORLD-CLASS & MOTIVATION NORDIC HOTEL COMPANY GUEST SCALABILITY SATISFACTION EAT & LOYALTY ION CR BU S MID-MARKET FINANCIAL VA ES POSITION PERFORMANCE LU E SIN M O ONE OWN DE BRAND L HOW SCANDIC CREATES VALUE • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 21 “A CUSTOMER-DRIVEN AND REPETITIVE BUSINESS MODEL THAT CREATES VALUE FOR ALL STAKEHOLDERS.” Frank Fiskers President & CEO A PROVEN BUSINESS MODEL Scandic operates under a single brand and is guided by a clear and consistent business model. This creates unique advantages in the hotel industry and makes Scandic more competitive. By owning its brand, Scandic can control the entire value chain. The focus is on the attractive mid-market segment that is less cyclical than other segments. Thanks to its size, Scandic can benefit from leveraging in both operations and marketing. A STRONG BRAND Historically, changes in the general econo­ a number of support functions in its operais responsible for the maintenance and Scandic is the most well-known hotel mic climate affect business in this segment tions. These include IT and support, reverefurbishment of the building as well as brand in the Nordic region and the first to a lesser extent than in other segments. nue optimization and procurement. In this technical installations and bathrooms. choice for business and leisure travelers Scandic’s offering also meets the way, Scandic can optimize its entire busiScandic is responsible for the maintealike. Unlike many of its competitors, demand in the Nordic market. In line with ness. A particular task is performed only in nance and renovation of the hotels’ furniScandic owns and controls its brand in full. the Nordic lifestyle, staying at mid-market one place and by specialists in that particture, fixtures and equipment. This division This allows Scandic to deliver a high-quality, hotels has become the dominant choice ular area. This leads to cost efficiency. is win-win for both parties and enables consistent offering at all hotels, to optimize for both leisure and business travelers in Above all, it means that employees at long-term positive development of the the customer experience and to meet the Nordic countries. Scandic’s hotels can concentrate on their property and financial performance. customer expectations. main task – working actively to take care Scandic’s leases generally have an This clear ownership also creates ECONOMIES OF SCALE of guests and keep them satisfied. initial term of 15 to 20 years with an option opportunities for Scandic to achieve effecScandic’s business model enables the for extension. Scandic continually assesses tive cost control. Likewise, changes can company to implement standardized VARIABLE LEASES hotel profitability and then chooses to be swiftly implemented in all areas of concepts and strategies throughout its In the Nordic market, leasing is the most terminate or extend contracts after the the business. What is fundamental is that hotel portfolio. This ensures consistency common model for operating larger hotels. contract period. In Sweden and to some each employee brings the brand to life. All from a marketing perspective and Scandic has made a strategic decision to extent in Denmark, there is a legal tenure changes are therefore carried out on all strengthens the brand. Customers can focus on long-term rental agreements. in connection with the extension of leases. levels of the company for maximum effect. always expect the same high level of serSome 90 percent of agreements have variIn other countries, there is usually an vice at all Scandic hotels thanks to these able rents based on the hotel’s revenues option to extend the original agreement. POSITIONED IN THE standardized concepts. with a shared investment commitment MID-MARKET SEGMENT Scandic’s size is a foundation for the between Scandic and the property owner. Scandic focuses on the mid-market segcompany to negotiate competitive and This rental model reduces the risk of ment. This segment is attractive because unique solutions with suppliers throughout conflicts since responsibilities are clearly it is less cyclical than other segments. the value chain. Scandic has centralized divided. In general, the property owner BUSINESS MODEL • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 23 STRENGTHS THAT POSITION Scandic has the widest and most strategic network of hotels in the Nordic region. Its size and reach are matched by the careful attention to detail that characterizes each employee’s interaction with guests. In terms of business, Scandic aims to be a leader, both in its internal operation and external commercial offering. These are the strengths that make Scandic unique and create the platform Scandic needs to be a successful company. NETWORK REACH LEADING COMMERCIAL The company was, for example, the first and incentive programs. Scandic’s Scandic is the largest hotel operator with PLATFORM to launch its own system to enable online success in this area is reflected in annual the strongest hotel brand in the Nordic Scandic is a brand. This brand is based on reservations with a single click. The new measurements of customer satisfaction region. At year-end 2015, Scandic had a common tools, knowledge about how the digital platform that will be launched that continue to be at a high level year total of 221 hotels and almost 41,000 hotel market functions from both the large in 2016 will make it possible to deepen after year. rooms in operation. On the national level, and local perspectives, and a culture that the digital customer experience in an Developing, opening and operating Scandic is the largest operator in Sweden guides all Scandic employees and their innovative way. hotels is a complex business. It includes and Denmark, the second largest in Norway actions. This ensures consistent high qualScandic also has automated tools to many stakeholders, tight deadlines and and the third largest in Finland, but the ity and effective implementation of clear drive RevPAR. These include a forecasting budgets that must be kept. Everything also largest in the Helsinki area. In addition, business concepts throughout the organisystem, flexible pricing models and rapid needs to be done seamlessly. Scandic has Scandic operates hotels in Germany, zation. It also means that guests experifeedback. built up a strong organization to develop Poland and Belgium. ence Scandic as one company and always and manage its hotel portfolio. This is The hotel network is well invested. enjoy Scandic service and care. OPERATIONAL LEADERSHIP based on a proven program that ensures More than three quarters of the rooms The focus on the mid-market hotel segThe Group’s hotel managers play a key the process. This facilitates, for example, have been renovated in the last ten years. ment provides access to a large and broad role within the business. They have full a further standardization of the interior of Scandic invests an average of 3–4 percent customer base of both corporate and private responsibility for the revenue and expen­ the hotels. In addition, common renovation of net sales in renovating and developing customers. Scandic has an effective central ses at each hotel and adapt Scandic’s needs at several hotels can be met by fewer the hotel portfolio. sales department focused on the corporate offering to their local markets. To be able suppliers. This helps Scandic increase Scandic’s hotels are strategically located market, which accounts for more than twoto focus on their business, they have the value and improve quality control. And in in premium locations in city centers, adjathirds of revenue. These customers have full support of Scandic’s key functions this area, Scandic considers itself to be cent to business parks and airports and longer agreements with Scandic and prowithin a number of areas. an industry leader. near selected highways. And since hotels vide continuous and stable revenues. Scandic constantly follows up on operacan be positioned in various ways, several The Scandic Friends loyalty program tions and results on all levels – by departA STRONG CULTURE hotels can be located at the same place is unique in the industry and has over ment, hotel, country and the Group as a Today, Scandic has about 14,400 employwithout competing with each other. 1.6 million members. During 2015, close whole. Full transparency prevails. This ees in seven countries. The glue that binds During 2014–2015, Scandic launched to 40 percent of room revenues were means that key figures can be compared employees and builds a common culture two new niche hotel concepts – HTL and generated by members of Scandic Friends, within one country as well as between is the values that Scandic further develsignature hotels. HTL offers modern and which shows a very high percentage of different countries. This allows for benchoped in 2015 and that will be implemented affordable accommodations in central locarepeat guests. marking, which creates conditions for enthusiastically in 2016. Employees demtions and focuses primarily on a younger Scandic controls a large part of its supply continually making improvements and onstrate these values in their daily work audience. Signature hotels offer unique chain. About 70 percent of bookings are establishing best practices. and relationships, both internally and hotel experiences in characteristic environmade through channels that the company Getting all employees to act as a team externally. ments. Both concepts are tied to the parent controls. Scandic is also at the forefront under one brand is Scandic’s hallmark. This strong culture, however, does not brand with the suffix “by Scandic.” when it comes to the digital experience. This is achieved through regular training mean that all employees are cast in the 24 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • STRENGTHS same mold. Scandic’s culture is rather “SCANDIC’S a framework that creates scope for variation and improvisation. When STRENGTHS it comes to employees, Scandic’s philo­sophy is simple: choose the right ARE THE BASIS people, motivate them and provide FOR EXCEEDING clear rules and conditions so they can develop in their roles. This creates CUSTOMER happy employees, which in turn creates satisfied guests. EXPECTATIONS GOING FORWARD.” Frank Fiskers President & CEO GOAL 5.0% Annual average growth in net sales over a complete business cycle, excluding M&As PROFITS 2015 12.6% Growth in net sales 10.4%, excluding M&As GOAL 11.0% Average adjusted EBITDA margin over a business cycle RESULTS 2015 10.2% Adjusted EBITDA margin GOAL 2–3x Net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA PROFITS 2015 2.7x Net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA 26 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • VALUE CREATION VALUE CREATION AT ALL LEVELS By attracting and recruiting the right talents, engaging and developing them and providing the right conditions to grow as professionals, Scandic creates satisfied employees. This in turn leads to satisfied guests. Guests have built-in radar that lets them know when they’re dealing with a company that has knowledgeable, service-oriented and helpful employees. Scandic’s customer and employee satisfaction indexes show how important this connection is. And the results are clear in the bottom line of Scandic’s income statement. A DEDICATED AND and training programs per year, tailored to Scandic carries out regular surveys of HIGH PROFITABILITY MOTIVATED TEAM Scandic’s employees and needs within the customer satisfaction. This provides realOVER TIME Scandic’s employee engagement is high company. The courses are popular and time feedback to each of Scandic’s hotels. In 2015, Scandic adopted the following and continues to increase year after year. some 20,000 e-learning courses are This creates a tool to ensure that the objectives with regard to sales growth, Between 2010 and 2015, Scandic’s undertaken by Scandic’s employees each company’s offerings and service level EBITDA development and debt. Employee Satisfaction Index increased year. Additionally, about 1,700 employees remain attractive and also provides input Scandic shall have annual net sales from 685 to 763. This is by any standard participate in classroom training every year. for Scandic to develop its offering. The growth of at least 5 percent on average a significant figure that places Scandic One of the programs is Talent@Scandic, level of guest satisfaction is high and has over a business cycle. This is excluding high in comparison with other companies. which develops high-performing talents developed positively in recent years. any mergers and acquisitions. Scandic’s goal for 2020 is to remain high into hotel directors and other leaders within Scandic strives to reward customer loyThe adjusted EBITDA margin shall and the company has already come a the Group. In 2016, 20 employees will take alty through Scandic Friends. The program be at least 11 percent on average over long way. part in the program. allows guests to earn points when they a complete business cycle. Each year, the research firm Universum stay at Scandic hotels. Points can then Scandic shall also have net debt in asks business students to vote for their SATISFIED AND LOYAL be used for reward nights at any Scandic relation to adjusted EBITDA of 2–3x. dream employer. In the latest survey from CUSTOMERS hotel. The program also offers benefits 2015, Scandic was the only hotel operator Scandic is the strongest hotel brand in the such as discounts on hotel stays and at to be ranked among Sweden’s 200 most Nordic countries, according to the latest Scandic’s restaurants. prominent companies. Scandic now also survey of hotel guests conducted by the Scandic Friends is the Nordic region’s belongs to the exclusive Top 50 List. market research company BDRC. And largest loyalty program for hotel guests. Employees’ personal development is behind this success is a long-term and The number of members is growing all the a key component of Scandic’s continuous consistent strategy where all hotels are time and in 2015, the program welcomed efforts to strengthen the brand and its marketed under the same brand. Owning its 1.6 millionth member. attractiveness as an employer. The company and controlling its brand gives Scandic Scandic Friends is an important tool for therefore aims to provide the industry’s opportunities to further develop and retaining loyal guests and creating a stable best training facilities. In 1995, Scandic strengthen its position in the market. This demand. It is a channel for direct commulaunched Scandic Business School. It is applies in all dimensions – from booking to nication with Scandic’s customers. The available for all employees at all levels checkout and following up. Scandic’s goal program also gives the company competiwithin the company. Through e-learning, is to offer the best customer experience at tive advantages in its work to attract new Scandic offers 60 inspirational courses every touch point within the company. customers. VALUE CREATION • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 27 HOW RICA HIGH TEMPO The purchase was completed on April 8, 2014. After this, Scandic immediately started the extensive work to transBECAME form Rica hotels into Scandic ones – on the outside as well as on the inside. Scandic’s Head of Norway, Svein Arild Steen-Mevold explains, “In just seven months, all of our hotels were SCANDIC IN remodeled as Scandic hotels. Maintaining a high tempo was critical. A team would arrive on a Monday, and by the end of the week, the hotel was completely transformed. Parallel to this, the internal work began. It was mainly NORWAY about winning over the staff and getting them on board as soon as possible.” THE SEED WAS ALREADY THERE “The previous owner had considered Scandic a role model for Rica. There was already a platform to make Rica hotels like Scandic ones. It is important to point out that the takeover of Rica was an acquisition, not a merger. The owner wanted to sell and saw Scandic as the best alternative. This helped, of course, in our efforts to implement Scandic’s values and way of working,” says Svein Arild. “Extensive work was started to introduce Rica’s employees to the Scandic way of doing things. We ran a comprehensive program of local meetings. Training took place both at the hotels and online. Basically, it was about stream­lining operations. We acted directly, honestly and with trans­parency. This meant that the process won the respect of employees and we were able to generate the enthusiasm we needed. ”Our success can be measured by the fact that our Employee Satisfaction Index score has gone up very quickly in just one year. We have the biggest increase in this area among all the countries in our group, and our score is now at the same level as the best.” CUSTOMERS LIKE WHAT THEY SEE “Of course, we have a long way to go before we can see all of the positive effects of the Rica acquisition. But what we can see so far is encouraging. Awareness of our brand is growing rapidly. Our share of voice has risen from 25 to 47 percent. People are talking about us. Our service is In the spring of 2014, Scandic acquired increasingly getting higher scores in customer surveys. the Norwegian hotel chain Rica Hotels. And most importantly: we are taking market share. On paper, this meant that the number “Our business customers have access to a larger network of hotels. We have, without a doubt, the most comof Scandic hotels in Norway suddenly prehensive hotel offering in Norway. We are located in all increased from 18 to 85 and the company major cities and towns. It gives us greater competitiveness became the country’s second largest hotel and we see an increased influx of business customers. operator in terms of number of rooms. In They appreciate our loyalty program that is second to none in the Norwegian market. In principle, all former Rica reality, it was about a giant conversion process loyalty members have joined Scandic Friends. And we that created value for all of Scandic’s stakeholders. have a lot to offer our private customers with our unique “CUSTOMER SATISFACTION HAS GONE UP RAPIDLY IN JUST ONE YEAR.” selection of hotels in tourist destinations. This Svein Arild Steen-Mevold comes in handy when the Norwegian krone is Head of Norway weak and we are experiencing an influx of foreign travelers. You could say that the decrease we’ve seen in occupancy as a result of the oil crisis is to some extent being compensated for by positive developments in other places.” SIGNIFICANT SYNERGIES “We have naturally also been able to streamline our backoffice functions. We closed Rica’s headquarters and double functions during the second half of 2014. In the summer of 2016, the integration will be complete which will give us significant cost savings. This has basically been completed in two years and along the way, we have strengthened our business in all areas. One could well say that this is one of the few acquisitions where the sum of one plus one is greater than two,” says Svein Arild. AN IMPORTANT MARKER “A small but important confirmation that we are on the right track came in the fall of 2015. Breakfast is important to Norwegians when they stay in hotels. It should be hearty, nourishing and tasty. And breakfast was what Rica was known for. An independent research company did a ranking of breakfasts at different hotels in Norway, and Scandic won twelve out of nineteen times. Two of our hotels also won gold and bronze. I think this is great and it shows that Scandic has come a long way towards becoming the leading and most respected brand among hotels also in Norway,” he concludes. OUR 2020 STRATEGY SHOWS THE DIRECTION FORWARD In 2015, Scandic developed a new vision, mission and cultural platform. This was supported by the Group’s long-term strategy. The focus is on maintaining and further strengthening Scandic’s leading position in the Nordic countries and selective growth in Germany. The strategy focuses on improving and refining Scandic’s business based on changing customer behavior and the digitization that is ongoing within the industry – all to create stable growth and a long-term and high level of profitability. A CLEAR VISION FOR 2020 Scandic’s success is its employees. Diversity is Scandic’s Scandic has formulated a clear vision to take the company strength and the company’s success is based on an incluOUTPERFORMING to 2020. The objectives are summarized in six scenarios sive approach, where every individual is given the opportuTHE MARKET that the company aims to achieve. nity to develop by allowing everyone the opportunity to Scandic’s strong market position, wide network of hotels, learn and demonstrate Scandic’s culture and values. customer offering and commercial power generate Career paths within the company are clearly defined. higher sales than the company’s competitors. Scandic's THE FAVORITE Scandic Business School continues to evolve to take repeatable business model, scale and best-practice HOTEL BRAND advantage of and enhance talents so they can develop into approach provide high and stable margins and reduce Scandic is clearly living up to its promise and the expectafuture managers. cyclical effects. tions of guests and customers. Scandic is performing betThe role of leaders is increasingly important. Scandic’s The company’s premium in revenues and operating ter all the time, which increases guests’ expectations and leadership is based on knowledge, trust and transparency. margins is driven from a decentralized responsibility for creates experiences that they want to return to and tell Through leadership development, the company ensures results at the country level where a close dialog between their friends about. that managers are positioned to lead in an engaging and the hotels, the sales organization and revenue manageScandic is strengthening its leading position in the Nordic inclusive way. ment is extremely important. At the same time Scandic’s hotel market as the first choice among hotel guests and head office sets the overall strategy, optimizes synergies the most highly praised hotel brand by creating a better between countries and creates tools to maximize Scandic’s experience in all areas for customers and guests. Scandic AN INSPIRING full revenue and profit potential. ensures that the company’s service is right, both rationally CORPORATE CITIZEN Through more individualized communication with cusand emotionally. Scandic’s digital solutions, customer Scandic is a source of inspiration in the travel and tourism tomers, the development of the next generation loyalty prooffering and loyalty programs are developed and strengthindustry through the company’s significant commitment gram and a focus on driving more reservations to Scandic’s ened together with customers with a focus on understandand responsibility in society. Scandic’s sustainability initiaown booking channels via the new digital platform, the ing new customer needs, preferences and trends. tives are highly valued by the company’s stakeholders and company is strengthening relationships with customers. constitute a business strength. Scandic’s success as an inspiring member of society is achieved through focused AN ATTRACTIVE and targeted work in diversity and inclusion. CAPITALIZE ON PLACE TO WORK Scandic shows great commitment and encourages wellTHE MARKET DYNAMICS Scandic has business-oriented and engaging leaders. ness among its employees and guests. Scandic is proacThe hotel market is changing rapidly. Scandic acts pro­ Scandic’s employees live the company’s values and offer tively supporting a common responsibility for a sustainable actively to benefit from the opportunities of digitization, guests superior service. Scandic works actively with future. Key aspects that Scandic continues to focus on are changes in customer behavior and market dynamics. diversity and inclusion issues. Scandic is an employer health, carbon emissions and waste. Through flexibility and speed, Scandic is at the forefront that attracts, develops and retains the best employees. of the industry. 30 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • STRATEGY VISION A WORLD-CLASS NORDIC HOTEL What we strive to be COMPANY MISSION WE CREATE GREAT HOTEL EXPERIENCES Why we run our operations FOR THE MANY PEOPLE VALUES How we treat each other BE CARING BE YOU BE A PRO BE BOLD FINANCIAL TARGETS >5% ANNUAL >11% ADJUSTED 2-3X NET DEBT TO What we promise our owners REVENUE GROWTH EBITDA MARGIN ADJUSTED EBITDA RATIO The favorite Attractive Inspirational Outperforming Capitalize A growing DESIRED POSITION hotel brand place corporate the market on market hotel network What we will be in 2020 to work citizen dynamics REALIZE THE POSSIBILITIES OF DIGITIZATION Scandic’s continuing focus is to further strengthen its relaThis includes both new construction and takeovers of FOUNDATION FOR SUCCESS tionship with customers and guests. Delivering positive existing hotels. Scandic’s ability to deliver returns that are Rapid digitization is creating new opportunities in the hotel hotel experiences and maintaining a competitive distribuhigher than competitors together with long and positive industry. Taking advantage of this is an important factor for tion network are essential components of this. Scandic is relationships makes Scandic an attractive partner for Scandic’s continued success. This is why the company is also investing in the development of the company’s digital real estate developers and property owners. focusing on developing its digital platform to enhance the platform to enhance interaction with guests throughout the In Germany, Scandic is expanding its existing network customer experience, increase market coverage and customer experience. selectively with new hotels in prime locations in the improve efficiency. largest cities. All projects meet the company’s high The guest experience is strengthened by offering cusdemands on profitability and rental terms. tomers a fully customized, smart and interactive digital A GROWING Existing hotels are always evaluated in terms of reno­ experience at all touch points within Scandic. HOTEL NETWORK vation and expansion. Scandic’s focus on signature hotels Market coverage is extended so that Scandic becomes By 2020, Scandic is the given market leader in the Nordic creates further opportunities to strengthen the customer more visible and accessible, even in distant markets. countries and has achieved a strong position in Germany. experience and thereby provide better returns. Operational efficiency is improved and customers are Its offering is constantly being developed and improved, brought even closer to the company through the developboth in existing and new hotels. ment of digital solutions that reduce costs in the compaScandic’s expansion rate is high and the ambition is to ny's operational and commercial processes and increase open two to four new hotels a year in the Nordic countries. their speed. STRATEGY • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 31 ACCESSIBILITY FOR ALL When Magnus Berglund was planning a trip in 2002, he made a discovery: hotels provided little infor­mation about accessibility for travelers with special needs. At the time, he was on sick leave from his position as a chef at Scandic due to a rheumatic WORLD RESPONSIBLE TOURISM AWARDS 2015 – BEST HOTEL COMPANY IN THE WORLD disease, and he quickly saw a WITHIN ACCESSIBILITY business opportunity within the Scandic won in the category Best accomodation for disability access for its successful work in the area of accessibility. hotel industry. AN IMPORTANT GROUP ported the idea. But was it really the business case It’s about paying attention to details both great and He contacted the management at Scandic. And he reaMagnus was so keen to promote? An internal survey small. From the way a chef arranges food on a plate soned: “There are over 2.5 million people in the Nordic showed that the investment yielded about 15,000 more for a person who is visually impaired to managing countries with some form of disability and 65 million in sold rooms during the first year. So there was no doubt. the logistics of a big conference where participants Europe according to the EU. The population is also getting Today, Scandic has its own unique standard on how have some form of disability. This is now a natural older and traveling more in their later years. The 60+ accessibility measures are implemented at all hotels. part of everyday life for Scandic. segment in the US and Europe is the group that spends In its entirety, it covers 135 points, 90 of which are man“At Scandic, there is no concept of disability. We see the most on travel. They will demand ever-higher standatory. All newly built hotels and renovations must satisfy everyone as guests,” says Magnus. “It’s a business dards of service when they stay at hotels. Scandic should all of these requirements. Scandic is also the world’s first approach that benefits everyone.” see all of these individuals as customers so it does not hotel company that offers detailed accessibility informamiss a gigantic business oppurtunity. Everyone should be tion on its websites. AN ONGOING PROCESS welcome at Scandic!” Magnus is the driving force behind Scandic’s accessi­ ACTIONS GREAT AND SMALL bility work and he reports directly to the Executive THE WORLD’S FIRST ACCESSIBILITY Scandic is also the first hotel in the world to offer inter­ Committee. He travels. He inspires. His inbox gets filled AMBASSADOR active online training in accessibility and has won prizes every day. Ninety percent of the emails are from guests Scandic decided to develop the idea. In 2003, Magnus for its initiatives both in Sweden and internationally. and customers. They contain praise, but also sugges­ was made responsible for the initiative and named Employees can get advice and watch instructional videos. tions for improvement. Magnus takes every opportunity Accessibility Ambassador. A comprehensive training They can also test and expand their own expertise in to meet and talk to guests. This generates lots of ideas. program for all employees started. The guiding principle this area – everything to provide guests with disabilities “There is always something we can do to be better,” was that every guest, regardless of disability, should be first-class service. It is not just about making practical he says. treated as any other guest. Everyone at Scandic suparrangements. It is as much about attitude and approach. ACTIVELY ENGAGED EMPLOYEES Scandic's 14,400 employees are the key to maintaining its strong customer loyalty and bringing customers even closer. This is only possible when team members live and work according to Scandic’s core values and when Scandic runs its hotels in a sustainable manner with regard to people, the environment and society. Scandic’s long-term and extensive work in human resources takes this into account. SCANDIC’S EMPLOYEES permanent employment at Scandic and constitutes a subAll of Scandic’s employees in all countries, including short2015 was a year of change for the Scandic Group. The stantial recruitment group for our operations. However, term and temporary staff, have full protection and coverage acquisition of Rica Hotels and continued expansion have many of Scandic’s temporary employees are offered fullregarding health and safety. This is provided either through impacted the employee figures in many ways. Above all, time employment and this constitutes a substantial recruittheir contracts or the collective bargaining agreements that Scandic has many more employees which places greater ment group for Scandic's operations. Scandic primarily cover about 90 percent of employees. Scandic knows that demands on the organization. Scandic’s business is employs people who are directly employed by the company. a happy, healthy workplace is a competitive advantage when seasonal with particular highs. To meet these changes There are exceptions, for example in Finland where houseit comes to recruiting. This is why Scandic constantly strives in an effective way, Scandic needs to have a number of keeping consists of contracted employees from external to enable a good balance for employees between work, free temporary employees. This offers the opportunity of business partners. time and family life through flexibility and development. Total number of employees Men Women Total Employee turnover * Number Share, % Total 5,250 9,185 14,435 Total number /% of total 1,793 22.2 AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER Permanent employees 3,024 5,057 8,081 Women 1,045 58.3 Full-time 2,266 3,077 5,343 Men 748 41.7 VOICE INDEX Part-time 758 1,980 2,738 <30 765 42.7 2015: 763 Temporary 2,226 4,128 6,354 30–50 865 48.2 2014: 732 Contracted workers 104 204 308 >50 163 9.1 New hires * Number Share, % Sweden 433 24.1 UNIVERSUM SURVEY Norway 861 48.0 Total number and % of total 1,044 12.9 2015: 29th place in the Nordic region (only hotel Finland 91 5.1 Women 553 53.0 operator listed) according to nearly 18,000 Denmark 316 17.6 Men 491 47.0 business students. Other European 92 5.1 2014: 27th place in the Nordic region (only hotel <30 485 46.4 30–50 505 48.4 * Data refers to permanent employment. operator listed) according to 16,800 business >50 54 5.2 Geographic breakdown Men Women Total students. Sweden 234 22.4 Total number of employees 5,250 9,185 14,435 Norway 319 30.6 Sweden 2,327 4,574 6,901 GREAT PLACE TO WORK Finland 68 6.5 Norway 1,762 2,841 4,603 4th place in Denmark, in the category “Company with Denmark 337 32.3 Finland 311 607 918 more than 500 employees.” Other European 86 8.2 Denmark 651 931 1,582 * Data refers to permanent employment. Other European 199 232 431 34 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • EMPLOYEES GRI: G4-10, G4-11, G4-DMA, LA-1, LA-8, LA-9, LA-12, HR-2 INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY SCANDIC BUSINESS SCHOOL only hotel company within the Swedish hotel industry Scandic is actively involved in equality and diversity issues. Another one of Scandic’s strengths is that many employees that placed in the Top 50 List and was also designated a The distribution of men and women is fair and balanced choose to further their education and build a career within “rocket” by the survey. In Denmark, Scandic was ranked in all employee categories. Equality among employees and the company through Scandic Business School. This internal fourth in the Great Place to Work survey. Scandic also management is achieved through effective work in this vocational training program has been recognized and received a special prize for its work with diversity thanks area. Among part-time employees, there is a larger share praised by many organizations and is also appreciated by to its successful efforts in adapting its business so that of women. Scandic’s employees. Scandic Business School has a large diversity among employees has become a strength. This Scandic is a workplace where employees feel that they range of standard courses that are available to all employhas been achieved, for example, by overcoming potential are treated fairly and inclusively, which was confirmed in ees. Demand is high and participation in courses is decided language barriers through the use of images and pictothe 2015 Voice survey by a score of 763 (732), which together by employees and managers. In addition to stangrams on iPads. corresponds to the level of “Excellence” according to dard courses, there are also individually tailored courses Scandic is dedicated to continually working to become TNS Sifo that carried out the evaluation. and training programs provided by external experts. the first choice among the top service and hotel workers by Scandic remunerates employees based on local salary Vocational training No. of training hours showing commitment and openness to their needs, which levels and market practices and applies collective bargainis recognized as a factor to be a successful company with Total number of training hours 36,025 ing agreements where these are in place. The remunerathe most satisfied guests. By Men 12,371 tion model is based on clear, given criteria that disregard Women 23,654 gender, origin, ethnicity, age and/or other factors that are Management 15,652 not relevant for how remuneration is defined. For administrative reasons related to the integration of Rica hotels, Employees 20,373 GENDER BREAKDOWN, COMPANY IN TOTAL, % Scandic has chosen to omit reporting of the company’s * The table shows the number of training hours based on Scandic Business School’s standard courses and does not include externally provided courses. External trainers breakdown of wages and remuneration. make up a large part of the executive committee's education. As there is no systemized way to incorporate these hours in the overall statistics, their training hours have Scandic is also carrying out a number of important initiabeen merged with all managers within the company. tives that aim to create employment possibilities for the many skilled newcomers to Sweden today. Scandic is the first hotel company, at a national level, to begin evaluating MOST ATTRACTIVE HOTEL EMPLOYER and validating skills among newly arrived chefs as part of the Scandic’s success is built on being able to attract the best “Snabbspåret” fast track project. This project was launched employees. And it is proud to be able to call itself one of the in late 2015 by the Swedish Government together with Visita most sought-after employers in the Nordic countries. This and the hotel and restaurant union HRF to help new immiwas confirmed by Scandic once again being voted the Men 36% Women 64% grants with expertise in areas where there are worker shortmost attractive hotel employer among business students, ages enter the labor market faster. according to Universum Norden. Scandic was also the GENDER BREAKDOWN, GENERAL MANAGERS, % Total number of Executive Demographic breakdown employees, % Board, % Committee, % Management, % Employees, % Men 5,250 36.4 8 80.0 4 57.1 573 47.9 4,673 35.3 Women 9,185 63.6 2 20.0 3 42.9 622 52.1 8,560 64.7 Age <30 6,635 46.0 0 0.0 0 0.0 131 11.0 6,504 49.2 Age 30–50 6,183 42.8 3 30.0 5 71.4 870 72.8 5,308 40.1 Age >50 1,617 11.2 7 70.0 2 28.6 194 16.2 1,421 10.7 Total 14,435 10 7 1,195 13,233 Men 54% Women 46% GRI: G4-10, G4-11, G4-DMA, LA-1, LA-8, LA-9, LA-12, HR-2 EMPLOYEES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 35 EMPLOYEES FROM 120 COUNTRIES Inclusion and diversity are prioritized areas within Scandic. All employees are treated with consideration and respect. This is regardless of age, origin, ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation. Today, Scandic employs people from no less than 120 countries. They interact daily and represent a unique competitive advantage for the Scandic brand. FIRST ON BOARD FAST TRACK PROGRAM Supporting integration proactively is a fundamental part of Scandic’s work with inclusion. In the fall of 2015, the Swedish Government together with Visita and the hotel and restaurant union HRF launched the Fast track program. The goal is to help newcomers with experience and training in occupations where there is a labor shortage to enter the workforce faster. Scandic is the first hotel company on the national level committed to evaluating and validating the skills of newly arrived chefs on a national level. Validation will be carried out at a number of Scandic hotels throughout Sweden. The supervisors come from Scandic’s experienced staff. They have been trained and certified by the Swedish Education Council for Hotels and Restaurants (UHR). Scandic also complements this with internal training. In Sweden today, there is a great shortage of chefs and a tug-of-war between hotels and restaurants when it comes to finding trained staff. In Sweden and the Nordic region, Scandic is also the largest restaurant chain, so recruiting needs are high within the company. SCANDIC’S FOOD SPEAKS FOR ITSELF Scandic’s initiative aims to solve a specific problem in the industry. At the same time, it contributes to raising the status of jobs in the hotel and restaurant sector in the long term. For Scandic, the fast track program is also a way to take its responsibility as a member of society and help integrate new citizens. By entering the workforce, they can become a natural part of society. Many people think that learning the language of a country is the key to integration. At Scandic, language is not really an issue. A restaurant kitchen is among the most international workplaces imaginable. Speaking Swedish is not a prerequisite to cook good food. 36 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • EMPLOYEES GRI: G4-10, G4-11, G4-DMA, LA-1, LA-8, LA-9, LA-12, HR-2 EMPLOYEES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 37 FORERUNNER IN ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES Since 1993, Scandic has been working to move forward and establish an industry standard when it comes to responsible hotel operations. Scandic was, for example, the first hotel to introduce the “hang up your towel” concept instead of throwing it in the laundry every day. And with the idea that large streams from little fountains flow, Scandic has since added other daily routines that show the company’s commitment to a sustainable environment with the UN's precautionary principle as a starting point. ENVIRONMENTALLY CERTIFIED HOTELS ENVIRONMENTAL ICONS SHOW THE WAY controlled ventilation systems. Large refrigeration units have FOR GUESTS AND THE CLIMATE To help customers be environmentally friendly, Scandic has been replaced with individual refrigerators with glass doors To ensure that sustainability is systematically integrated developed a number of icons that are accessible at many that allow employees to see contents without having to open into Scandic’s business, Scandic requires all of its hotels hotels each with an environmental thought in their composithe door and release expensive and energy-heavy cooled air. to be environmentally certified. At the end of 2015, 184 of tion. Some examples are free use of Scandic bikes, garbage Scandic’s efforts have led to a reduction in the company’s 221 hotels were certified with the Nordic Ecolabel or the cans with separate divisions for organic waste, paper and carbon dioxide emissions, which have been calculated as EU Ecolabel. These hotels operate from a lifecycle principle combustibles, room keys made of wooden material and tap an intensity figure 0.00000297 tonnes CO2/SEK. and meet established environmental demands for energy water served in Scandic bottles made from recycled glass. Hotel operations require large quantities of water for example conservation, waste minimization and the use of recycled So that guests can make healthy and responsible food in cleaning, maintenance and cooking. Scandic always aims to materials. The hotels continuously aim to minimize the choices, Scandic offers a wide range of organic and certireduce consumption and has water and energy efficient applinegative environmental impact of their operations, in large fied products. Food waste is sorted and sent to composting ances in kitchens and bathrooms. In 2015, Scandic consumed and small ways. or biogas production. a total of 2,319,000 m3 of water. In the Nordic countries, clean Each Scandic hotel has a person responsible for enviwater is a given and to ensure that the water supply remains ronmental issues, who ensures that the hotel lives up to INNOVATIONS FOR THE LOWEST IMPACT clean, Scandic is working to minimize the use of hazardous environmental requirements and reports on the use of To reduce the company’s environmental footprint, Scandic chemicals. Chemicals for cleaning and dishwashing are envienergy, water, chemicals and waste. This allows Scandic has actively implemented energy-saving initiatives in its ronmentally certified and volumes are controlled by automatic to maintain full control and make the small changes that hotels. All light bulbs are changed continuously using LED dosing. During the year, Scandic used only a net of 463 tonnes gradually lead to significantly reducing its impact on lights and switches have been replaced to enable custom of chemicals at all hotels, and 77 percent of the chemicals the climate. lighting. Static air conditioning has been replaced by demandused were environmentally-certified. 2015 2015 2015 ENVIRONMENTALLYRECYCLED ENVIRONMENTALLYCERTIFIED HOTELS WASTE CERTIFIED CHEMICALS 83% 67% 77% 38 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • ENVIRONMENT GRI: G4-14, G4-DMA, EN-3, EN-15, EN-16, EN-17, EN-18, EN-23 CO2 SF6 CH4 N2O HFCS PFCS Scandic’s total CO2 emissions during 2015 totaled 36,200 tonnes. SCOPE 2 SCOPE 3 Indirect energy SCOPE 1 Other indirect energy Direct energy SCOPE 2 SCOPE 1 SCOPE 3 Scope 2 includes emissions from the energy Scandic buys Scope 1 includes emissions from gas and oil that Scandic Scope 3 includes emissions from employees’ air travel. ready-made, which is known as indirect energy. This includes purchases in the form of raw materials. This is known as These emissions, like those in Scope 2, are released electricity, district heating and district cooling to operate direct energy. Scandic uses gas and oil to heat all hotels, from purchased energy but come from a third party, hotels through, for example, ventilation, lighting and operabut the company is working continually to phase these out for example airlines. tions. Today, a large proportion of the electricity and district as sources of heat. Some hotels use propane or kitchen Scope 3 heating that Scandic purchases comes from renewable gas in their restaurant kitchens. Number of km* 2,848,408 sources such as wind and hydropower. Scandic prioritizes Scope 1 CO2 emissions, tonnes 366.1 district heating and cooling above local cooling systems. Energy consumption * Scandic Grand Palace Brussels, Scandic Gdansk and Scandic Wroclaw are excluded Scope 2 of which Gas, MWh 7,697.4 as these hotels do not have systems for recording the number of km traveled. Energy consumption, MWh Propane gas, tonnes 1,683.4 of which Electricity 250,395.4 Heating oil, MWh 404.3 District heating 180,269.8 CO2 emissions, tonnes 4,427.9 District cooling 11,410.4 of which Gas 4,388.3 CO2 emissions, tonnes 31,406 Heating oil 39.6 of which Electricity 3,856.7 District heating 25,369.9 District cooling 2,179.4 WASTE As much as 67 percent of Scandic’s other waste was recycled, which shows the success Total weight per disposal Hazardous method, tonnes waste Waste Total weight per type of waste, tonnes of the active sorting carried out at each hotel. Of the remaining part, combustible waste was burned to release new energy. It is impossible for Scandic to avoid hazardous waste, Reuse 0 43.1 Paper 775.5 as electronics and appliances need to be replaced and there are construction materials Recycling 125.3 5,233.1 Glass 1,377.8 that are sometimes left over from renovations. However, today, half of all hazardous waste Energy recovery 0.0 1,761.4 Metal 124.3 is recycled, resulting in a large reduction in Scandic’s environmental impact. Combustion 124.5 41.2 Plastic 244.6 Landfill 25.4 84.2 Other waste 5,572.4 Other * 0.1 656.5 * Waste disposed of through other options includes fats and residual Total 275.2 7,819.5 waste. Municipal waste is excluded. GRI: G4-DMA, EN-3, EN-15, EN-16, EN-17, EN-18, EN-23 ENVIRONMENT • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 39 SUSTAINABLE AND RESPONSIBLE FOOD At Scandic, we do as our guests – we prioritize healthy and responsible food. Our guests rank healthy food as the third most important factor for a great hotel stay, just after location and comfortable beds. We listen to our guests, so we offer sustainable food options from early breakfast to late dinner. We serve, for example, a breakfast featuring organic options and organic and Fairtrade coffee at all hotels. The fish and seafood we serve follows the WWF Seafood Guide. We also offer organic wines and beers. In Denmark, we have focused on healthy fruit and vegetable drinks at our conference buffets, often made from “uglier” produce that would otherwise have been discarded. In our Scandic shops in Sweden, half of the products are organic or Fairtrade. In other words, we offer a variety of products that are good for both people and the planet. Another important aspect is the hygiene and food safety in our kitchens and restaurants. To ensure maximum freshness and food safety in our operations, we have developed a training program in health and food security for our kitchen and service staff with its starting point in Sweden. For our youngest and most discerning guests, meals and their components are especially important. In Sweden, we always offer organic children’s menus with fish dishes, pancakes, meatballs and burgers, all served with wholesome organic vegetables and beverages that are free from additives and food coloring. 40 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 GRI: G4-DMA ALL FISH AND SEAFOOD WE SERVE AT SCANDIC COMES FROM SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES AND WE FOLLOW THE WWF’S SEAFOOD GUIDE. KRAV-LABEL CERTIFICATIONS TO HELP OUR ENVIRONMENT GUESTS MAKE INFORMED CHOICES WHEN THEY DINE WITH US DEBIO ENVIRONMENT Ø LABELED ENVIRONMENT LUOMU ENVIRONMENT EU ORGANIC ENVIRONMENT FAIRTRADE WORKING CONDITIONS RAINFOREST ALLIANCE WORKING CONDITIONS AND ENVIRONMENT UTZ WORKING CONDITIONS GRI: G4-15, G4-DMA SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 41 In 2001, Scandic initiated the “Scandic in Society” program that involves all of the company’s hotels and employees in different ways. This ranges from serving coffee to parents on night patrol to providing sheets at shelters for the homeless. This means that each hotel can choose to engage in the issues that are the most important to it. SCANDIC IN SOCIETY STRONG INVOLVEMENT SIGNATORY OF THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT rooms as well as 11,000 items and cutlery and crockery That Scandic’s local involvement is important for employOn the Group level, Scandic also works to always choose for 600 people needed to be removed. Instead of sending ees is reflected in the fact that 93 percent of all hotels carwhat is best for its business, the environment and society. everything to landfill as in a usual renovation, Scandic ried out and participated in at least three activities during This is why in 2015, Scandic decided to take a broader decided to recycle 100 percent of the items. A large part 2015. The staff at Scandic Hamburg Emporio, for example, approach and signed the UN Global Compact principles went to other Scandic hotels. All toys and similar were collected 16,000 EUR for the Hamburg Food Bank for the for sustainability. This means that in addition to reporting donated to Vaggan, an orphanage for disabled children in homeless by preparing and selling more than 500 dishes on the company’s performance in relation to the principles, Kaunas, Lithuania. Everything remaining, or 15 percent, during the event. The food and employees’ time was Scandic also has to provide practical examples of how it went to a recycling facility to be made into new materials. donated by Scandic. is integrating sustainability into its business. This local involvement is a standard at Scandic and one STANDING UP FOR VALUES of the success factors for Scandic in Society. The hotels COMMITTED TO RECYCLING To be a responsible partner in society means not just living donate resources in the form of food, personnel and event The establishment of Scandic’s new signature hotel Hayup to requirements and regulations. Sometimes it also space, and Scandic’s employees give of their hearts and market in central Stockholm manifests the company’s means standing up for your values and taking a stand for working hours to help the most vulnerable people in sociapproach to sustainability in ways both large and small. human rights in daily operations. One issue of responsibility ety. In addition to the joy and satisfaction it gives Scandic to When the property was closed for remodeling, fixtures and for the entire hotel industry is human trafficking. Here, be active in creating a better and safer society, it promotes objects from 270 rooms on five floors,12 storage rooms, Scandic has taken a proactive stance and cooperates with team spirit. the breakfast area, lounge, kitchen, reception and staff the police to prevent human trafficking at Scandic’s hotels. Sustainability goals Scandic has established GOAL 2020 long-term sustainability INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY goals for the company's work. All targets have a “SCANDIC WILL LEAD THE HOTEL INDUSTRY IN GIVING ALL EMPLOYEES number of measurements THE SAME OPPORTUNITIES.” (except for the health aspect for customers). 42 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • SCANDIC IN SOCIETY GRI: G4-15, G4-19, G4-DMA, HR-2 EXAMPLES OF INITIATIVES THAT SCANDIC SUPPORTS Local initiatives Organization Description Country Type of cooperation Diversity charter A part of the European network Diversity Charter. Sweden Scandic is one of the founders of Diversity Sweden Works for diversity and an inclusive approach in Charter Sweden. SCANDIC IS Mitt Liv companies and organizations. Mitt Liv works to promote an inclusive society and Sweden Scandic is a partner in the mentoring AN IMPORTANT a labor market that values diversity through mentoring, training and broad contact networks. program, among others. PARTICIPANT IN LOCAL Dansk Erhverv CSR netværk Network for the service industry in Denmark, which represents 17,000 Danish companies and 100 trade organizations in areas such as tourism. Denmark Scandic is involved in the CSR network. COMMUNITIES ReFood Collects and recycles organic waste. Denmark All hotels are members which means that kitchen managers weigh food waste and report it centrally. Finnish Chamber Network organization for 19,000 Finnish companies. Finland Scandic participates in networks and of Commerce training and is a supplier for meetings. Hospitality Association The employer organization in the hotel industry. Finland Scandic is on the board and on several MaRa committees. Norges The Norwegian Olympic and Paralympic Committee Norway Scandic is a sponsor. Idrettsforbund / OT and Confederation of Sports (NIF) is Norway’s largest In 2015, Scandic trained employees at 109 hotels to volunteer organization with 2.1 million members. improve their knowledge of how to act in cases of susNæringsutvalget Hotel college that trains students in hotel Norway Scandic participates in projects pected human trafficking. Scandic also supports the Real Norsk Hotellhøyskole management and tourism. implemented at the college. Stars organization that works to prevent sex trafficking Scandic ID league A local sports club in Hamburg for children Germany Scandic is a sponsor. through dialog and advocacy in the community. with disabilities. Scandic has chosen to be an active and committed EDAD Design für Alle Network within the area of “Design for All.” The network Germany Scandic supports the organization. member of society with clear values. Scandic creates – Deutschland e.V. supports research and provides information in the area. world-class experiences for guests at the same time as Economic value creation MSEK the company stands up for its values in the communities The information in this table shows generated and in which it operates. Direct economic value generated 12,211 distributed economic value. This indicates how Revenues 12,211 Scandic has created value for stakeholders from Economic value distributed 12,102.54 a broader social perspective. Scandic’s operations Operating costs 7,641.7 are run in a sound way with a sustainable distribution of operating costs, including wages, taxes and com­ Employee wages and benefits 3,954 munity investments while there is still good profitability Financial costs 500 for shareholders. Taxes 6.5 Community investments 0.34 Economic value retained 108.46 GOAL GOAL GOAL HEALTH CO2 EMISSIONS WASTE “SCANDIC WILL BE THE PREMIER HOTEL “SCANDIC WILL “SCANDIC WILL CONTINUE CHOICE FOR CUSTOMERS WHO BE THE HOTEL COMPANY WITH TO REDUCE TOTAL WASTE AND PRIORITIZE A HEALTHY LIFESTYLE AND THE LOWEST CO2 EMISSIONS.” INCREASE THE PERCENTAGE AN ATTRACTIVE EMPLOYER WHEN OF RECYCLED WASTE.” IT COMES TO WORK-LIFE BALANCE.” GRI: G4-16, G4-19, G4-DMA, EC-1, HR-2 SCANDIC IN SOCIETY • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 43 ADMINISTRATION REPORT OPERATIONS Significant events in 2015 Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ) • RevPAR grew by 4.9 percent. LFL, RevPAR increased by 7.5 percent as a result of higher occupancy and average room rates. Corp. Id. 556703-1702 • Net sales increased by 12.6 percent to 12,192.7 MSEK (10,825.9). The Board of Directors and the CEO of Scandic Hotels Group • Net sales LFL went up 7.3 percent mainly due to higher occupancy. AB (publ), with its registered office in Stockholm, hereby submit • Adjusted EBITDA rose to 1,246.4 MSEK (1,019.3), corresponding to a margin of 10.2 percent (9.4 percent). the Annual Report and consolidated financial statements for The margin improvement resulted from higher revenues LFL and efficiency gains from the integration of the former Rica hotels. the 2015 financial year. • Net debt on the reporting date totaled 3,355.5 MSEK, corresponding to 2.7x adjusted EBITDA. • Scandic was listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Mid-Cap list on December 2, 2015. Operations The company owns 100 percent of the Scandic Group through the wholly-owned subsidiary, Scandic Hotels Holding AB. Over Group key ratios, MSEK 2015 2014 Changes, % the year, Scandic conducted hotel operations in seven counFinancial key ratios tries. On the reporting date, in total, Scandic had 221 hotels in Net sales 12,192.7 10,825.9 12.6 operation, and the hotels are operated through 22 subsidiaries. Net sales growth, % 12.6 37.4 Nordic hotel market development Net sales growth LFL, % 7.3 4.5 Demand for hotel nights in the Nordic markets was high during Adjusted EBITDAR 4,406.2 3,826.1 15.2 the year. In Sweden, the number of rooms sold increased by Adjusted EBITDA 1,246.4 1,019.3 22.3 7.5 percent. The impact of new capacity was lower than in previous year and RevPAR in the Swedish market rose by EBITDA 1,114.4 685.8 62.5 7.9 percent as a result of both higher occupancy and average EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 612.6 210.9 190.5 room rates. In Norway, the number of rooms sold went up by Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 10.2 9.4 4.4 percent, however higher room capacity led to a 0.7 percent Earnings per share, SEK 1.43 –5.36 decrease in RevPAR in the Norwegian market. Reduced activity in the oil sector caused a decrease in RevPAR at destinations Hotel-related key ratios highly dependent on the oil industry, while the Oslo region and RevPAR (Average Revenue Per Available Room), SEK 601.3 573.5 4.9 destinations in northern Norway showed strong RevPAR growth. ARR (Average Room Rate), SEK 933.9 927.4 0.7 RevPAR in the Finnish market increased by 3.2 percent driven by higher occupancy mainly during the summer months and OCC (Occupancy), % 64.4 61.8 the fourth quarter. In the Danish market, RevPAR went up by 9.3 percent, driven by both volume and prices. HOTEL MARKET DEVELOPMENT HOTEL MARKET DEVELOPMENT IN SWEDEN 2015 IN NORWAY 2015 % % 15 12 10 12 8 6 9 4 2 6 0 3 -2 -4 0 -6 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Jan–Dec Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Jan–Dec 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 2015 Sold rooms Available rooms RevPAR Sold rooms Available rooms RevPAR (Source: Benchmarking Alliance and STR Global). 44 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • ADMINISTRATION REPORT GRI: G4-3, G4-17 Seasonal variations franchise operated hotels in Bergen acquired in February previous year. In Norway, however, lower levels of activity Scandic operates in a sector affected by seasonal variations. 2015, six new hotels that were opened in 2014 and HTL Uppwithin the Norwegian oil sector led to a decrease in occupancy Revenues and earnings fluctuate during the year. The first landsgatan, Stockholm, which opened in September 2015, and average room rates at destinations dependent on the oil quarter and other periods with low levels of business travel contributed together to revenue growth of 9.0 percent. Hotels industry. Hotels that were divested affected RevPAR growth by such as the summer months, Easter and Christmas/ New that were divested had a negative impact on growth of 1.6 per-1.3 percent, new hotels in the ramp-up phase by -0.9 percent Year’s are generally the weakest periods. The Easter holiday cent. In addition, exchange rate effects caused by the weakand exchange rate fluctuations by -0.3 percent. may fall in both the first and second quarters, so this needs ened Norwegian krone had a negative impact on revenue of Restaurant and conference revenues grew by 10.9 percent as to be taken into consideration when making comparisons 0.4 percent. a result of large new conference hotels. Also, LFL restaurant and between years. Approximately 70 percent of Scandic’s reveRevPAR grew by 4.9 percent (7.5 percent LFL) with good conference operations showed continued positive development. nues come from business travel and conferences, while the growth LFL in all countries and we estimate that Scandic grew The newly renovated conference hotels that were part of the straremaining 30 percent is from leisure travel. more than the market. Strong demand within the leisure travel tegic renovation program carried out with Pandox contributed segment during the summer, large congresses and conferpositively to revenue growth. Additionally, increased occupancy Sales and profit/loss ences during the second and third quarters, and a fourth quarter and higher guest volumes had positive impact on breakfast and Net sales rose by 12.6 percent to 12,192.7 MSEK (10,825.9). with continued strong demand in particular in Sweden and restaurant revenues. The share of net sales from restaurant and Excluding acquisitions, net sales rose by 10.4 percent. LFL, net Denmark led to a good market growth. This, together with conference revenues was 33.4 percent (33.9 percent). sales rose by 7.3 percent due to an increased number of hotel Scandic’s commercial activities, expanded distribution agreeRental costs accounted for 25.9 percent (25.9 percent) of nights sold, higher room rates and greater demand within resments and newly renovated hotels, contributed to increased net sales. Fixed and guaranteed rental costs represented 17.2 taurant and conference operations. New hotels, including Rica occupancy. Strong demand, primarily in the last six months, percent (16.8 percent) of net sales. The increase is as a result Hotels that was consolidated from April 1, 2014, three previous resulted in higher average room rates compared with the of new hotels that were added to the portfolio. Personnel costs and other external costs decreased in relation to net sales, primarily as a result of the merger of Scandic and Rica’s head offices in Sweden and Norway in August 2014 NET SALES, PER QUARTER OCC & ARR, LFL – CHANGE PER QUARTER and the implementation of Scandic’s operational model in the MSEK former Rica hotels. % 3,500 Adjusted EBITDA, before pre-opening costs for new hotels, 14 12 and non-recurring items increased to 1,246.4 MSEK (1,019.3) 3,000 10 as a result of higher revenue and efficiency gains from the inte2,500 8 gration of the former Rica hotels. The adjusted EBITDA margin 2,000 6 was 10.2 percent (9.4 percent). If Rica Hotels had been consol4 idated from January 1, 2014, the adjusted EBITDA margin for 1,500 2 the previous year would have been 8.9 percent. 1,000 0 -2 500 -4 Growth in RevPAR and net sales 0 -6 compared with 2014 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 RevPAR, RevPAR, Net sales, Net sales, 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 Jan–Dec 2015 SEK % MSEK % Growth LFL 42.1 7.5 612.2 7.3 LFL contribution ADJUSTED EBITDA , PER QUARTER RevPAR, ROLLING 12 MONTHS to growth 42.1 7.3 612.2 5.7 MSEK SEK Exchange rate impact –1.6 –0.3 –43.1 –0.4 500 630 Exit hotels –7.5 –1.3 –177.5 –1.6 400 610 New hotels –5.2 –0.9 975.1 9.0 Reported growth 27.9 4.9 1,366.7 12.6 300 590 Growth LFL = LFL-portfolio growth. 200 570 LFL contribution to growth = LFL portfolio change in RevPAR and net sales in relation to the total portfolio. 100 550 0 530 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 2014 2015 2015 2015 2015 RevPAR RevPAR, LFL ADMINISTRATION REPORT • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 45 Pre-opening costs for new hotels amounted to -27.9 MSEK Five-year summary (-67.9). Non-recurring items amounted to -104.1 MSEK MSEK 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 (-265.7). These include costs related to the integration of Rica Hotels of -52.0 MSEK (-202.4), costs for IPO preparations of Financial key ratios – income statement -39.3 MSEK (-28.3) and costs for restructuring and other items Net sales 12,192.7 10,825.9 7,881.9 8,035.3 7,611.1 of -12.8 MSEK (-35.0) Additional non-recurring expenses related to the IPO of 55.3 MSEK were accounted for in equity. Net sales growth, % 12.6 37.4 –1.9 5.6 5.8 EBITDA increased to 1,114.4 MSEK (685.8). Net sales growth LFL, % 7.3 4.5 –3.5 1.0 3.8 The Group reported a net financial expense of -497.3 MSEK Adjusted EBITDAR 4,406.2 3,826.1 2,734.0 2,807.0 2,619.8 (-713.9). This includes exchange rate fluctuations from the Adjusted EBITDA 1,246.4 1,019.3 693.0 791.6 727.9 revaluation of loans and investments of -8.8 MESK (-280.5). EBITDA 1,114.4 685.8 588.7 706.3 648.7 Interest expenses increased to -476.8 MSEK (-442.3) as a result of increased borrowing to finance the acquisition of Rica Adjusted EBIT 774.6 544.5 291.8 366.4 322.7 Hotels in 2014 and include non-recurring expenses of -10.3 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 612.6 210.9 187.5 281.1 243.4 MSEK (-22.4) from loan refinancing and repayment. In connecAdjusted EBITDAR margin, % 36.1 35.3 34.7 34.9 34.4 tion with the company’s listing on the Nasdaq Stockholm Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 10.2 9.4 8.8 9.9 9.6 exchange on December 2, 2015, the company’s mezzanine loan was amortized. The company’s senior credit facility was EBITDA margin, % 9.1 6.3 7.5 8.8 8.5 renegotiated and extended during the third quarter 2015. The Adjusted EBIT margin, % 6.4 5.0 3.7 4.6 4.2 maturity of the loans was extended to 2020, and following the Operating margin (EBIT), % 5.0 1.9 2.4 3.5 3.2 IPO, the terms of the loans improved with regard to covenants Profit/loss for the year attributable to the Parent Company 116.6 –438.8 –247.8 148.4 –376.1 and interest rate margin, resulting in lower interest expenses. For these renegotiated loans, hedge accounting is applied. In Financial key ratios – financial position conjunction with the stock exchange listing, a shareholder loan Balance sheet total 12,899.9 13,456.3 11,322.2 11,103.8 11,001.4 was converted into equity, which contributed to lower interest Equity attributable to the Parent Company 6,204.5 3,613.9 3,126.2 3,221.3 2,997.4 expenses from December 2015. The revaluation of derivatives had a negative impact on the net financial expense of -14.4 Working capital –1,046.7 –909.2 –689.6 –802.3 1) MSEK (+1.5). Interest-bearing net liabilities 3,355.5 6,073.1 4 555.3 4 204.6 1) Reported taxes include deferred tax income of 27.3 MSEK Interest-bearing net liabilities/adjusted EBITDA 2.7 6.0 6.6 5.3 1) related to taxes on losses carried forward. Total recorded losses carried forward amounted to 1,660.9 MSEK at year-end Cash flow from operating activities 1,186.2 789.7 545.1 611.1 634.4 and recognized deferred tax assets totaled 369.8 MSEK. Operating cash flow 401.0 –1,596.5 111.3 195.3 89.3 Earnings per share before and after dilution totaled 1.43 SEK (-5.36). Based on the number of outstanding shares at Key ratios per share year-end, earnings per share was 1.13 SEK. Average number of shares 2) 81,826,211 81,826,211 81,826,211 81,826,211 81,826,211 Earnings per share, SEK 1.42 –5.36 –3.03 1.81 –4.60 Financial targets In September 2015, Scandic adopted the following mediumEquity/share, SEK 75.5 43.8 38.2 39.4 36.6 to long-term financial targets: Hotel-related key ratios • Annual net sales growth of at least 5 percent on average RevPAR (Average Revenue Per Available Room), SEK 601.3 573.5 534.1 554.5 559.7 over a business cycle, excluding potential M&A. • An adjusted EBITDA margin of at least 11 percent on ARR (Average Room Rate), SEK 933.9 927.4 903.3 910.6 899.4 average over a business cycle. OCC (Occupancy), % 64.4 61.8 59.1 60.9 62.2 • A net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA of 2–3x. 1) In the year 2011, consolidated financial statements were not established, which is why these figures are not available. 2) The average number of shares has been recalculated with regard to events during 2015. See Note 19. The number of shares outstanding on December 31, 2015, was 102,985,075, earnings per share on December 31, 2015, was 1.13 SEK/share. 46 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • ADMINISTRATION REPORT SEGMENT Sweden Norway Other Nordic countries and other segments Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Change Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Change Jan–Dec Jan–Dec Change MSEK 2015 2014 % MSEK 2015 2014 % MSEK 2015 2014 % Net sales 4,969.3 4,474.8 11.0 Net sales 3,679.9 3,181.4 15.7 Net sales 3,543.5 3,169.7 11.8 Net sales growth, % 11.0 10.2 Net sales growth, % 15.7 213.6 Net sales growth, % 11.8 12.9 Net sales growth LFL, % 9.7 4.0 Net sales growth LFL, % 1.3 2.2 Net sales growth LFL, % 6.1 6.5 Adjusted EBITDA 816.7 682.5 19.7 Adjusted EBITDA 327.9 274.0 19.7 Adjusted EBITDA 404.6 311.2 30.0 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 16.4 15.3 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 8.9 8.6 Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 11.4 9.8 RevPAR, SEK 643.0 588.4 9.3 RevPAR, SEK 552.9 585.7 – 5.6 RevPAR, SEK 593.4 542.8 9.3 ARR, SEK 956.2 932.5 2.5 ARR, SEK 957.4 1,025.4 – 6.6 ARR, SEK 883.3 848.4 4.1 OCC, % 67.2 63.1 OCC, % 57.8 57.1 OCC, % 67.2 64.0 Net sales increased by 11.0 percent (9.7 percent LFL) during Net sales increased by 15.7 percent (1.3 percent LFL) during Net sales increased by 11.8 percent (6.1 percent LFL) to the year to 4,969.3 MSEK (4,474.8), mainly driven by an the year to 3,679.9 MSEK (3,181.4). The former Rica hotels 3,543.5 MSEK (3,169.7). RevPAR grew by 9.3 percent increased number of rooms sold, which also contributed to (consolidated from April 1, 2014), the acquisition of the for(6.3 percent LFL) driven by both volume and rates. Demand higher breakfast and restaurant revenues. Very strong demand merly franchise-driven hotels in Bergen and the four new in the Danish and German markets was high during the year, during the summer months and large conferences in Stockholm hotels that opened in 2014 contributed to a 23.4 percent and in Finland, major sporting events in July and December in July and September were followed by continued high demand increased in net sales. The Norwegian market showed uneven contributed to market growth in the second half of the year. during the rest of the year within both the business travel development. Reduced investments and activities within the oil Scandic in Finland also showed positive growth driven by and the leisure travel segments. Successful sales activities, industry have led to a slump in demand and room rates at desfocused sales activities, expanded distribution agreements increased volumes from corporate agreements and strengthtinations dependent on the oil industry, primarily Stavanger. and newly renovated hotels. ened distribution agreements also contributed to increased This was offset, however, by strong demand from leisure travScandic’s three hotels in Germany showed good revenue occupancy. RevPAR went up by 9.3 percent (9.3 percent LFL) elers in the summer months coupled with continued good growth and improved margins and shared support functions mainly due to higher occupancy, although the strong demand growth in northern Norway and the Oslo region. Divested hotels between the two hotels in Berlin led to lower costs. In November, during the year also lead to higher average room rates. (Grand Hotel, Oslo) had a negative effect of 4.8 percent on net Scandic divested its hotel in Antwerp, Belgium when Scandic Scandic Kungsgatan in Stockholm closed in November sales and the continued weak Norwegian krone had a negative chose not to extend the lease agreement. 2015 for a total renovation and extension and will open again effect of 4.2 percent on net sales. RevPAR LFL rose by 3.0 perHTL Upplandsgatan opened in Stockholm in September in May 2016 as Haymarket by Scandic. cent as a result of increased occupancy as an effect of suc2015, which means that four HTL hotels are now in operation. Adjusted EBITDA and the adjusted EBITDA margin improved cessful commercial activities, and Scandic continues to gain Adjusted EBITDA and the adjusted EBITDA margin improved compared with 2014 due to growth in revenues. The abolishmarket share. Reported RevPAR declined by 5.6 percent due to compared with the previous year, mainly as a result of higher ment of reduced social security contributions for employees exchange rate fluctuations, hotels that were divested and new revenues and cost synergies in Germany. under the age of 26 in what is know as the youth discount led hotels in the ramp-up phase. to an increase in personnel expenses of approximately 8 MSEK Adjusted EBITDA and the adjusted EBITDA margin grew Central functions during the fourth quarter compared with the previous year. For compared with the previous year as a result of improved effiAdjusted EBITDA for central functions amounted to -302.9 2016, the effect is expected to be approximately 29 MSEK for ciency and the integration of former Rica hotels where the MSEK (-248.4), of which central costs totaled -287.6 MSEK the entire year. implementation of Scandic’s operational model led to a more (-251.1) and Group adjustments for pension costs and the flexible cost base and lower personnel expenses. loyalty program amounted to -15.3 MSEK (+2.7). Central costs increased mainly due to higher IT costs from digital investments and strengthening of the Group’s commercial organization and investor relations. ADMINISTRATION REPORT • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 47 Financial position operating cash flow was 563.4 MSEK (106.7). Group working Acquisitions and divestments The balance sheet total on the reporting date was 12,899.9 capital was negative since most of the revenue derives from On February 1, 2015, the Scandic Group acquired 100 percent MSEK compared with 13,456.3 MSEK on December 31, 2014, payments made via bank and credit cards. Working capital of the share capital of Scandic Strand Hotel Bergen AS, Scandic with the decrease mainly due to exchange rate fluctuations at the end of the period in relation to net sales from the last Neptun Hotel Bergen AS and Scandic Bergen Hotel Scandic caused by the weakened Norwegian krone. In connection with 12 months was -8.6 percent (-8.4 percent). City AS for 160.0 MNOK. Before the acquisition, the companies Scandic’s public listing on the Nasdaq Stockholm stock Net investments during the year amounted to -622.8 MSEK operated hotels in Bergen, Norway under the Scandic brand exchange, the group’s debt portfolio was refinanced. Interest(-682.9), including proceeds from the sale of shares in Scandic through a long-term franchise agreement. The reason behind bearing net debt decreased from 6,073.1 MSEK on December Dyreparken Hotel AS of 15.9 MSEK. Of the remaining -638.7 the acquisitions was to strengthen Scandic’s position in Bergen, 31, 2014 to 3,355.5 MSEK on December 31, 2015 due to the MSEK, hotel renovations accounted for -456.6 MSEK (-511.7) one of Norway’s most important hotel markets. For further repayment of the mezzanine loan of 1,551.2 MSEK and the and IT for -43.0 MSEK (-32.8). Investments in new hotels and information, please see Note 26. conversion of a shareholder loan of 1,036.4 MSEK to equity increased room capacity totaled -139.1 MSEK (-124.7). The 50 percent holding in the associated company Scandic through a shareholders’ contribution. Net debt on December Cash flow from financing operations during the year totaled Hotels Dyreparken AS was divested on October 1, 2015 to 31, 2015 corresponds to 2.7 times adjusted EBITDA. Of the -860.9 MSEK (1,254.3), with the decrease attributable to last Dyreparken Utvikling AS for 16.0 MNOK. See Note 13. interest-bearing liabilities of 3,603.0 MSEK, loans to credit year’s utilization of existing credit facilities of 772.7 MSEK as institutions account for 3,599.7 MSEK and financial leasing well as this year’s net amortization of -2,058.5 MSEK, represents 3.3 MSEK. increased non-recurring expenses for refinancing of -47.6 A bonus issue of 19.9 MSEK was carried out without any MSEK and increased interest payments of -27.9 MSEK. The new shares issued. The gross proceeds from the share issue in share issue resulted in net proceeds of 1,516.9 MSEK after connection with the public listing totaled 1,540.0 MSEK. After issuing costs. deductions for transaction costs of 49.0 MSEK after tax, the At the reporting date, the Group had 247.5 MSEK (716.4) in share issue increased equity by 1,491.0 MSEK. The number of cash and cash equivalents. Unused credit facilities amounted shares and votes has increased by 22,985,075 since the first to 600.0 MSEK (122.0). day of trading on Nasdaq Stockholm. On December 31, 2015, the total number of shares and votes was 102,985,075. On Change in Group structure December 31, 2015, total equity was 6,204.5 MSEK compared As a step in the simplification of the legal structure, a number with 3,613.9 MSEK on December 31, 2014. of companies were merged during the year. In Sweden, Hotell Skogshöjd AB was merged with Scandic Hotels AB. In Norway, Cash flow and liquidity Holmenkollen Park Hotel Rica AS, Grand Hotel Driftsselskap AS Operating cash flow amounted to 401.0 MSEK (-1,596.5) durand Scandic Hotellene Oslo AS were merged with Scandic ing the year, of which -162,4 MSEK refers to the acquisition of Hotels AS. See also Note 27. the three hotel companies in Bergen. Excluding acquisitions, WORKING CAPITAL/NET SALES, INVESTMENTS, 5 YEARS ROLLING 12 MONTHS % MSEK 0 800 3.0% 5.1% 4.8% 4.5% 3.7% 700 -2 600 -4 500 400 -6 300 200 -8 100 -10 0 Jan Feb Mar Apr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2015 2014 Renovations New hotels & expansions IT % Capex related to renovations as a % of net sales 48 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • ADMINISTRATION REPORT Hotels and rooms in operation and under development Operational Under development Lease agreements Management agreements Franchise and partner agreements Owned Total Total 31 Dec 2015 Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Hotels Rooms Sweden 73 14,589 1 145 5 646 – – 79 15,380 4 1,358 Norway 1) 59 11,161 – – 23 2,978 1 135 83 14,274 4 1,264 Denmark 21 3,495 1 210 – – – – 22 3,705 1 370 Finland 25 5,216 – – 2 233 – – 27 5,449 – – Rest of Europe 6 1,510 – – – – – – 6 1,510 – – HTL 4 602 – – – – – – 4 602 – – Total 188 36,573 2 355 30 3,857 1 135 221 40,920 9 2,992 All hotels under development will be operated with lease agreements, except Scandic Gällivare (80 rooms) that is operated under franchise agreement. 1) After the reporting day, an agreement was reached not to build the hotel Stavanger Congress, Norway. The hotel is included in the table above with 350 rooms. Portfolio development of Scandic’s brand and distribution has yielded results in the ownership amounted to 85.5 percent of the shares of which At the end of the year, Scandic had a hotel capacity of 40,920 form of a higher share of room revenues from loyalty program 71.8 percent were held by Swedish institutions, 11.1 percent rooms at 221 hotels, of which 188 had lease agreements. At members and an increase in reservations made via Scandic’s by Swedish funds and 2.6 percent by private investors. the end of the year, there were 2,992 rooms under developwebsite for the former Rica hotels. Guests have responded The lock-up period for the selling shareholder and cornerment at nine hotels. positively to the rebranding and the guest satisfaction index stone investor is 180 days after the listing. The lock-up period The strategic renovation program that started in 2012 shows a positive trend. The annual EBITDA contribution from for Board Members and senior executives is 365 days after together with the property company Pandox, which involves sales and cost synergies as well as efficiency measures is the listing date. upgrading some 40 hotels in Sweden, Norway and Finland to a expected to total 100-140 MSEK with full effect in 2017, of For a period of 180 days after the listing, Scandic has underhigh, uniform and cost-efficient standard, was completed by which approximately one-third was realized in 2015. taken not to propose to the general meeting of shareholders a the end of the year. Non-recurring expenses related to rebranding, IT integracapital contribution or otherwise take any action to, directly or tion and combining headquarters totaled 221 MSEK. Of this, indirectly, issue, offer, pledge, sell, issue or grant options or rights Integration of Rica Hotels 169 MSEK was charged to the company’s results as nonin respect of, contract to issue, pledge or sell, or otherwise disAll hotels with lease agreements were rebranded as Scandic recurring items during 2014 and 52 MSEK during 2015. pose of, directly or indirectly, shares or any other securities of hotels and integrated into Scandic’s operations in 2014. During the company that are substantially similar to shares in Scandic, the first quarter 2015, Norwegian franchise hotels were also Research and development without consent from Joint Global Coordinators. rebranded and integrated into Scandic’s operations. Hotels No R&D work was carried out. Scandic has entered into a share swap agreement with a with partner agreements were integrated in Scandic’s distributhird party to ensure the delivery of shares that may be allotted tion system, but continue to operate under their own brands. Share and ownership structure according to the long-term incentive program, LTIP, which was Together with purchasing synergies, the merger of the The Scandic share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s implemented in December 2015. If the full number of matching Swedish and Norwegian head offices during the third quarter of Nordic Mid Cap list since December 2, 2015. According to the shares and performance shares are allotted, the total number 2014 has led to annual savings of circa 80 MSEK that were company’s share register, maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB, of shares allotted under the LTIP will amount to 286,886, corfully realized by the reporting date. Scandic had 5,725 shareholders at year-end 2015 who had responding to approximately 0.28 percent of Scandic’s share The implementation of Scandic’s system for revenue optiequal voting rights, equal rights to the assets and profits and capital and votes. mizing and distribution as well as the operational model for an equal right to dividends of the total share capital. Sunstorm operations and steering has started to contribute to increased Holding AB is the largest shareholder, with 50.0 percent of the efficiency and higher margins in hotel operations. The strength share capital and votes.At the end of the year, total Swedish ADMINISTRATION REPORT • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 49 Risks and risk management Guidelines for remuneration to senior officers destination, which will increase demand for hotel nights. There A description of Scandic’s significant risks and uncertainties Guidelines for remuneration and other terms of employment are concerns about the development of the Norwegian econis provided in the section Risks and risk management on for the CEO and senior executives were adopted at the extra­ omy and at the same time, the weakened Norwegian krone is page 51–53. ordinary general meeting held on September 15, 2015. Please expected to impact leisure travel positively. With this in mind, see the Corporate Governance Report on page 93 for further Scandic believes that market conditions in the hotel industry Employees information. will remain favorable in 2016. The number of full-time employees (FTEs) increased to 10,505 Today, Scandic is the Nordic region’s largest hotel operator (9,853) for the year, mainly due to the acquisition of the hotels Long-term incentive program with a popular offering, a well-invested hotel portfolio and in Bergen as well as an increase in business volumes in Scandic’s In December 2015, Scandic implemented a share-based longa powerful geographical network. Our existing hotels and Swedish operations. The average number of employees in the term incentive program. The expected financial exposure to pipeline of new hotels under development are a solid foundaGroup was 9,887 on December 31, 2015. Scandic works shares that may be allotted under the LTIP and the delivery of tion for growth going forward. actively to be an equal employer and to ensure a good and safe shares to the participants of the LTIP has been hedged through work environment; this is governed by the Group’s Code of Scandic’s entering into a share swap agreement with a third Parent Company Conduct. During the year, the annual employee survey again party on market terms. The operations of the Parent Company Scandic Hotels Group showed good results and improvements within leadership, For further information, see Note 6 and the Corporate AB include management services for the rest of the Group. motivation and commitment to the company. According to the Governance Report on page 94. Revenues for the period amounted to 21.3 MSEK (–). Operating survey company TNS Sifo, Scandic is ranked as an “excellent” losses totaled -30.6 MSEK (–). company from an employee perspective. Events after the reporting date The net financial expense for the period was -12.8 MSEK Following the Rica Hotels acquisition, Scandic has a good net(-2.9). The Parent Company’s profit before taxes was 530.9 Executive Committee and Board of Directors work of hotels in Stavanger. Given this and current market MSEK (-2.9). Scandic’s Executive Committee is diversified and has solid conditions, Scandic has agreed with the property owner not The Parent Company’s cash and cash equivalents totalled experience from the hotel sector and consumer-oriented operto build the planned Stavanger Congress hotel. 1.9 MSEK (1.1). No investments were made during the year. ations in various markets. The Executive Committee consists of Gunilla Rudebjer, CFO, has decided to leave Scandic Hotels the CEO and six senior executives: the Chief Financial Officer Group. The process to recruit a successor has begun and Appropriation of profits (CFO), the Chief Operating Officer (COO), the Chief Commercial Gunilla Rudebjer will remain at Scandic until August 31, 2016. In accordance with the Board’s dividend policy adopted on Officer (CCO), the Senior Vice President Human Resources Scandic Hotels is taking over the operation of the centrally September 14, 2015, Scandic aims to distribute at least 50 (SVP Human Resources), the Vice President Business Developlocated First Hotel Europa Aalborg from June 1, 2016. In conpercent of its net profit from the financial year 2016 onwards. ment (VP Business Development) and the Vice President junction with the takeover, the hotel will change name to Decisions regarding the appropriation of profits are made Communications & IR (VP Communications & IR). The Country Scandic Aalborg City. with consideration for the company’s future profits, financial Managing Directors of the Group report to the COO. Three difThe company will also take over the operation of the current position, capital requirements and macroeconomic conditions. ferent nationalities are represented in the Executive CommitRadisson Blu Falconer Hotel & Conference Centre in central The Board thus proposes to the AGM 2016 that no dividend tee, which is composed of four men and three women. During Copen­hagen from October 1, 2018. In connection with the be paid for the 2015 financial year. the year, three new members joined the Executive Committee. re-opening of the hotel, the hotel will change its name to To be carried forward: SEK See the table on page 91 for additional details regarding the Scandic Falconer. Executive Committee. Other contributed capital 1,534,253,756 At extraordinary general meetings held during the year, Prospects Retained earnings 4,673,399,344 Lottie Knutson and Fredrik Wirdenius were elected as new Scandic’s solid revenue growth in 2015 confirms the high moProfit for the year 414,666,628 Board Members, while Erika Henriksson and Benny Zakrisson mentum in the Group. RevPAR developed very positively and LFL resigned from the Board of Directors. net sales was strong. In addition the efficiency gains from the Total 6,622,319,728 Jan Wallmark was elected as an employee representative integration of the Rica hotels contributed to improved margins. For other information, see the financial statements and notes on the Board. The current macroeconomic situation in the Nordic counthat follow. tries is favorable for our industry and statistics show that the Nordic region is continuing to grow as a tourist and meeting 50 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • ADMINISTRATION REPORT RISKS AND Risk management process The President & CEO is responsible for managing risks in Scandic has established a risk management process designed accordance with the guidelines adopted by the Board. The RISK MANAGEMENT to identify and reduce risks that can have an adverse effect on risk management process and work within specially identified the Group’s earnings and cash flow, brand and reputation, or risk areas are driven centrally by the Group’s Chief Financial All business activities are associated with risks. long-term competitiveness. The process that provides a frameOfficer, who has the overall responsibility. Operational risks Risks that are managed well can lead to opportuniwork for the Group’s risk management follows an annual cycle: are managed by The Executive Committee where each signifities and create value, while risks that are not mana• Executive Committee carries out risk mapping where risks cant risk identified is assigned to a designated manager who ged properly can lead to damage and losses. are identified and measured based on the probability that is responsible for proposing measures to fill any gaps and to they will occur as well as the consequences of their occurensure the execution of action plans. Financial risks are manThe ability to identify, assess, manage and monitor risks is an rence on the Group’s operations and financial position. This aged by Group Finance in accordance with Board-approved important part of the management and control of Scandic’s results in a risk map where each risk is classified as low, policies and instructions, and are reported by the Chief Finanbusiness operations. The aim is that the Group’s objectives will medium or high. Then the internal controls and the control cial Officer to the Audit Committee. be achieved through well-considered risk-taking within estabenvironment are evaluated where a high level of control can lished limits. reduce risks both in terms of probability and consequences. Sustainability risks The risk management process includes strategic, opera• Based on the Group’s risk profile and risk strategy, any gaps During the year, an assessment of sustainability risks was cartional and financial risks. are identified in relation to the desired level of control. ried out. This assessment considered all four areas of the UN Scandic has good underlying risk diversification in the form Thereafter, an action plan is developed to reduce gaps Global Compact: environment, human rights, labor rights and of a geographically diverse and balanced customer base. The where the value of reducing the risk is measured against anti-corruption. The results were included in Scandic’s work to Group operates primarily in the Nordic market through 221 the cost of establishing and maintaining internal controls. develop its sustainability strategy. In the company’s business hotels that serve its main target groups: business and leisure • The structure and frequency of monitoring risk status and development, operational and strategic decisions included sustravelers. Of the Group’s revenues, corporate travel accounts action plans is determined. Strategic risks are reported to tainability as a parameter that was evaluated based on opporfor approximately 70 percent and leisure travel for about 30 the Board and monitored in connection with strategy semitunities and risks. The management of sustainability risks is an percent. Scandic is not dependent on a specific industry or a nars, establishing business plans and regular Board meetintegral part of the Group’s risk management process. few customers. ings. Financial risks are reported and monitored both in For a detailed description of internal controls designed to financial reporting to the Board and at Audit Committee Strategic and operational risks manage risks relating to financial reporting, see pages 94–95 meetings according to the adopted annual meeting agenda. At the following pages is a description of the most significant in Scandic’s Corporate Governance report. Operational risks are managed by The Executive Committee risks to which Scandic’s operations are exposed. These are not and higher or more critical risks are also regularly reported the only risks to which the company’s operations are exposed, to the Board. and there may be other risks that are currently considered imRISK MAPPING material that may have a negative effect on the Group’s busiResponsibility and monitoring ness, financial performance or position. The order in which The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for ensuring risks are presented should not be considered an indication of that the Group has appropriate risk management structures in the probability of the occurrence of the risk or the seriousness place. The Board is also responsible for monitoring strategic of the consequences. ACTION PLAN VALUATION AND risks. The Audit Committee is responsible for evaluating the Strategic risks include external factors that may affect TO REDUCE CLASSIFICATION efficacy of the structure and risk management processes. The Scandic’s business and long-term competitiveness as well as GAPS OF RISKS Audit Committee is also responsible for monitoring financial internal factors that could lower the prospects of achieving ANNUAL CYCLE risks in accordance with the Committee’s instructions. Scandic’s strategic business objectives. Operational risks are risks over which Scandic has control and primarily include processes, assets and people. IDENTIFICATION EVALUATION OF GAPS IN DESIRED OF INTERNAL CONTROL LEVEL CONTROL RISKS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 51 MARKET RISKS Risk management Scandic operates in a sector where demand for hotel nights and conferences is influenced by Scandic operates in the mid-market hotel segment, which historically has demonstrated the underlying domestic development and purchasing power in the geographic markets in greater resilience in economic downturns. which Scandic does business, as well as development in those countries from which there Scandic’s business model is based on lease agreements where approximately 90 percent is a significant amount of travel to Scandic’s domestic markets. have variable, revenue-based rents. This results in lower profit risks since revenue losses are Additionally, profitability in the sector is impacted by changes in room capacity where when party compensated by reduced rental costs. Scandic’s other expenses also include a high new hotels are established, occupancy can decrease in the short term. In the long term, howshare of variable costs where above all, staffing flexibility is important to be able to adapt cost ever, a greater availability of rooms can help generate interest in particular destinations for levels to variations in demand. All together, this means that by having a flexible cost structure, business and leisure travel, thereby increasing the number of hotel rooms sold. Scandic can lessen the effects of seasonal and economic fluctuations. Increased growth in apartment hotels and concepts such as Airbnb as well as the rising Scandic sells products to a wide range of customers and industries. Scandic has earned use of video conferencing may impact demand for traditional hotel and conference services. a high percentage of satisfied and returning customers and guests. Competition from web-based distribution channels and search engine companies may A high share of distribution, or close to 70 percent, is achieved through Scandic’s own reduce traffic to Scandic’s own distribution channels, which could have a negative impact on channels, and a high level of revenues from members of Scandic’s loyalty program contributes Scandic’s operations and profitability. to revenue stability. Scandic invests regularly in achieving an optimal and customer-friendly buying process and maintaining a leading digital dialog with customers. To increase the inflow of private international travel, Scandic has entered into strategic cooperation agreements with relevant OTAs. POLITICAL RISK, TAXES AND DECISIONS FROM AUTHORITIES Risk management Changes in VAT or other taxes may affect demand for hotel stays, conference facilities and Scandic operates only in countries that are politically mature and stable, which leads to a low restaurants. Changes in taxes, social security fees and other fees that increase Scandic’s costs political risk. Through geographic spread, the risk that changes to legislation and regulations may have a negative effect on the Group’s results. in a single country may impact Scandic’s earnings negatively is reduced. LEASE AGREEMENTS – FINANCIAL COMMITMENTS Risk management Scandic’s business model is based on lease agreements. These agreements are signed for The risk involved in long-term financial commitments is reduced through the high proportion a period of typically 15–20 years, with the option to extend in many cases. According to these of agreements with variable rent. Of Scandic’s total lease agreements (based on number of agreements, the landlord and the tenant (Scandic) share responsibility for investments in and rooms), approximately 90 percent have fully variable rent or variable rent with a minimum maintenance of the property. Scandic’s commitment relates in general to maintenance and guaranteed rent. The latter is the most common contract model in the Nordic countries. replacement of finishes, furniture, fixtures and equipment. Historically, these investments have Revenue-based rent and joint investment responsibility mean that the landlord and tenant accounted for 3–4 percent of Scandic’s net sales. have a common interest in developing and maintaining the property in order to increase guest satisfaction and generate revenue. Scandic prepares rolling plans for the renovation and maintenance of hotels to ensure their standard, attractiveness and ability to continued good revenue generation. Scandic’s portfolio strategy means that the company only enters into lease agreements for hotels in markets that have good, stable demand, that are in attractive locations and that have the scale and configuration that allow for good profitability and thereby low commercial risk. Where these criteria are not met and the risk of entering into lease agreements is deemed too high, franchise agreements may be considered if the geographic location of the property has a strategic value or may contribute to increasing the value of Scandic’s loyalty program by improving geographic reach. 52 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • RISKS BRAND AND REPUTATION Risk management The hotel market is constantly evolving in terms of preferences and customer behavior. For this Scandic is the leading brand in the Nordic countries and the Scandic brand is one of the reason, it is extremely important for a hotel operator to ensure that its brand and content as Group’s most valuable assets. Scandic’s loyalty program, Scandic Friends, is the largest in the well as its perceived position remain relevant and appreciated at all times. Maintaining the Nordic hotel industry. In 2015, Scandic Friends generated close to 40 percent of the Group’s strength and relevance of the Scandic brand and customer perception of Scandic’s offering and accommodations revenues. By owning its brand, Scandic can guarantee the consistency and concept is therefore critical to ensure long-term competitiveness. quality of its offerings and service and also ensure that the content and offering are constantly adapted to the demands and preferences of both existing and new customers. Scandic’s Code of Conduct is based on social and environmental sustainability as well as ethical business conduct in all areas of its operations. The Code applies to all employees and also places demands on Scandic’s suppliers and partners. REALIZATION OF FULL POTENTIAL FROM THE ACQUISITION OF RICA HOTELS Risk management The realization of sales and cost synergies and other benefits from the acquisition of Rica Hotels All former Rica hotels with lease agreements were integrated and rebranded during 2014 without may be delayed or result in a lower amount than expected due to changes in the economy, market any material disturbances. Integration work was carried out by experienced personnel with inconditions or other factors within and beyond the control of the Group. This could impact the value depth knowledge within project management and hotel operations. Guests and customers were of the investment and recognized goodwill negatively. prioritized and the reception of the rebranding in Sweden and Norway has been positive. The A further significant downturn in the Norwegian market, beyond the assumptions made in merger of the Swedish and Norwegian head offices that was carried out in 2014 has led to the company’s forecasts, may have a negative impact on the value of recognized goodwill savings in line with expectations. The implementation of Scandic’s system for revenue optimizrelated to Norwegian operations. ing and distribution as well as the operational model for operations and steering has started to contribute to increased efficiency and higher margins in hotel operations. HUMAN RESOURCES AND TALENT MANAGEMENT Risk management Scandic operates in the service industry where each customer and guest experience has a Scandic has a strong corporate culture. To strengthen this identity additionally, the Group’s great impact on how the Group’s offering, quality and service are perceived. Employee engagecultural platform was further developed in 2015 and will be fully implemented in the Group ment is a key driver in terms of customer satisfaction and it is therefore also central to the during 2016. Group’s long-term results. The ability to attract, develop and retain talents and build a good Each year, Scandic conducts an employee survey that has a very high response rate and service and corporate culture is thus crucial to Scandic’s success. high scores when it comes to job satisfaction. The insight obtained through this survey is an important tool for continued improvement throughout the entire organization. Scandic develops leadership through regular evaluation and development programs at all levels of the organization including Scandic Business School. Talent@Scandic is the Group’s program for management training and talent development. Sensitivity analysis Financial risks agement for specific areas such as currency risk, interest rate A change in RevPAR due to variable rental costs and variable The Group’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: risk, credit risk, the use of derivatives and non-derivative financosts will have an impact of approximately 40–60 percent on market risk (including currency risk and interest rate risk), cial instruments and investment of excess liquidity. Group EBITDA. Based on Group results from 2015, and assuming that credit risk and liquidity risk. The Group’s overall financial policy Finance identifies, evaluates and hedges financial risks in close all other factors except RevPAR remain unchanged, Scandic focuses on the unpredictability of the financial markets and collaboration with the Group’s operating units. assesses that an increase or decrease of 1 percent in RevPAR seeks to minimize potential adverse effects on the Group’s For a description of the management of financial risks, will have an impact of approximately 30–50 MSEK on EBITDA financial result. see notes 20b and 20c. on an annual basis, where the higher value relates to a change Risk management is handled by Group Finance in accordriven entirely by the average room rate and the lower value dance with policies established by the Board of Directors. refers to a change driven solely by occupancy. These include overall risk management as well as risk manRISKS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 53 CONSOLIDATED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT INCOME STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME GROUP GROUP MSEK Notes 2015 2014 MSEK Notes 2015 2014 INCOME 2, 3 Profit/loss for the year 120.0 –436.6 Room revenue 7,869.1 6,939.2 Restaurant and conference revenue 4,068.3 3,668.0 Other comprehensive income that cannot be reclassified: Franchise and management fees 35.1 44.0 Revaluation of financial assets – 0.1 Other hotel-related revenue 220.2 174.7 Actuarial gains/losses for the year 73.2 –111.6 Net sales 12,192.7 10,825.9 Other income 15.6 15.4 Other comprehensive income that can TOTAL OPERATING INCOME 12,208.3 10,841.3 be reclassified: Hedge of net investment in foreign operations, net of tax 39.5 – OPERATING COSTS Translation differences for the year –145.4 128.3 Raw materials and consumables –1,180.5 –959.3 Total other comprehensive income, net for the period –32.7 16.7 Other external costs 4, 5 –2,667.6 –2,458.8 TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 87.3 –419.8 Personnel costs 6 –3,954.0 –3,597.1 Adjusted EBITDAR 4,406.2 3,826.1 Fixed and guaranteed rental charges 5 –2,091.3 –1,822.7 Variable rental charges 5 –1,068.5 –984.1 Adjusted EBITDA 1,246.4 1,019.3 Pre-opening costs –27.9 –67.9 Non-recurring items –104.1 –265.7 EBITDA 1,114.4 685.8 Depreciation 11, 12 –501.8 –474.8 TOTAL OPERATING COSTS –11,595.7 –10,630.4 Adjusted EBIT 744.6 544.5 EBIT (Operating profit/loss) 612.6 210.9 Financial items Financial income 7 2.7 8.9 Financial expenses 8 –500.0 –722.8 Net financial items –497.3 –713.9 EBT (Profit/loss before tax) 115.3 –503.0 Tax 9 4.7 66.4 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR 120.0 –436.6 Attributable to: Parent Company shareholders 116.6 –438.8 Non-controlling interests 3.4 2.3 Profit/loss per share before and after dilution, attributable to: Parent Company shareholders (SEK per share) 10 1.43 –5.36 54 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • FINANCIAL REPORTS CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET GROUP Notes 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Notes 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Fixed assets Equity Goodwill 11 5,575.4 5,674.1 Share capital 19 25.7 0.1 Trademarks 11 3,151.0 3,175.8 Other contributions 7,865.0 5,294.3 Other intangible assets 11 180.9 201.5 Translation reserve –70.9 34.5 Land & buildings 12 88.7 99.9 Retained earnings –1,643.0 –1,742.2 Equipment, fixtures and fittings 12 2,549.0 2,413.2 Equity attributable to owners of Parent Company 6,176.7 3,586.6 Shares in associated companies 13 10.2 32.4 Non-controlling interest 27.8 27.3 Financial investments 14 4.3 4.8 Total equity 6,204.5 3,613.9 Other long-term assets 16.9 19.0 Deferred tax assets 23 31.9 96.4 Long-term liabilities Total fixed assets 3 11,608.4 11,717.1 Liabilities to credit institutions 20 3,599.7 5,573.3 Shareholder loan 20 – 976.2 Current assets Provisions for pensions and similar commitments 21 380.2 462.0 Inventory 15 81.0 87.5 Other provisions 22 123.8 119.4 Accounts receivable – trade 16 463.7 447.9 Financial leases 3.3 7.8 Current tax assets 1.7 12.9 Deferred tax liabilities 23 412.1 483.1 Other current receivables 232.1 149.5 Total long-term liabilities 4,519.0 7,621.8 Prepaid expenses 17 265.6 325.0 Cash and cash equivalents 18 247.5 716.4 Current liabilities Total current assets 1,291.5 1,739.2 Advance payments from customers 29 88.3 71.1 Accounts payable – trade 29 482.2 535.2 TOTAL ASSETS 12,899.9 13,456.3 Derivative instruments 29 76.7 40.2 Liabilities to credit institutions 20 – 232.2 Other liabilities 190.2 217.1 Accrued expenses and prepaid income 24 1,339.1 1,124.8 Total current liabilities 2,176.4 2,220.6 Total liabilities 6,695.4 9,842.4 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 12,899.9 13,456.3 Pledged assets 28 45.0 7,188.6 Contingent liabilities 28 207.3 218.4 For the year 2014, deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities have been netted according to IAS 12. GRI: G4-9 FINANCIAL REPORTS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 55 CONSOLIDATED CASH FLOW STATEMENT GROUP MSEK Notes 2015 2014 Operating activities Operating profit/loss 612.6 210.9 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow, etc. 25 520.7 472.1 Income tax paid –1.0 –0.7 Cash flow before changes in working capital 1,132.3 682.3 Changes in working capital Inventory 1.8 –39.6 Accounts receivable – trade –36.3 –151.1 Other current receivables –34.3 –32.3 Accounts payable – trade –29.5 –29.0 Other current liabilities 152.2 359.4 Cash flow from operating activities 1,186.2 789.7 Investing activities Acquisition of fixed intangible assets 11 – –0.6 Acquisition of fixed tangible assets 12 –638.7 –682.4 Sale of subsidiaries 15.9 – Acquisition of subsidiaries 26 –162.4 –1,703.2 Cash flow from investing activities –785.2 –2,386.2 Operating cash flow 401.0 –1,596.5 Financing activities Share issue, net after issuing cost 1,516.9 – Received shareholders’ contribution – 725.4 Borrowings 20 4,742.4 772.7 Amortization –6,800.9 – Refinancing costs –98.6 –51.0 Interest paid 7, 8 –220.7 –192.8 Cash flow from financing activities –860.9 1,254.3 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR –459.9 –342.2 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 716.4 1,033.8 Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents –9.0 24.8 Cash flow for the year –459.9 –342.2 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 247.5 716.4 56 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • FINANCIAL REPORTS CHANGES IN EQUITY GROUP Equity attributable to owners of the Parent Company Non-controlling interest Share Other Translation Retained MSEK ­capital contributions reserves ­earnings Total Total equity OPENING BALANCE 1 Jan 2014 0.1 4,348.8 –93.7 –1,128.9 3,126.2 – 3,126.2 Change related to acquisition of operations – – – –63.0 –63.0 25.0 –38.0 Shareholders' contribution received – 945.5 – – 945.5 – 945.5 Profit/loss for the year – – – –438.8 –438.8 2.3 –436.6 Comprehensive income for the year: Revaluation of financial assets – – – 0.1 0.1 – 0.1 Actuarial gains/losses for the year, net after tax – – – –111.6 –111.6 – –111.6 Translation differences for the year – – 128.3 – 128.3 – 128.3 OPENING BALANCE 1 Jan 2015 0.1 5,294.3 34.5 –1,742.2 3,586.6 27.3 3,613.9 Bonus issue 19.9 – – –19.9 – – – Share issue and share issue cost 5.7 1,534.3 – –49.0 1,491.0 – 1,491.0 Shareholders' contribution received – 1,036.4 – – 1,036.4 – 1,036.4 Dividend – – – – – –2.4 –2.4 Share-based payments – – – 0.3 0.3 – 0.3 Forward contract to repurchase own shares – – – –22.0 –22.0 – –22.0 Profit/loss for the year – – – 116.6 116.6 3.4 120.0 Comprehensive income for the year: Actuarial gains/losses for the year, net after tax – – – 73.2 73.2 – 73.2 Currency fluctuations from translation of foreign operations – – –144.9 – –144.9 –0.5 –145.4 Hedge of net investment in a foreign operation, net after tax – – 39.5 – 39.5 – 39.5 CLOSING BALANCE 31 Dec 2015 25.7 7,865.0 –70.9 –1,643.0 6,176.7 27.8 6,204.5 FINANCIAL REPORTS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 57 INCOME STATEMENT STATEMENT OF PARENT COMPANY COMPREHENSIVE INCOME PARENT COMPANY MSEK Notes 2015 2014 MSEK Notes 2015 2014 Net sales 30 21.3 – Profit/loss for the year 414.7 –2.4 Operating expenses Other comprehensive income that can be reclassified: – – Other external expenses 4 –51.9 – Other comprehensive income that cannot be reclassified: – – Personnel expenses 6 – – Total other comprehensive income, net for the period – – Total operating expenses –30.6 – TOTAL COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEAR 414.7 –2.4 Operating profit/loss –30.6 – Financial items Interest income and similar items 7 98.7 85.5 Interest expenses and similar items 8 –111.5 –88.3 Net financial items –12.8 –2.9 Appropriations 574.3 – Profit/loss before tax 530.9 –2.9 Income tax 9 –116.2 0.5 PROFIT/LOSS FOR THE YEAR 414.7 –2.4 58 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • FINANCIAL REPORTS BALANCE SHEET PARENT COMPANY MSEK Notes 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 MSEK Notes 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 ASSETS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Financial assets Equity Participations in Group companies 27 3,536.5 3,532.1 Share capital 19 25.7 0.1 Receivables from Group companies 30 6,778.0 956.4 Restricted reserves – – Deferred tax assets 23 82.4 192.4 Total restricted equity 25.7 0.1 Total fixed assets 10,396.8 4,680.9 Non-restricted reserves 6,207.6 3,708.0 Current assets Net profit/loss for the year 414.7 –2.4 Current receivables 1.6 – Total non-restricted equity 6,622.3 3,705.6 Cash and bank balances 18 1.9 1.1 Total equity 6,648.0 3,705.7 Total current assets 3.5 1.1 Liabilities Long-term liabilities TOTAL ASSETS 10,400.4 4,682.0 Liabilities to credit institutions 3,679.0 – Liabilities to affiliated companies 30 8.1 0.1 Shareholder loan 20, 29 – 976.2 Total long-term liabilities 3,687.1 976.3 Current liabilities Other current liabilities 2.2 – Accrued expenses and prepaid income 24 63.1 – Total current liabilities 65.3 – Total liabilities 3,752.4 976.3 TOTAL EQUITY AND LIABILITIES 10,400.4 4,682.0 Pledged assets 28 None None Contingent liabilities 28 None None FINANCIAL REPORTS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 59 CASH FLOW STATEMENT PARENT COMPANY MSEK Notes 2015 2014 Operating activities Operating profit/loss –30.6 – Adjustment for items not included in cash flow, etc. 25 86.4 – Income tax paid – – Cash flow before changes in working capital 55.8 – Changes in working capital Other current receivables –1.5 – Other current liabilities 2.1 – Cash flow from operating activities 0.6 – Investing activities Acquisitions of subsidiaries 26 – – Cash flow from investing activities – – Operating cash flow 56.4 – Financing activities Share issue after issuing cost 1,516.9 – Received shareholders' contribution – 725.4 Refinancing costs – –725.4 Borrowings 3,679.0 – Loans to subsidiaries –5,251.5 – Cash flow from financing activities –55.6 0.0 CASH FLOW FOR THE YEAR 0.8 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 1.1 1.0 Translation differences in cash and cash equivalents – 0.1 Cash flow for the year 0.8 0.0 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 1.9 1.1 60 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • FINANCIAL REPORTS CHANGES IN EQUITY PARENT COMPANY Restricted equity Non-restricted equity Share Share premium Retained Total MSEK capital reserve earnings equity OPENING BALANCE 1 Jan 2014 0.1 – 2,762.5 2,762.6 Received shareholders’ contribution – – 945.5 945.5 Net profit/loss for the year – – –2.4 –2.4 OPENING BALANCE 1 Jan 2015 0.1 – 3,705.6 3,705.7 Received shareholders’ contribution – – 1,036.4 1,036.4 Bond issue 19.9 – –19.9 – Share issue and issue cost 5,7 1,534.3 –49.0 1,491.0 Share-based payments – – 0.3 0.3 Net profit/loss for the year – – 414.7 414.7 CLOSING BALANCE 31 Dec 2015 25.7 1,534.3 5,088.1 6,648.0 FINANCIAL REPORTS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 61 NOTES Notes common for the Group and the Parent Company. Amounts in MSEK unless otherwise stated. NOTE 01 Accounting principles Basis for presentation Translation of foreign currencies The consolidated accounts have been prepared in accordance with International Financial ReportThe consolidated financial statements are presented in Swedish kronor (SEK), which is the ing Standards (IFRS) adopted by the EU and in accordance with RFR 1 Supplementary accounting Parent company’s functional and reporting currency. principles for groups of companies and the Swedish Annual Accounts Act. The annual accounts The results and financial position for all Group companies using a functional currency other have been prepared in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting for than the reporting currency are translated to the Group’s reporting currency as follows: legal entities. The presentation model for the income statement of the Group has been modified to a) Assets and liabilities for each of the balance sheets are translated at the closing day rate. give a more true and fair view according to the Board of Directors and the management of the comb) Income and expenditure for each of the income statements are translated at the average pany. All comparative figures have been recalculated. exchange rate. The consolidated accounts have been drawn up in accordance with the acquisition value c) All exchange rate differences that arise are reported in other comprehensive income method, except in respect of certain financial assets and liabilities which are valued at actual value and accumulated in the translation reserve in equity. via the income statement. Drawing up annual accounts in accordance with IFRS requires the use of a number of important Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising in the acquisition of foreign operations are treated accounting estimations. The Board of Directors and management team are also required to make as assets and liabilities of the entity and translated at the closing day rate. some assessments when implementing the company’s accounting principles. The areas that Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the functional currency according to the include a large degree of assessments that are complex, or areas where assumptions and estimaexchange rates that apply on the transaction date or the date on which the items were translated. tions are of significant importance for the consolidated accounts, are detailed in each note. Exchange rate gains and losses that arise when paying such transactions and in translation of monetary assets and liabilities in foreign currency at the closing date exchange rate are reported Consolidated accounts in the income statement. The consolidated accounts cover the companies, including branches, in which the Group ownership is equivalent to at least one half of the votes or in some other way exercises a controlling influence New and amended International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) over the business. New and amended standards adopted by the Group The acquisition of companies or businesses is accounted for using the acquisition method. Accounting principles and the basis for calculations are in all material aspects unchanged compared The acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the conditions for with the Annual Report 2014. Amendments and interpretations of standards that enter into force recognition are recognized at the fair values on the acquisition date. Goodwill and other intangible for the fiscal year beginning January 1, 2015 have not had any material effect on the Group’s finanassets arising from an acquisition is recognized as an asset that is the excess of the cost of the cial reporting. business combination over the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities recognized. If the acquisition value is less than the actual value of the purchased operation’s New standards and interpretations yet to be applied by the Group assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities, the difference is reported directly in the income statement. A number of new standards and interpretations entered into force in the financial year that started Acquisition-related costs are expensed as incurred. on January 1, 2015 but have not been applied in the preparation of this report. None of these are Associated companies are incorporated in the Group’s financial statement using the equity expected to have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements, except for the following: method. Under the equity method, investments in associates are carried in the consolidated balance sheet at cost, adjusted for post-acquisition changes in the Group’s share of the net assets IFRS 9, Financial Instruments of the associate, less any impairment in the value of individual investments. The standard deals with the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and Internal Group transactions, undertakings and unrealized earnings from transactions between liabilities. The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in July 2014. It replaces the sections of IAS Group companies are eliminated. 39 that deal with the classification and measurement of financial instruments. The standard shall Sales between Group companies are priced according to market terms. Internal profits arising be applied in the financial year starting on January 1, 2018. Application of the standard before in conjunction with sales within the Group are eliminated in their entirety. this date is allowed. The Group has not yet evaluated the effects of adopting the standard. 62 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • NOTES IFRS 15 Revenue from contracts with customers Exchange rates Jan–Dec 2015 Jan–Dec 2014 The standard regulates the recognition of revenue. The principles that IFRS 15 is based on shall SEK = EUR provide users of financial statements more useful information on the company’s revenues. The increased disclosure requirement means that information shall be provided on the nature of the Income statement (average) 9.3562 9.0968 revenue, the time of settlement, any uncertainties connected with revenue recognition and cash Balance sheet (at end of period) 9.1350 9.5155 flow linked to the company’s contracts with customers. According to IFRS 15, revenue shall be recognized when the customer assumes control of the sold good or service and is able to use SEK = NOK and derive benefit from the good or service. IIFRS 15 replaces IAS18 Revenue and IAS 11 Construction Contracts and the related SIC and Income statement (average) 1.0465 1.0894 IFRIC. IFRS 15 will enter into force on January 1, 2018. Earlier adoption is allowed. The Group Balance sheet (at end of period) 0.9556 1.0516 has not yet evaluated the effects of adopting the standard. SEK = DKK IFRS16 Leases In January 2016, IASB issued a new lease standard that will replace IAS 17 Leases and the related Income statement (average) 1.2544 1.2203 interpretations IFRIC 4, SIC-15 and SIC-27. The standard requires assets and liabilities arising from Balance sheet (at end of period) 1.2242 1.2781 all leases, with some exceptions, to be recognized on the balance sheet. This model reflects that, at the start of a lease, the lessee obtains the right to use an asset for a period of time and has an obligation to pay for that right. The accounting for lessors will in all material aspects be unchanged. The standard is effective for financial years beginning on or after January 1, 2019. Early adoption is permitted if IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is also applied. The EU has not yet adopted the standard. The Group has not yet assessed the impact of IFRS 16. None of any other IFRS eller IFRIC interpretations yet to be applied are expected to have a material impact on the Group’s financial statements. The Parent Company’s accounting principles Unless otherwise stated below, the Parent Company applies the same accounting principles as the Group. The Parent Company has prepared its annual accounts in accordance with the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and RFR 2 Accounting for legal entities. Differences between the accounting principles of the Group and those of the Parent Company The Parent Company applies the alternative rule for Group contributions and reports both received and given Group contributions as appropriations. In this, the Parent Company does not comply with IAS 27. Financial instruments in the Parent Company are not reported according to IAS 39 in view of the connection between reporting and taxation. Remuneration to employees in the Parent Company is not reported according to IAS 19, as the Parent Company, in accordance with RFR 2, applies reporting according to the Pension Obligations Vesting Act. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 63 NOTE 02 Revenue by type of agreement The split of net sales between segments is based on the location of the business activities and segment reporting is made after elimination of intra-group transactions. Net sales comes from a large number of customers in all segments. Group The segments are reviewed and analyzed on adjusted EBITDA. Adjusted EBITDA is earnings MSEK 2015 2014 before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and is excluding non-recurring items that are Lease agreements 12,134.6 10,767.5 not directly related to the normal operations of the company, for example costs for transactions, Management agreements 10.6 14.7 exits and restructuring. Adjusted EBITDA is also excluding pre-opening costs that refer to expenses for contracted and newly opened hotels before opening day. Franchise and partner agreements 24.5 29.4 Owned 38.6 29.8 Other Nordic Total 12,208.3 10,841.3 2015 countries & other Central MSEK Sweden Norway segments functions Group Other 21.3 29.4 External net sales 4,969.3 3,676.9 3,543.5 – 12,192.7 Group eliminations –21.3 –29.4 Other income 15.6 – – – 15.6 Group 12,208.3 10,841.3 Internal transactions – – – 21.3 21.3 Group eliminations – – – –21.3 –21.3 Accounting principles Total net sales 4,984.9 3,679.9 3,543.5 – 12,208.3 Revenue recognition Expenses –4,168.2 –3,352.0 –3,138.9 –302.9 –10,961.9 Revenue consists of the value of goods and services generated in hotels under lease agreements, Adjusted EBITDA 816.7 327.9 404.6 –302.9 1,246.4 management and franchise fees and other income generated in the Group’s operations. Revenue is reported at the actual value of what has been received or will be received and corresponds to the Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 16.4 8.9 11.4 – 10.2 amount to claim for delivered goods and services, less any discounts given and sales-related taxes. EBITDA – – – – 1,114.4 Below is a description of the composition of the Group’s revenue: EBITDA margin, % – – – – 9.1 Lease agreements – revenues from hotel operations, including all income from room nights, Depreciation – – – – –501.8 conferences, food and beverage and other services. Revenue is reported when the goods or serEBIT (Operating profit/loss) – – – – 612.6 vices have been consumed. The Group has a customer loyalty program in which customers earn Net financial income/expense – – – – –497.3 points from completed purchases. These points give the customer discount on future purchases. Revenues are accounted for when the points have been used. EBT (Profit/loss before tax) – – – – 115.3 Management fees – from hotels managed by the Group through long-term agreements with hotel Other Nordic owners. Management fees usually consist of a proportion of the revenue from the hotel and/or profits 2014 countries & other Central and are reported in the income statement when they arise and are realizable according to the terms MSEK Sweden Norway segments functions Group of the agreement. External net sales 4,474.8 3,181.4 3,169.7 – 10,825.9 Franchise fees – received in conjunction with licence fees for the Group’s trademarks, through Other income 15.4 – – – 15.4 long-term agreements with hotel owners. Franchise fees consist of a proportion of the revenue Internal transactions – – – 29.4 29.4 from the hotel and are reported in the income statement based on the underlying terms of the Group eliminations – – – –29.4 –29.4 agreement. Total net sales 4,490.2 3,181.4 3,169.7 – 10,841.3 Expenses –3,807.7 –2,907.4 –2,858.5 –248.4 –9,822.0 03 Segment reporting Adjusted EBITDA 682.5 274.0 311.2 –248.4 1,019.3 NOTE Adjusted EBITDA margin, % 15.3 8.6 9.8 – 9.4 EBITDA – – – – 685.8 EBITDA margin, % – – – – 6.3 Scandic’s main markets in which the Group operates are: Depreciation – – – – –474.8 Sweden – Swedish hotels that are operated under the Scandic brand. EBIT (Operating profit/loss) – – – – 210.9 Norway – Norwegian hotels that are operated under the Scandic brand. Norwegian partner hotels Net financial income/expense – – – – –713.9 are operated under their own brands. EBT (Profit/loss before tax) – – – – –503.0 Other Nordic countries & other segments – Hotel operations under the Scandic brand in Belgium, Denmark, Finland, The Netherlands (until December 31, 2014), Poland and Germany and hotel operations under the Hilton brand in Finland as well as the hotel concept HTL, which is operated by the sub-group HTL Hotels. Central functions – Costs for financial control, business development, investor relations, communications, technical development, human resources, branding, marketing, sales, IT and purchasing. These central functions support all of the hotels in the Group, including those under lease agreements as well as management and franchise agreements. 64 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • NOTES cont. Note 03 Assets and investments by segment Other Nordic countries & Sweden Norway other segments Central functions Group MSEK 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Fixed assets 4,725.2 5,242.2 3,343.7 3,519.2 1,225.2 774.0 2,314.2 2,181.8 11,608.4 11,717.1 Investments in fixed assets 251.2 269.2 145.5 222.2 199.0 173.6 43.0 17.9 638.7 682.9 RevPAR development by segment OCC LFL ARR LFL RevPAR LFL RevPAR SEK 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Sweden 66.9% 4.2pp 945.1 2.5% 632.5 9.3% 643.0 9.3% Norway 58.8% 2.4pp 946.3 –1.3% 556.1 3.0% 552.9 –5.6% Other Nordic countries & other segments 67.1% 3.1pp 873.0 1.5% 586.1 6.3% 593.4 9.3% Total 66.0% 3.5pp 917.9 1.7% 605.8 7.5% 601.3 4.9% Accounting principles Segment disclosures Segments are reported in accordance with IFRS 8 Operating segments. Scandic operates similar businesses in several countries in Europe where the main markets are in Sweden and Norway and the segments have therefore been identified from a geographical perspective. The segments monitored by management are divided into Sweden, Norway, Other Nordic countries & other segments and Central functions. Segment information corresponds to the internal reporting to executive decision-makers: the CEO, the Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. Revenue from Revenue and fixed assets per country external customers Fixed assets MSEK 2015 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Sweden 5,080.7 4,540.3 4,771.9 5,242.2 Belgium 76.2 75.7 0.0 0.4 Denmark 1,263.9 1,184.8 622.9 256.2 Finland 1,600.8 1,467.8 464.6 457.1 The Netherlands – 5.0 – – Norway 3,715.9 3,183.9 3,371.4 3 519.2 Poland 64.5 58.8 15.1 15.7 Germany 406.3 325.0 48.2 44.6 Group assets – – 2,314.3 2 181.8 Total for the Group 12,208.3 10,841.3 11,608.4 11,717.1 The allocation of income and assets is based on where the Group is domiciled, i.e. where the individual hotel is located. Scandic does not have any larger customers where the revenue from the customers exceeds 10 percent of the total revenue of the Group. Group assets refers to intangible assets identified on the acquisition of Scandic Hotels AB, but which have not been allocated by country. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 65 NOTE 04 Audit fees NOTE 05 Operational leasing agreements Fees to audit companies Group Parent Company Leasing fees according 2015 2014 MSEK 2015 2014 2015 2014 to operational leasing Other Other agreements leasing leasing PricewaterhouseCoopers Lease of agreeLease of agreeFees for audit assignments 4.2 5.2 – – MSEK premises ments Total premises ments Total Fees for accounting assignments 4.6 2.9 4.0 – Leasing fees paid Fees for tax assignments 2.2 1.2 1.1 – during the year 3,066.4 99.5 3,165.9 2,725.9 88.7 2,814.6 Fees for other assignments 0.2 – – – – of which minimum fees 1,997.4 60.1 2,057.5 1,741.8 59.3 1,801.1 Other audit companies Future leasing undertakings due Fees for audit assignments 0.6 1.1 – – – within 1 year 2,280.8 77.8 2,358.6 2,238.4 64.1 2,302.5 Fees for accounting assignments 0.2 0.4 – – – in between 1 and 5 years 9,202.5 185.4 9,387.9 8,319.4 178.7 8,498.1 Fees for tax assignments 0.3 0.2 – – – in more than 5 years 8,972.1 26.1 8,998.2 10,214.3 31.4 10,245.7 Fees for other assignments 0.0 – – – Total future leasing undertakings 20,455.4 289.3 20,744.7 20,772.1 274.2 21,046.3 Total fees to audit companies 12.3 11.0 5.1 – The auditing assignment includes auditing the Annual Report and accounts as well as the Important estimations and assumptions administration of the company by the Board of Directors and CEO, other duties the company Leasing undertakings relating to premises relate to all significant respects the premises on which auditor must perform as well as advice and other assistance arising from the audit or in Scandic’s hotel operation is carried out. The amounts relating to future leasing undertakings refer carrying out these duties. to minimum leasing fees, i.e. fixed rental fees. In most lease agreements, the majority of the rental The Parent company’s audit fee has been charged to the subsidiary Scandic Hotels AB. cost is dependent upon revenue from the leased premises. Revenue related leasing costs are Fees for other assignments relate mainly to preparations for the stock market listing. not included in the amounts. The table therefore does not provide a full picture of Scandic’s future leasing costs. The lease agreements have a duration of between 15–20 years and are generally not cancellable during the time of duration. Scandic’s business model is based on lease agreements where the property owner and Scandic share responsibility for investing in and maintaining the properties. Scandic’s commitment relates in general to maintenance and replacement of finishes, furniture, fixtures and equipment. The extent of obligations is regulated by the demarcation list of the lease agreement. Historically, these investments have accounted for 3 to 4 percent of Scandic’s net sales. In 2014 and 2015, investments accounted for 4–5 percent of net sales as a result of the large joint investment program with Pandox. Investment commitments regarding signed agreements for new hotels and expansions are estimated at 443 MSEK, of which 230 MSEK during 2016, 187 MSEK during 2017 and 26 MSEK during 2018. Accounting principles Operational leasing agreements As per December 31, 2015, all the Group’s leasing agreements are classified as operational leasing agreements. In all operational leasing agreements regarding hotels, Scandic carries risks limited to operating the hotel and certain investment commitments. The lease cost for operating lease contracts is recognized on a straight-line basis except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which the economic benefits from the leased assets are consumed. 66 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • NOTES NOTE 06 Employees, personnel expenses and remuneration to the Board of Directors 2014 Personnel expenses Group Parent Company CompensaMSEK 2015 2014 2015 2014 Remuneration and other compensation for comOther Salaries and other remuneration 3,179.3 2,947.4 14.1 – tion to the Board of directors, SEK Board fees mittee work remuneration Total Payroll overhead excluding pension Vagn Sörensen, Chairman of the Board 529,521 66,667 – 596,188 expenses 513.4 417.7 4.0 – Per G. Braathen 264,760 – – 264,760 Pension costs 317.3 283.0 9.5 – Caspar Callerström – – – – Total personnel expenses 4,010.0 3,648.1 27.6 – Grant Hearn 200,000 66,667 – 266,667 The members of Scandic’s Group Management are employed by the Parent Company and in the Erika Henriksson – – – – subsidiaries Scandic Hotels Holding AB and Scandic Hotels AB. Until the Annual General Meeting, Eva Moen Adolfsson 200,000 33,333 – 233,333 April 27, 2015, it was Scandic Hotels Holding AB that remunerated the Board of Directors. As from Niklas Sloutski – – – – the Annual General Meeting, April 27, 2015, members of the Board of Directors are remunerated Rikard Steiber 200,000 – – 200,000 by Scandic Hotels Group AB. If notice is given by the Group, the Group’s CEO has a notice period of 12 months and additional André Witschi 71,022 – – 71,022 payment for 6 months. For notice given by the CEO, the notice period is 6 months. If notice is given Benny Zakrisson 264,318 66,667 – 330,985 by the Group to other members of the senior management, the notice period is 6 to 12 months. Total remuneration and For notice given by other senior management, the notice period is 6 months. other compensation 1,729,621 233,334 – 1,962,955 Remuneration and other compensation 2015 2015 Variable CompensaRemuneration to senior Base remuremuneraOther comPension tion for Remuneration in management, SEK neration tion1) pensation costs Total Remuneration and other compensacommittee connection with Frank Fiskers, tion to the Board of Directors, SEK Board fees work the IPO Total President & CEO 7,400,000 10,619,986 296,985 2,591,268 20,908,239 Vagn Sörensen, Chairman of the Board 600,000 100,000 – 700,000 Other senior managers Per G. Braathen 300,000 – – 300,000 (6 people) 9,997,621 5,698,178 375,155 2,038,269 18,109,223 Caspar Callerström 6) – – – – Total remuneration and Grant Hearn 300,000 83,333 300,000 683,333 other compensation 17,397,621 16,318,339 672,140 4,629,537 39,017,462 1) Variable non-recurring remuneration, in exception of current remuneration guidelines, was decided by the Board on JanuErika Henriksson 1) 6) – – – – ary 20, 2015 for the CEO regarding the integration of Rica Hotels and amounted 850,001 SEK. Variable non-recurring Lottie Knutson 2) 150,000 – 300,000 450,000 remuneration, in exception of current remuneration guidelines, was decided by the Board on October 21, 2015 in connecEva Moen Adolfsson 300,000 66,667 300,000 666,667 tion with the IPO and amounted to 5,550,000 SEK for the CEO and 2,356,240 SEK for senior managers. Niklas Sloutski 6) – – – – 2014 Variable Rikard Steiber 300,000 – – 300,000 Remuneration to senior Base remuremuneraOther comPension Benny Zakrisson 3) 225,000 75,000 – 300,000 managers, SEK neration tion pensation costs Total Fredrik Wirdenius 4) 125,000 – 300,000 425,000 Frank Fiskers, Jan Wallmark, employee representative 5) 36,000 – – 36,000 President & CEO 2,692,825 4,458,065 147,836 863,062 8,161,788 Total remuneration and Other senior managers other compensation 2,336,000 325,000 1,200,000 3,861,000 (5 people) 9,090,615 4,097,416 465,891 1,768,126 15,422,048 1) Erika Henriksson resigned from the Board on July 15, 2015. Total remuneration and 2) Lottie Knutson was elected to the Board at an Extraordinary General Meeting on June 18, 2015. other compensation 11,783,440 8,555,481 613,727 2,631,188 23,583,836 3) Benny Zakrisson resigned from the Board on September 15, 2015. 4) Fredrik Wirdenius was elected to the Board at an Extraordinary General Meeting on July 15, 2015. Remuneration to the CEO and other senior managers can consist of fixed salary, variable salary, 5) Jan Wallmark was appointed employee representative to the Board on May 22, 2015. 6) Caspar Callerström, Erika Henriksson and Niklas Sloutski have decided to refrain from accepting remuneration pension and other compensation. The CEO had no share of the pension liability and other senior during 2015. managers’ part of the pension liability was 0.3 MSEK at 31 Dec 2015. For guidelines for remuneration to the CEO and senior management, see the Corporate Governance Report, page 93. Long-term incentive program In December 2015, Scandic implemented a share-based long-term incentive program (LTIP). LTIP enables participants to receive matching shares and performance shares, provided they make their own investments in shares or allocate shares already held to the program. For each such savings share, the participant may be allotted one matching share, free of consideration. In addition, the participants may receive a number of performance shares, free of consideration, depending on the degree of meeting certain performance criteria adopted by the Board of Directors, for which criteria are related to EBITDA, cash flow and RGI for the 2015–2017 financial years. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 67 cont. Note 06 The allotment of performance shares shall depend on the degree of fulfillment of the performance conCost for the program LTIP 2015 ditions for the program. The performance conditions are related to accumulated EBITDA (defined as MSEK Group Parent Company EBITDA adjusted for non-recurring items not related to the ordinary business such as transaction costs Expected cost for the entire program 12.2 3.4 for acquisitions) for the 2015–2017 financial years (Performance Condition 1), accumulated cash flow (defined as EBITDA plus/minus changes in working capital minus capex, excluding extraordinary investThe maximum cost for the entire program 35.6 11.1 ments not included in the budget such as new hotel acquisitions) for the 2015–2017 financial years Cost in 2015 0.4 0.1 (Performance Condition 2) and accumulated RGI (defined as Revenue Generation Index = RevPAR in relation to the RevPAR of the competition group) change compared with the competition group for the The cost in the above table includes social security charges. 2015–2017 financial years (Performance Condition 3). The Performance Condition levels and to what The cost for the program, included in the income statement for the Group, is calculated in extent these have been fulfilled will be published in connection with the expiry of the vesting period. accordance with IFRS 2 and is distributed over the vesting period. The calculation has been made The number of performance shares that may be allotted shall be calculated in accordance based on the following assumptions: (i) an annual dividend yield of 3 percent, (ii) an estimated with the following: A condition for any allotment of performance shares to occur is that a certain annual turnover of personnel of 10 percent, (iii) an average fulfillment of each performance condiminimum level for the performance condition must be exceeded. For the maximum allotment of tion of 50 percent, and (iv) maximum 286,668 matching shares and performance shares eligible performance shares, a certain maximum level for the performance condition must be reached. for allotment. In total, the costs for the program are estimated to total 12.2 MSEK including social Between the minimum and maximum levels for the performance condition, the participant will security charges. The estimation is also based on the assumption of an annual share price increase receive a linear allotment of performance shares. of 10 percent during the program. Matching shares and performance shares will be allotted after the end of a vesting period, Assuming that the cap is reached and that participants are entitled to allotment of the maximum starting on December 2, 2015 and ending on the day of the publication of Scandic’s interim report number of matching and performance shares and remain in the program until the end of the vesting for the first quarter of 2018, subject to the participant remaining a permanent employee within period, the maximum cost for the program will amount to 35.6 MSEK, including social security charges. the Group and retaining the savings shares during the entire vesting period. The expected financial exposure to shares that may be allotted under the LTIP and the delivery The number of matching shares and performance shares that a participant is entitled to be of shares to the participants of the LTIP has been hedged through Scandic’s entering into a swap allotted shall be increased to compensate for any dividend distributed on the Scandic shares agreement with a third party on market terms, whereby the third party undertakes to, in its own during the vesting period. name, acquire and transfer shares to the participants. The market value was 67 SEK. The maximum value per entitlement to receive a matching share or performance share is limited to 300 percent of 67 SEK, the value of the Scandic share at the introduction price on December 2. Should the value of such a right exceed the cap, a proportional reduction in the number of matching shares and performance shares shall be made. Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of Number of performance performance performance Category Participants employees Maximum own invesment saving shares matching shares shares 1 shares 2 shares 3 10% of individual gross Group 1 CEO 1 annual fixed salary for 2015 11,044 11,044 22,088 22,088 11,044 Members of Executive Committee and Country 10% of individual gross Group 2 Managing Directors 11 annual fixed salary for 2015 31,234 31,234 49,974 49,974 24,987 Country Managing Team Group 3 and key employees 22 50,000 SEK 16,113 16,113 19,336 19,336 9,668 Total 34 58,391 58,391 91,398 91,398 45,699 Accounting principles It can sometimes happen that the employees render services before the grant date, in which case Severance payments an estimate of the fair value is made in order to recognize a cost to be distributed for a fee reported Employees receive severance payments on termination before normal retirement age or when they to be spread over the period between the time the employee begins performing services and the voluntarily accept termination in exchange for such compensation. The Group recognizes severgrant date. ance payments where it is under a manifest obligation either to give notice to employees following The social security costs that arise with the granting of equity rights are seen as an integrated part a detailed, formal plan without right to rescission or to provide compensation in the event of termiof the allotment and are treated as a cash settled program. nation as a result of an offer made as an incentive for voluntary resignation. Benefits that become due more than 12 months after the balance sheet date are discounted to the present value. Swap agreement for repurchase of own shares Scandic has a swap agreement with Nordea for purchasing its own shares. This swap agreement Share-based payments is reported as a financial liability to the agreed amount payable on the maturity date, and as an The Group has a share-based incentive plan where the settlement is carried out in shares and the deduction from equity. Interest costs related to the swap agreement are accounted for in the Group is provided with services from the employees as payment for the shares. The cost for the income statement in the period they occur. When the agreement has reached the maturity date, program amounts to the fair value of the share on the grant date multiplied by the number of vested and the obligation and agreed amounts have been paid, the liability will be derecognized from the shares and the cost is distributed over the vesting period. balance sheet. At the end of each reporting period, the Group reviews its assessment of the number of shares that are expected to be earned based on the non-market vesting conditions and terms of employment. Any deviation from the original assessment that the review raises are recognized in the income statement and the corresponding adjustments are made in equity. 68 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • NOTES cont. Note 06 Average number of employees 2015 Average 2014 Average NOTE 07 Financial income per country number of of which number of of which employees men employees men Division into income type Group Parent Company MSEK 2015 2014 2015 2014 Parent Company Sweden 2 2 – – Interest income 0.6 3.8 – – Interest income from Group companies – – 98.7 85.5 Subsidiaries Revaluation of derivative instruments – 1.5 – – Sweden 4,190 1,510 3,929 1,430 Revaluation of financial investments – 1.6 – – Belgium 54 30 66 37 Results from associated companies 2.1 2.0 – – Denmark 994 418 1,058 423 Total 2.7 8.9 98.7 85.5 Finland 661 245 660 241 Norway 3,569 1,375 2,982 1,164 Poland 112 41 115 42 Germany Total for the Group 305 9,887 151 3,772 307 9,117 142 3,480 NOTE 08 Financial expenses 2015 2014 Division into type of cost Group Parent Company Gender division for the Board and senior of which of which MSEK 2015 2014 2015 2014 management on the balance sheet date Totalt men Totalt men Interest expenses, bank –312.4 –310.0 –7.3 – Board of Directors 9 7 9 7 Interest expenses, suppliers –0.1 –0.2 – – Senior management 7 4 6 5 Interest expenses, pension plan –11.4 –11.5 – – Total for the Group 16 11 15 12 Interest expenses to Group companies –92.8 –87.2 –92.8 –87.2 Revaluation of derivative instruments –14.4 – – – Exchange rate losses, net –8.8 –280.5 –11.4 –1.1 Share of transaction costs expensed during the year1) –60.1 –33.4 – – Total –500.0 –722.8 –111.5 –88.3 1) Part of interest expenses has been expensed over the duration of the borrowings, see Note 20. Accounting principles Financial income and expenses All interest income and interest expenses are accounted for at their amortized cost. Derivatives are accounted for at fair value through profit or loss. Associated companies are accounted for using the equity method. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 69 NOTE 09 Income tax NOTE 10 Earnings per share Group Parent Company Calculation of earnings per share 2015 2014 MSEK 2015 2014 2015 2014 Profit/loss for the year, MSEK 116.6 –438.8 Tax expenses Average number of shares1) 81,826,211 81,826,211 Current tax expenses –0.5 –0.8 – – Earnings per share, SEK 1.43 –5.36 Adjustment of tax for previous year –6.0 0.2 – – Basic Deferred tax relating to Group 2015 2014 temporary differences 36.0 10.7 – – Profit/loss for the year attributable to shareholders Deferred tax relating to untaxed reserves –3.8 –4.0 – – of the Parent Company, MSEK 116.6 –438.8 Deferred tax relating to loss Average number of shares outstanding, basic1) 81,826,211 81,826,211 carry-forward –27.3 60.4 –116.2 0.5 Earnings per share, SEK 1.43 –5.36 Income due to change of tax rate 6.3 – – – Total tax income/expenses 4.7 66.4 –116.2 0.5 Diluted Group 2015 2014 Connection between tax expenses for the year and reported profit before tax, Profit/loss for the year attributable to shareholders MSEK of the Parent Company, MSEK 116.6 –438.8 Tax in accordance with current rate, Average number of shares outstanding, basic1) 81,826,211 81,826,211 22.0% –25.3 110.7 –116.8 – Dilutive effect of stock purchase plans – – Adjustment of tax expense from Average number of shares outstanding, diluted1) 81,826,211 81,826,211 previous year –6.0 0.2 – – Earnings per share, diluted, SEK 1.43 –5.36 Tax effect of non-deductible expenses –5.9 –69.1 0.0 – 1) Average number of shares outstanding has been recalculated for 2014 in regards to the bonus issue and new issue Tax effect of non-taxable income 54.6 48.3 – – in 2015. Adjustment for differing tax rates 8.9 1.2 – – The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the profit/loss for the year attributable Tax effect of non-offsetable losses – –84.8 – – to shareholders of the Parent Company divided by the weighted average numbers of shares outLoss carry-forward from previous year standing during the year. When calculating diluted earnings per share, the average number of for which deferred tax asset has not shares is adjusted to take into account the effects of dilutive potential ordinary shares originating been reported 27.3 – – – during the reported periods from share-based payment programs that have been offered to Loss carry-forward from previous year employees. Dilutions from share-based payment programs affect the number of shares and only for which deferred tax asset has been occur when the strike price is less than the share price. The potential ordinary shares are not reported –54.6 60.4 0.6 0.5 viewed as dilutive if they were to result in better earnings per share after dilution, which occurs Tax effect on changed tax rate when the net income is negative. on deferred taxes 6.3 –0.5 – – Total tax income/expenses 4.7 66.4 –116.2 0.5 The theoretical tax cost has been calculated on the basis of the tax rate applicable to the Parent Company, 22.0 percent. For 2015, the Group makes the assessment that the loss carry-forwards amounting to 1,660.9 MSEK will be possible to use. Deferred tax assets have been accounted for regarding these losses carried forward. See also Note 23. Tax on an earlier, not reported, loss carryforwards amounted to 27.3 MSEK. Loss carry-forwards that have not been accounted for amount to 346.5 MSEK. Deferred tax on actuarial gains recognized in Other comprehensive income amounts to -20.6 MSEK and deferred tax on hedging of net investments of foreign operations amounts to -11.1 MSEK. Deferred tax related to the new issue has been accounted for in equity amounting to 6.2 MSEK. 70 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • NOTES NOTE 11 Intangible fixed assets 2015 2014 Impairment testing AccumuAccumulated Reported lated Reported Impairment tests on goodwill and trademark are carried out annually, as well as on every occasion Acquisidepreciaresidual Acquisidepreciaresidual on which indications of a diminution of value are identified. The identified cash-generating units Group, MSEK tion value tion value tion value tion value amount to three within the Group: Sweden, Norway and Other Nordic countries & other segments. The recoverable amount for cash-generating units is established on the basis of determination of Goodwill the value in use. The calculations are based on estimates of future cash flows before tax over a Opening balance 5,674.1 – 5,674.1 4,270.0 – 4,270.0 5-year period. The cash flow for 2016 is based on the budget approved by the Board of Directors Acquisition of businesses 96.7 – 96.7 1,327.4 – 1,327.4 of the company, and for 2017–2018 on the company’s long-term forecasts and, for the following Exchange rate differences –195.4 – –195.4 76.8 – 76.8 two years, on estimated market growth and increases in costs. The revenue forecasts are based Closing balance 5,575.4 – 5,575.4 5,674.1 – 5,674.1 on industry data regarding market development and on previous years’ experiences regarding the ramp-up of new and renovated hotels. The cost forecasts are based on industry data regarding Trademarks inflation and salary increases, on estimated realization of the synergies from the Rica acquisition Opening balance 3,187.6 –11.8 3,175.8 3,061.4 – 3,061.4 and the experience of previous years. After 2018, a yearly market growth of 2.5 percent (2.5 percent) is estimated from 2019 to 2020. When calculating the value in use the WACC rate after tax and a Acquisition of businesses – – – 130.7 – 130.7 sustainable terminal growth rate have been used according to the below table. Depreciation for the year – –14.3 –14.3 – –11.8 –11.8 The impairment tests for the year show that no impairment is required for Sweden and Other Exchange rate differences –10.5 – –10.5 –4.6 – –4.6 Nordic countries & other segments even with reasonable changes in the parameters, such as a Closing balance 3,177.1 –26.1 3,151.0 3,187.6 –11.8 3,175.8 single change +/1.0 percentage point of WACC rate after tax and on EBITDA margin. The recoverable amount exceeded the book value for Norway by approximately 377 MSEK at the Other intangible assets end of the year. An increase of 0.5 percentage points in the WACC rate for Norway at the same time as Opening balance 312.9 –111.4 201.5 132.0 –80.3 51.7 EBITDA margin declines by 0.5 percentage points compared to the current EBITDA margin which has Reclassification – – – – 0.5 0.5 been used in the impairment test for the period 2016-2020 would imply that there is a need for impairment of approximately 200 MSEK. Acquisition of businesses 26.7 – 26.7 185.2 – 185.2 Purchases – – – 0.6 – 0.6 Other Nordic countries & Sweden Norway other segments Depreciation for the year – –32.5 –32.5 – –30.1 –30.1 Forecast period, years 5 (5) 5 (5) 5 (5) Exchange rate differences –16.6 1.8 –14.8 –4.9 –1.5 –6.4 WACC rate, % 7.8 (8.8) 7.7 (8.9) 7.7 (8.7) Closing balance 323.0 –142.1 180.9 312.9 –111.4 201.5 Terminal growth rate, % 2.5 (2.5) 2.5 (2.5) 2.5 (2.5) Total intangible fixed assets Opening balance 9,174.6 –123.3 9,051.4 7,463.4 –80.3 7,383.1 Accounting principles Reclassification – – – – 0.5 0.5 Intangible fixed assets Acquisition of businesses 123.4 – 123.4 1,643.3 – 1,643.3 Goodwill Purchases – – – 0.6 – 0.6 Goodwill represents the excess of the value of an acquisition over the fair value of the Group’s Depreciation for the year – –46.8 –46.8 – –41.9 –41.9 share of the net identifiable assets of the acquired operation at the date of acquisition. Goodwill on acquisitions of operations is reported as an intangible asset. Goodwill accounted for is tested Exchange rate differences –222.5 1.8 –220.7 67.3 –1.5 65.9 annually in order to identify any impairment requirement, and is reported at the acquisition value Closing balance 9,075.5 –168.2 8,907.3 9,174.6 –123.3 9,051.4 less the accumulated impairment. Goodwill is allocated across cash-generating units when an assessment of any impairment Goodwill and trademark, MSEK 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 requirement is made. The allocation is made to the cash-generating units or groups of cashgenerating units that are expected to benefit from the acquisition of an operation giving rise to Sweden 4,293.4 4,286.3 the goodwill item. Norway 2,407.8 2,255.3 Other Nordic countries & other segments 2,025.2 2,308.3 Trademarks Trademarks acquired are reported at the acquisition value less depreciation and any impairment. Total goodwill and trademark 8,726.4 8,849.9 The trademark Scandic Hotels with uncertain useful life is not depreciated, but instead assessed annually with regard to any impairment requirement. The trademark Scandic Hotels, in the acquired companies in the Scandic Group, has existed on the market since 1984 and today constitutes the basis for the Group’s operations. The trademark is used in all of the markets in which the companies are established. The trademark Rica Hotels, which was acquired in April 2014, has a certain useful life of eight years, mainly related to the franchise and management agreements Rica Hotels has signed, and depreciation is linear during the assessed useful life. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 71 cont. Note 11 Other intangible assets 2015 2014 Customer relationships identified in the Rica Hotels acquisition are reported under Other intangible AccumuAccumuassets. Customer relationships have a certain useful life of nine years and depreciation is linear lated Reported lated Reported during the assessed useful life. Acquisidepreciaresidual Acquisidepreciaresidual Development costs that are directly attributable to development of identifiable systems for the Group, MSEK tion value tion value tion value tion value operations are also capitalized as intangible fixed assets when the following criteria are fulfilled: Equipment, fixtures and • it is technically possible to complete the software so that it can be used; fittings • it is the company’s intention to complete the software and to use it; Opening balance 7,145.6 –4,732.4 2,413.2 5,309.7 –3,563.3 1,746.4 • there are prerequisites for using the software; • it can be shown how the software will generate probable future financial benefits; Acquisition of businesses 38.2 – 38.2 1,282.1 –889.2 392.9 • adequate technical, financial and other resources exist for completing the development and Purchases 638.7 – 638.7 682.3 – 682.3 for using the software; and Sales/disposals –47.4 47.0 –0.4 –231.2 216.7 –14.5 • the expenses attributable to the software during its development can be calculated Depreciation for the year – –454.0 –454.0 – –431.2 –431.2 in a reliable way. Exchange rate differences –273.5 186.8 –86.7 102.7 –65.4 37.3 During 2009, Scandic began a major investment in a new operational system that came into use at Closing balance 7,501.6 –4,952.6 2,549.0 7,145.6 –4,732.4 2,413.2 the first hotels during 2010 and was operational at all hotels at the end of 2011. The investment Total tangible fixed assets consists of both licence costs and considerable implementation work. The investment has been divided into stages based on when the system becomes operational at different hotels. DepreciaOpening balance 7,264.6 –4,751.5 2,513.1 5,309.7 –3,563.3 1,746.4 tion of each stage started when the system became operational. Acquisition of businesses 38.2 – 38.2 1,401.1 –906.6 494.5 During 2012, another major investment began on a new Group reporting system. The investment Purchases 638.7 – 638.7 682.3 – 682.3 was completed in December 2013 and has been the subject of depreciation. Sales/disposals –47.4 47.0 –0.4 –231.2 216.7 –14.5 These two in-house developed systems are capitalized under Other intangible assets and will be written off over five years. Depreciation for the year – –455.0 –455.0 – –432.9 –432.9 Exchange rate differences –285.4 188.5 –96.9 102.7 –65.4 37.3 Important estimations and assumptions Closing balance 7,608.7 –4,971.0 2,637.7 7,264.6 –4,751.5 2,513.1 The estimations that may have the greatest effect on the future profit and position of the Group are Land and buildings refers to a property in Norway. This property was acquired in the Rica Hotels the assumptions made when considering the impairment of intangible assets. Every year, the Group acquisition in April 2014. Ongoing constructions amounting to 343.1 MSEK (332.4) are included investigates whether any need for impairment exists for goodwill and trademarks in accordance in Equipment, fixtures and fittings. with the accounting principle described above. Recoverable amounts for cash-generating units have been determined through calculation of the value in use. Assumptions made in this calculation are described in the table in the section Impairment testing, from which it emerges that revenue Accounting principles was expected to rise in the coming years. Should growth be considerably weaker, an impairment Tangible fixed assets requirement that significantly affects the Group’s profit and position may arise. Land and buildings comprise mainly hotel buildings. Land and buildings are reported at the Group’s acquisition value, based on an external valuation made in conjunction with the acquisition of the operations less depreciation of buildings made subsequently. Buildings are the subject of 12 Tangible fixed assets component depreciation, where different parts of the building are depreciated based on differing NOTE useful lives. The depreciation period for buildings is between 25 and 50 years. Land is not subject to depreciation. Equipment, fixtures and fittings are reported at the acquisition value less depreciation and 2015 2014 impairment. The acquisition value includes expenditure that is directly attributable to the acquisiAccumuAccumution of the asset. Assets are depreciated in a linear way over the calculated useful life, which lated Reported lated Reported varies depending on the character of the assets. Assets consist of many different types of equipAcquisidepreciaresidual Acquisidepreciaresidual ment, fixtures and fittings such as furniture, fixtures and fittings in hotel rooms and public areas, Group, MSEK tion value tion value tion value tion value kitchen equipment and IT equipment with varying useful lives. For this reason, a number of different Land and buildings depreciation periods are used. In general, IT equipment is depreciated over three years, while Opening balance 119.0 –19.1 99.9 0.0 – 0.0 other fixtures and fittings, installations and equipment are depreciated over 3 to 20 years. EquipAcquisition of businesses – – – 119.0 –17.4 101.6 ment, fixtures and fittings with a useful life shorter than 3 years are reported as expenses in the income statement. Depreciation for the year – –1.0 –1.0 – –1.7 –1.7 Exchange rate differences –11.9 1.7 –10.2 – 0.0 0.0 Important estimations and assumptions Closing balance 107.1 –18.4 88.7 119.0 –19.1 99.9 Additional expenditure is added to the reported value of the asset only when it is probable that the future financial benefits associated with the asset will benefit the Group and that the acquisition value of the asset can be measured in a reliable way. All other forms of maintenance of a tangible fixed asset are reported as expenses in the income statement. If there is a need for impairment, tangible fixed assets are impaired to the lowest of the recoverable amount and the reported value. 72 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • NOTES NOTE 13 Shares in associated companies NOTE 16 Accounts receivable Share Share Reported value Reported value Accounts receivable, gross values, MSEK 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Group, MSEK 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Total accounts receivable 479.4 464.3 Scandic Dyreparken Hotel AS – 50% – 19.2 Deducted provision for doubtful accounts receivable –15.7 –16.4 Gress-Gruppen AS 33% 33% 10.2 13.2 Accounts receivable, book value 463.7 447.9 Total 10.2 32.4 The Group’s costs in relation to bad debt loss amounted to MSEK 6.3 (14.8) during the financial Changes during the year, MSEK 2015 2014 year. Accumulated acquisition values, opening balance 32.4 0.0 Age analysis, MSEK 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Acquisitions – 31.3 Receivables not matured 243.4 269.0 Result/dividends 2.1 2.2 Receivables matured 1– 30 days 165.0 143.7 Sales –19.4 – Receivables matured 31– 60 days 32.3 21.0 Exchange rate differences –4.9 –1.1 Receivables matured 61– 90 days 13.4 3.7 Accumulated acquisition values, closing balance 10.2 32.4 Receivables matured 91– 120 days 18.7 15.4 Scandic Dyreparken Hotel AS was divested on October 1, 2015. Receivables matured more than 120 days 6.6 11.5 Accounts receivable, reported value 479.4 464.3 Accounting principles Shares in associated companies Accounting principles An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence and that is neither a subsidiary nor an interest in a joint venture. Significant influence is the power to participate in the Loans receivable and accounts receivable Loans receivable and accounts receivable are financial assets that are not derivatives, that are not financial and operating policy decisions of the investee but is not control or joint control over those listed in an active market, and that have fixed or determinable payments. They are part of current policies. Significant influence is normally present in situations where the company has a share­ assets, with the exception of items with due dates more than 12 months after the balance sheet holding of between 20 percent to 50 percent of the voting rights. date, in which case they are classified as fixed assets. Loans receivable and accounts receivable The share of income represents the company’s share in the net income (after tax) from these are classified as accounts receivable and other receivables on the balance sheet. associates and is directly accounted for in the income statement. Loans receivable and accounts receivable are reported at the acquisition value less any provision for depreciation. According to IAS 39, loans receivable and accounts receivable shall be valued at the accrued acquisition value using the effective interest method, but as accounts receivable NOTE 14 Financial investments have very short durations and the interest effects are very small, the reported value of the Group is not deemed to diverge materially from the actual value. Loans receivable run with a variable rate of interest and therefore the actual value is not deemed to diverge materially from the reported value. Changes during the year, MSEK 2015 2014 Accumulated acquisition values, opening balance 4.8 1.8 Important estimations and assumptions Acquisitions – 2.9 A provision for depreciation of accounts receivable is made when there is objective proof that the Group will not be able to recover all of the amounts due in accordance with the original terms and Disposals –0.1 – conditions of the accounts receivable. The provision amount constitutes the difference between the Exchange rate differences –0.4 0.1 asset’s reported value and the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the effective interAccumulated acquisition values, closing balance 4.3 4.8 est rate. The provision amount is reported in the income statement. The financial investments on the balance sheet date consists of approximately 50 (50) smaller investments. NOTE 15 Inventory The Group’s inventory consists in its entirety of raw materials, mainly for restaurant operations. Accounting principles Inventory Inventory is reported at the lower of the acquisition value or net selling price. The acquisition value is determined using the first in, first out (FIFO) principle. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 73 NOTE 17 Prepaid expenses NOTE 18 Cash equivalents Division into type of expense Group Parent Company Group Parent Company MSEK 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 MSEK 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Prepaid rent 141.0 217.5 – – Cash equivalents 247.5 716.4 1.9 1.1 Other items 124.6 107.5 0.0 – Total 247.5 716.4 1.9 1.1 Total 265.6 325.0 0.0 – Accounting principles Cash equivalents Cash equivalents includes cash, bank balances and other current investments with a due date within three months from the time of acquisition. NOTE 19 Share capital Ordinary share class B/ Change in MSEK Preference share Ordinary share Class A Ordinary shares1) Total number of shares share capital, SEK Share capital, SEK Quota value, SEK Number of shares 1 Jan 2015 1 24,999,999 10,000,000 35,000,000 – 100,000 0.002857 Bonus issue – – – 35,000,000 400,000 500,000 0.014286 Reduction of share capital incl. redemption of shares –1 –24,999,999 – 10,000,000 –357,143 142,857 0.014286 Bonus issue – – – 10,000,000 19,857,143 20,000,000 2 Share split (1:8) – – 70,000,000 80,000,000 – 20,000,000 0.25 New issue – – 22,985,075 102,985,075 5,746,269 25,746,269 0.25 Number of shares on 31 Dec 2015 – – 102,985,075 102,985,075 25,646,269 25,746,269 0.25 1) At the Extraordinary General Meeting held on September 15, 2015, the Article of Association were amended to the effect that Scandic Hotels Group AB shall have one share class only. NOTE 20A Borrowings Liabilities to The company’s external loans were refinanced in July 2015 with new terms and prolonged matucredit instiInternal Total borrity. The loans comprise three long-term credit facilities in SEK, NOK and EUR with terms that are Changes during the year, MSEK tutions loans rowings within 5 years and interest based on Stibor/Euribor/Nibor +1.00 to 2.90 percentage points, and a Opening balance 1 Jan 2014 4,758.6 830.5 5,589.1 revolving multicurrency credit facility of 600.0 MSEK and duration of 5 years and interest based on a base rate +0.50 to 2.40 percentage units. The margin within the interest rate interval for all loans Borrowings 772.7 – 772.7 is dependent on the company’s debt ratio. The loan terms stipulate that the following covenants Capitalization of interest 95.8 87.2 183.0 shall be within certain ranges: interest cover and net debt in relation to adjusted EBITDA. At each Capitalization of transaction costs1) –51.6 – –51.6 measurement period and on the balance day, all covenants were fulfilled. There are no requirreTransaction costs expensed during the year1) 33.4 – 33.4 ments for amortization and no assets have been pledged as security for the loans. The loan agreement also includes conditions for compulsory notification to the lender and possibly refund premaExchange rate differences 196.6 58.5 255.1 turely up-to-date, if someone other than the current owner EQT Fund V owns more than 50 percent Opening balance 1 Jan 2015 5,805.5 976.2 6,781.7 or if Scandic was delisted from the stock exchange. The Board of Directors monitors the company’s Borrowings 4,764.9 – 4,764.9 financial position regarding the fulfillment of the loan terms. For the loans in EUR and NOK hedge accounting is applied to hedge net investments in foreign operations in Finland, Denmark and NorCapitalization of interest 117.0 92.8 209.8 way. As the Danish krona is linked to the euro, these are also used for hedge accounting. The Capitalization of transaction costs1) –90.5 – –90.5 exchange loss of 50.6 MSEK from the translation of the loans into SEK has been reported in Other Transaction costs expensed during the year1) 60.1 – 60.1 comprehensive income and added to the translation reserve in equity. The hedges were efficient Amortization of loans –6,792.3 – –6,792.3 regarding hedge accounting of foreign operations. In June 2013, the company received a shareholder loan to strengthen the company’s financial Loan converted to shareholders’ contribution – –1,036.4 –1,036.4 position and ensure that no covenants would fail. This shareholder loan is reported as an Internal loan Exchange rate differences –265.0 –32.6 –297.6 and in 2015, it was converted into equity through an unconditional shareholders’ contribution. Closing balance 31 Dec 2015 3,599.7 – 3,599.7 1) Existing loans were renegotiated in the middle of 2015 and resulted in transaction costs of MSEK 90.5. These have been capitalized and the costs capitalized are distributed in a linear manner over the borrowing period. 74 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • NOTES cont. Note 20a Accounting principles The Group normally takes long-term loans at variable interest rates and converts them into fixed Borrowings interest rates using interest rate swaps. In such transactions, the Group agrees with other parties to Borrowings are financial liabilities that are initially reported at actual value, net after transaction exchange, at specified intervals, the difference between the agreed fixed and variable interest costs. Borrowings are subsequently reported at the accrued acquisition value and any difference rates, calculated based on the agreed nominal value. between proceeds (net of transaction costs) and the redemption value is reported in the income 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 statement allocated over the period of the borrowing using the effective interest method. BorrowGroup borrowings divided between fixed and variable interest ings are classified as liabilities to credit institutions and as internal loans in the balance sheet. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer the Fixed interest 64% 27% payment of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. Variable interest 36% 73% All external borrowings at fixed interest have been carried out through the use of interest rate swaps. NOTE 20B Management of financial risks Credit risk Credit risk refers to the risk that counterparties cannot fulfill their obligations. Credit risk arises from cash and cash equivalents, derivative instruments and deposits with banks and financial instiMarket risk – Foreign exchange risk tutions as well as credit exposures to customers, including outstanding receivables and agreed The Group operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various transactions. currency exposures. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions, recognized assets and liabilities and net investments in foreign operations. Risk management Credit risk is managed on the Group level. Only banks and financial institutions that have received Risk management an independent minimum rating of “A-1” are accepted. In cases where no independent credit rating Foreign exchange risk arises when future business transactions or recognized assets or liabilities are exists, a risk assessment of the customer’s creditworthiness is carried out considering the customdenominated in a currency that is not the entity’s functional currency. The operations of the Scandic er’s financial position, previous experience and other factors. The use of credit limits is monitored Group companies are mainly local, with revenues and expenses denominated in domestic currencies, regularly. Sales in the company’s operations are for the most part settled by cash or via credit and the Group’s internal sales are low. This means that exchange rate exposure related to transactions cards, although invoicing is also used. Credit losses relating to customers as per 2015-12-31 is limited. According to the Group’s Financial Policy, which requires Group companies to manage their amounted to 6.3 (14.8) million, see Note 16. foreign exchange risk against their functional currency, the Group companies hedge their foreign exchange risk in larger future business transactions via Group Finance. To manage the foreign exchange Group, MSEK < 1 year 1– 3 years 4 – 5 years > 5 years risk arising from future commercial transactions, the Group companies use forward contracts signed As at 31 Decemeber 2015 with Group Finance. Liabilities to credit institutions – – 3,599.7 – Exchange rate effects in the Group arise from the translation of foreign subsidiaries’ financial statements into SEK. For the year, 42 percent of the Group’s sales were in SEK, 30 percent in NOK and Derivative instruments 60.1 7.0 9.6 – 28 percent in EUR and other currencies. Currency exposure arising from the Group’s foreign net Accounts payable and other liabilities 672.4 – – – assets is managed primarily through borrowings denominated in the currencies involved. The Group’s borrowing in different currencies is shown in the table below. The Board has decided that the Group, MSEK < 1 year 1– 3 years 4 – 5 years > 5 years exchange rate risk of net assets and liabilities after borrowings should not be hedged. As at 31 December 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Liabilities to credit institutions 232.2 5,573.3 – – Group borrowings divided into different currencies Internal borrowing – – – 976.2 SEK 40% 43% Derivative instruments 37.2 3.1 – – EUR 31% 57% Accounts payable and other liabilities 751.7 – – – NOK 29% – Liquidity risk Market risk – Interest rate risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group does not have sufficient liquidity to pay its debts and meet its Interest rate risk arises from changes in market interest rates that can have a negative effect on the commitments. Group’s revenue, cash flow and interest-bearing assets and liabilities. Risk management Risk management Liquidity risk is managed by maintaining within the Group sufficient cash and cash equivalents and As the Group has no significant interest-bearing assets, the Group’s revenues and cash flow from short-term investments with a liquid market, available financing through agreed credit facilities and operating activities are essentially independent of changes in market interest rates. the ability to close market positions. The Group’s liquidity in the form of cash and cash equivalents The Group’s interest rate risk arises from long-term borrowings. Loans issued at variable rates and short-term investments is monitored and forecast on a daily basis by Group Finance. The expose the Group to interest rate risk in respect of cash flow. Loans issued at fixed rates expose the Group’s liquidity reserve on December 31, 2015, consisting of cash and unutilized credit facilities, Group to interest rate risk in respect of fair value. The Group’s Financial Policy, which was established amounted to 847.5 MSEK (838.4). during 2015, stipulates that 25 to 75 percent of Scandic’s loans must be taken at fixed interest rates. Deviations from this must be approved by the Board. The Group uses, when needed, interest rate swaps to manage this. The Group’s borrowings on the balance sheet date are shown below. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 75 NOTE 20C Management of capital risk NOTE 21 Provisions for pensions and similar obligations The Group’s goal for capital structure is to safeguard the Group’s ability to maintain its operations Provisions for pensions and similar obligations refer in their entirety to defined-benefit pension so that it can continue to generate returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders, as plans in which the employees have the right to benefits after their employment ends, and where well as to maintain an optimal capital structure to keep capital costs down. the level of benefits is based on final salary and length of service. Provision for such plans has The Group’s managed capital is made up of shareholders’ equity. To maintain or adjust the capibeen made for FPG/PRI occupational pensions in Sweden (ITP 2-plan). In other countries, definedtal structure, the Group may change the dividend paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholdcontribution pension plans have been adopted. The defined-benefit plan in Sweden provides the ers, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce liabilities. employees with a quaranteed level of pension payouts during their lifetime. The defined-benefit In the same way as other companies in the industry, the Group assesses capital on the basis of plan is adjusted for annual inflation of 1.5 percent set out by the Swedish Central Bank. the debt/equity ratio. This key figure is calculated as net debt divided by shareholders’ equity. Net debt is calculated as borrowings from credit instutions, internal loans and financial leases less cash Defined benefit pension plans and cash equivalents. Calculation of provision, MSEK 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Group, MSEK 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Present value of obligations 380.2 462.0 Total borrowings 3,603.0 6,789.5 Actual value of plan assets – – Excluding: cash and cash equivalents –247.5 –716.4 Total provision for defined benefit pension plans 380.2 462.0 Interest-bearing net liabilities 3,355.5 6,073.1 Changes in provision during the year, MSEK 2015 2014 Total shareholders’ equity 6,204.5 3,613.9 Net liability, opening balance –462.0 –281.5 Debt/equity ratio 0.5 times 1.7 times Acquisition of businesses – –14.6 Remeasurements reported in Other comprehensive income 1) 75.5 –119.0 Due dates, MSEK 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Net expense reported in the income statement –16.8 –22.3 Liabilities become due for payment Relocation of ITPK 0.1 0.1 – within 1 year – 232.2 Pensions paid 4.8 4.6 – between 1 and 3 years – 5,573.3 Change in special employer's contribution 18.3 –29.2 – between 4 and 5 years 3,599.7 – Net liability, closing balance 2) –380.2 –462.0 – later than 5 years – 976.2 1) Remeasurements recorded in Other comprehensive income during 2015 consist of actuarial gains from a change in Total 3,599.7 6,781.7 financial assumptions of +73.2 MSEK and experienced-based gains are +2.3 MSEK. 2) Weighted average duration of the pension obligations is 24 years. Bank overdraft facilities, MSEK 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Amounts utilized – – Important estimations and assumptions Amounts not utilized 600.0 122.0 Important actuarial assumptions 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Total bank overdraft facilities granted 600.0 122.0 Discount rate 3.15% 2.75% Future salary increases 3.00% 3.00% Future pension increases (inflation) 1.50% 2.00% Employee turnover 3.00% 3.00% Sensitivity analysis in the actuarial assumptions Change Increase Decrease Discount rate +/–0.5% –11.0% +12.9% Future salary increases +/–0.5% +4.9% –3.7% Future pension increases (inflation) +/–0.5% +9.5% –8.4% Life expectancy +/–1 year +3.4% –3.4% 76 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • NOTES cont. Note 21 Pension expenses for defined benefit and defined contribution pension plans NOTE 22 Other provisions MSEK 2015 2014 Expenses relating to service during the current year, 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 defined benefit pension plans –5.4 –10.8 Provisions Provisions for for Expenses relating to service during the current year, frequent Total frequent Total defined contribution pension plans –311.9 –272.2 Changes in other provisions guest Other other guest Other other Total pension expenses included in personnel expenses –317.3 –283.0 during the year, MSEK program provisions provisions program provisions provisions Interest expenses for defined benefit pension plans –11.4 –11.5 Opening balance 116.5 2.9 119.4 93.9 2.7 96.7 Change through the income statement 4.5 –0.1 4.4 22.5 0.2 22.7 Total expenses in the income statement –328.7 –294.5 Closing balance 121.0 2.8 123.8 116.5 2.9 119.4 Payments for next year are expected to be at the same level as this year. Scandic has a frequent guest program, Scandic Friends, in which members earn points for overnight Multi-employer plans stays that can then be used for free overnight stays. This frequent guest program is covered by the rules The company has secured the ITP plan through insurance from the insurance company Alecta. in IFRIC 13. The liability is valued at the market value of the anticipated free-night usage. In measuring Although this plan is classified as a defined benefit plan, it is not possible to receive sufficient inforthe liability for the frequent guest program, the first step is to calculate the liability for the number of free mation from Alecta to be able to report it as a defined benefit plan. Information regarding allocation nights expected to be used on the basis of the level of utilization and estimated points withdrawal per free between employers is missing and instead all earnings are allocated to the last employer. A breaknight, based on the outstanding balance of points. The anticipated utilization of free nights is then multidown of Alecta’s assets and provisions for individuals is not possible which means that these plans plied by the average market price of such free nights. That part of the liability which is expected to be are accounted for as defined contribution plans. Collective consolidation is the buffer of Alecta’s utilized after more than one year is reported under Other provisions above, while that part which is insurance commitments to be able to handle fluctuations in investement returns and insurance expected to be utilized within one year is recognized as deferred income under Accrued expenses and risks, and it is calculated as the difference between investments and the insurance commitments. deferred income (see note 24). The total liability for the frequent guest program and its allocation between The consolidation level is calculated as Alecta’s assets in relation to the insurance commitments. current and non-current liabilities is shown in the table below. The provision is expected to be utilized Alecta has a target ratio of 140 percent for the consolidation level and during 2015, the consolidawithin 5 years. In October 2014, Rica’s frequent guest program was transferred into Scandic Friends. tion level was 153 percent (143 percent). For 2016, the contribution to the plan is estimated to be 2015 2014 at the same level as 2015, 55 MSEK. Total Total liability in liability in respect of respect of Accounting principles Nonfrequent Nonfrequent Pension undertakings Total liability regarding current Current guest current Current guest Group companies operate various pension schemes. These pension plans are usually financed frequent guest program provision provision program provision provision program through payments to insurance companies or managed funds, where the payments are determined Opening balance 116.5 77.6 194.1 93.9 62.6 156.5 according to actuarial calculations. The Group has both defined-benefit and defined -contribution Change through the income plans. A defined contribution plan is a pension plan under which the Group pays fixed contributions statement 4.5 9.0 13.5 22.5 15.0 37.6 into a separate legal entity. The Group has no legal or constructive obligations to pay further contributions if this legal entity does not hold sufficient assets to pay all employees the benefits relating to Closing balance 121.0 86.6 207.6 116.5 77.6 194.1 employee service in the current and prior periods. A defined-benefit plan is a pension plan where the The assessed market value of free overnight stays used during 2015 amounted to MSEK 106.6 contribution is not defined, but defines an amount of pension benefit that an employee will receive on (83.5). For the current provision, see Note 24. retirement, usually dependent on one or more factors such as age, years of service and salary. For defined-contribution pension plans, the Group pays fees to publicly or privately managed pension insurance schemes on an obligatory, contractual or voluntary basis. The Group has no furAccounting principles ther payment obligations once the fees are paid. The fees are reported as personnel expenses durProvisions ing the period they relate to. Provisions for environmental restoration measures, restructuring expenses and legal claims are The liability recognized in the balance sheet in respect to defined-benefit pension plans is the reported when the Group has a legal or informal obligation as a result of earlier events, it is prob­ present value of the defined-benefit obligation at the balance sheet date, less the actual value of plan able that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the undertaking and the amount has assets. The defined-benefit obligation is calculated annually by independent actuaries using the probeen calculated in a reliable manner. Provisions are valued based on the best possible estimate of jected unit credit method. The net present value of the defined-benefit obligation is determined by disexpenditure that will be required to resolve the obligation in question on the balance sheet date. counting the estimated future cash outflows using interest rates of first-class corporate bonds that are Provisions for restructuring includes costs for terminating leasing agreements and severance pay. denominated in the same currency in which the benefits will be paid and that have terms of maturity No provisions are made for future operating losses. approximating the terms in the related pension liability. Actuarial gains and losses that arise from experience-based adjustments and changes in actuImportant estimations and assumptions arial assumptions are reported in other comprehensive income during the period when they arise. Reporting of provisions for loyalty programs for customers Past-service costs are recognized immediately in income unless the changes to the pension In accordance with IFRIC 13, provisions for loyalty programs for customers (frequent guest proplan are conditional on the employees remaining in service for a specified period of time (vesting grams) is reported as a reduction in revenue in conjunction with the earning of the right to future period). In this case, the past-service costs are allocated on a linear basis over the vesting period. use. The reserve outstanding at any time is divided up into a long-term part, which is reported under Other provisions, and a short-term part, which is reported under Accrued costs and prepaid income. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 77 NOTE 23 Deferred tax assets and tax liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are reported net when there is a legally enforceable right to offset the recognized tax assets and liabilities and when the deferred taxes are expected to be settled at the same time. 31 Dec 2015 Distribution of deferred tax items on underlying balance sheet Derivative Elimination of Losses Total deferred tax items and their changes during the year, MSEK Pensions instruments internal goodwill carried forward Issuing costs assets Deferred tax assets Opening balance 1 Jan 2015 52.0 8.8 5.4 397.9 – 464.1 Reported in income statement 3.3 3.1 –0.1 –27.3 – –21.0 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income –20.6 – – – – –20.6 Items recognized in equity – – – – 6.2 6.2 Exchange rate differences – – 0.0 –0.8 – –0.8 Closing balance 31 Dec 2015 34.7 11.9 5.3 369.8 6.2 427.9 – of which receivables to be utilized within 12 months – – – – – – Intangible Untaxed Accelerated Hedge Total deferred tax fixed assets Land & buildings reserves depreciation accounting liabilities Deferred tax liabilities Opening balance 1 Jan 2015 –748.6 –13.9 –85.6 –2.7 – –850.8 Acquisition of businesses –7.2 – – – – –7.2 Reported in income statement 7.6 0.2 24.5 –0.1 – 32.3 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income – – – – –11.1 –11.1 Exchange rate differences 18.8 –2.2 11.7 0.5 – 28.8 Closing balance 31 Dec 2015 –729.4 –15.9 –49.4 –2.3 –11.1 –808.1 – of which liabilities to be paid within 12 months –36.2 –1.0 – – – –37.2 Deferred tax liabilities, net Net deferred tax liabilities Opening balance 1 Jan 2015 –386.7 Acquisition of businesses –7.2 Reported in income statement 11.2 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income –31.7 Items recognized in equity 6.2 Exchange rate differences 28.0 Closing balance 31 Dec 2015 –380.2 78 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • NOTES cont. Note 23 31 Dec 2014 Distribution of deferred tax items on underlying balance sheet items Derivative Elimination of Losses Total deferred and their changes during the previous year, MSEK Pensions instruments internal goodwill carried forward tax assets Deferred tax assets Opening balance Jan 1 2014 15.4 9.2 5.6 337.5 367.6 Reported in income statement 0.4 –0.3 –0.1 60.4 60.3 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income 36.3 – – – 36.3 Exchange rate differences – – –0.1 – –0.1 Closing balance 31 Dec 2014 52.0 8.8 5.4 397.9 464.1 – of which receivables to be utilized within 12 months – – – – – Intangible Accelerated Total deferred fixed assets Land & buildings Untaxed reserves depreciation tax liabilities Deferred tax liabilities Opening balance 1 Jan 2014 –673.5 0.0 –5.9 –4.2 –683.5 Acquisition of businesses –82.3 –14.1 –79.7 – –176.2 Reported in income statement 7.5 0.2 0.5 1.8 10.0 Exchange rate differences –0.3 0.0 –0.5 –0.3 –1.0 Closing balance 31 Dec 2014 –748.6 –14.0 –85.6 –2.7 –850.8 – of which liabilities to be paid within 12 months –37.0 –1.1 – – –38.1 Deferred tax liabilities, net Net deferred tax liabilities Opening balance Jan 1, 2014 –315.9 Acquisition of businesses –176.2 Reported in income statement 70.3 Tax attributable to items in Other comprehensive income 36.3 Exchange rate differences –1.1 Closing balance 31 Dec 2014 –386.7 Tax loss carry-forwards The Group has reported loss carry-forwards amounting to 1,660.9 MSEK (1,762.8) mainly in Accounting principles Sweden, Norway and Denmark. These loss carry-forwards can be utilized against future taxable Deferred income tax surpluses. Recorded deferred tax assets related to the reported loss carry-forwards amounted to Deferred income tax is reported, using the liability method, on all temporary differences arising 369.8 MSEK (397.9), the Group has assessed that these loss carry-forwards will be possible to between the tax bases of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts in the balance sheet. offset in the future, based on the forecasts of the Group for coming years. Non-recorded deficienHowever, deferred tax is not reported if it arises as a result of a transaction that constitutes the first cies amounted to 346.5 MSEK in 2015 and are mainly related to Denmark, Germany, Poland and reporting of an asset or liability that is not an operational acquisition and which, at the time of the Belgium where it still is uncertain to what extent they are offsettable towards taxable surpluses. transaction, affects neither the reported nor the tax result. Deferred tax is not reported either on These deficiencies amount to 69.3 MSEK (15.6). None of the deductible deficiencies are limited the first reporting of goodwill. Deferred income tax is determined using the tax rates (and laws) that in time. All deferred tax on deductible deficiencies is valued on taxable deficiencies. have been applied or notified by the balance sheet date and are expected to apply when the related deferred income tax asset is realized or the deferred income tax liability is settled. Deferred tax assets, Parent Company 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Deferred tax assets are reported to the extent it is probable that future tax surpluses will be Opening balance 192.4 191.9 avail­able, against which the temporary differences can be utilized. Reported in income statement –116.2 0.5 Reported in equity 6.2 – Closing balance 82.4 192.4 Deferred tax assets in the Parent Company consist solely of unused deductible deficiencies that the Parent Company had on the closing date. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 79 NOTE 24 Accrued expenses and deferred income NOTE 25 Adjustment for items not included in cash flow Group Parent Company Adjustment for items not included Group Parent Company Division into type of expense, MSEK 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 in cash flow, MSEK 2015 2014 2015 2014 Accrued leasing expenses 44.7 12.3 – – Depreciation 501.8 474.8 – – Accrued personnel expenses 607.5 502.8 5.6 – Gain/loss on sale of associated companies 4.1 – – – Accrued interest expenses 10.6 29.0 5.9 – Change in accrued expenses/income and Deferred income 31.3 0.4 – – provisions 14.8 –2.7 86.4 – Current portion of frequent guest program 86.6 77.6 – – Total 520.7 472.1 86.4 – Other items1) 558.4 502.7 51.6 – Total 1,339.1 1,124.8 63.1 – Accounting principles 1) The bonus check liability is included in Other items and amounted to 63.4 MSEK (64.3) and is a payment method permitting The cash flow analysis has been prepared in accordance with the indirect method. The cash flow discounted stays at all Scandic hotels. Bonus checks have a limited period of validity. When bonus check booklets are sold, a reported only includes transactions that entail payments in or out. liability is recorded. The liability is liquidated when the checks are utilized or when the customer is judged to be no longer able In addition to cash and bank balances, short-term financial investments are classified as liquid to utilize or redeem the bonus check. funds since these are exposed only to an insignificant risk of value fluctuations or have a remaining term of less than three months from the acquisition date. NOTE 26 Business combinations On February 1, 2015, the Scandic Group acquired 100 percent of the share capital of Scandic The following table outlines the purchase price paid as well as the actual value of assets acquired Strand Hotel Bergen AS, Scandic Neptun Hotel Bergen AS and Scandic Bergen Hotel Scandic and liabilities taken over: City AS for 160.0 MNOK. Before the acquisition, the companies operated hotels in Bergen, Norway Purchase price on February 1, 2015, MSEK Group under the Scandic brand through a long-term franchise agreement. The reason behind the acquisitions was to strengthen Scandic’s position in Bergen, one of Cash and cash equivalents 162.4 Norway’s most important hotel markets. Total purchase price paid 162.4 The revenue from the acquired companies that was included in the consolidated income statement from February 1, 2015 amounted to 199.2 MSEK. The acquired companies also contributed Recognized amounts of identifiable assets acquired 13.3 MSEK to the Group’s net profit for the same period. If the acquired companies had been and liabilities taken over consolidated from January 1, 2015, the consolidated income statement would have shown revenues Tangible fixed assets 38.2 of 12,221.0 MSEK and a profit of 117.5 MSEK Customer relations 26.7 Acquisition-related expenses of –0.2 MSEK are included in non-recurring items in the con­ solidated income statement as per December 2015. Goodwill of 108.0 MSEK that has arisen as Long-term receivables 1.1 a result of the acquisitions is related primarily to the value of additional sales in the future that the Inventories 1.9 Group expects as well as the positive effects of the lease model with which Scandic operates. Accounts receivable and other receivables 17.1 The identified intangible assets that have been valuated relate mainly to customer relationships. Cash and cash equivalents 29.5 No part of the recognized goodwill is expected to be tax deductible. Deferred tax liabilities, net –7.2 All acquired companies were merged with Scandic Hotels AS during the year. Borrowing –7.6 Accounts payable and other liabilities –45.4 Total identifiable net assets 54.4 Goodwill 108.0 162.4 Effects on Group cash and cash equivalents Cash purchase price –162.4 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired entities 29.5 Cash flow from acquistion of subsidiary –132.9 80 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • NOTES NOTE 27 Participation in Group companies Changes during the year Parent Company MSEK 2015 2014 Accumulated acquisition values, opening balance 3,532.1 2,586.5 Given shareholders’ contribution 4.4 945.5 Accumulated acquisition values, closing balance 3,536.5 3,532.1 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Holdings on the balance sheet date Organization number Registered address Shareholding Shareholding Reported value Reported value Scandic Hotels Holding AB 556723-5725 Stockholm 100 100 3,536.5 3,532.1 Scandic Hotels AB 556299-1009 Stockholm 100 100 – – Hotell Skogshöjd AB 1) 556065-6109 Södertälje – 100 – – Scandic Hotels AS 953 149 117 Oslo, Norway 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Holding A/S 30 61 64 56 Copenhagen, Denmark 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels A/S 12 59 67 74 Copenhagen, Denmark 100 100 – – Scandic Polen Sp.z o. o. 288532 Warsaw, Poland 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Europe AB 556351-7373 Stockholm 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Deutschland GmbH HRB 8618 HL Berlin, Germany 100 100 – – Scandic Berlin Kurfürstendamm GmbH HRB 158329 B Berlin, Germany 100 100 – – Scandic Hotel NV 462 318 529 Antwerp, Belgium 100 100 – – Scandic Netherland B.V 807059602B01 Amstelveen, Netherlands 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Holding AS 912 198 022 Oslo, Norway 100 100 – – Rica Hotels AS 984 695 322 Oslo, Norway 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Finnmark AS 941 654 614 Hammerfest, Norway 100 100 – – Holmenkollen Park Hotel Rica AS 2) 944 692 916 Oslo, Norway – 100 – – Grand Hotel Driftsselskap AS 2) 965 408 614 Oslo, Norway – 100 – – Scandic Hotellene Oslo AS 2) 942 100 787 Oslo, Norway – 100 – – Scandic Hotel Øst AS 941 187 706 Furnes, Norway 100 100 – – Rica Hotels AB 556520-9797 Stockholm 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Troms AS 974 459 809 Tromsø, Norway 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Midt-Norge AS 941 249 957 Hell, Norway 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Sunnfjord AS 981 045 467 Førde, Norway 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Vest AS 941 081 371 Bergen, Norway 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Sør AS 951 791 555 Sandefjord, Norway 100 100 – – Scandic Hotels Gardermoen AS 880 289 772 Gardermoen, Norway 50 50 – – Scandic Hotels Oy 1447914-7 Helsinki, Finland 100 100 – – HTL Hotels AB 556723-5717 Stockholm 100 100 – – HTL Hotels AS 813 361 272 Oslo, Norway 100 100 – – Total 3,536.5 3,532.1 1) On November 10, 2015 the company was merged with Scandic Hotels AB and has ceased to exist. 2) On November 1, 2015 the company was merged with Scandic Hotels AS and has ceased to exist. The acquired Bergen companies, see Note 26, were merged with Scandic Hotels AS during the year and have ceased to exist. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 81 NOTE 28 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Group Parent Company Lease guarantees relate mainly to guarantees for lease contracts for premises in the Danish and MSEK 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Norwegian subsidiaries. These have remaining periods of contract of up to 13 years. Fixed rental Pledged assets fees for the whole remaining period have been accounted for above. These rental fees are included Floating charges – 85.0 – – in future leasing undertakings in Note 5. Real estate mortgages 45.0 – – – No significant liabilities are expected to arise due to the contingent liabilities reported. No disputes have been identified within the Group for which any material payments are expected. Scandic Shares in subsidiaries – 7,103.6 – – is involved in a small number of commercial disputes. None of these disputes is deemed to have Total pledged assets 45.0 7,188.6 – – any major negative impact on the company’s financial position or profit. No contingent assets have been identified within the Group. Contingent liabilities The valuation of shares in subsidiaries is based on the Group’s net assets. Guarantee undertakings, FPG/PRI 4.4 4.2 – – Lease guarantees 92.8 99.9 – – Important estimations and assumptions Guarantee undertakings, other – 1.4 – – In February 2011 and in January 2012, the unit for monitoring taxpayers’ rights in Finland sent Contingent liabilities 106.9 111.4 – – a correction claim to the company’s Finnish branch, where the branch’s right to deduct interest Travel guarantees 3.2 1.5 – – expenses from the Finnish subsidiary was challenged for the tax years 2008 and 2009. During Total contingent liabilities 207.3 218.4 – – 2012, a challenge relating to the tax years 2010 and 2011 was also received. The company has received opinions from various tax experts in Finland and the probability of a decision in the branch’s favor is assessed to be more probable than a negative decision. Against the background of these opinions, the company has not made any provision in relation to this claim, but has reported a contingent liability of 106.9 MSEK only. NOTE 29 Financial assets and liabilities Loans receivable and Financial liabilities at Other financial 31 Dec 2015, MSEK accounts receivable fair value through profit and loss Borrowings receivables/liabilities Total Financial investments – – – 4.3 4.3 Accounts receivable 463.7 – – – 463.7 Cash equivalents 247.5 – – – 247.5 Total financial assets 711.2 – – 4.3 715.5 Liabilities to credit institutions – – 3,599.7 – 3,599.7 Advance payments from customers – – – 88.3 88.3 Accounts payable – – – 482.2 482.2 Derivative instruments – 76.7 – – 76.7 Total financial liabilities – 76.7 3,599.7 570.5 4,246.9 Loans receivable and Financial liabilities at Other financial 31 Dec 2014, MSEK accounts receivable fair value through profit and loss Borrowings receivables/liabilities Total Financial investments – – – 4.8 4.8 Accounts receivable 447.9 – – – 447.9 Cash equivalents 716.4 – – – 716.4 Total financial assets 1,164.3 – – 4.8 1,169.1 Liabilities to credit institutions – – 5,805.5 – 5,805.5 Advance payments from customers – – – 71.1 71.1 Accounts payable – – – 535.2 535.2 Derivative instruments – 40.2 – – 40.2 Total financial liabilities – 40.2 5,805.5 606.3 6,452.0 Liabilities to credit institutions have variable interest rates and are reported at the accrued acquisiThese are accounted for the fair value through profit and loss, and are reported as derivative instrution value. A fixed rate of interest is achieved through interest swaps. Variable unit prices for elecments above. The actual value of other financial assets and liabilities is not assessed as diverging tricity have been swapped to fixed prices for parts of the Group’s electricity consumption. The Group materially from the reported value. also entered in a share swap agreement related to the long-term incentive program, see Note 6. 82 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • NOTES cont. Note 29 Accounting principles Fair value: Financial instruments The table below shows the Group’s financial assets and financial liabilities at the fair value and The Group classifies its significant financial assets and liabilities into the following categories: categorized in the fair value hierarchy. The different levels are defined as follows: Financial assets valued at actual value via the income statement, loans receivable and accounts – Level 1: Quoted prices on an active market for identical assets or liabilities receivable, borrowings and accounts payable. The classification depends on the purpose for which – Level 2: Other observable data than quoted prices included in Level 1, either directly or indirectly the financial asset or liability was acquired. The management determines the classification of the – Level 3: Data not based on observable market data financial assets and liabilities at the first time of reporting and reassesses this decision at each time Liabilities to credit institutions and the shareholder loan are booked at the fair value. There were no of reporting. financial assets at fair value during 2015 and 2014. (a) Financial assets/liabilities reported at actual value via the income statement 31 Dec 2015, MSEK Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Financial assets/liabilities valued at actual value via the income statement are financial assets/liaLiabilities to credit institutions – 3,599.7 – 3,599.7 bilities held for resale. A financial asset/liability is classified in this category if it is acquired mainly for the purpose of being resold shortly. Derivatives are classified as if held for resale unless they are Derivative instruments used for hedging – 76.7 – 76.7 identified as hedges. Assets/liabilities in this category are classified as current assets/liabilities. Total financial liabilities – 3,676.4 – 3,676.4 Changes in the value of these financial assets/liabilities are reported as financial income/expenses in the income statement. 31 Dec 2014, MSEK Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Liabilities to credit institutions – 5,805.5 – 5,805.5 (b) Loans receivable and accounts receivable Loans receivable and accounts receivable are financial assets that are not derivatives, not listed on Shareholder loan – – 976.2 976.2 an active market and that have fixed or determinable payments. They are part of the current assets, Derivative instruments used for hedging – 40.2 – 40.2 with the exception of items with due dates more than 12 months after the balance sheet date, in Total financial liabilities – 5,845.7 976.2 6,821.9 which case they are classified as fixed assets. Loans receivable and accounts receivable are classified as accounts receivable and other receivables on the balance sheet. In accordance with the Group’s Financial Policy, derivative instruments and interest rate swaps Loans receivable and accounts receivable are reported at the acquisition value less any provihave been entered into to hedge the Group against interest rate risk. These interest rate swaps sion for depreciation. According to IAS 39, loans receivable and accounts receivable shall be valued were valued on the reporting date at the market value declared by the issuers, which constitutes a at the accrued acquisition value using the effective interest method, but as accounts receivable Level 2 valuation under IFRS 7. have very short durations and the interest effects are very small, the reported value of the Group is not deemed to diverge materially from the actual value. Loans receivable have a variable interest rate and therefore the actual value is not deemed to diverge materially from the reported value. A provision for depreciation of accounts receivable is made when there is objective proof that the Group will not be able to receive all of the amounts due in accordance with the original terms and conditions of the accounts receivable. The provision amount constitutes the difference between the asset’s reported value and the present value of future cash flows, discounted at the effective interest rate. The provision amount is reported in the income statement. (c) Borrowings Borrowings are financial liabilities that are initially reported at the actual value, net after transaction costs. Borrowings are subsequently reported at the accrued acquisition value and any difference between proceeds (net of transactions costs) and redemption value is reported in the income statement allocated over the period of the borrowing, using the effective interest method. Borrowings are classified as liabilities to credit institutions and as internal loans in the balance sheet. Borrowings are classified as current liabilities unless the Group has an unconditional right to defer the payment of the liability for at least 12 months after the balance sheet date. (d) Accounts payable Accounts payable are financial liabilities with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are part of current liabilities, with the exception of items with due dates more than 12 months after the balance sheet date, in which case they are classified as long-term liabilities. Accounts payable are reported at the acquisition value. According to IAS 39, accounts payable shall be valued at the accrued acquisition value using the effective interest method, but as the Group’s accounts payable have very short durations and the interest effects are very small, the reported value of the Group is not deemed to diverge materially from the actual value. NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 83 NOTE 30 Transactions with related parties EQT Fund V owns through companies the majority of the Parent Company’s shares. The company, Group Parent Company and its ownership in Dometic Group AB, are treated as related parties based on their owner share MSEK 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 and their representation on the Board during the year. In addition, the group Braganza AS is also treated as related party based on their ownership and their representation in the Board during Loans to related parties the year. For transactions with subsidaries, OECD’s guidelines for Transfer Pricing are applied. Subsidaries The following transactions have been carried out with related parties: Opening balance – – 956.5 813.8 On October 1, 2015 Scandic divested its 50 percent share of the associated company Transactions during the year – – – – Scandic Hotel Dyreparken AS. The buyer was Dyreparken Utvikling AS and the purchase price was 16.0 MNOK. The hotel is now operated as a franchise hotel under the Scandic brand. Interest – – 98.6 85.5 Exchange rate differences – – –40.8 57.3 Group Parent Company Closing balance – – 1,014.3 956.5 MSEK 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 31 Dec 2015 31 Dec 2014 Loans from related parties Purchases of services Group companies Owners – 0.1 – – Opening balance –976.2 –830.5 –976.2 –830.5 Braganza AS – 0.5 – – Transactions during the year 1,036.4 – 1,036.4 – Dometic Group AB 0.1 0.1 – – Interest –92.8 –87.2 –92.8 –87.2 Total purchases of services 0.1 0.7 – – Exchange rate differences 32.6 –58.5 32.6 –58.5 Sales of services Closing balance – –976.2 – –976.2 Owners 0.6 0.4 – – Loans from the Parent Company consist of the shareholder loan that the company has received in Braganza AS 3.0 5.9 – – order to ensure that none of the covenants was breached. The interest rate amounts to 10 percent Dometic Group AB – – – – and the loan expires within 10 years from the issuing date. In connection with the stock market Subsidaries – – – – listing of Scandic the loan was converted to a shareholders’ contribution. Total sales of services 3.6 6.3 – – For terms and remuneration to the Group Management, see the Corporate Governance Report. Closing balances at year end from purchases and sales of services Receivables from related parties Owners – 0.0 – – Braganza AS 0.1 0.5 – – Subsidaries – – – – Total receivables from related parties 0.1 0.5 – – Liabilities to related parties: Owners 0.0 0.0 – – Total liabilities from related parties 0.0 0.0 – – 84 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • NOTES NOTE 31 Dividend per share NOTE 32 Events after the reporting date In accordance with the Board’s dividend policy adopted on September 14, 2015, Scandic aims to Following the Rica acquisition, Scandic has a good network of hotels in Stavanger. Given this and distribute at least 50 percent of its net profit from the financial year 2016 onwards. current market conditions, Scandic has agreed with the property owner not to build the planned In accordance with what has been communicated earlier, the Board will propose to the Annual Stavanger Congress hotel. General Meeting on May 12, 2016 that no dividend be paid for the financial year 2015. Gunilla Rudebjer, CFO, has decided to leave Scandic Hotels Group. The process to recruit a successor has begun and Gunilla Rudebjer will remain at Scandic until August 31, 2016. Scandic Hotels is taking over the operation of the centrally located First Hotel Europa Aalborg from June 1, 2016. In conjunction with the takeover, the hotel will change name to Scandic Aalborg City. The company will also take over the operation of the current Radisson Blu Falconer Hotel & Conference Centre in central Copenhagen from October 1, 2018. In connection with the re-opening of the hotel, the hotel will change its name to Scandic Falconer. NOTE 33 Adoption The Board of Directors and the CEO certify that the Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with the International Reporting Standards, IFRS, endorsed by the EU and gives a true and fair view of the Group’s financial position. The Annual Report has been prepared in accordance with accepted accounting principles in Sweden and gives a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s financial position. Income statements and balance sheets will be submitted to the Annual General Meeting on May 12, 2016 for approval. Stockholm April 13, 2016 Vagn Sørensen Chairman of the Board Per G. Braathen Caspar Callerström Grant Hearn Board member Board member Board member Lottie Knutson Eva Moen Adolfsson Niklas Sloutski Board member Board member Board member Rikard Steiber Fredrik Wirdenius Jan Wallmark Board member Board member Employee representative Frank Fiskers President & CEO Our audit report was presented on April 13, 2016 PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Magnus Brändström Authorized Public Accountant Auditor-in-charge NOTES • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 85 AUDITOR’S REPORT To the annual meeting of the shareholders of Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ), corporate identity number 556703-1702 REPORT ON THE ANNUAL ACCOUNTS AND Auditor’s responsibility and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by CONSOLIDATED ACCOUNTS Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these annual the Board of Directors and the President & CEO, as well as We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts and consolidated accounts based on our audit. evaluating the overall presentation of the annual accounts accounts of Scandic Hotels Group AB (publ) for the year We conducted our audit in accordance with International and consolidated accounts. 2015, except for the corporate governance statement on Standards on Auditing and generally accepted auditing We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is pages 88–95. The annual accounts and consolidated standards in Sweden. Those standards require that we sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit accounts of the company are included in the printed vercomply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the opinions. sion of this document on pages 44–85. audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the annual accounts and consolidated accounts are free from Opinions Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and material misstatement. In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in the President & CEO for the annual accounts An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit accordance with the Annual Accounts Act and present and consolidated accounts evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the annual fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the The Board of Directors and the President & CEO are accounts and consolidated accounts. The procedures parent company as of December 31, 2015 and of its finanresponsible for the preparation and fair presentation of selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the cial performance and its cash flows for the year then ended these annual accounts in accordance with the Annual assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consoliAccounts Act and of the consolidated accounts in accorannual accounts and consolidated accounts, whether due dated accounts have been prepared in accordance with the dance with International Financial Reporting Standards , to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material as adopted by the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act, and auditor considers internal control relevant to the company’s respects, the financial position of the group as of 31 for such internal control as the Board of Directors and the preparation and fair presentation of the annual accounts December 2015 and of their financial performance and President & CEO determine is necessary to enable the and consolidated accounts in order to design audit procecash flows for the year then ended in accordance with preparation of annual accounts and consolidated accounts dures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for International Financial Reporting Standards, as adopted by that are free from material misstatement, whether due to the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness the EU, and the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not fraud or error. of the company’s internal control. An audit also includes cover the corporate governance statement on pages evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used 88–95. The statutory administration report is consistent 86 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • AUDITOR'S REPORT with the other parts of the annual accounts and consoliAuditor’s responsibility the company and the group we believe that we have a sufdated accounts. Our responsibility is to express an opinion with reasonable ficient basis for our opinions. This means that our statutory We therefore recommend that the annual meeting of assurance on the proposed appropriations of the compaexamination of the corporate governance statement is difshareholders adopt the income statement and balance ny’s profit or loss and on the administration based on our ferent and substantially less in scope than an audit consheet for the Parent Company and the Group. audit. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally ducted in accordance with International Standards on accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in REPORT ON OTHER LEGAL AND As a basis for our opinion on the Board of Directors’ pro­ Sweden. REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS posed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, we In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consoliexamined whether the proposal is in accordance with the Opinions dated accounts, we have also audited the proposed approCompanies Act. We recommend to the annual meeting of shareholders that priations of the company’s profit or loss and the adminisAs a basis for our opinion concerning discharge from liathe profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal tration of the Board of Directors and the President & CEO of bility, in addition to our audit of the annual accounts and in the statutory administration report and that the members Scandic Hotels Group AB for the year 2015. We have also consolidated accounts, we examined significant decisions, of the Board of Directors and the President & CEO be disconducted a statutory examination of the corporate goveractions taken and circumstances of the company in order to charged from liability for the financial year. nance statement. determine whether any member of the Board of Directors or A corporate governance statement has been prepared, the President & CEO is liable to the company. We also and its statutory content is consistent with the other parts Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and examined whether any member of the Board of Directors or of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. the President & CEO the President & CEO has, in any other way, acted in contraThe Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for vention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or Stockholm April 13, 2016 appropriations of the company’s profit or loss, and the the Articles of Association. Board of Directors and the President & CEO are responsiWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is PricewaterhouseCoopers AB ble for administration under the Companies Act and that sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. Magnus Brändsröm the corporate governance statement has been prepared in Furthermore, we have read the corporate governance Authorized Public Accountant accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. statement and based on that reading and our knowledge of Auditor-in-charge AUDITOR'S REPORT • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 87 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Scandic is a Swedish public limited liability company, with its registered office in Stockholm, whose shares have been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s Mid Cap list since December 2, 2015. Scandic applies the Swedish Corporate Governance Code and hereby submits its Corporate Governance Report for the 2015 financial year. THE BASICS OF SCANDIC’S CORPORATE CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AT SCANDIC GOVERNANCE Scandic’s corporate governance aims to support the Board of Directors and the Executive Committee so that all operaInformation ANNUAL GENERAL Decision NOMINATION tions create long-term value for shareholders and other Election MEETING Proposal COMMITTEE stakeholders. This includes upholding: • an efficient organizational structure; • a system for risk management and internal control; and • transparent internal and external reporting. BOARD OF AUDIT COMMITTEE EXTERNAL AUDITOR Information DIRECTORS REMUNERATION COMMITTEE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE Responsibility for the governance and control of Scandic is Goals distributed between the shareholders, the Board of DirecStrategies Reports tors, its appointed committees and the CEO. The goverSteering Control nance of Scandic is based on external and internal goverdocuments nance instruments. The external governance framework includes the Swedish Companies Act, Nasdaq Stockholm’s PRESIDENT & CEO Rule Book for Issuers, the Swedish Corporate Governance Code (the Code) and other applicable Swedish and foreign laws and regulations. The internal binding governance instruments include the Articles of Association, the Rules of Procedure for the VP Business SVP Human VP Communications CFO COO CCO Board, instructions for the Board’s committees and the Development Resources & IR CEO, values, the Code of Conduct, the authorization and delegation procedure, the Financial Policy, the Information Policy, the Insider Policy, the IT Security Policy and the Scandic Scandic Scandic Scandic Scandic guidelines for leases. Sweden Norway Denmark Finland Europe DEVIATIONS FROM THE CODE Scandic complies with the Swedish Corporate Governance Code with the following exceptions: EXTERNAL STEERING INSTRUMENTS INTERNAL STEERING INSTRUMENTS • Rule 2.5: The Nomination Committee – according to the • Swedish Companies Act • Articles of Association Code, the composition of the Nomination Committee • Annual Accounts Act • Instructions for the Board/President shall be announced no later than six months before the • Other applicable legislation • Values Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting • Nasdaq Stockholm’s Rulebook for Issuers • Codes of Conduct will be held on May 12. As Scandic was listed on the • The Swedish Corporate Governance Code • Policies and guidelines Nasdaq Stockholm exchange on December 2, an unavoidable deviation was made for the 2015 financial 88 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • CORPORATE GOVERNANCE GRI: G4-7, G4-34 year. The composition of the Nomination Committee On January 4, 2016, Sunstorm Holding AB used the • Vagn Sørensen, Chairman of the Board, and Board membefore the 2016 Annual General Meeting is based on overallotment option issued in connection with the listing bers Eva Moen Adolfsson, Per G. Braathen, Caspar shareholder statistics as at December 11 and it was process. Sunstorm Holding AB’s share of ownership Callerström, Grant Hearn, Erika Henriksson, Niklas Sloutski, announced on December 29, 2015. thereby increased to 56.0 percent of the total number of Rikard Steiber and Benny Zakrisson were re-elected. • Rule 9.7: Incentive programs – in order to adapt the vestshares in Scandic. For additional information about the • PricewaterhouseCoopers was reappointed as auditor, ing period for potential future share-related incentive Scandic share, see page 102. with Magnus Brändström as the auditor-in-charge for programs, the vesting period in the long-term incentive the period until the end of the 2016 Annual General program implemented in December 2015 is approxiShareholders’ influence through Meeting. mately 2.4 years and accordingly, it does not meet the the general meeting • Remuneration to the Board of Directors and the auditor. requirement that the vesting period to the date for acquiThe shareholders exercise influence at the general meet• The Articles of Association were amended to include the sition of shares is to be no less than three years. ing, which is Scandic’s highest decision-making body. The change of name to Scandic Hotels Group AB. general meeting adopts the Articles of Association and at SIGNIFICANT EVENTS IN 2015 the Annual General Meeting, which is the regular general Extraordinary general meetings in 2015 The work of the Board of Directors in 2015 was charactermeeting held annually, the shareholders elect the Board In addition to the ordinary Annual General Meeting held on ized by preparations for Scandic’s listing on the stock members, the Chairman of the Board and the auditor, and April 27, 2015, four extraordinary general meetings were exchange. Two new members joined the Board and three determine their fees. The Annual General Meeting further held during the year on June 18, July 15, September 15 new members joined the Executive Committee. A perforadopts the income statement and the balance sheet and and November 15, 2015. These extraordinary general mance-based, long-term incentive program for senior decides on the appropriation of profits and whether to dismeetings were held as a step in the preparations for the executives was implemented during the year. charge the Board members and the CEO from liability to company’s listing on the stock exchange. the company. The Annual General Meeting also appoints THE SHARE AND SHAREHOLDERS the Nomination Committee, determines their work and At the extraordinary general meetings, resolutions The Scandic share has been listed on Nasdaq Stockholm’s adopts principles of remuneration and terms of employwere passed on the following topics: Mid Cap list since December 2, 2015. At year-end 2015, ment for the CEO and other senior executives. Scandic’s • Lottie Knutsson and Fredrik Wirdenius were elected the share capital of Scandic was 25.7 MSEK, divided into Annual General Meeting is held annually in Stockholm as new Board members, while Erika Henriksson and 102,985,075 shares with all shares conferring equal votbefore the end of June. Extraordinary general meetings Benny Zakrisson declined re-election. ing rights, an equal share of assets and earnings and an may be held as and when needed. • A new share issue. equal share of any dividends. Of the total share capital, • Principles for the appointment of the Nomination 82.9 percent was held by Swedish institutions and funds, 2015 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Committee. 14.5 percent by foreign investors and 2.6 percent by At the Annual General Meeting held on April 27, 2015, • The Articles of Association were amended: the share Swedish private investors. The ten largest shareholders the sole shareholder was present in person, thereby capital was increased by way of a bonus issue, the represented 72.4 percent of the share capital and votes in representing the entire share capital and all votes. number of shares was increased and the company the company. Sunstorm Holding AB is the largest shareAt the Annual General Meeting, resolutions were passed category was changed to public company. holder, with 50.0 percent of the share capital and votes. on the following topics: • Remuneration to the Board of Directors and adoption Sunstorm Holding AB is controlled by EQT V Ltd, advised by • Adoption of the income statement and balance sheet of guidelines for remuneration to senior executives. EQT Partners (an indirect holding of approximately 86 perfor 2014 and appropriation of profits. • A performance based, long-term incentive program, cent of the shares), with Accent Equity 2003 fund as a co• The Board of Directors and the CEO were discharged conditional upon the listing of the Scandic share on the investor (an indirect holding of approximately 12 percent of from liability to the company. Nasdaq Stockholm exchange, applicable to approxithe shares). mately 40 senior executives and key people. GRI: G4-13 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 89 2016 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING Scandic’s Annual General Meeting will be held on May 12, 2016 in Stockholm. For more information, see page 103. NOMINATION COMMITTEE The Nomination Committee represents the company’s shareholders and is tasked with preparing proposals for the Annual General Meeting regarding the election of the chairman of the Annual General Meeting, Board members, the Chairman of the Board and the auditor, as well as proposals for fees to the Board of Directors, fees to the auditors and, to the extent it is considered required, propose changes to the instruction to the Nomination Committee. These proposals shall be justified based on the company’s needs and the Code’s requirement to strive for an even gender distribution. 2015 6 At the extraordinary general meeting held on September 15, 2015, it was resolved, CEO’s report conditional on a listing of the company’s shares on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange, JAN FEB MAR APR that the company shall have a Nomination Committee consisting of the Chairman of 1 2 Q3 Interim Report the Board and a representative of each of the three largest shareholders, based on Investment decisions shareholder statistics from Euroclear Sweden AB, as at the last banking day in August MAY JUN JUL AUG Listing process every year. The Nomination Committee’s term of office shall run until a new Nomina3 4 tion Committee has been appointed. Unless otherwise agreed by the members of the Nomination Committee, the SEP OCT NOV DEC Chairman of the Nomination Committee shall be the member who represents the 5 6 7 8 9 largest shareholders based on the number of votes. If a shareholder should cease to be one of the three largest shareholders by number of votes during the Nomination 1 4 Committee’s term of office, the representative appointed by the shareholder in question shall resign, and the shareholder who has become one of the three largest Board meeting following CEO’s report shareholders by number of votes shall appoint a representative. Such a change is not election Q2 Interim Report necessary if the change in votes is marginal or if the change occurs later than three Investment decisions months prior to the Annual General Meeting, unless there are special reasons for it. Listing process The names of the three shareholder representatives and the names of the share2 holders represented by them shall be announced no later than six months prior to the Annual General Meeting. CEO’s report 5 7 Follow-up on financial The Nomination Committee for the 2016 Annual General Meeting CEO’s report Listing process performance Scandic was listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange on December 2, which Follow-up on Rica Strategy Listing process means that the Nomination Committee’s composition prior to the 2016 Annual and investment decisions Incentive program General Meeting is based on shareholder statistics as at December 11, 2015. 8 The Nomination Committee for the 2016 Annual General Meeting comprised four members, including the Chairman of the Board and representatives from the 3 Listing process three largest shareholders.The work of the Nomination Committee was led by CEO’s report Joel Lindeman of Provobis. The Nomination Committee was presented in a press release on December 29, 2015. Follow-up on financial % of the number of votes performance Nomination Committee Representing as at December 11, 2015 9 Evaluation of manageCaspar Callerström Sunstorm Holding AB 50.0 CEO’s report ment CSR Joel Lindeman Provobis AB 5.1 Follow-up on financial Katja Bergqvist * Handelsbanken Fonder 4.8 performance * On April 4, 2016, Handelsbanken Fonder announced that Magdalena Wahlqvist Alveskog had replaced Katja Investment decisions Bergqvist as Handelsbanken Fonder’s representative on the Nomination Committee. 90 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • CORPORATE GOVERNANCE In the work on nominations for the 2016 Annual General Shareholders who wish to submit proposals to the foreign nationals. At present, one employee representative Meeting, the Nomination Committee assessed the size and Nomination Committee may do so by email to nominationand one alternate employee representative have been composition of the current Board of Directors as well as committee@scandichotels.com appointed to the Board of Directors. The CEO and the Scandic’s operations. Special weight was attached to indusGroup’s Chief Financial Officer participate in Board meettry-specific and financial expertise and an even gender disBOARD OF DIRECTORS ings, as well as the Group’s officer responsible for protribution. The Nomination Committee complies with the The Board of Directors is responsible for Scandic’s organizagrams, who is the Secretary of the Board. Other employees rules in the Code regarding Board Member independence. tion and the management of the company’s affairs. Accordin the Group participate in Board Meetings when necessary The 2016 Nomination Committee has held four meetings ing to the Articles of Association, the Board of Directors shall to report on special matters. and has had a number of contacts. The Nomination Comconsist of no less than three and no more than ten Board mittee based its work on the Chairman of the Board’s report members, with no more than two alternates. In addition, Independence on the work of the Board of Directors and communication trade unions are entitled to appoint two regular Board memNone of the Board members are employees of Scandic or with the CEO regarding operations. bers and two alternates. The Board members are elected other Group companies. All Board members are considered The Nomination Committee has proposed to re-elect Vagn annually at the Annual General Meeting for the period up to be independent in relation to the company and the Sørensen, Per G. Braathen, Grant Hearn, Lottie Knutson, until the end of the subsequent Annual General Meeting. senior executives. Seven Board members, who are indeEva Moen Adolfsson, Niklas Sloutski and Fredrik Wirdenius pendent in relation to the Board of Directors and the senior to the Board and to elect Ingalill Berglund, Albert Gustafsson, Composition of the Board of Directors in 2015 executives, are also independent in relation to the compaStephan Leithner and Christoffer Lundström as new memThe Board of Directors currently comprises nine Board ny’s major shareholders. Consequently, Scandic complies bers of the Board. The Nomination Committee considers the members elected for the period up until the end of the with the requirements in the Code regarding the Board of proposed composition of the Board to be appropriate to meet 2016 Annual General Meeting (of which seven were reDirectors’ independence in relation to the company, the Scandic’s term long-term needs. A report on the work of the elected by the Annual General Meeting held on April 27, senior executives and the company’s major shareholders. Nomination Committee will be submitted to the 2016 Annual 2015, and two were newly appointed as Board members at General Meeting. Additional information about its work is the extraordinary general meetings held on June 18, 2015, The work of the Board of Directors available at www.scandichotelsgroup.com and July 15, 2015). Three of the nine Board members are The duties of the Board of Directors are regulated in the Swedish Companies Act, the Company’s Articles of AssociIndependent Independent ation and the Code. The work and procedures of the Board in relation to in relation to Attendance Committees, Remunerof Directors are decided annually in written rules of proceElected, the company and the largest and number attendance and ation Name Position year senior executives shareholders of meetings1) number of meetings1) 2015 2) dure. These rules govern the distribution of work and Vagn Sørensen Chairman 2007 Yes Yes 9 (9) Audit Committee 6 (6), 700,000 responsibilities among the Board members, the Chairman Remun. Comm. 2 (3) of the Board and the CEO, and the CEO’s procedures for Per G. Braathen Member 2007 Yes Yes 9 (9) – 300,000 financial reporting. The Board of Directors also adopts Caspar Callerström Member 2007 Yes No 9 (9) Audit Committee 6 (6), 0 instructions for the committees of the Board of Directors. Remun. Comm. 2 (3) The duties of the Board of Directors include the adoption Grant Hearn Member 2014 Yes Yes 8 (9) Remun. Comm. 1 (3) 683,333 of strategies, business plans, budgets, interim reports, Erika Henriksson Member 2012 Yes No 4 (9) – 0 year-end accounts, annual reports and the adoption of Lottie Knutson Member 2015 Yes Yes 6 (9) – 450,000 instructions, policies and guidelines. The Board of Directors Eva Moen Adolfsson Member 2014 Yes Yes 8 (9) Remun. Comm. 3 (3) 666,667 shall also monitor the financial performance, ensure the quality of financial reporting and internal control and evaluNiklas Sloutski Member 2011 Yes No 9 (9) Audit Committee 2 (6) 0 ate the operations in relation to the objectives and guideRikard Steiber Member 2014 Yes Yes 7 (9) – 300,000 lines adopted by the Board of Directors. The Board of Benny Zakrisson Member 2011 Yes No 5 (9) Audit Committee 4 (6) 300,000 Directors also resolves whether to enter into or extend Fredrik Wirdenius Member 2015 Yes Yes 6 (9) – 425,000 leases, franchise agreements and management agreeJan Wallmark Member, 2015 9 (9) 36,000 ments and whether significant investments or changes in employee repres. the Group’s organization and operations should be made. Daniel Håkansson Alternate, 2015 0 (9) 0 employee repres. The Chairman of the Board is responsible for the work of the Board of Directors, including ensuring that the work of Total 3,861,000 the Board of Directors is conducted efficiently and that the 1) Total number of meetings during the year. Lottie Knutson joined the Board on June 18, 2015 and Fredrik Wirdenius joined on July 15, 2015. Erika Henriksson left the Board on July 15, 2015 and Benny Zakrisson left on September 15, 2015. Board of Directors fulfills its obligations in accordance with 2) Caspar Callerström, Erika Henriksson and Niklas Sloutski declined remuneration during 2015. Due to the extra work involved in the listing process, additional remuapplicable laws and regulations. The Chairman of the neration of 300,000 SEK has been paid to Grant Hearn, Lottie Knutson, Eva Moen Adolfsson and Fredrik Wirdenius. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 91 Board shall, in close cooperation with the CEO, monitor the The Remuneration Committee consists of Eva Moen • Refinancing and new financing and hedging of interest Company’s performance and prepare and chair board Adolfsson (Chairman), Vagn Sørensen and Grant Hearn. rate exposure – preparation for resolutions by the Board meetings. The Chairman of the Board is also responsible Grant Hearn resigned from the position of Chairman of the of Directors. for ensuring that the Board members evaluate their work committee at the beginning of the year. Caspar Callerström • Audit plan and audit fees, and an evaluation of the annually and continually receive the information required to resigned from the Remuneration Committee in connection auditors’ work and independence. conduct their work efficiently. The Chairman of the Board with Scandic’s listing on the stock exchange. • Evaluating the requirement for an internal audit function represents the company vis-à-vis the shareholders. The Remuneration Committee held three meetings dur– recommendation to the Board of Directors. ing the year. The Committee conducted a review of the • IT Security Policy, a review prior to the approval by the Work during the year basic remuneration of senior executives and their bonus Board of Directors. Over the year, six regular board meetings and three program. In connection with the listing on the stock • Status of ongoing disputes and legal matters (a standing extraordinary board meetings were held, of which two exchange, the guidelines for remuneration to senior execuitem at all meetings). extraordinary board meetings were held by phone. Many tives were also updated and a new long-term incentive of the issues dealt with by the Board of Directors over the program was adopted. EVALUATION OF THE WORK OF THE year were related to the company’s listing on the stock BOARD OF DIRECTORS exchange. Other major issues that were handled by the Audit Committee The Chairman of the Board is responsible for evaluating Board of Directors include the integration of Rica Hotels, The Audit Committee prepares the Board of Directors’ work the work of the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors the approval of a new incentive program for senior execuon matters involving risk assessments, internal control, evaluates its work annually. This evaluation concerns the tives and the approval of new leases and extensions of internal audit, accounting, financial reporting and audits. procedure and main direction of the work of the Board of existing leases. The Committee’s work aims to ensure compliance with the Directors. The evaluation also focuses on the Board of adopted principles for financial reporting and internal conDirectors’ access to and need for special expertise. In COMMITTEES OF THE BOARD trol and that the company’s relationship with its auditors is 2015, the Chairman held individual meetings with all Board OF DIRECTORS appropriate for the purpose. members. The result was presented to and discussed by The Board of Directors has established two committees: the The Audit Committee shall also evaluate and report on the the Board of Directors and the Nomination Committee. The Audit Committee and the Remuneration Committee. The audit and proposed auditors to the Nomination Committee. evaluation was used as a tool for the development of the Audit and Remuneration Committees are not authorized to The Audit Committee shall consist of at least three work of the Board of Directors and also constitutes support make decisions, but they are to prepare matters and presBoard members. A majority of the members shall be indefor the Nomination Committee’s work. ent them to the Board of Directors for decisions. The work of pendent in relation to the company and the senior executhe committees is conducted in accordance with the written tives, and at least one member shall be independent in Auditors procedures for each committee, as adopted by the Board of relation to the company, the company’s senior executives PricewaterhouseCoopers has been the Company’s auditor Directors and the Rules of Procedure for the Board. and the company’s major shareholders and shall have since 2012. At the regular Annual General Meeting held on experience in auditing or accounting. April 27, 2015, the accounting firm PricewaterhouseCooRemuneration Committee At present, the Audit Committee is composed of Caspar pers was reappointed as auditor, with Magnus Brändström The Remuneration Committee prepares resolutions in Callerström (Chairman), Vagn Sørensen and Niklas Sloutas the auditor-in-charge for the time until the end of the matters involving remuneration principles, salaries, beneski. The requirements of the Swedish Companies Act for regular 2016 Annual General Meeting. Magnus Brändström fits and remuneration to the CEO and senior executives accounting or audit expertise are thus met. is an authorized public accountant and a member of FAR. who are subordinate to the CEO. The Remuneration ComThe Audit Committee held six meetings during the year, In 2015, the auditor reported its observations once to the mittee shall also supervise and evaluate the outcome of three of which were attended by the company’s auditor. Board of Directors; no members of the Executive Manageprograms for variable remuneration and the company’s ment were present. In addition, the auditor participated in compliance with the guidelines for remuneration adopted The following matters were handled at the Audit Committee three meetings with the Audit Committee. at a general meeting. meetings: The Audit Committee evaluates the auditors’ work and The Remuneration Committee shall consist of at least • Interim reports – review prior to the approval by the independence annually. three Board members elected at a general meeting. The Board of Directors. The auditor receives a fee for its work, according to Chairman of the Board can also be the Chairman of the • Status of internal control and risk analysis, and an evaluaa resolution at the Annual General Meeting. Information Remuneration Committee. The other members of the Comtion of the structures and efficiency of the internal control. on audit fees is provided in Note 04 on page 66. mittee shall be independent in relation to the company and • The auditors’ reports on the review of the annual its senior executives. accounts, the interim report for the third quarter, “early warning” and internal control. 92 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • CORPORATE GOVERNANCE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE IMPLEMENTATION SELF-ASSESSMENT Scandic’s Executive Committee is diversified and has solid OF NEW PROCESSES experience from the hotel sector and consumer-oriented operations in various markets. The Executive Committee consists of the CEO and six senior executives: the Chief UPDATING OF EXTERNAL AUDIT Financial Officer (CFO), the Chief Operating Officer (COO), SELF-ASSESSMENT CHECKLIST the Chief Commercial Officer (CCO), the Senior Vice President Human Resources (SVP Human Resources), the Vice ANNUAL CYCLE INTERNAL AUDIT President Business Development (VP Business Development) and the Vice President Communications & IR (VP UPDATING OF Communications & IR). The company’s strategy manager is GUIDELINES, PROCESSES an associated member of the Executive Committee. The AND ROUTINES ANALYSIS OF RESULTS Country Managing Directors of the Group report to the COO. Three different nationalities are represented in the Executive RISK MANAGEMENT EVALUATION OF Committee, which is composed of four men and three PROCESS women. During the year, three new members joined the Executive Committee. See the table on pages 98–99 for additional details. The CEO’s areas of responsibility and powers are governed by the Rules of Procedure for the Board and the governance documents were updated in 2015 and training REMUNERATION instructions to the CEO. The CEO is responsible for comactivities will be carried out in 2016. The Board of Directors At the extraordinary general meeting held on September municating and implementing Scandic’s strategy, business has joint responsibility for sustainability. The CEO reports on 15, 2015, guidelines for remuneration and other terms of plans and other decisions in the organization. The CEO is sustainability at a dedicated Board Meeting to be held at employment for senior executives, including the CEO, were also ultimately responsible for ensuring that the goverleast once per year, in addition to when there are reasons to adopted. These guidelines apply only to new agreements nance, organization, risk management, internal processes do so. Within the Executive Committee, sustainability is delentered into by the company and senior executives, which and IT infrastructure are satisfactory. egated to the head of each function: the CFO is responsible is why there may also be agreements that do not follow the To achieve economies of scale and ensure a consistent for anti-corruption and supply chain management, the current guidelines in full. Earlier guidelines were addressed customer offering, Scandic has organized a number of VP Communications & IR is responsible for reporting and at the Board meeting held in December 2014 that was support functions centrally, including economy & finance, ESG information, the SVP Human Resources is responsible attended by representatives of the owners. These guideHR, purchasing, IT, marketing, product development, revefor labor rights, diversity and equality, and the CCO lines are in all material respects the same as the new nue management and restaurants & conferences. Those in is responsible for sustainability as a whole. The operational guidelines adopted on September 15, 2015. charge of the various Group functions are also in charge of implementation of sustainability is delegated by the CCO developing Group-wide policies, guidelines and working to Scandic’s Director Sustainable Business. Guidelines for remuneration to the CEO and methods and for following up and ensuring that the Group’s senior executives operations are conducted in compliance with adopted poliSIGNIFICANT EVENTS HANDLED BY THE Scandic’s senior executives are the members of the Execucies and standards. CEO AND EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE IN 2015 tive Committee. Following a resolution passed at the Many of the issues handled by the Executive Committee extraordinary general meeting held on September 15, Sustainability over the year were related to the company’s listing on the 2015, the following guidelines apply. Sustainability is an integrated part of Scandic’s governance stock exchange. Other major issues handled were the inteScandic shall offer terms that are in line with market conand reporting. The understanding of and commitment to gration of the acquisition of Rica Hotels, the approval of ditions and that enable the company to recruit and retain the challenges such as climate change, the creation of ethical new leases and extensions of existing leases and the work managers required to meet its shortand long-term targets. and safe workplaces and responsible purchasing are of involved in expressing Scandic’s vision for 2020 with The remuneration to the CEO and senior executives may major importance to the Group. In these contexts, Scandic’s related strategies. consist of a fixed salary, variable salary, pension and other governance documents are Scandic’s overall Code of Conbenefits. The fixed salary of the CEO and the senior execuduct, Scandic’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers, the Antitives shall be commensurate with market conditions and Corruption Policy and the Environmental Policy. These reflect the demands and responsibility that the position GRI: G4-34, G4-56 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 93 entails, as well as individual performance. The variable salary for any anti-competition restrictions, shall not in aggregate The manner in which the Board of Directors monitors and of the CEO and the senior executives shall be based on the exceed an amount corresponding to fixed salary for 18 ensures the quality of the internal control is documented in company’s fulfillment of criteria set in advance. The variable months (instead of two years according to current guidethe adopted Rules of Procedure for the Board of Directors salary shall amount to no more than 60 percent of the fixed lines) and the total severance pay for all members of the and the instructions for the Audit Committee. The Audit annual salary of the CEO and 35 to 50 percent of the fixed Executive Committee shall be limited to their existing Committee’s duties include evaluating the Company’s annual salary of other senior executives. Long-term incentive monthly salaries for the months remaining until age 65. structure and guidelines for internal control. programs may be offered as a supplement to the above in The financial reporting to the Board of Directors is carried order to create long-term commitment. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS’ REPORT ON out on a monthly basis, according to a format described in The pension benefits to the CEO and other senior execuINTERNAL CONTROL the CEO’s instructions for financial reporting. The Compatives shall chiefly consist of defined-contribution pension This description has been prepared in compliance with the ny’s CFO also conducts a review of the financial perforschemes, but they may also be defined-benefit schemes if Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Swedish Corporate mance and latest forecast for the current year during each required by a collective bargaining agreement. Fixed salary Governance Code (the Code) and is therefore limited to Board meeting. Draft interim reports are first presented to during notice periods and severance pay, including compeninternal control related to financial reporting. The report the Audit Committee for discussion and consideration at a sation for anti-competition restrictions, shall in aggregate not has not been reviewed by the company’s auditor. committee meeting before they are presented to the Board exceed an amount corresponding to the fixed salary for two According to the Swedish Companies Act and the Code, of Directors for approval. years. Other remuneration may consist of customary benethe Board of Directors is ultimately responsible for ensuring The internal financial reporting complies with a standardfits such as health insurance, which shall not constitute a that internal control mechanisms are developed, communiized format, where the same set of definitions and key ratios significant part of the total remuneration. Additional remucated to and understood by the employees of Scandic who are used for all subsidiaries and hotels. Reporting is carried neration may be paid in extraordinary circumstances and is carry out individual control measures, and for ensuring that out through a Group-wide reporting system that allows a then to be agreed in the individual case. such control measures are monitored, implemented, high level of transparency and comparability of financial The Board of Directors may deviate from the aboveupdated and maintained. data. Financial performance is monitored through monthly mentioned guidelines in individual cases if it is of the opinExecutives at all levels are responsible for ensuring that reports from the subsidiaries and monthly reviews where ion that there are special reasons to do so. internal control mechanisms are established in their members of the Executive Committee, the central accountrespective areas and that these controls achieve the ing department and each country management team particiRemuneration desired results. Scandic’s CFO is ultimately responsible for pate. Detailed follow-up of key ratios for different parts of the For information on remuneration to the CEO and senior ensuring that the monitoring of and the work on Scandic’s hotel operations enables benchmarking between hotels and executives, see Note 06 on pages 67–68. internal control are conducted in the manner determined also provides information quickly on deviations in operating by the Board of Directors. margins and operating profit/loss compared to the expected Long-term incentive program Scandic’s structure for internal control is based on the outcome. Detailed follow-up is an important tool for strengthAt the extraordinary general meeting held on December COSO model, the framework of which has been applied to ening internal control. 15, 2015, Scandic adopted a performance-based longScandic’s operations and conditions. According to the COSO In 2015, BINC – “Best In Class” – was launched, which term incentive program, conditional upon Scandic’s shares model, a review and assessment is made within the areas of involves benchmarking key ratios for income, operational being admitted to the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange in control environment, risk assessment, control activities, efficiency and customer satisfaction where key ratios per 2015. An account of the terms and conditions of the proinformation and communication and monitoring activities. hotel are compared with other comparable hotels in a gram is provided in Note 06, pages 67–68. Based on this review, certain areas of development are iden“BINC group.” The purpose is to create a tool to identify tified and prioritized in the ongoing internal control work. good examples and stimulate learning and the developGuidelines for remuneration to senior executives The procedures for internal control, risk assessment, ment of best practices. prior to the AGM 2016 control activities and monitoring of financial reporting have The Board of Directors has proposed that the annual genbeen devised to ensure reliable and relevant reporting and Control environment eral meeting 2016 adopt guidelines that in all material external financial reporting in accordance with the IFRS, The control environment forms the basis of internal control respects correspond to the guidelines adopted at the applicable laws and regulations and other requirements on of financial reporting. An important element of the control extraordinary general meeting held on September 15, companies listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange. This environment is that channels for decisions, authority 2015 with the following exceptions: fixed salary during work involves the Board of Directors, the senior executives and responsibility are clearly defined and communicated notice periods and severance pay, including compensation and other employees. between different levels of the organization and that 94 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • CORPORATE GOVERNANCE governance documents in the form of internal policies and reporting is chiefly communicated via monthly meetings, internal control, if the results indicate that there is a need guide­lines are available. where all heads of finance participate, and via the Group’s to do so, at the hotel level or generally. A good control environment is created through communifinance handbook. The finance handbook is published on As part of their review, the external auditors make cation and training to ensure understanding and compliance the Intranet and is updated regularly based on changes in additional hotel visits during which they test the controls of policies and regulatory frameworks. The control environexternal requirements and in Scandic’s operations. Commuaccording to the internal checklist. The aim is that these ment is strengthened by a good corporate culture and the nications with internal and external parties are governed by audit visits, from both Scandic’s accounting department transparent and relevant monitoring of financial performance a Communication Policy that provides guidelines on how and the external auditors, shall cover approximately one and key ratios at all levels of the Group. such communication should be carried out. The purpose of third of all hotels every year. the policy is to ensure compliance with all disclosure requireRisk assessment ments in a correct and complete manner. Internal communiInternal audit Internal control is based on a risk analysis. The risk analysis cation aims to make each employee understand Scandic’s Based on the Audit Committee’s evaluation, the Board of related to internal control and the risk of errors in the finanvalues and business operations. To keep employees informed, Directors has decided to not establish a separate internal cial reporting form a part of the risk analysis that the Execuactive work is carried out internally, whereby information is audit function. The decision is based on the assessment that tive Committee performs and presents to the Board of communicated regularly via the Group’s Intranet. the existing process for internal control is well established, Directors annually. This analysis identifies and values risks efficient and supported by a good control environment, a based on their likelihood of occurring and the incident’s Monitoring clear governance model and well-functioning regular finanpotential impact on the operations and financial position of Scandic’s accounting functions are integrated through a cial monitoring. The Board of Directors evaluates the need the Group. Thereafter, the Group’s internal controls and concommon finance and accounting system and common for a special internal audit function on an annual basis. trol environment are evaluated, and any gaps compared accounting instructions. The Board of Directors and the with the desired level of control are identified. An action plan Executive Committee regularly receive information on the Measures in 2015 aimed at reducing the gaps is established where the value Group’s performance and financial position and the develDuring the year, Scandic’s process for internal control, of reducing the risk is valued against the cost of establishing opment of its operations. The efficiency of the internal conincluding self-assessments and internal audits, was impleand maintaining internal controls. Based on the risk analytrol is evaluated annually by the company and the Audit mented at the former Rica hotels, which are thereby fully sis, control activities are designed aimed at reducing risk at Committee. It is also reviewed by the external auditors. The integrated into Scandic’s operations with regard to finana reasonable cost. The activities shall also contribute to result of the evaluation forms the basis for improvements cial reporting and internal control. improved internal procedures and operational efficiency. to processes and controls for subsequent years. In 2015, governance documents and processes were The internal control at hotel and country levels is monirevised to ensure that the company’s internal controls Control activities tored through self-assessments and internal audits. comply with the requirements of the Code and the requireThe internal control is based on the company’s established • All hotels conduct self-assessments at least once a year ments for companies listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm channels for decisions and the delegation and authorization based on a Group-wide checklist with mandatory and exchange. This resulted in a revision of all policies adopted procedures documented in governing policies and guiderecommended controls. by the Board of Directors. The Group’s IT and Information lines. Control activities may be IT-based or manual. To the • The internal audit is conducted by employees at the Security Policy was updated, including the guidelines greatest extent possible, they shall be an integrated part of company’s central accounting department for a number regarding the organization, authorizations and supplier defined and documented processes and procedures. of hotels per year. The internal audit involves testing the requirements to ensure a satisfactory level of security. In A number of control activities have been established controls on the checklist, spot checks within relevant addition, work was carried out to clarify the internal control that are common to all companies within the Group. Some areas and a general discussion with the hotel manager regarding the sets of authorizations for the financial sysof these are implemented on the hotel level, and some are and department heads to ensure the understanding of tems and the distribution of financial information. The proimplemented in the centralized accounting departments in and compliance with the internal control. cedures for the distribution of and recipients of financial each country. The control activities are described in a information were reviewed to ensure that sensitive inforGroup-wide instruction. The results of the self-assessments and internal audit vismation is handled according to the company’s Information its are reported by the local heads of finance to the manPolicy and Insider Policy. Information and communication agement team of the country in question. The results are The part of Scandic’s governance documents in the form reported by the Group’s CFO to the Audit Committee, of policies, guidelines and manuals that involve financial together with a report of measures undertaken to improve CORPORATE GOVERNANCE • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 95 BOARD OF DIRECTORS VAGN SØRENSEN EVA MOEN ADOLFSSON PER G. BRAATHEN CASPAR CALLERSTRÖM GRANT HEARN Chairman of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors since Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors since 2007. Member of the Remuneration 2014. Chairman of the Remuneration since 2007. since 2007. Chairman of the Audit since 2014. Member of the Remuneration Committee and the Audit Committee. Committee. Committee. Committee. Born: 1959. Born: 1960. Born: 1960. Born: 1973. Born: 1958. Danish citizen. Swedish and American citizen. Norwegian citizen. Swedish citizen. British citizen. Education: Education: Education: Education: Education: Master of Science in Economics and BusiBachelor in Economics, MBA from Schiller University London, United Studies in Economics, Stockholm School of Diploma in Hotel and Tourism Management, ness Administration from Aarhus Business University of Gothenburg, Sweden. Kingdom. Economics, Sweden. Shannon College of Hotel Management, School, Denmark. Ireland. Other current assignments: Other current assignments: Other current assignments: Other current assignments: President & CEO of RESIA Travel Group AB Chairman of the Board/CEO of Braganza AB; Partner, EQT Partners AB. Board member Other current assignments: Chairman of the Board of Automatic Software, and board assignments in a number of comChairman of the Board of Braathens Regional of Kramerica Industries AB. Deputy board Chairman of Board of Amaris Hospitality, The Bureau van Dijk Electronic Publishing BV, panies in the Resia Group. Board member Airlines (BRA) AB and Sceno­rama AS. member of AB Trill. Hotel Collection, Shearings Leisure Group; F L Smidth A/S, SPP Group Plc, Tia Techno­ of Svenska Resebyråföreningens Service AB Board member of Poundland Group Plc.; logy A/S and TDC A/S and Zebra A/S. and Väst­svenska Handelskammaren Previous positions: Previous assignments: Director Eudemon Ltd. Deputy Chairman of the Board of DFDS A/S. Service AB. Chairman of the Board Braganza AS, Escape Board member of Dometic Holding AB, FrostBoard member of Air Canada, Braganza AB, Travel A/S, Europe Reiser A/S and SunHotels bite Holding AB, Munksjö Oyj and Sanitec Oyj. Previous assignments: CP DYVIG A/S, JP/Politikens Hus, Lufthansa Previous assignments: AG. Chairman of the Board/CEO of Saga SolCEO of Travelodge Hotels Ltd, President Cargo AG, Nordic Aviation Capital A/S and General Manager, Scandic Rubinen; General reiser/Always Tour/Tjæreborg Rejser. Board Number of shares in Scandic: – of Hilton Ireland and UK, Managing Director Royal Caribbean Cruises Ltd. Manager, Scandinavian Service Partner; CFO, member of Arken Zoo Holding AB and Ticket of Premier Inn and COO of Marriott Hotel UK. Radisson SAS Park Avenue Hotel and CFO, Leisure Travel AB and Ticket Biz AB. Previous assignments: AVAB Elektronik. Number of shares in Scandic: – CEO of Austrian Airlines Group 2001–2006, Number of shares in Scandic: 14,925 Executive Vice President and Deputy CEO of Number of shares in Scandic: 3,134 (through companies) Scandinavian Airlines Systems 1984–2001. Chairman of the Board of KMD A/S. Board member of VEGA. Number of shares in Scandic: 44,776 Number of shares as per December 31, 2015. 96 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • Board of Directors LOTTIE KNUTSON NIKLAS SLOUTSKI RIKARD STEIBER FREDRIK WIRDENIUS JAN WALLMARK Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors since Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors Member of the Board of Directors since 2015. 2011. Member of the Audit Committee. since 2014. since 2015. since 2015. Employee representative. Born: 1964. Born: 1976. Born: 1969. Born: 1961. Born: 1951. Swedish citizen. Swedish citizen. Swedish citizen. Swedish citizen. Swedish citizen. Education: Education: Education: Education: Education: Bachelor from the Department of Media M.Sc. Stockholm School of Economics, SweMaster in International Economics and Master of Science in Engineering, KTH Royal IHM Business School, Stockholm, Sweden. Studies, Stockholm University, den and postgraduate certificate in Business Management, SDA Bocconi Business School, Institute of Technology, Sweden. Sweden. Administration, Edinburgh Business School, Italy. Other current assignments: United Kingdom. Courses in law and financial Other current assignments: Employee within Scandic’s hotel operations. Other current assignments: instruments from Stockholm University, SweOther current assignments: CEO of Vasa­kronan AB. Board member of Board member of Cloetta AB, H&M Hennes & den and Harvard University, the United States. Board member of Swedish Space Travel RICS Sweden. Previous assignments: Mauritz AB, Stena Line BV, STS Alpresor AB, Alliance AB. Board member (employee representative) Swedavia AB and Wise Group AB. Other current assignments: Previous assignments: of Scandic Hotels AB. CEO and Board member of Accent Equity Previous assignments: Board member of Vasakronan AB. Previous assignments: Partners AB. Chairman of the Board of HoistBoard member of Cision AB. CEO of MTGx Number of shares in Scandic: – Board member of TUI Nordic Holding AB. Locatel Holding AB. Board member of RenoNInternational AB. Number of shares in Scandic: 3,134 orden ASA, Candyking Holding AB, Northpaw Number of shares in Scandic: 3,134 Capital AB and Southpaw Capital Equity PartNumber of shares in Scandic: 14,925 ner AB. (closely-related 14,925) Previous assignments: Board member of Aviator Airport Alliance Europe AB, Autotube Group AB, Bergteamet Group AB, Crem International Holding AB, Hööks Group AB, Mont Blanc Group AB, NSS Group AB, Scandbook Holding AB and Troax Group AB. Number of shares in Scandic: – Board of Directors • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 97 Standing, from left to right: Jens Mathiesen, Peter Jangbratt, Lena Bjurner, Ann-Charlotte Johansson, Aki Käyhkö, Michel Schutzbach, Jesper Engman. Sitting, from left to right: Linda Eriksson, Thomas Engelhart, Svein Arild Steen-Mevold, Gunilla Rudebjer, Frank Fiskers, Martin Creydt. EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE AND COUNTRY MANAGEMENT FRANK FISKERS* MARTIN CREYDT* JESPER ENGMAN* GUNILLA RUDEBJER* PETER JANGBRATT MICHEL SCHUTZBACH President & CEO Chief Operating Officer Vice President Business Chief Financial Officer Head of Sweden Head of Europe Born: 1961. Employed and member Born: 1965. Employed since 2007. Development Born: 1959. Employed since 2009. Born: 1967. Employed by the Group Born: 1961. Employed by the Group of Scandic’s Executive Committee Member of Scandic’s Executive ComBorn: 1974. Employed since 2006. Member of Scandic’s Executive 1995–2008 and since 2015. since 2009. Swiss citizen. since 2013. Danish citizen. mittee since 2013. Swedish citizen. Member of Scandic’s Executive Committee since 2009. Swedish citizen. Other assignments: – Other assignments: Industrial Other assignments: – Committee since 2014. Swedish citizen. Other assignments: – Education: Diploma from Hotels advisor to EQT Partners. Swedish citizen. Other assignments: – Education: Master of Science in Education: Education through Management School, Glion, Education: Studies at Cornell UniEconomics, School of Business, Other assignments: – Education: Master of Science, Scandic Business School and Hilton. Switzerland. versity, USA, London Business Economics and Law, Gothenburg, Education: Masters of Science in Stockholm School of Economics, Previous experience: Several senior Previous experience: Several School, United Kingdom and IMD Sweden, courses within leadership Engineering, KTH Royal Institute of Stockholm. positions at Scandic, such as Presisenior positions within Rezidor, Business School, Switzerland. development at Cornell University, Technology, Sweden. Previous experience: CFO and dent Marketing & Communi­cations such as Vice President HR and Previous assignments: President USA and INSEAD, Fontainebleau, Previous experience: Business Director of Strategic Projects, Cision, and Director of Operations Sweden, Regional Director Poland and & CEO, Kooperativa Förbundet (KF), France. Area Director, Analyst at Pandox. CFO Parks & Resorts Scandinavia, and CEO of Rica Hotels Sweden. Ireland. Co-owner, Azure Property Group; Previous assignments: Head of Analyst at Hotellus. Mandator, TUI Nordic (Fritidsresor), Number of shares in Scandic: Number of shares in Scandic: President & CEO, Scandic Hotels Sweden and VP Business DevelopNumber of shares in Scandic: Group Controller, Sara Travel & Hotel 11,194 11,194 (2007–2010); Managerial positions ment, Scandic Hotels, Head of Nor5,970 Group and Finance Director at Nordwithin Hilton Hotels Corporation, dics, Rezidor Hotel Group, Managing stjernan Group. AKI KÄYHKÖ SVEIN ARILD Regional Manager Nordic and variDirector, Choice Hotels Sweden and ANN-CHARLOTTE Number of shares in Scandic: Head of Finland STEEN-MEVOLD ous managerial positions within Vice President Operations, First JOHANSSON* 29,850 Head of Norway Born: 1968. Employed by the Group Rezidor and CEO First Hotels. Hotels. Vice President since 2012. Finnish citizen. Born: 1967. Employed by the Group Chairman of the Board of AkademiNumber of shares in Scandic: Communications & IR LINDA ERIKSSON Other assignments: Member of the since 2010. Norwegian citizen. bokhandelsgruppen AB and KF 14,925 Strategy & Programme Manager Born: 1968. Employed since 2015. Board of the Finnish Hospitality IndusOther assignments: Board Media AB. Board member of Svensk (Consultant to company 2014–2015). Born: 1983. Employed and adjunct try Association. member of Forum for Reiseliv, Daglivaruhandel Ekonomisk THOMAS ENGELHART* Member of Scandic’s Executive member of Executive Committee Guma Sport Ltd and Grand Hotel Förening and Svensk Handel AB. Chief Commercial Officer Education: Bachelor of Business Committee since 2014. since August 2015. Swedish citizen. Driftesselskap AS. Number of shares in Scandic: Administration in International BusiBorn: 1967. Employed and member Swedish citizen. Other assignments: – 59,701 ness and Management, Schiller Education: Bachelor in Service of Scandic’s Executive Committee Other assignments: – Education: Master of Science in International University, London. Management, Norwegian School since 2015. Norwegian citizen. LENA BJURNER* Education: International Business Engineering, Media technology Previous experience: Several of Hotel Management. Other assignments: – Administration with concentration and Master of Industrial ManageSenior Vice President HR senior positions with Procter & Previous experience: Several Education: Bachelor in Hotel Manmarketing and Russian, Uppsala ment from the Royal Institute of Gamble and Reckitt Benckiser, senior positions within Scandic, Born: 1968. Employed and member agement, Glion Education Group/ University, Sweden, studies at Technology (KTH), Sweden. Commercial Director at Oy Hartwall General Manager Radisson SAS of Scandic’s Executive Committee Hosta, Switzerland and Master in the Faculty of Law, Stockholm Previous assignments: Manageand CEO at Palace Kämp Group. and Senior Vice President Clarion since August 2015. Swedish citizen. International Business, Ceram UniUniversity, Sweden. ment Consultant at Bain & Company Collection, Nordic Choice. Other assignments: – Number of shares in Scandic: versity, Grand Ecole, France. Previous experience: Senior Adviand Head of Marketing at Norvida. 11,194 Number of shares in Scandic: Education: Bachelor in Business Previous experience: Area VP Norsor, Hallvarsson & Halvarsson and Number of shares in Scandic: – 11,194 Administration, Borlänge University, dics, Rezidor AB, CEO, Coop Intellecta Corporate; Director of JENS MATHIESEN Sweden. Marknad AB, Senior Vice President Communications and Fundraising, Head of Denmark Previous assignments: VP, HR Commercial Operation & Brand Swedish Red Cross; Director of Born: 1969. Employed by the Group Head of Market HR Nordics, Central Experience, Scandic Hotels. ChairCommunications, GE Money Bank; since 2008. Danish citizen. Eastern Europe, Benelux and man Coop Butiksutveckling AB, VP Communications and IR, TradeFrance American Express, Director Coop Sverige AB and MedMera Doubler; Regional Manager, FramOther assignments: Member HR Business Partner Customer Bank AB. fab; Consultant, Accenture and of the Board and Executive Com­ Service Organisation Latin America/ various communication roles within mittee of Dansk Erhverv (Danish Number of shares in Scandic: Canada, Head of Commercial Card Nasdaq Stockholm. Chamber of Commerce), the Board 14,924 & Business Travel Account Manageof Wonderful Copenhagen and Number of shares in Scandic: – ment Nordic. member of the committee Growth Forum Copenhagen. Number of shares in Scandic: 2,507 Education: Shipping Broker, Transocean Shipping, Denmark. Previous experience: Director of Sales & Marketing, Choice Hotels Scandinavia, CEO Fountain Scandinavia A/S and Head of Sales & Marketing, Avis Rent a Car. Number of shares in Scandic: * Executive Committee 11,194 Number of shares as per December 31, 2015. Management • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 99 SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAINS As the leading hotel operator in the Nordic region, Scandic has undertaken to maintain an informed and sustainably managed supply chain. In 2015, Scandic established a systematic process for selecting suppliers that meet the company’s requirements. METICULOUS SELECTION PROCESS CONTINUOUS DIALOG To ensure that Scandic only cooperates with suppliers that Scandic has been committed to sustainability for decades share its values and show consideration for people and and considers that it has a special responsibility to share our planet, sustainability is included as an item already in its developed knowledge and experiences. Scandic therethe selection process when new suppliers are procured. fore maintains a continuous dialog with suppliers in Accepted suppliers must then pass Scandic’s risk assessparallel with the review processes to support them and ment process. help them evolve. In 2015, Scandic assessed 1,154 suppliers for risks A chain is only as strong as its weakest link. Considerrelated to the environment, anti-corruption, human rights ation, commitment and responsibility must never be and labor rights. weak points. From 2016, approved suppliers must sign and comply with Scandic’s Code of Conduct for Suppliers. Existing suppliers that are considered to entail increased risk for Scandic must undergo additional steps in Scandic’s risk assessment process in which suppliers respond to selfassessment forms. SPECIAL REVIEWS When special expertise is required or when a supplier is considered to be critical to Scandic’s business such as IN 2015, when only one supplier is available or when the supplier is SCANDIC ASSESSED considered key to the business, third-party inspectors are engaged. All deviations identified during self or third-party 1,154 SUPPLIERS audits must be addressed in the manner described in a corrective action plan approved by Scandic. The measures FOR RISKS stated must be implemented within the agreed timeframe for the supplier to remain under contract. 100 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • SUPPLY CHAINS GRI: G4-12, G4-DMA, EN-32, LA-14, HR-10, SO-9 60o elEctriCity & it emPloyeeS laUndry deCoratIons & ConsuMableS guEsts WelcomE wateR fooD & beveRage wastE taXi/TransPort SCANDIC’S PROCESS 1. SUSTAINABILITY SCREENING PERFORMED 4. THIRD-PARTY AUDITS OF SUPPLIERS INVOLVES THE BY SCANDIC’S PROCUREMENT TEAM CONSIDERED TO BE HIGH-RISK SUPPLIERS FOLLOWING STEPS: OR WHO HAVE BEEN INVOLVED IN 2. SELF-ASSESSMENT FORMS COMPLETED TRANSGRESSIONS BY SUPPLIERS 5. C ORRECTIVE ACTION PLANS AND DIALOG 3. AUDITS OF SUPPLIERS PERFORMED BY WITH SUPPLIERS TO SUPPORT THEIR SCANDIC’S PROCUREMENT TEAM DEVELOPMENT GRI: G4-12, G4-DMA, EN-32, LA-14, HR-10, SO-9 SUPPLY CHAINS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 101 STAKEHOLDER DIALOGS HOW SCANDIC SELECTED MATERIAL ASPECTS Stakeholder group Main aspects In 2015, Scandic conducted its first annual materiality analysis to determine relevant Employees • Satisfied customers sustainability aspects affecting the company. Internal and external stakeholders were • Hotel security asked to rank defined aspects related to Scandic’s operations. The stakeholders were • Minimizing waste asked to prioritize the aspects they thought Scandic should focus on and prioritize in its sustainability work based on how these aspects affect the stakeholder’s assessment Owners and investors • Reducing CO2 emissions and decision to choose Scandic as a hotel chain and based on Scandic’s material impact • Minimizing waste in the social, environmental and economic aspects. The aspects were selected based • The Board and Executive Committee’s commitment on Scandic’s governance, operations, employees and guests. to sustainability issues STAKEHOLDERS’ EXPECTATIONS ON MATERIAL ASPECTS Non-governmental • Reducing CO2 emissions organizations • Minimizing waste The stakeholders invited to the annual dialog are internal and external stakeholders who have shown commitment to sustainability issues and a supplementary group of external • Fair working conditions stakeholders from whom Scandic wants input only for the materiality analysis. The dialogs Future employees • Fair working conditions were conducted online and through questionnaires and personal meetings. Scandic • Minimizing waste reports to the Board of Directors annually on developments within its sustainability work in accordance with the owners’ ESG policies and it considers the stakeholders’ responses Guests • Minimizing waste to meet external expectations on sustainability and on Scandic’s development. • Reducing CO2 emissions • Occupational health and safety Corporate customers • Fair working conditions • Occupational health and safety • Choosing interiors with consideration for environmental impacts ESG analysts • Active work to prevent trafficking and prostitution • Reducing CO2 emissions • The Board and Executive Committee’s commitment to sustainability issues Business partners • Ensuring that all employees have equal rights and opportunities • Active efforts to prevent trafficking and prostitution • Fair working conditions 102 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • STAKEHOLDER DIALOGS GRI: G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26, G4-27, G4-DMA Over the year, extensive work on the company’s sustainability strategy was carried out resulting in the main classifications provided below. They include main aspects where Scandic aims to inspire, focus aspects where INSPIRE Scandic aims to be engaged Inclusion and responsibility, which forms and diversity a part of Scandic’s basic work related to governance and reporting. ENGAGE • Health • CO2 • Waste OVER THE YEAR, BE RESPONSIBLE CONSIDERABLE WORK ON THE Hotel security, water, chemicals, energy, sustainable supply chain, anti-corruption, trafficking & prostitution, food safety, community COMPANY’S engagement and working conditions. SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY WAS CARRIED OUT STAKEHOLDER DIALOGS • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 103 GRI INDEX ABOUT THE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Defra’s emission factors and third party reports on emission factors for district heating and This is Scandic’s first Annual Sustainability Report and it includes all of Scandic’s hotels opercooling. Waste data is based on a compilation provided annually by waste management ated under lease agreements in all countries of operation, as well as the Group’s various suppliers. Human resources data is compiled using a head count and supplier data is comsupport offices. Scandic’s partner hotels are excluded as they act under their own governance piled based on Scandic’s risk assessment tool. Customer satisfaction data is excluded systems. Franchises are not included in this year’s report due to limitations related to the collecfrom this year’s Report since it was measured in different ways in the past. The results are tion of data. HTL is excluded from the environmental data for the same reason as above. reliable and will be included in the 2016 Annual Report. The Annual Sustainability Report was prepared in accordance with GRI G4 on a selfdeclared Level Core. It also constitutes Scandic’s COP to the Global Compact and complies CONTACT DETAILS with the requirements on the Active level. The sustainability information provided has not Scandic’s contact for questions regarding Scandic’s operational sustainability work is been externally assured by a third party. Environmental data has been verified by Ethos InterInger Mattsson, Director Sustainable Business at Scandic. Questions regarding Scandic’s national in accordance with AA1000AS. Annual Report and Sustainability Report should be directed to the Communications & IR The Report refers to the period from January 1 to December 31, 2015. The base year department at ir@scandichotels.com. Both functions are located at Scandic’s head office for environmental data is 2015. Emissions data was calculated based on the GHG protocol, in Stockholm, Sweden. Fulfilled Partially fulfilled GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES FulfillFulfillTitle Page ment Comments Title Page ment Comments Strategy and analysis G4-15 Externally developed economic, p. 42 G4-1 Statement from the most senior p. 5–7 environmental and social charters, decision-maker of the organization principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes Organizational profile or which it endorses G4-3 Name of the organization p. 44 G4-16 Memberships of associations and p. 43 G4-4 Primary brands, products, and services p. 14 national or international advocacy G4-5 The organization’s headquarters p. 104 organizations G4-6 Number of countries where the organip. 16–17 Identified material aspects and boundaries zation operates, and names of counG4-17 Entities included in the financial p. 44, 104 tries where either the organization statements has significant operations or that are G4-18 Process for defining material aspects p. 102–103 specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report G4-19 Material aspects p. 42–43, 103 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form p. 88 G4-20 Aspect boundary within p. 102–103 the organization G4-8 Markets served by the organization p. 14–17 G4-21 Aspect boundary outside p. 102–103 G4-9 Scale of the organization p. 16–17, 55 the organization G4-10 Compilation of the organization’s p. 34–36 G4-22 The effect of any restatements of inforN/A Our first sustainability workforce mation provided in previous reports report G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered p. 34–36 G4-23 Significant changes from previous N/A Our first sustainability by collective bargaining agreements reporting periods in the scope and report G4-12 The organization’s supply chain p. 100–101 aspect boundaries G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting p. 89 Stakeholder Engagement period regarding the organization’s size, G4-24 List of stakeholder groups p. 102 structure, ownership, or its supply chain G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of p. 102 G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary p. 38 GC Principle 7 stakeholders with whom to engage principle is addressed by the organization G4-26 The organization’s approach to stakep. 102 holder engagement G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been p. 102 raised through stakeholder engagement 104 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • GRI GRI: G4-5, G4-17, G4-28, G4-30, G4-31, G4-32 FulfillFulfillTitle Page ment Comments Title Page ment Comments Reporting profile Governance G4-28 Reporting period p. 104 G4-34 The governance structure of the orgap. 88, 93 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report N/A Our first sustainability nization, including committees responreport sible for economic, environmental and social issues G4-30 Reporting cycle p. 104 Ethics and integrity G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding p. 104 the report or its contents G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, p. 93 GC Principle 10 standards and norms of behavior G4-32 GRI Content Index p. 104–105 G4-33 Assurance process N/A The Annual Sustainability Report has been self-declared at Level Core and has not been assured by a third part SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and DMA and indicaFulfillindicaFulfilltors Title Page ment Comments tors Title Page ment Comments G4-DMA Disclosure regarding sustainability p. 34–37, GC Principles 1, 2, 3, 7, 8, Employment governance 38–41, 42–43, 9, 10 LA-1 New employee hires and p. 34–36 GC Principle 6 100–101, employee turnover 102–103 Health and safety Economic performance LA-8 Health and safety topics p. 34–36 EC-1 Direct economic value p. 43 GC Principle 10 covered in formal agreements Energy consumption and Training the emission of greenhouse gases LA-9 Average hours of training p. 34–36 The table ”vocational training” EN-3 Energy consumption within the p. 38–41 GC Principle 8 shows the number of training organization hours based on Scandic BusiEN-15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions p. 38–41 GC Principle 7 ness School’s standard courses (Scope 1) and does not include externally EN-16 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions p. 38–41 GC Principle 7 provided courses. External train(Scope 2) ers make up a large part of the executive committee’s educaEN-17 Other indirect greenhouse gas p. 38–41 GC Principle 7 tion. As there is no systemized emissions (Scope 3) way to incorporate these hours EN-18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity p. 38–41 Includes Scopes 1, 2 and 3 in the overall statistics, their EN-23 Total weight of waste by type and p. 38–41 GC Principle 7 training hours have been disposal method merged with all managers within the company. Supplier assessment Diversity and equal opportunity EN-32 Screening of suppliers using p. 100–101 GC Principles 7, 8 and 9 environmental criteria LA-12 Composition of the Board of Direcp. 34–36 GC Principle 6 tors and the Executive ManageThe employee figures have not LA-14 Screening of suppliers using p. 100–101 GC Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6 ment, and breakdown of employbeen divided into all diversity labor practices criteria ees per employee category categories desired by the GRI, HR-10 Screening of suppliers using p. 100–101 GC Principles 1, 2 as this would contravene Swedhuman rights criteria ish law. SO-9 Screening of suppliers using p. 100–101 Training on human rights criteria for impacts on society HR-2 Employee training on human p. 34–36, GC Principle 2 rights 42–43 GRI: G4-32 GRI • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 105 SCANDIC MAKES A COMEBACK ON THE STOCK EXCHANGE Scandic was listed on the Stockholm Stock Exchange already in 1986 as the first hotel operator to be publicly traded. The company was bought by Hilton in 2001 and the share was delisted. On December 2, 2015, Scandic made a comeback on the stock exchange when its shares were listed on the Nasdaq Stockholm exchange. Scandic is listed on the exchange’s Mid Cap list and is included in the Travel & Leisure sector index. SHARE PRICE TREND 10 largest owners Number of Proportion of capital Proportion as at December 31, 2015 shares and votes, % Ownership structure Proportion of Number of votes and Based on the subscription price prior to the listing (67 SEK) December 31, 2015 owners, % of owners capital, % and up to year-end, Scandic’s share rose by 0.7 percent Sunstorm Holding 51,492,539 50.0 Provobis 5,500,000 5.3 Categories of size: while the sector index OMX Stockholm Travel & Leisure Handelsbanken Fonder 5,199,448 5.0 0 – 1,000 89.5 5 124 1.1 rose by 2.7 percent and the broad index OMX Stockholm 1,001 – 250,000 9.9 567 7.5 dropped by 4.4 percent. Based on the last price paid on AMF Försäkring & Fonder 4,600,000 4.5 December 20, 2015, which amounted to 67.50 SEK, the Third Swedish National 250,001 – 2,500,000 0.4 23 15.3 total market capitalization of Scandic was approximately Pension Fund (AP3) 2,381,000 2.3 2,500,001 – 25,000,000 0.1 6 20.1 6.95 billion SEK. SEB-Stiftelsen 1,500,000 1.5 25,000,001 – 100,000,000 0.1 6 56.0 Säästöpankki Fonder 1,362,427 1.3 100.0 5 725 100.0 TURNOVER Svolder 905,000 0.9 Share data Between December 2 and December 30, 2015, 31 million Brummer & Partners shares were traded at a value of 1,987.4 MSEK. Trading on Fonder 800,000 0.8 Ticker symbol SHOT Nasdaq Stockholm accounted for approximately 83 perPGGM Pensioenfonds 800,000 0.8 ISIN SE0000635401 cent. The share was also traded in other marketplaces Total ten largest owners 74,540,414 72.4 Trading lot 1 share including BATS Chi-X, BOAT and LSE. Other shareholders 28,444,661 27.6 List Nasdaq Stockholm Mid Cap list Total 102,985,075 100.0 Sector index OMX Stockholm Travel & Leisure SHARE CAPITAL AND OWNERSHIP STRUCTURE The share capital amounts to 25.7 MSEK divided into 102,985,075 shares, conferring one vote each. At the end THE SHARE PRICE AND TURNOVER TREND IN 2015 * of 2015, Scandic had 5,725 shareholders, of which SunSEK No. of shares storm Holding AB was the largest owner with 50.0 percent 70 20,000 of the votes and capital. As at January 4, 2016, Sunstorm Holding held 56.0 percent. This was due to the fact that the 67 16,000 issued overallotment option was never fully utilized during the IPO. At year-end, the total Swedish holding amounted 64 12,000 to 85.5 percent of the shares, of which Swedish institutions 61 8,000 held 71.8 percent, Swedish mutual funds held 11.1 percent and private individuals held 2.6 percent. 58 4,000 DIVIDEND AND DIVIDEND POLICY 55 0 The Board of Directors has adopted a dividend policy that 4 Dec 11 Dec 18 Dec 23 Dec 30 Dec aims to distribute at least 50 percent of the net profit as of Scandic OMX Stockholm OMX Travel & Leisure Number of shares traded, thousands the 2016 financial year. Accordingly, no dividends were proposed for the 2015 financial year. * The price trend for Scandic is based on the subscription price (67 SEK). 106 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • SHARE GRI: G4-5 ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING MAY 12, 2016 IN STOCKHOLM Analysts following Scandic INFORMATION TO THE SHAREHOLDERS website at least three weeks prior to the Annual General Stefan Andersson SEB 2016 Annual General Meeting Meeting and on the day of the Annual General Meeting. The Annual General Meeting of the shareholders in Scandic Nicolas McBeath SEB Hotels Group AB (publ) will be held on Thursday, May 12, 2016 Nomination Committee Annie Grube Morgan Stanley at 13:00 CET at Scandic Anglais in Stockholm. Registration Joel Lindeman Provobis through Novobis AB Andreas Lundberg ABG will begin at 12:00 CET. (Chairman of the Nomination Committee) Daniel Lindkvist ABG Caspar Callerström Sunstorm Holding AB Geof Collyer Deutsche Bank Participation in the Annual General Meeting Katja Bergqvist Handelsbanken Fonder Iona Dent Deutsche Bank Shareholders who wish to participate in the Annual General Vagn Sørensen Chairman of the Board Meeting must be included in the share register maintained by Euroclear Sweden AB no later than Friday, May 6, 2016 Among other things, the Nomination Committee proposes and notify their intention to participate in the Annual General Board Members to the Annual General Meeting and if applic­ Meeting no later than Friday, May 6, 2016. able, auditors and fees to the Board of Directors. The notice may be sent to: Computershare AB c/o Scandics årsstämma, Box 610, 182 16 Danderyd, Sweden or alternaFinancial information 2016 tively by telephone to +46 8 588 04 200. Interim report January–March 2016 May 12, 2016 The notice should contain the name, personal or corpoInterim report January–June 2016 August 16, 2016 rate identify number, address and telephone number and any Interim report January–September 2016 November 8, 2016 accompanying assistant. Shareholders attending by proxy shall state the name and the corporate or personal identity Financial reports are available on the company’s website, GEOGRAPHICAL DISTRIBUTION number of the proxy. www.scandichotelsgroup.com OF OWNERS, % To participate in the Annual General Meeting, shareholdTo subscribe for Scandic’s press releases and interim ers whose shares are nominee registered must temporarily reports, register your email address on Scandic’s website. register the shares in their own names with Euroclear Sweden AB. Shareholders should inform the nominees well in Contact details advance of notifying their attendance. Gunilla Rudebjer, Chief Financial Officer, gunilla.rudebjer@scandichotels.com Notice convening the Annual General Meeting The Annual General Meeting is convened through a notice Ann-Charlotte Johansson, VP Communications & IR, on the Company’s website and an announcement in the ann-charlotte.johansson@scandichotels.com Swedish Official Gazette (Postoch Inrikes Tidningar). The Sweden 85.5 UK 5.2 US 2.5 Finland 1.6 Denmark 1.2 Other 4.0 fact that the notice has been published will be announced in Svenska Dagbladet. Any documents that are to be presented at the Annual General Meeting will be made available on the company’s SHAREHOLDER INFORMATION • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • 107 DEFINITIONS HOTEL-RELATED KEY RATIOS FINANCIAL KEY RATIOS Non-recurring items Items that are not directly related ARR (Average Room Rate) Adjusted EBIT to the normal operations of the company, The average room rate is the average Earnings before pre-opening costs, for example costs for transactions, exits room revenue per sold room. non-recurring items, interest and taxes. and restructuring. Full-time equivalents (FTEs) Adjusted EBITDA Working capital, net The number of full-time employees Earnings before pre-opening costs, Current non-interest bearing receivables calculated as the total number of working non-recurring items, interest, taxes, minus current non-interest bearing hours for the period divided by annual depreciation and amortization. liabilities. working time. Adjusted EBITDAR LFL (Like-for-Like) Earnings before pre-opening costs, EQUITY-RELATED KEY RATIOS LFL refers to the hotels that were non-recurring items, interest, taxes, in operation during the entire period in depreciation, amortization and rent. Earnings per share question as well as during the correspondThe profit/loss during the period, related to ing period of the previous year (no new EBIT the shareholders of the company, divided or exit hotels are included for the year) Earnings before interest and taxes. by the average number of shares. at unchanged exchange rates. EBITDA OCC (Occupancy) Earnings before interest, taxes, Refers to sold rooms in relation to the depreciation and amortization. number of available rooms. Expressed as a percentage. EBITDA margin EBITDA as a percentage of net sales. Pre-opening costs Refers to costs for contracted and newly EBT opened hotels before opening day. Earnings before tax. RevPAR Interest-bearing net liabilities (Revenue Per Available Room) Interest-bearing assets minus interestRefers to the average room revenue bearing liabilities. per available room. 108 • SCANDIC ANNUAL REPORT 2015 • DEFINITIONS Cover photo: The terrace, Scandic Continental, Stockholm, Sweden. Production: Scandic in cooperation with Hallvarsson & Halvarsson Printing: Göteborgstryckeriet 2016 SCANDICHOTELSGROUP.COM
