ANNUAL REPORT 2015 contents AT A GLANCE Vision, mission and values 7 Chairman’s letter 9 CEO’s letter 13 highlights – Consolidated figures 16 Corporate governance 18 MANAGEMENT’S REPORT OF ACTIVITIES financial reviews and analysis 22 overall business review 28 maintenance & Engineering 40 flight operations 42 CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Consolidated income statement 49 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income 50 Consolidated balance sheet 51 Consolidated statement of cash flows 52 Consolidated statement of changes in equity 54 notes to the consolidated financial statements 56 Report of the réviseur d’entreprises agréé 96 SUSTAINABILITY about the company 102 about this report 104 stakeholder engagement and materiality matrix 105 operational safety 106 ethic and compliance 108 disclosure on management approach 110 staff and employement 114 environment120 community support 124 customer care 126 appendix social and environment 128 gri table 2015 130 independent and limited assurance report 136 SPANNING THE WORLD european trucking network 140 destinations – route map 2016 142 3 at a glance vision, mission and values Our Vision Living our values: dedication, respect, integrity To be ‘The Global Cargo Carrier of Choice’. Dedication Our Mission > We act as a team > We perform to high standards We deliver consistent flexibility and reliability through our > We deliver on promises valued and dedicated employees creating sustainable benefits for all stakeholders in a safe environment. Respect > We live diversity and respect the cargolux spirit > We respect personal privacy > We provide a healthy and safe environment for others and ourselves > We care for the environment The Cargolux Spirit > We live our responsibility as a global corporate citizen Leading by example Respecting each other Working as a team Integrity Being dedicated and passionate Going the extra mile Being cost efficient > We compete fairly Being flexible Delivering service excellence > We avoid conflicts of interest > We respect the law and act accordingly > We protect our assets > We handle information adequately You name it, we fly it ! > We value our business partners 7 chairman’s letter 8 In 2015, Cargolux celebrated its 45 th year as a leading Clearly, a larger fleet needs more space and Luxembourg force in the air cargo industry. From its humble beginnings airport will have to invest in more aircraft parking areas to in 1970 with a handful of second-hand freighters and a few accommodate Cargolux, one of the Grand Duchy’s major dedicated, enthusiastic individuals that were determined to economic drivers, an important employer that secures change the face of air cargo, our company has become several thousand jobs in Luxembourg and a logistics a major player in the industry, a pioneer in many fields powerhouse that acts as a pillar of the government’s drive and a benchmark for its peers. We operate one of the to establish a strong logistics platform for the 21 st century. most modern and sophisticated freighter fleets in the world today and enter into 2016 bigger than ever before. Yet, for some time, Cargolux has also grown its activities Cargolux can be very proud of its achievements. beyond the borders of Luxembourg and has established a truly global presence. Our successful operation in Italy Naturally, 2015 also held a big bag of challenges for us, with Cargolux Italia is one example, another one is the swift not only in a testing economic environment, but also ramp up of our base in China and the dual hub strategy we internally. The drawn-out CWA negotiations have bundled envisioned with our Chinese partners. Since HNCA became much energy but I am happy to say that we could find a a major Cargolux shareholder in 2014, we have developed mutually beneficial solution that is based on respect and close and respectful ties with our friends in Zhengzhou understanding and that allows us to jointly move into the who are putting a lot of effort into establishing a modern future. 2015 was a year that proved that Cargolux, after infrastructure with no expenses spared and are facilitating a period of change and headwinds, has a strong and a smooth operation for Cargolux. We are thankful for the competent team in place, and I stress the term ‘team’ help and support we enjoy in China, support that gives because, throughout its 45 years of existence, Cargolux Cargolux a distinct competitive advantage with great future has always benefitted from the willpower and dedication potential as the preferred cargo carrier in this important of people working together for a common goal. market. Zhengzhou is the fastest growing cargo airport worldwide and our dual-hub strategy is a big part of The agreement with our social partners led to a new CWA our co-operation with HNCA, guaranteeing growth beyond that guarantees an explicit commitment to job security, the traditional Cargolux network. a continuous development and growth of Cargolux in Luxembourg while, at the same time, it gives us improved With this, it is clear that China received a lot of our attention productivity and reduced costs. throughout 2015. We have substantially increased our air cargo services between Zhengzhou and Luxembourg and In its 45 th year, Cargolux delivered an incredible introduced direct transpacific services between Zhengzhou performance with growth in tonnage and block hours and Chicago that have been very well received by our and a healthy profit. While our competitors reduced their customers. In 2015, Cargolux and HNCA also celebrated activities, Cargolux bucked the trend and outperformed the first full year of co-operation with a ceremony in the industry. We grew our fleet with additional advanced Luxembourg that was attended by several high ranking Boeing 747 freighters and are looking at the delivery of political guests from China. another 747-8F in 2017. But, with the largest fleet that Cargolux ever operated, we need to take a close look Returning the honors, we have organized a global at the development of the airport infrastructure here. management meeting outside of Luxembourg for the first 9 time in our history and invited everyone to Zhengzhou Cargolux and HNCA to source and procure European for the 2015 come-together. This gesture stresses the quality goods that we fly to China and that are sold via new importance we put on China and the extensive support retail stores as well as a dedicated e-commerce platform. we are willing to give back to our Chinese partners. For the future, we can also see this initiative bringing Chinese delicatessen to consumers in Europe. LuxFresh is I am deeply convinced that we will continue to build on the a good example of how Cargolux continues to push for new success of our first year together and expand our strong, ways of doing business and how we establish a mutually fruitful co-operation well into the future. This future will beneficial win-win trade together with HNCA. ‘You name it, see the setting up of a joint-venture cargo airline based in we fly it’ literally becomes more than just a slogan, Zhengzhou that complements the worldwide route network it becomes a tangible reality that leads to a better life for Cargolux operates from Europe. The Cargolux Board of the people of Henan. Directors has approved the project and an investment of US$ 77 million to get the airline off the ground in 2017. Of course, it can’t be overlooked that the Chinese economy Beyond that, we all see the possibility to extend our has experienced a slowdown recently that also affects the combined activities to other areas, such as a maintenance export and import of goods and the volumes of air cargo organization that would be attractive to Asian customers carriers. While many observers have talked about an economic and airlines that operate to and from Zhengzhou. slump, I do not necessarily subscribe to this view. What I see is that the growth rate in this market has reduced to a more After 45 years, Cargolux has a long history of flexibility, sustainable level and that the situation has been met with a of pioneering spirit and of innovation. Our company has decisive response by the Chinese Central Bank and Central always explored new ways as we realized that thinking Government. China still has a lot of growth potential even outside of the box becomes more important than ever though we are increasingly facing overcapacity in the market in order to remain at the very top. Taking this concept from carriers that also clearly see that potential. to China, one of the innovations we brought to life with our Chinese partners in 2015 is the LuxFresh initiative. Obviously, Cargolux had a busy, exciting but also demanding LuxFresh S.A. was created as a joint venture between year in 2015. Air freight is a cyclical business as markets 10 get more volatile, necessitating more flexibility throughout At Cargolux, we have implemented a number of measures the year. That said, there will always be demand for high to counter these developments and we can already see quality services and expertise like Cargolux’s, especially them coming to fruition when we look at the figures for 2015. in areas such as outsized or cool chain and temperature controlled shipments. We are working hard to explore new The long-term sustainability of our company in an extremely markets, to expand our extensive product portfolio and volatile environment remains our primary objective. But, to explore new fields such as e-commerce. with a strong product portfolio and a firm foothold in China, with a diverse business that includes air transport as well The main problem for 2016 will be to bring yields up to as e-commerce activities, with sister airlines in Italy and, in a sustainable level while filling the available capacity. the future, in China, Cargolux intends to live up to its vision Overcapacity has been a problem for many years and will as the Global Cargo Carrier of Choice and stay at the very continue to be a factor, especially with the belly capacity top of the airfreight industry. of Middle East carriers, who have hundreds of passenger planes on order. Nevertheless, airfreight is here to stay and I want to take the opportunity to thank our shareholders and freighters will keep their role as the backbone of global our customers for their valuable and appreciated support trade as the inflexible passenger network does not fulfill throughout 2015. I also want to give sincere thanks to the the requirement of global supply chains. employees of the Cargolux Group all over the world for the commitment and loyalty they have shown towards the Cargolux continues to serve these markets and invests in company, it has not gone unnoticed. I am looking forward to a the skill and knowledge of its staff, as well as in modern successful co-operation in 2016 in a combined effort to keep technology. We still have to look at cost control and ways Cargolux up where it belongs and where it deserves to be. to increase revenue as we are competing with carriers that have deeper pockets than ours. While we can, to a certain extent, control our operational costs, we have very little control over yield and demand. Fuel costs are thankfully still low, but they will certainly not remain at this level forever. Paul Helminger 11 ceo’s letter 12 Cargolux proudly celebrated its 45 th anniversary in 2015 keeps Cargolux at the top of the game and it is due to the and I am very excited to have piloted the company through little things that every single one of our staff has contributed. a year that not only saw the addition of our anniversary aircraft LX-VCM, with a special livery created by Belgian The new CWA significantly boosts our competitiveness cartoonist Philippe Cruyt, but also the introduction of and gives Cargolux a much better standing among its a strong and bold vision for the future: to be the Global peers. It helps to not only secure the jobs but creates new Cargo Carrier of Choice. ones. I already mentioned the new pilots we are hiring, but we will also see additional jobs in other areas of the 2015 will also go down in history as the year of the company throughout 2016. Cargolux headlines and not always for the right reasons. The negotiations for a new collective work agreement It is a sign of our company’s strength that, despite the internal (CWA), the resulting conflicts and heated discussions with turbulences we went through, we managed to achieve our social partners, the unrest among our crews; all this significant boosts in our performance, contrary to most of has made for an intense and often draining roller-coaster our European competitors and an industry that recorded ride. The end result, however, was well worth the effort, as a meager volume increase of only 2% during the year. reason prevailed and the social partners together with the We flew 114,792 block hours, 8.8% more than in 2014, management team could find a compromise that recognizes thus surpassing the all-time record we had achieved in that the best interests of both sides. year. We saw a rise in tonnage of 7.4% to 889,652 tonnes, but, more importantly, we grew our global market share to The final meetings in December produced a breakthrough 3.8%, again outperforming our direct competitors in Europe. on revised conditions for new staff while keeping the existing IATA records show that Cargolux ranks as the 8 th largest benefits for our current staff in place. As a direct result, Cargolux cargo carrier worldwide and our FTK growth is well above has begun to hire 100 additional pilots, thereby acknowledging the top 20 average growth. All this helped Cargolux to the unions’ request to improve the work/life balance of the achieve a very healthy profit of US$ 49.5 million in 2015. crews, as well as ensuring enhanced roster stability and flexibility. It will furthermore facilitate the high interest that This excellent result is in large parts due to the hard work pilots have shown in part-time work as well as cover stand-by of our people, but we were also helped by a number of needs and new European flight time limitations. I, for one, am outside factors that benefitted the air cargo industry as a very happy that we have come to a positive ending and I look whole, such as the prolonged harbor strike on the US West forward to working together as a team, jointly directing our Coast in the early weeks of the year, the massive shipments efforts towards enhancing trust and passion for the company of airbags from Japan to the US and, of course, the low and tackling the challenges we face in the markets. fuel prices. It was, however, also the result of our strategy and the corresponding measures we began to introduce At this point, I want to explicitly thank everyone in the in 2014 in order to control our costs. Cargolux family for their continued dedication, hard work and understanding during the long 18 months this process Our growth strategy resulted in the addition of two new took. In the end, we have come out a stronger company 747-8F to the fleet during 2015, as well as another leased-in with a better comprehension of each other’s needs and 747-400F. Going into 2016, Cargolux flies with 26 747 concerns. This understanding, this passion for our work, freighters, the largest fleet the company ever operated. 13 2015 also saw Cargolux growing into a strong family group 50,000 tons and ended 2015 with 67,000 tonnes. At the as we expanded our Italian sister company Cargolux Italia, end of the year, we operated 13 weekly flights between boosting its fleet from two to four aircraft and adding new Luxembourg and Zhengzhou and had introduced our initial routes from Milan to Zhengzhou, Novosibirsk and Tokyo 2 weekly transpacific roundtrips to Chicago. It was a proud Narita. The latter is flown in a new partnership with Nippon milestone for the co-operation with our partner HNCA and Cargo Airlines while Cargolux Italia’s flights to Novosibirsk helped us to build up a substantial presence in China during represent the very first commercial stop in Russia in the 2015. We are now operating flights from Zhengzhou to history of our company. Luxembourg, Milan, Kuala Lumpur and Singapore, while we have expanded the flights to Chicago to four times per week. In Italy, Cargolux Italia is now the largest all-cargo In total, Cargolux operates 14 weekly direct transpacific carrier with a market share of 13.8%. Both, tonnage and connections from mainland China and Hong Kong, load factor at Cargolux Italia, showed satisfying growth Japan, Singapore and Malaysia to key Cargolux gateways throughout 2015. in the United States, making Cargolux one of the few cargo carriers operating transpacific routes with the advantage of With its successful expansion, as well as the African nose-door equipped 747 freighters. destinations that Cargolux Italia now operates on behalf of Cargolux Airlines, our Italian family member was able At Zhengzhou, we are happy to see our Chinese partners to significantly contribute to the economic success, the invest in the development of the airport infrastructure; sustainability of the network, the business and, ultimately, an investment that is necessary as we are looking to to the healthy bottom line of Cargolux. base Cargolux China’s fleet there. A second runway and fast links to highway and railway networks underline the Thus, Cargolux Italia is a prime example of the sound airport’s ambition as a multimodal logistics hub with high strategy we put into place, growing Cargolux into a true priority for air cargo. For the future, we are also planning global operation with multiple hubs. facilities for maintenance activities that will benefit from the extensive knowledge Cargolux has in this field. This strategy saw a further boost recently, when our Board of Directors approved an investment of US$ 77 million for Elsewhere, Cargolux Airlines added flights to existing a 35% share in Cargolux China, the joint venture cargo destinations and introduced new services to Turkmenistan airline based at Zhengzhou that we are establishing with our and Bahrain. We also completed a co-operation agreement Chinese partners. We have set up a project team that is with Oman Air that resulted in full freighter services from now driving the development of the new company and we Luxembourg to Chennai, India, via Muscat in April. The expect Cargolux China to start operations in 2017. It will co-operation developed very successfully, leading to the focus on transpacific and intra-Asian routes with a fleet that addition of flights to Mumbai in early 2016. is foreseen to grow to five 747 freighters within the first three years of operation. Cargolux China will be another important Again, spreading our wings for a global reach underlines step on our way to be the Global Cargo Carrier of Choice. our vision and supports our strategy to grow our activities from a single hub in Luxembourg to multiple gateways The importance we put on China was highlighted when in Milan, Zhengzhou, Hong Kong and Chicago. We will we organized our very first global management meeting continue to expand our network and, with Cargolux China outside of Luxembourg in Zhengzhou; a meeting that was getting primed for take-off, we go wherever our customers received with enthusiasm by the Cargolux leaders as well want us to go, be it with Cargolux Airlines, Cargolux Italia as our partners at HNCA. or, in the future, Cargolux China. China, overall, was a major focus for Cargolux in 2015. Ending a turbulent year on a happy note, the outlook for the In November 2014, we had already flown 10,000 tons of next year remains difficult. For Cargolux, 2016 will be the freight between our hubs Luxembourg and Zhengzhou. ‘Year Of The Customer’ with renewed energy and focus on Barely 18 months later, we broke the magical barrier of what our partners in the industry require from us. Building 14 on a growing market share, we look at our immediate competitors in France, Germany and the Netherlands with the aim to be the largest all-cargo carrier in all three markets. We have invested in this goal from a position of strength; we have expanded our fleet and grown faster than any of the home carriers, who actually reduced their cargo activities, with the result that, based on the first nine months of 2015, Cargolux had the highest productivity and the lowest cost base in these three markets. Globally, we expect yields to remain under pressure and we will continue to face overcapacity. We can only remain competitive and operate successfully by continuously controlling our costs. Every day is a new challenge. But with continued dedication, the trust and passion of our staff, the support of our shareholders and valued customers, with a sound concept and strategy, I am very confident that Cargolux’s vision to be the Cargo Carrier of Choice will soon bear fruit. Dirk Reich 15 highlights – consolidated figures As at December 31 2015 2014 2013 2012 Total income in US$ ’000 1,861,126 2,154,880 1,988,508 1,738,852 Profit/loss for the year in US$ ’000 49,479 2,854 7,636 (35,130) Shareholders’ equity in US$ ’000 822,996 664,128 482,630 445,164 Tonnes sold 889,652 828,658 753,848 645,759 Tonne-kilometers flown (millions) 6,919 6,364 5,723 4,800 Available tonne-kilometers (millions) 10,499 9,514 8,452 7,002 Number of employees worldwide 1,779 1,710 1,606 1,559 Headquarters 1,335 1,305 1,224 1,191 16 Fleet 2015 2014 2013 2012 Boeing 7478 Freighter 13 11 9 6 Boeing 747400 Freighter 9 8 8 9 Boeing 747400 BCF 2 2 2 2 Boeing 747400 ERF 2 1 1 – Aircraft on order Boeing 7478 Freighter 1 3 4 7 corporate governance As at December 31, 2015 Board of Directors Luxembourg State representatives David Massaro Etienne Reuter Permanent Delegate, Staff Delegation Luxair representatives Premier Conseiller de Gouvernement Armand Seil Paul Helminger BCEE representatives Officer Material Repairs Chairman of the Board of Cargolux Jean-Claude Finck Chairman of the Board, LuxairGroup President and Chief Executive Officer, HNCA representatives Director Banque et Caisse d’Épargne de l’État Huiyuan An Director Chairman of Henan Province Airport Adrien Ney Group Co., Ltd President and Chief Executive Officer, Société Nationale de Crédit Luxair Group et d’Investissement (SNCI) Mingchao Zhang Director Director (corporate mandate) Chairman of Henan Civil Aviation represented by Development and Investment Co., Ltd Françoise Thoma Patrick Nickels Executive Vice President, Shengbo Yuan Banque et Caisse d’Épargne de l’État Cargolux staff representatives Project Manager Director Bettina Faulhaber of Henan Civil Aviation Development Manager Business Support and Investment Co., Ltd Tom Weisgerber Flight Operations Premier Conseiller de Gouvernement, COMMITTEES OF THE BOD Ministère du Développement durable George Karambilas et des Infrastructures Captain Compensation Committee Director Paul Helminger Einar Kristjansson Jean-Claude Finck Captain Etienne Reuter 18 executive committee J ason E mese O nno D ir k N icolaas R ichard H olt B e k essy P ietersma R eich van der W eide F orson Audit Committee EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE Jason Holt Françoise Thoma Executive Vice President SNCI, represented by Dirk Reich Flight Operations Patrick Nickels President & Chief Executive Officer Tom Weisgerber Onno Pietersma Mingchao Zhang Richard Forson Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Maintenance & Engineering & Chief Financial Officer Nicolaas van der Weide Emese Bekessy Executive Vice President Executive Vice President HR, Sales & Marketing Legal Affairs & Compliance Shareholders as at December 31, 2015 35 .10% 35 % 10.91% 10.67% 8 .32% Societe Nationale hnca (luxembourg) Banque et Caisse Luxembourg Luxair de Credit et s.à r.l. d’Épargne de l’État State d’Investissement 19 MANAGEMENT’S REPORT OF ACTIVITIES financial review a n d a n a ly s i s As at December 31, 2015 General The Company achieved another year of profit in 2015 under continuing challenging market conditions. After an impairment of US$ 41.2 million on its fleet, the Company recorded a net consolidated profit after tax of US$ 49.5 million. This result was positively impacted by an exceptionally strong first quarter and low fuel prices. The on-going pressure on yields and continuous overcapacity, especially from the continuing growth in belly space, was mitigated by achieving record levels of tonnage sold and block hours flown. The airline grew its freight tonne kilometres (FTK) by 8.7% and according to IATA’s latest statistics ranks No. 8 among the world’s scheduled cargo operators. Cargolux is also the largest all-cargo airline in Europe. Key performance indicators However, notwithstanding the foregoing, one of the major (including Cargolux Italia) areas of growth for the airline in 2015 was in its charter division with over 200 flights achieved for the year. Capacity, measured in ATKs, increased by 10.4% versus 2014, driven by higher block hours (+8.8%) following the Cargolux constantly refines its network in order to take delivery of two Boeing 747-8 freighters during the year advantage of opportunities and niche markets and and the full year’s impact of the 2014 deliveries. Fleet continues to look at developing new markets. Capacity on wide utilization, including flexible capacity, reached a daily the existing network is adjusted according to demand either average of 13:54 hours in 2015. In addition to the delivery adding or reducing frequencies and capacity as required. of two Boeing 747-8 freighters in 2015, the Company also leased two additional Boeing 747-400 freighters on a One of our major areas of growth in 2015 was the development power-by-the-hour basis, bringing its flexible capacity of services to Zhengzhou (CGO) in Henan Province of the fleet to two Boeing 747BCFs and four Boeing 747-400 People’s Republic of China. By the end of 2015, we operated freighters aircraft. At the end of December, the total fleet 13 frequencies per week to CGO and produced in excess of consisted of seven Boeing 747-400 freighters, thirteen 67,000 tonnes through this gateway for the year under review. Boeing 747-8 freighters (together our core fleet) and six power-by-the-hour aircraft (two Boeing 747-400 BCFs, two Cargolux also initiated services to Chennai, India, following Boeing 747-400 freighters and two Boeing 747-400 ERFs). the completion of a co-operation agreement with Oman Air. Additional frequencies to India are planned to be The Company’s production, measured in FTKs, increased implemented in 2016 as well as other additional new by 8.7% versus 2014 resulting in a slightly lower load factor destinations in our network. compared to the previous year. According to IATA’s statistics measured by international Consolidation scheduled FTKs, Cargolux’s global market share grew to 3.8% in 2015 with market share in November and As in the prior year, the Company presents consolidated December exceeding 4%. accounts in addition to Parent Company accounts. The consolidated accounts comprise Cargolux RE S.A., a Average total network commercial net yield (US$/kg) captive reinsurance company, Luxfresh S.A., a Luxembourg decreased by 20.3% versus 2014. The large drop is mainly based import-export company, Cargolux Italia S.p.A., an attributed to the significant lower fuel prices thereby Italian all-cargo airline and an Italian investment company, considerably reducing the applicable fuel surcharge. Italia Aerologistics S.R.L.. The Company’s equity accounts its participations in Champ Cargosystems S.A. (49%), 8F Compared to 2014, tonnage sold increased to 889,652 Leasing S.A. (33.3%) and a joint venture, Global Aviation (+7.4%) across the Cargolux network. Technical Solutions GB (BVI) Ltd (50%). Markets and network Income statement (including Cargolux Italia) Revenues decreased by 13.6% from US$ 2,148.5 million Worldwide markets continue to suffer from overcapacity to US$ 1,856.3 million, mainly as a result of the lower with significant additional capacity entering the market, level of fuel surcharge revenue received which represented especially from the Gulf carriers through both dedicated 26.9% of revenues, or US$ 499.3 million, down by 31.5% freighters and large number of wide-body passenger compared to 2014. The Euro weakened versus the US dollar aircraft. Although lower jet fuel prices had a positive by 10.1% during 2015 which also had a negative impact impact on costs, available yields also reduced accordingly. on our Euro denominated revenues. However, from a cash 23 flow perspective, the Company is in a neutral position hedging positions acquired to offset the Company’s as a result of Euro denominated expenses. exposure to higher fuel prices in 2015 decreased by US$ 0.1 million to nil. The Company has taken the decision Other operating income, comprising mainly credits to stop hedging fuel due to the significant decline of fuel from third parties, decreased by 24.4% to US$ 4.8 million prices, the extreme volatility in the market and the overall from US$ 6.4 million in 2014. efficiency of its own fuel surcharge mechanism. Once this level of efficiency reaches an established trigger level, Aircraft lease expenses decreased by US$ 0.4 million hedging activities will be reconsidered. (or 1.0%) to U$ 39.2 million. Personnel costs and benefits decreased by 7.9% to Aircraft maintenance expenses increased by 16.4% to US$ 236.9 million from U$ 257.2 million due mainly to the US$ 85.4 million from US$ 73.4 million. weak Euro as the major portion of our salary cost is incurred in this currency. In Euro terms, the salary of Luxembourg-based The cost increase relates mainly to a higher utilization of staff went up by 3.3% reflecting a headcount increase, several our fleet (+8.8%) and the additional provisions for engine promotions and time unit increases under its CWA agreement. shop visits for LX-OCV and LX-WCV under their respective operating lease agreements. Handling, landing and overflying costs decreased by 4.2% to US$ 311.1 million in 2015. Depreciation and impairment increased by 12.7% to US$ 202.8 million, due mainly to the addition of two Boeing Handling charges went down by 2.9%. At constant 747-8 freighters, delivered during the course of 2015 exchange rates, the cost went up by 7.3%. This increase (LX-VCL, LX-VCM) and the higher utilization of our own. is the result of an increase in cycles flown (+5.1%) as well as additional tonnage sold (+7.4%). Fuel cost (including the result of fuel hedging) decreased by 34.3% to US$ 639.3 million and represented 36.1% In respect of landing charges, the decrease of 11.8% of operating costs. The marked-to-market value of fuel was driven by a weak Euro. At constant exchange rates, 24 the cost went down by 4.6%. While cycles increased worth tax, decreased by 13.2% to US$ 135.0 million due (+5.1%), the landing unit rate decreased by 9.3%. mainly to lower foreign exchange losses and lower anti-trust related expenses offset by higher consulting expenses. Overflying costs decreased by 1.6%, due mainly to a positive exchange rate impact. At constant foreign exchange rates, Financial income decreased by 33.7% from US$ 10.7 million the cost would have increased by 9.1%. This is due to the to US$ 7.1 million due to the overall interest rate environment additional block hours flown (+8.8%) and a slightly higher on surplus cash deposited. unit rate (+0.2%). Financial expenses increased by 3.5% to US$ 73.7 million. Trucking, truck handling and interlining costs decreased The movement in financial expenses was due mainly to the by 1.6% to US$ 119.0 million in 2015. acquisition of the Boeing 747-8 freighters. Trucking and truck handling costs went down by 4.3%. Net finance costs were US$ 66.6 million (2014: This was due to a favourable foreign exchange impact. US$ 60.5 million). At constant exchange rates, compared to 2014, costs would have increased by 12.1%. This is due to a higher Current tax for the year amounted to a credit of US$ 23.5 million tonnage carried (+7.4%). (2014: US$ 32.3 million), which includes a positive tax value of ITC benefits as a result of several financial transactions Interlining costs went down by 3.8%, originating from involving the Company’s Boeing 747-8 freighter fleet deliveries. lower interline production. At constant exchange rates, In 2015, the Company did not account for any adjustment the decrease would have been 2.4%. of deferred taxes and did not increase the related deferred tax asset due to the extreme volatility of market condition. Other operating expenses, including inter alia GSA commissions, IT services, travel & entertainment, office Taking all of the preceding into account, the net consolidated rental and equipment, legal, audit and consulting fees, other profit after tax was US$ 49.5 million for 2015 (2014: aircraft expenses, telecommunication expenses and net US$ 2.9 million). 25 Balance sheet Branch Network Total assets increased by 8.6% to US$ 3,201.1 million The Company operates worldwide through a network of from US$ 2,947.6 million due mainly to the acquisition branches and representative offices in 33 countries. of two Boeing 747-8 freighter aircraft. Shareholders’ equity increased by 23.9% to US$ 823.0 Outlook and million from US$ 664.1 million following the conversion of recent developments the US$ 100 million mandatorily convertible bonds to share capital in March 2015 and the financial result of 2015. To counter downward pressure on yields, the Company implemented a major yield improvement program and Interest bearing liabilities (including finance leases) expects to continue to achieve positive results in 2016, as increased by 7.4% to US$ 1,936.4 million from US$ 1,802.7 in 2015, after having expanded this program throughout million due mainly to the financing of the two additional the entire network. In addition, the greater efficiency of Boeing 747-8 freighter aircraft. the Boeing 747-8 freighter will be focussed on major trade lanes, e.g. transpacific. Cash and cash equivalents and Other investments increased by 25.9% from US$ 420.2 million to US$ 528.8 In early 2016, the Company further refined its 5 year million due mainly to the issuance of the ‘Schuldschein’ in business plan reflecting the Company’s strategy for the the amount of EUR 60 million and the cash contribution period 2016-2020. This includes an investment of US$ 77 from operations offset by investing in new engines and million in ‘Cargolux China’, a new joint venture Chinese the repayment of loans. Net financial gearing amounted cargo airline based in Zhengzhou. The plan was adopted to 171.0% (2014: 208.2%) and net adjusted gearing and endorsed by the Board of Directors. (to take into account the present value of future operating lease payments) was 193.5% (2014: 241.6%). In 2015, all committed credit facilities available to Cargolux, remained unused. Such committed credit lines amounted in the aggregate to US$ 36.8 million at year-end 2015. Fleet development The 2016 Budget foresees no breach in financial covenants for that same period. In 2015, Cargolux took delivery of two Boeing 747-8 freighters and two additional B747-400 freighters, the last The Company continuously monitors the environment for mentioned on a power-by-the-hour basis. On December 31, such risks and in respect of those under our control, has in 2015 Cargolux operated a fleet of twenty-six aircraft place existing safeguards, including legal and operational of which thirteen are Boeing 747-8 freighters, seven compliance reviews, aircraft maintenance quality programs and are Boeing 747-400 freighters and the flexible capacity IT security measures to protect against unauthorised entry into composed of two Boeing 747-400BCFs, two Boeing our systems. The Company’s Aircraft and Third Party Liability 747-400 freighters and two Boeing 747-400ERFs. insurance coverage is also in line with industry best practice and satisfies specific financing contractual obligations. In 2016, the Company aims to maintain as much fleet flexibility as possible given the uncertain market conditions. As regards instances of events out of our control, such as occurred when volcanic ash clouds disrupted flight The last B747-8 freighter on order is planned to be delivered operations, these tend to affect the industry as a whole and in 2017. Cargolux would work together with the relevant authorities, including other airlines, to ensure the minimum disruption to normal operations. 26 overall business review The past year was characterized by worrying low yields, In 2015, Cargolux carried 889,652 tonnes of freight on its a challenge that the whole air freight industry had to face, global network, 7.4% more than in 2014. With 26 Boeing 747 as it affected all markets. On average, yields declined by freighters at year-end, a mix of 747-400 and 747-8 freighters 5% globally. Continued overcapacity and declining volumes and the largest fleet in its history, Cargolux achieved a record put additional stress on the rates. Thankfully, fuel prices 114,792 block hours, an increase of 8.8% over the all-time remained low, but this also had an impact on the fuel high in 2014. Due to the addition of four aircraft to the fleet, surcharges of airlines that dropped by almost 75%. available tonne kilometers rose by 10.36% to 10,499 million, while FTKs reached 6,919 million growing 8.7% over 2014. Against this background, Cargolux performed extremely well, achieving record levels of tonnage and block hours The average load factor remained fairly stable with 65.9%, and ended the year on a net profit of US$ 49.5 million. even with a larger fleet and increased capacity. Though The company outperformed not only the market, but also commercial net revenues saw a drop to US$ 1,794,725, its direct competitors in Europe who, in some cases, retired Cargolux achieved a net profit of US$ 49.5 million. freighters or reduced their air cargo activities. The Group’s average market share in 2015 grew to 3.8% and was higher than that of some major European and The industry saw a number of high-profile mergers Asian competitors. and acquisitions among shippers and forwarders, this is typically a sign of growing pressure on a lot of companies. Economic Environment The Cargolux Group in 2015 grew its freight tonne kilometers The Group recorded good demand from European (FTK) by 8.7%; the company ranks at No. 8 among the markets with double digit growth in most countries. world’s cargo operators, according to IATA data, and is the The United States were also strong and Cargolux had a lot largest all-cargo airline in Europe. The airline positioned of capacity there, offering 35 weekly flights. Even though itself above the average growth rate of IATA’s top 20 air the load factors were affected by the pressure on yields, cargo carriers. the company saw reasonable growth. 28 Asia in 2015 remained fairly stable, though the slowdown In South America, Brazil showed less demand than before as of the Chinese economy put pressure on imports and the Brazilian real devaluated against the US dollar. However, exports alike as consumer spending declined. Rates with the upcoming Summer Olympics in the country, demand were low and the industry saw only a very minimal peak is expected to grow, easing the situation there. Flower during the traditionally strong fourth quarter, while China shipments from Quito and Bogota were quite stable but were showed no peak at all. The slowdown there started somewhat affected by lower imports into Russia, where the around October/November and was highlighted by economy stagnated and consumers had less buying power. the absence of any significant electronics shipment as producers such as Apple introduced less new products Overall, with yields and demand under pressure and to the markets. declining consumer spending, Cargolux shifted capacity on its network more than ever, taking it out of underperforming In Hong Kong, the airline was able to operate around 15 markets and adding where demand was strong, such as extra flights during the fourth quarter, satisfying what little the Middle East. The airline has the flexibility to swiftly seasonal peak demand was there. Rates during this period react to changes and constantly monitors the performance only saw a minimal increase. of each market. New destinations were added, such as Turkmenistan, Bahrain and Chennai, while services to Cairo For Cargolux, Zhengzhou was a major focus during were restarted. Novosibirsk became the Group’s first ever 2015. Flights increased to 13 per week by year-end and commercial destination in Russia, operated by Cargolux the company introduced transpacific services between Italia, who also introduced the first flights to Tokyo Narita. Zhengzhou and Chicago. The airline’s growing activities attracted increased competition in Zhengzhou, but also in Shanghai. Oman Co-operation The Middle East saw a strong development and all Hong In Oman, Cargolux completed a co-operation agreement Kong flights were routed via Cargolux’s Middle East with Oman Air that offers new opportunities for the stations. Luxembourg-based carrier. Cargolux freighters use Oman 30 Air’s facilities in Muscat for the full freighter services from With its new portfolio, Cargolux continued to build on its Luxembourg to Chennai, India, that are operated together existing core competency, pushing global consistency with Oman Air. Two weekly flights were flown on the route by and leveraging on the evolution of its global presence. In the end of the year and, in early 2016, Mumbai was added doing so, the company increased the share of specialized as the second Indian destination under the agreement. products in its portfolio, further focusing on industryspecific needs by thinking beyond the flight and responding Oman offers an attractive geographical location with both to the requirements of customers with door-to-door established and newly constructed sea-port facilities. service needs. Oman Air also provides Cargolux with access to the belly capacity of its passenger fleet that flies to 11 destinations on the Indian continent as well as Eastern Africa, giving From The Areas Cargolux the opportunity to feed consolidated freight to Oman from a number of larger markets. A r e a 1 | The Americas A number of factors affected some of the key export Strong Product Portfolio markets for Cargolux in the Americas throughout 2015. In a significant boost of its customer orientation, Cargolux The combination of a strengthening US dollar, an acute adjusted its services and successfully introduced an extensive collapse in oil prices and runaway capacity growth led product portfolio. It comprises the products CV Classic for to adverse effects for the overall health of air cargo traditional general cargo, CV Jumbo for outsized and heavy from the Americas. In a relatively short time, American goods, CV Power for items such as cars, aircraft engines and exports became considerably more expensive. helicopters, CV Hazmat for all classes of dangerous goods, In addition, significantly fewer oil rigs remained active as CV Pharma for healthcare and pharmaceutical shipments, many rapidly developed into unsustainable operations; CV Fresh for all kinds of perishables, CV Alive for live animals in turn, at least for the mid-term, they no longer require and CV Precious for artworks and valuable goods. regular service. 31 The much-publicized port strike on the US West Coast Latin America in early 2015 resulted in an unusual high number of extra flights as capacity demand reached unprecedented The importance of the Latin American market remained high in heights. However, for the remainder of the year, air cargo 2015, even as demand contracted in several key markets by in the US met with intensified headwinds. 4% versus 2014. Improved efficiencies in commercial efforts and route management mitigated the impact of this decline; Capacity growth continued to outpace the decelerating however, it became necessary to trim some excess capacity demand in the markets served by Cargolux. This fostered and weekly frequencies were reduced from six to five. increasingly aggressive procurement and depressed yields further as the year progressed; eventually, it even breached The Latin American region experienced challenges on several into the historically stronger fourth quarter peak season. fronts. Brazil went through its longest recession since the 1930s, inflation exceeded 10%, unemployment escalated and Despite the myriad challenges of 2015, which included flat approached 9%, while a faltering automobile industry hurt one growth in demand from North America compared to 2014, of the country’s most important manufactured exports and was Cargolux could celebrate a number of accomplishments. especially affecting the air cargo industry. The Andean region The company managed to successfully defend and protect was presented with its own palette of challenges, led by a its market share in several key North American markets considerable loss in demand for its flowers by local markets in while maintaining positive yields in spite of the continued Russia which continued to struggle with a lingering recession capacity expansion of its competitors as well as its own. as its GDP plunged 3.7% in 2015. Performance in Colombia, Particularly strong performances in Chicago, New York, however, saw a silver lining in 2015. Cargolux managed to Seattle, Columbus and Guadalajara helped to mitigate a increase its foothold and saw a growth in tonnage of 10% over year of disappointing demand and excess capacity. 2014 in a market that otherwise contracted by nearly 12%. Cargolux expanded its ever-growing footprint in 2015 Cargolux is currently providing nearly 600 tonnes of and provided its clients with additional global solutions. capacity per week from seven origins in Latin America: Opportunities for expansion ultimately resulted in a plethora Aguadilla, Bogota, Curitiba, Latacunga, Manaus, Petrolina of new and direct services. The major developments were and São Paulo. a twice-weekly commercial service between Chicago and Zhengzhou, China, as well as a once-weekly service Collectively, the Americas produced 163,224 tonnes of freight, from Chicago to Singapore, inaugurated in April and a decline of 6.1% over 2014, with a total commercial net October, respectively. Cargolux also introduced oncerevenue of US$ 288,749 million, 21% less than in the previous weekly direct flights from Los Angeles to Toulouse, from year. However, the decline in revenue was largely attributable Chicago to Amsterdam and from Miami to Amsterdam. to a significant reduction in fuel surcharge revenue. A second weekly frequency was introduced from Houston to Amsterdam. Adding additional frequencies to Luxembourg In 2015, Cargolux in the Americas could successfully from established origins, Cargolux managed a 15% increase respond to all customer requirements – the common as in available capacity from North America by year-end. A total well as, increasingly, the unique – and thus consistently of 35 weekly scheduled flights afford clients an even more outperformed the market. With a refined focus on an diversified portfolio of routes on transatlantic and transpacific exemplary product line, as well as a constantly growing trade lanes compared to the previous year’s offerings. global footprint, Cargolux solidified its position as a quality and preferred partner to many of its clients. As a major supplier of capacity from the North American market, Cargolux, at the end of 2015, provided in excess A r e a 2 | Europe, Middle East, Central Asia and Africa of 4,300 tonnes per week, from 14 online origins: Atlanta, Calgary, Chicago, Columbus (Rickenbacker), Dallas, Europe performed exceptionally well in 2015 and Cargolux Guadalajara, Houston, Huntsville, Indianapolis, Los saw double digit tonnage growth in several markets; 51% Angeles, Mexico City, Miami, New York and Seattle. In the Netherlands, 29% in Belgium, 25% in Spain, 15% in 32 Germany, 13% in France and 6% in Italy. The strong growth The development of flights between Luxembourg and in Amsterdam can be attributed to perishable exports to the Zhengzhou, Cargolux’s complementary hub in China, was Middle East, an area that is expected to continue its expansion. high on the agenda. Services increased to 13 flights per 2015 was the sixth year of consecutive growth for Area 2. week by the end of the year and the airline carried its 50,000 th tonne of freight on 20 October with flight CV9722, Even though the company had to cope with the everoperated by its newest 747-8F, LX-VCM that sports a present low yields and overcapacity, Cargolux in Area 2 unique anniversary livery. With the help of its Chinese grew its tonnage by 13.3% to 406,604. Commercial net partners, Cargolux was able to build up a substantial revenues reached US$ 694,211 million. Freight tonne presence in one of the world’s most important markets. kilometers in the area grew by 8.1%, way above Cargolux’s The company is very happy that the co-operation has led competitors in neighboring European countries. With hard to a fruitful and successful relationship of mutual trust, work and the dedication to excellence of its staff across the respect and benefits for both parties. area, Cargolux could benefit from the capacity reduction and scaling down of activities of its European competitors. In the Middle East, Cargolux restructured its network, Cargolux outperformed most of the home carriers and is adding capacity owing to an increase in demand. Consumer not only the largest all-cargo carrier in Europe, but sits at spending in the area remained on a very high level, resulting the top spot in Italy, is number two in Germany and France in strong import tonnage. Perishable shipments were good, and number three in the Netherlands. The airline’s goal is while luxury fashion goods and other luxury articles that to be among the top three in all key markets. are popular in Middle Eastern countries saw an increase of up to 40%. The UK was more difficult as carriers poured a lot of extra capacity into the market, making it one of the few spots Bahrain became a new destination with three weekly in Europe with a negative development. services; additionally, the airline now operates four weekly flights to Kuwait, three to Beirut, up to three to Dubai, three With Cargolux Italia, the Group added flights to Novosibirsk, to Muscat, two to Ammam and one to Sharjah. However, in its first commercial stop in Russia ever. this region, Cargolux also saw a rapid expansion of the big 34 Middle East carriers who are growing faster than the rest Singapore and Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia, thus expanding of the industry. the airlines product portfolio and serving new markets from South East Asia to the United States. The sectors between One of the highlights for Cargolux in Area 2 was the Singapore, Malaysia and Zhengzhou were boosted by the transport of Solar Impulse 2 to Abu Dhabi, from where the fifth freedom rights that Cargolux enjoys on these routes. solar-powered aircraft started its record-breaking roundthe-world flight in October. Over 35,000 kilometers, Solar With these services, Cargolux operated 14 weekly direct Impulse 2 demonstrates what is possible with renewable transpacific connections from mainland China and Hong energies and Cargolux is proud to be a part of it. Kong, Japan, Singapore and Malaysia to key Cargolux gateways in the United States, making Cargolux one of the In Oman, the company entered into a co-operation few cargo carriers operating transpacific routes with the agreement with Oman Air that resulted in joint services with advantage of nose-door equipped 747 freighters. shared capacity, primarily between Chennai, India, and Muscat. The co-operation developed very successfully with China received much attention during the course of last good load factors, prompting an extension of the service year; apart from inaugurating transpacific services from to Mumbai in April 2016. However, as in other markets, Zhengzhou, the Group saw new flights between Zhengzhou yields in India were under pressure as the Indian rupee and Milan, operated by Cargolux Italia. A once-weekly experienced a strong devaluation. frequency started in June and was expanded with a second weekly service in October. The flight presented the first In general, Cargolux in Africa did quite well with good Cargolux connection from both Asia and Europe to Russia loads and we managed to fill most of the capacity in with a stopover in Novosibirsk. Cargolux Italia also added markets such as Nairobi. However, the business in Africa Tokyo Narita to the route map when it began services to suffered from a massive decline in shipments for the oil the Japanese capital in November in a partnership with and gas industry that saw a drop of up to 40% in markets Nippon Cargo Airlines. In total, the company now operates such as Libreville and Lagos, due to the falling oil prices 49 weekly scheduled flights out of the Asia Pacific region. throughout 2015. Against this background, Cargolux sees only marginal investments in this industry in the mid-term Cargolux invested a lot of effort into the development future and expects no significant improvements for oil of Zhengzhou, its complementary hub to Luxembourg and gas shipments. throughout 2015. Barely 18 months after starting up flights between the two hubs, the company broke the magical A r e a 3 | Asia Pacific barrier of 50,000 tons of freight on this route on 20 October 2015 and reached around 67,000 tonnes by year end. Cargolux Asia Pacific had to cope with a number of challenges throughout 2015. Faced with a weakening Following a swift build-up of flight frequencies, Cargolux economy and stiff competition, the company nevertheless operated 13 flights per week between Luxembourg and managed to expand its network and services, including the Zhengzhou. In addition, the airline offers fast, scheduled introduction of transpacific flights between Zhengzhou and road feeder services to 20 Chinese cities, linking Zhengzhou Chicago. The first Zhengzhou – Chicago flight took off on with major industrial and business centers. 13 April 2015 and was initially operated twice weekly. It was a milestone in the development of its Chinese operations The co-operation with its Chinese shareholder HNCA also and co-operation with its partner HNCA. Shippers and foresees the set-up of a joint venture cargo airline based manufacturers on both sides of the Pacific warmly at Zhengzhou that will operate transpacific and intra-Asian welcomed the unique opportunities this connection offers. flights, investment for which was approved by the Board of Directors in early 2016. The partners have also established Consequently, during the fourth quarter, the service was LuxFresh, a joint venture collaboration aimed at sourcing expanded to four weekly frequencies. The additional and supplying quality European products to Chinese two flights were connected with Cargolux’s stations in consumers in the province of Henan which will be sold on the 35 efficient e-commerce platform developed for that purpose. This, in turn, boosted the company’s flexibility and facilitated The products are flown to Zhengzhou on the daily scheduled the expansion of Cargolux Italia’s network with two direct flights from Luxembourg and the next step in the collaboration frequencies to Zhengzhou. The weekend flights are timed can see quality Chinese products return to Europe. to take advantage of the shipping industry’s needs to move its weekday production overseas. Thanks to its new China During the final quarter of 2015, the airline saw a surge services, Cargolux Italia was also able to get access to in demand and project shipments and customers relied other points in China, such as Shanghai, Beijing, Dalian, on the timely solutions offered by Cargolux with 63 extra Ningbo and Chin Tao. frequencies from Asia to both Europe and the United States. This translated to an average of 21 additional frequencies On the same routing, Cargolux Italia began services to each month in the last quarter of 2015 alone. Novosibirsk, an important gateway for flowers, garments and machinery, opening the possibility for the Group to Throughout the year, Area 3 produced a total of 261,708 operate commercially to Russia for the first time. tonnes of cargo, a 13.3% increase compared to 2014. The total revenue declined by 10.1% to US$ 693,893 million, After a year-long process and following a commercial highlighting the immense market pressure Cargolux faced agreement with Japan’s Nippon Cargo Airlines (NCA), with low yields and excess capacity. Cargolux Italia began flights to Tokyo Narita in October. This significantly boosted Cargolux’s presence in the Japanese market that has long played an important role Cargolux Italia in the Group’s Far Eastern network. The Italian part of the Cargolux Group had a very successful Under the agreement, Cargolux Italia operates a direct year with significant achievements and important steps in a weekly flight to Narita, utilizing a slot assigned to NCA. number of areas. Cargolux Italia introduced two additional The agreement foresees that Cargolux Italia will, in turn, 747-400F aircraft into its fleet, LX-RCV and LX-OCV, provide space to NCA on its already established two doubling the capacity the airline could offer. weekly flights to Osaka, while NCA provides Cargolux 36 Italia with additional space on three of its own Tokyo The Year of the Charter Narita services. The Cargolux Charter Division enjoyed a significant boost in Elsewhere, Cargolux Italia offered four weekly scheduled 2015; a year that broke many records and brought a higher turnover than ever before. Over 200 charter flights were freighter flights to Hong Kong, three of those were routed performed, resulting in a 40% increase in charter activities via Japan and one via Dubai. compared to the previous year. Charter commercial net revenues increased substantially and reached US$ 60 million, In the United States, the airline operated two weekly 50.7% higher than in 2014. flights to New York’s JFK airport and one weekly service to Los Angeles. In addition to filling existing demand with full charters, Cargolux Charter also operated a number of part charters where aircraft were re-routed to make extra stops for Finally, the two additional aircraft allowed Cargolux Italia special loads. to operate for Cargolux Airlines to African destinations and provide capacity on other routes in the network. A lot of the impressive growth was attributable to the harbor strike on the US West Coast in early 2015, even though In total, Cargolux Italia flew 8,416 block hours and 457,503 Cargolux came in relatively late due to the fact that most of freight tonne kilometers. The airline carried 64,125 tonnes the demand was on routes between the Far East and the US; of freight, resulting in revenues of US$ 116.6 million. The routes on which the company only has limited traffic rights. loadfactor increased to 67.3% after reaching 64.5% in the Another major factor for the rise in charter activities was previous year. The Cargolux Group could grow its Italian that, for the last two years, Cargolux constantly had capacity market share by 6.4% and, with its total market share of available to swiftly react to demands. Additional, flexible 13.8%, Cargolux remained the largest Italian all-cargo aircraft allowed to accept short-term inquiries and customers carrier in 2015. began to realize that Cargolux can reliably serve their short37 term needs. Cargolux sees these extra aircraft as a positive The United States are expected to remain strong with good contribution to its business, even when they are on the demand for export capacity from Europe. The same goes ground, as their instant availability is a valuable bonus and an for markets in the Middle East. Here, however, the pressure opportunity for the customer with short-term capacity needs. on yields due to competition from the home carriers, as they add massive belly capacity with hundreds of passenger But 2015 was also a year that, for the first time in many aircraft on order, remains a concern. But competition has years, had no real high season charter traffic. Neither the always been a fact of life for Cargolux and, with the airline’s Far East – US transpacific, nor the Far East – Europe lanes flexibility and established presence, with global operations generated the high-revenue business of former years. Rates and subsidiaries in Italy and, in the future, in China, remained relatively moderate and did not spike because 2016 still holds promise and opportunity. there was always enough capacity available. For 2016, Cargolux Charter expects to build on last year’s growth rate, albeit on a slower scale. Still, with additional manpower, promising projects and new products, the company believes it can keep up to four aircraft busy with charter work in the midterm future. Outlook on 2016 Customers have expressed a subdued outlook for the first half of 2016, expecting only minimal growth, if at all, and a possible further decline in yields. This, however, depends in large parts on the development of oil prices. That said, the start into 2016 for Cargolux was better than expected with strong load factors during the first few weeks. February again saw a decline, due to the start of the Chinese New Year holidays when production and shipping activity in China more or less grounds to a halt. The further development of the Chinese economy in 2016 remains a concern for the industry as a whole. For the rest of the year, Cargolux has a conservative, yet slightly optimistic outlook as the airline manages to spread and adjust capacity on its global network as required. It will continue to explore opportunities wherever they arise, looking at additional markets and destinations. Here, Cargolux can see some options in Africa and the Middle East. The product portfolio established in 2015 will benefit Cargolux as a recognized expert in specialized fields such as livestock, pharmaceutical and outsized shipments with the advantage of nose-door equipped 747 freighters that often carry pieces that the smaller freighter aircraft, operated by other carriers, are unable to accommodate. 39 maintenance & engineering Support For A Growing Fleet for this type. And as the fleet grows, M&E has amassed valuable experience in the maintenance and engineering of Since the early days of Cargolux, the airline’s Maintenance & this aircraft type. Today, the dedicated team not only secures Engineering Division (M&E) has been instrumental in Cargolux’s competitive advantage, but also assisted a supporting and maintaining the dedicated freighter aircraft the range of other operators of the 747-8F, as well as General company operates. Today, the division ensures the technical Electric, with innovative solutions for the technical issues reliability of the highly advanced 747 freighter fleet for both, they encounter, thus growing M&E’s excellent reputation Cargolux Airlines and Cargolux Italia. The M&E division also and continuously expanding its commercial service offering. supports the fleets of a number of external customers with a broad range of sophisticated technical services. The operational activity of the Cargolux fleet in 2015 significantly exceeded the budgeted maintenance work as In 2015, Cargolux operated a mixed fleet of 747-8Fs, 747-400Fs, the company produced 9% more block hours than in 2014. 747-400ERF and 747-400BCFs, while Cargolux Italia expanded Nevertheless, M&E was able to keep the schedule reliability its fleet to four 747-400 freighters, up from two in 2014. on a high level, similar to 2014, with an average dispatch rate of 97.3% for the 747-8F and 97.5% for the 747-400F. Cargolux Airlines continued its fleet roll-over in 2015 with Cargolux is scheduled to take delivery of its 14 th 747-8 the delivery of two more 747-8Fs. By the end of the year, freighter in 2017. The continued fleet growth will add Cargolux operated 13 units of Boeing’s next-generation further to the level of activity of M&E and the organization freighter. In total, the Cargolux fleet numbered 26, the is continuously implementing productivity improvements. largest fleet that the airline ever operated. Additional Capabilities Utilization Leader As a 747-8F launch customer, Cargolux’s M&E division As one of the leading operators of the 747-8F, Cargolux was able to expand the capabilities of the in-house routinely records one of the highest aircraft utilization rates repair activities. With assistance from Telair, the original 40 equipment manufacturer of the cargo loading system of the its satisfied customers, who continue to rely on the proven 747-8F, M&E invested in the in-house repair capabilities of service and high quality of its maintenance work. In 2015, the core element of the cargo loading system, the power the Cargolux M&E team maintained the aircraft of Silkway drive units (PDUs). After a careful start in 2013 and 2014, Airways, Air Bridge Cargo, Atlas Air, Corsair and Air Atlanta. we ramped up the overhaul of the PDUs in 2015 to more than 600 units for both Cargolux and our M&E customers. Throughout the year, M&E performed 20 A-Checks and 4 C-Checks on customer aircraft while revenue from thirdparty work reached US$ 19.3 million. Hangar Maintenance The maintenance team kept busy with an increasing number of A-Checks, 109 in 2015 against 94 in 2014, while it also performed 8 C-Checks. The work on the Cargolux and Cargolux Italia fleets resulted in another record productivity level in Cargolux’s maintenance history. Two D-Checks on 747-400 freighters were outsourced. During 2015, the company employed an average of 445 maintenance staff, a slight increase versus 2014, who produced 522,000 man hours, in line with the previous year. Customer Priorities Cargolux M&E enjoys an excellent reputation throughout the industry and counts a number of other carriers amongst 41 flight operations 2015 was an impressive year for Flight Operations with the up from 19,195 in 2014 and 17,461 in 2013. Rotations continued rise in the numbers of aircraft in the fleet to an out of Luxembourg in 2015 reached 4,307, again eclipsing all-time high as well as a corresponding level of aircraft the 2014 record of 3,959 sectors. utilization and total hours flown. Not surprisingly, Cargolux routinely has one of the highest The fleet roll-over program continued with the delivery of daily utilization rates for the 747 freighter globally. While two additional 747-8 freighters, LX-VCL, ‘Joe Sutter’ on the company’s 747-8 freighters achieved an average daily 5 March and LX-VCM, ‘City of Redange-sur-Attert’ on utilization of 15:10 hours in 2015, the combined fleet 28 September. Cargolux also acquired on lease another recorded an average of 13:54 hours. 747-400F, LX-FCL, as well as a 747-ERF, LX-JCV. Additionally, in support of its Italian operation, two Throughout the reporting period, Cargolux efficiently 747-400Fs were transferred to Cargolux Italia during 2015. maintained its pilot numbers at roughly the same figure as The Cargolux fleet increased from 20 to 22 aircraft by the in 2014. From January to December 2015, the airline saw end of 2015 and Cargolux Italia jumped from 2 aircraft to 15 pilots leaving the company and ended with 446 pilots 4 in the same period. The combined Group fleet grew from at year end. This equated to 214 Captains and 232 First January to December 2015 by 4, totaling 26 aircraft. Officers. For 2014, the Captain and First Officer numbers were 221 and 240 respectively. Cargolux added eight The fleet utilization continued at pace too. If 2014 was temporary pilots to fill the shortfall. record-breaking regarding the amount of hours flown, then 2015 was simply better. The 2014 performance of The training of pilots continued unabated too, using both 95,522 hours flown by Cargolux was eclipsed by a strong our 747-400F and 747-8F simulators. The company flew performance in 2015, where Cargolux flew 100,293 hours. 8,843 hours on both simulators with 4,254 hours flown The increase saw the bulk of the flying 67,248 hours or by Cargolux crews and 3,786 hours flown by external 59% undertaken by the 747-8F fleet with the remainder customers, including Cargolux Italia who needed type being operated by our 747-400 aircraft. Throughout ratings and continuity training on the 747-400. Other the year, the airline operated 20,449 network sectors, external customers used the simulators for recurrent 42 training or as part of a course component. Based on a (EASA) new flight time limitation rules ahead of the 24-hour cycle, the 747-400 simulator was utilized for 58% February 2016 deadline. Also successfully concluded were of the time while the 747-8 simulator had a slightly lower the negotiations with the unions and the pilots in particular. utilization rate at 43%. A favorable collective work agreement was anchored and is now in place, offering a promising stable platform for the To support its commercial customers, Cargolux not next three years from which the business can tackle the only saw a continued uptick in performance but also inevitable change. stretched the network further. The Group flew to more scheduled destinations in 2015 than in the previous year These change highlights for 2016 include the Board of as it added cities such as Novosibirsk, Tokyo, Bahrain, Directors’ approval for the hiring of over 100 new pilots Turkmenistan and Chennai. In 2015, Cargolux operated with competitive new terms and conditions, paired with the its 747-8 freighters to 118 airports that are now deemed chance to upgrade as many as 60 first officers into leftcompatible with the larger wingspan and foot print of the hand seat captains. Flight Operations is embarking upon advanced aircraft type. Over 2014, this represents 11 more an ambitious plan to deliver on the top five priorities of destinations where the airline is able to proudly demonstrate safety, lean cost savings, people development, customer the superior performance of its 747-8 freighters. dedication and a continued growth in performance. It will also witness the introduction of a new operational control This significant level of flying and training to maintain the center, develop charter solutions for its customers, manage operational program that supports its customers is matched the growth of the business and ensure the continued only by the very admirable commitment of its crews and growing support for its Italian business as well as the ground staff alike, maintaining Cargolux’s operation around launch of Cargolux China. the clock for 365 days a year. The department is very thankful for such an enviable amount of support from all teams. In 2014, the punctuality performance was impacted adversely by issues such as the increased volume of flights, crew training, special shipments and airport curfews. Whilst 2015 witnessed the same influences, punctuality improved with 22% of flights network-wide departing on schedule or within 15 minutes compared to 15% in 2014. This welcome result was also reflected in those flights leaving within an hour of schedule where Cargolux saw 43% punctuality compared to 2014’s 30.6%. Reviewing punctuality absent of late arriving flights, 2015 was a robust year with an 82.5% level of on-time performance which was 22 percentage points above 2014. The year drew to a close with a changing of the guard. Captain Marcel Funk, after almost 40 years of dedicated service to the business, was succeeded by an arrival from outside of the airline – something of a first in 45 years for Cargolux. Jason Holt arrived from easyJet and Virgin Atlantic Airways with previous senior management and directorship experience, the latter specializing in operational strategy and transformation. As the year ended, Cargolux saw the timely and successful introduction of the European Aviation Safety Agency’s 44 C O N S O L I D AT E D FINANCIAL S TAT E M E N T S Consolidated financial statements of Cargolux Airlines International S.A. Consolidated income statement For the year ended December 31, 2015 In thousands of U.S. Dollar Notes 2015 2014 Revenues 6 1,856,296 2,148,487 Other operating income 7 4,830 6,393 Aircraft lease expenses 8 (39,164) (39,542) Aircraft maintenance expenses 9 (85,376) (73,378) Depreciation and impairment 14 (202,767) (179,953) Fuel (639,270) (972,940) Personnel costs and benefits 10 (236,860) (257,201) Handling, landing and overflying (311,093) (324,650) Trucking, truck handling and interlining (118,988) (120,969) Other operating expenses 11 (134,999) (155,580) Operating profit before financing costs 92,609 30,667 Financial income 7,067 10,653 Financial expenses (73,668) (71,202) Net finance costs 12 (66,601) (60,549) Share of profit / (loss) of associates (27) 484 Profit / (loss) before tax 25,981 (29,398) Current tax 13 23,498 32,252 Deferred tax 13 – – Profit for the year 49,479 2,854 Profit attributable to: Owners of the Company 49,479 2,854 Non-controlling interests – – Profit for the year 49,479 2,854 the notes on page 56 to 95 are an integral part of these financial statements. 49 Consolidated statement of comprehensive income For the year ended December 31, 2015 In thousands of U.S. Dollar Notes 2015 2014 Profit for the year 49,479 2,854 Other comprehensive income Items that will never be reclassified to profit or loss Remeasurements of defined benefit liability / (asset) 22 1,066 (3,695) Related tax 13 (311) 1,080 755 (2,615) Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Effective portion of changes in fair value of cash flow hedges 5/12 15,790 14,501 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit or loss 5/12 (9) (955) Income tax on other comprehensive income 13 (4,611) (4,026) Currency translation adjustment (2,536) (3,261) 8,634 6,259 Other comprehensive income for the year, net of income tax 9,389 3,644 Total comprehensive income for the year 58,868 6,498 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Owners of the Company 58,868 6,498 Non-controlling interests – – Total comprehensive income for the year 58,868 6,498 50 the notes on page 56 to 95 are an integral part of these financial statements. Consolidated balance sheet As at December 31, 2015 In thousands of U.S. Dollar Notes 2015 2014 Assets Aircraft and equipment 14 2,127,508 1,935,085 Other property, plant and equipment 14 63,948 115,102 Derivative assets 6,949 8,049 Investments in associates 15 68,970 64,268 Deposits with third parties 14 39,645 42,561 Deferred tax assets 16 49,017 53,940 Total non-current assets 2,356,037 2,219,005 Expendable parts and supplies 21,259 21,752 Trade receivables and other receivables 17 294,969 286,618 Other investments 18 69,127 114,145 Cash and cash equivalents 19 459,687 306,046 Total current assets 845,042 728,561 Total assets 3,201,079 2,947,566 Equity Issued capital 525,007 425,007 Share premium 5,846 5,846 Reserves 225,953 217,319 Retained earnings 16,711 13,102 Profit for the year 49,479 2,854 Equity 20 822,996 664,128 Non-controlling interest – – Total equity 822,996 664,128 Liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 21 99,475 128,473 Finance lease liabilities 21 1,598,050 1,467,339 Employee benefits 22 7,629 9,146 Other payables 24 8,648 86,408 Derivative liabilities 35,849 44,395 Provisions 23 93,277 12,401 Total non-current liabilities 1,842,928 1,748,162 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 21 6,430 42,296 Finance lease liabilities 21 232,453 164,598 Trade payables and other payables 24 259,799 281,095 Provisions 23 17,168 24,137 Taxes payable 19,305 23,150 Total current liabilities 535,155 535,276 Total liabilities 2,378,083 2,283,438 Total equity and liabilities 3,201,079 2,947,566 the notes on page 56 to 95 are an integral part of these financial statements. 51 Consolidated statement of cash flows For the year ended December 31, 2015 In thousands of U.S. Dollar Notes 2015 2014 Cash flow from operating activities Profit for the year 49,479 2,854 Adjustments for Depreciation and impairment 14 202,767 179,953 Unrealized foreign exchange gains (14,933) (5,528) Net finance costs 12 66,601 60,549 Share of profit of associates 27 (484) Gain / (loss) on sale of property, plant and equipment 7 514 520 Fuel hedging 5 134 7,413 Change in provisions 23 4,373 18,619 Tax expenses 11/13 (19,917) (30,012) Use of provisions 23 (17,517) (8,466) Operating cash flow before changes in working capital 271,528 225,418 Changes in working capital 8,724 (17,702) Cash generated from the operations 280,252 207,716 Income tax paid (6,249) (3,494) Benefits of tax credits 26,918 32,772 Interest paid (61,963) (56,020) Net cash from operating activities 238,958 180,974 Cash flow from investing activities Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 14 (40,313) (156,812) Acquisition of associates – (668) Acquisition of other investments (30,350) (31,733) Loans granted to associates (3,388) (3,453) Dividends from associates 77 116 Interest received 3,412 3,796 Reimbursement of advance payments 50,880 99,749 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 400 202 Proceeds from sale of other investments 69,401 20,745 Proceeds from capital reduction in associates – 155 Deposits with third parties (1,200) 12,802 Net cash from / (used in) investing activities 48,919 (55,101) Cash flow from financing activities Repayment of borrowings (67,469) (98,908) Repayment of finance lease liabilities (192,997) (170,959) Capital increase – 175,000 Proceeds from borrowings 111,907 95,401 Net cash from / (used in) financing activities (148,559) 537 Net increase in cash and cash equivalents 139,318 126,410 Cash and cash equivalents at January 1 306,046 163,407 Effect of exchange rate fluctuations on cash held 14,323 16,229 Cash and cash equivalents at December 31 19 459,687 306,046 52 the notes on page 56 to 95 are an integral part of these financial statements. 53 Consolidated statement of changes in equity For the year ended December 31, 2015 Issued Share Non distributable Free In thousands of U.S. Dollar capital premium reserve reserve BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2013 (restated) 250,007 5,846 105,902 157,770 Transactions with owners Allocation to free reserve – – (18,800) 18,800 Capital increase 175,000 – – – Total comprehensive income Profit for 2014 – – – – Total other comprehensive income – – – – Total comprehensive income – – – – BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2014 425,007 5,846 87,102 176,570 Transactions with owners Allocation to free reserve – – (18,600) 18,600 Capital increase through conversion of bonds (note 20) 100,000 – – – Total comprehensive income Profit for 2015 – – – – Total other comprehensive income – – – – Total comprehensive income – – – – BALANCE AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2015 525,007 5,846 68,502 195,170 54 the notes on page 56 to 95 are an integral part of these financial statements. Currency Hedging Total Retained Non-controlling Total Total equity translation reserve reserve reserves earnings interest equity 640 (53,252) 211,060 15,717 482,630 – 482,630 – – – – – – – – – – – 175,000 – 175,000 – – – 2,854 2,854 – 2,854 (3,261) 9,520 6,259 (2,615) 3,644 – 3,644 (3,261) 9,520 6,259 239 6,498 – 6,498 (2,621) (43,732) 217,319 15,956 664,128 – 664,128 – – – – – – – – – – – 100,000 – 100,000 – – – 49,479 49,479 – 49,479 (2,536) 11,170 8,634 755 9,389 – 9,389 (2,536) 11,170 8,634 50,234 58,868 – 58,868 (5,157) (32,562) 225,953 66,190 822,996 – 822,996 55 notes to the consolidated financial statements 1. Reporting entity (together referred to as the Group ) and the Group’s interest in joint ventures and associates. The parent company, Cargolux Airlines International S.A. (the Company or Cargolux ), was incorporated on March 4, 1970 and is registered as a société anonyme under the 2. Basis of preparation laws of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. The registered address of the Company is Aéroport A | Statement of compliance de Luxembourg, L-2990 Sandweiler, Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg and the registration number is R.C. The Group prepares its financial statements under Luxembourg B 008.916. International Financial Reporting Standards ( IFRS ) as The Company is an all-cargo airline. It also maintains its adopted by the EU. own aircraft and provides third party maintenance and flight operations assistance (including crew training) to third parties The Board of Directors approved the financial statements for at its Luxembourg headquarters. As at the balance sheet the year ended December 31, 2015 on March 23, 2016 and date, operations outside of Luxembourg that relate to the authorized the publication of said financial statements on Company’s business activities are conducted solely under April 27, 2016, following confirmation by the shareholders branch and representative offices, except for Italy, where thereof on that date. Cargolux mainly conducts its business through its subsidiary Cargolux Italia S.p.A., an all-cargo airline based in Milan. As B | Basis of measurement at the balance sheet date the Company operated its business through branches and representative offices in 33 countries. The financial statements have been prepared on the historical cost basis except for the following material items The consolidated financial statements of the Company in the financial statements: for the year ended December 31, 2015, comprise the · derivative financial instruments are measured at fair value Company and its subsidiaries, Cargolux RE S.A., Cargolux · the defined benefit liability is recognized as the net total Italia S.p.A., Italia Aerologistics S.R.L. and Luxfresh S.A. of: fair value of plan assets plus service cost, actuarial 56 losses minus actuarial gains and the present value The estimates and related assumptions are based on of the defined benefit obligation. historical experience and various other factors: these estimates and related assumptions are believed to be C | Going concern reasonable under the circumstances and on their basis judgments about carrying values of assets and liabilities The Company believes that the operating cash flows, the credit that cannot readily be derived from other sources. facilities in place and the injection of additional cash (US$ 175 Actual results may differ from these estimates. million), occurred in 2014 through a capital increase, secure the liquidity needs of the Company for the foreseeable future and The estimates and underlying assumptions are reviewed at least 12 months from the date of issuance of these financial on an ongoing basis. Revisions to accounting estimates statements (see notes 5 e, 20 and 21). Consequently, the are given effect in the period during which the estimate financial statements have been prepared on the basis of the was revised and in any future periods affected. assumption of the Company’s ability to operate as a going concern. Judgments made by management in the application of D | Functional and presentation currency IFRS that have significant effect on the financial statements are discussed in note 30. The consolidated financial statements are presented in United States Dollar ( US dollar or US$ ) as the functional F | Changes in accounting policies currency US dollars are rounded to the nearest thousand. The accounting policies set out below have been applied E | Use of estimates and judgments consistently to all periods presented in these financial statements. The preparation of financial statements in conformity with IFRS as adopted by the EU requires management to make In addition, certain comparative amounts in the financial judgments, estimates and assumptions that affect the reported statements and in the notes thereto have been reclassified amounts of assets and liabilities, income and expenses. to conform to the current year’s presentation. 57 3. Significant accounting policies prevailing at the date of the transaction. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated into A | Basis of consolidation functional currency at the foreign exchange rates applicable at the balance sheet date. The foreign currency gain or loss I Subsidiaries on monetary items is the difference between the value of the Subsidiaries are entities controlled by the Group. The item expressed in the functional currency at the beginning of Group controls an entity when it is exposed to, or has right the period and the value of the item expressed in functional to, variable returns from its involvement with the entity and currency at the end of the period, using for translation has the ability to affect those returns through its power purposes the exchange rate prevailing at the end of each over the entity. The financial statements of subsidiaries are relevant date. The year-end value reflects, if and as applicable, included in the consolidated financial statements from the amortization, payments and interest accruals effected during date on which control commences until the date on which the year. Non-monetary assets and liabilities that are stated control ceases. at historical cost less amortization are translated into the functional currency using the exchange rate at the date of the II Associates and joint ventures transaction. Non-monetary assets and liabilities denominated Associates are those entities in which the Group has in foreign currencies that are stated at fair value are translated significant influence, but not control, over the financial and into the functional currency at foreign exchange rates operating policies. Joint ventures are those entities over applicable at the date the fair value is determined. Foreign whose activities the Group has joint control, established exchange differences arising on translation are recognized by contractual agreement. The consolidated financial in the income statement. statements include the Group’s share of the total recognized gains and losses of associates on an equity accounted II Financial statements of foreign operations basis, from the date that significant influence commences The assets and liabilities of entities controlled by the Group until the date that significant influence ceases. Typically that have a functional currency other than the US dollar associates where the Group controls 20% or more of the ( foreign operations ) are translated into US dollar at foreign equity but does not exercise control and joint ventures exchange rates applicable at the balance sheet date. are equity accounted. When the Group’s share of losses The rule also applies to goodwill and fair value adjustments exceeds its interest in an equity accounted investee, the arising on consolidation of foreign operations. The revenues carrying amount of that interest (including any long-term and expenses of foreign operations are translated into US investments) is reduced to nil and the recognition of further dollar at rates applicable at the dates of the transactions. losses is discontinued except to the extent that the Group Foreign exchange differences arising on retranslation are has an obligation to make payments or has made payments recognized directly in a separate component of equity. on behalf of that investee. C | D erivative financial instruments, III Transactions eliminated on consolidation including hedge accounting Intragroup balances and any unrealized gains and losses or income and expenses arising from intragroup transactions The Group uses derivative financial instruments to hedge with fully consolidated entities are eliminated in preparing its exposure to the fluctuation of exchange rates, interest the consolidated financial statements. Unrealized gains and rates and fuel prices arising from operational and financing losses arising from transactions with associates are eliminated activities. In accordance with its hedging policy, the Group to the extent of the Group’s interest in the associate. does not hold or issue derivative financial instruments for trading purposes. However, derivatives that do not qualify B | Foreign currency for hedge accounting are treated as trading instruments. I Foreign currency transactions The gain or loss in the fair value of the derivative financial Transactions in foreign currencies are translated into the instrument is recognized in the income statement unless functional currency of the Group at the foreign exchange rate the derivative qualifies for hedge accounting, in which case 58 59 the effective part of the derivative financial instrument is classified as finance leases. The assets acquired by way recognized in other comprehensive income and presented of finance leases are recognized as non-current assets and in the hedging reserve in equity. Any gain or loss with respect are stated at an amount equal to the lower of their fair value to the ineffective part of hedge accounted instruments and the present value of the minimum future lease payments (as are gains or losses on trading instruments) is recognized at inception of the lease, less accumulated depreciation in the income statement. (see V) and impairment, if any (on which see J). The related liability is included under Finance lease liabilities. Hedge accounting is discontinued when the hedging instrument expires or is sold, terminated, or exercised, or In the context of sale and leaseback transactions, the no longer qualifies for hedge accounting. At that time, any recognition of any gain on the sale is deferred and cumulative gain or loss on the hedging instrument recognized recognized instead as finance income over the lease term. in equity is retained in equity until the forecasted transaction No loss is recognized unless the asset is impaired. occurs. If a hedged transaction is no longer expected to occur, the net cumulative gain or loss recognized in equity 2) Operating leases: is transferred to profit or loss for the period. Leases under the terms of which the Group does not assume the risks and rewards of ownership are classified D | Property, plant and equipment as operating leases and are not carried on the Group’s balance sheet. The net present value of future lease I Aircraft and equipment payments under operating leases is disclosed in the notes B747-400F and B747-8F aircraft (including installed to these financial statements (see note 25). engines) and rotable spare parts (including spare engines) are stated at cost, adjusted for any impairment, less In the context of sale and leaseback transactions, the accumulated depreciation. related gains are accounted for as follows: · they are immediately recognized as income when the Borrowing costs related to the acquisition of an aircraft are transaction is realized at fair market value, capitalized as part of the cost of this aircraft. · t hey are deferred and amortized over the lease term when the transaction is realized under or over The initial cost of the aircraft includes the first D-check fair value. as a separate component. The costs of subsequent D-checks are capitalized when the first D-check IV Subsequent costs (or second or third D-check , as the case may be) The Group outsources the major aircraft overhaul checks, occurs and the capitalized D-check is depreciated over as well as the maintenance and repairs of engines to the period to the next scheduled D-check . The period outside contractors, however performs the major overhaul of depreciation of D-checks is set forth in V below. C-checks internally. The cost related to line maintenance, A-checks and C-checks performed in Luxembourg II Other property, plant and equipment are expensed when incurred under various line items in Other items of property, plant and equipment are also the income statement. stated at cost less accumulated depreciation (see V below) and impairment, if applicable (on which see J). V Depreciation Where parts of an item of property, plant and equipment Depreciation is charged to the income statement on a have different useful lives, they are accounted for as separate straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of each items of property, plant and equipment (see V below). component, except engine components (life limited parts ( LLPs ) and engine overhaul (shop visits)) which are III Leased assets depreciated based on cycles flown, or part of aircraft 1) Finance leases: and other property, plant and equipment. The estimated Leases under the terms of which the Group assumes useful lives and residual values of relevant assets are substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership are as follows: 60 Useful life Residual value estimated sales costs. Expendable parts and supplies are (average) (average) charged to Aircraft maintenance expenses when used. Components of aircraft: [15% 9%] I | Cash and cash equivalents Airframe 20 years of initial cost Engines (Carcass) 12 years 8% of initial cost Cash and cash equivalents comprise cash balances, call Engines (LLPs) 9,700 cycles nil and short term deposits and shares in money market Engines (Shop visits) 3,700 cycles nil funds. Bank overdrafts that are repayable on demand and 1 st and 2 nd D-check 8 years nil form an integral part of the Group’s cash management are Subsequent D-checks 6 years nil included as a component of Cash and cash equivalents Landing gears 10 years nil in the Statement of Cash Flows. Rotable spare parts 10 years nil Equipment: 5 years nil J | Impairment Depreciation methods, useful lives and residual values I Non-financial assets are reassessed periodically as circumstances warrant. The carrying amounts of the Group’s non-financial assets, The residual value of certain aircraft and the depreciation other than expendable parts and supplies (on which see pattern of the engines have been reviewed in 2014 (see H above) and deferred tax assets (on which see Q ), are note 14). Depreciation is discontinued when the carrying reviewed at each balance sheet date to determine whether amount of the asset is below its residual or sale value. there is any impairment. If any impairment exists, the asset’s recoverable amount is estimated and the carrying E | Investments in subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates value adjusted accordingly. Subsidiaries, joint ventures and associates are accounted Impairment is recognized whenever the carrying amount for in accordance with the basis for consolidation (see A). of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount. Impairment losses are recognized in the income statement. F | Investments Calculation of recoverable amount: Treasury instruments are carried at fair value with variations The recoverable amount of assets is the greater of their fair in value flowing through the income statement. These value (less costs to sell) and value in use. In assessing value in assets are classified as current assets in Other investments. use, the estimated future cash flows to be derived from the use Related transaction costs are expensed when incurred. of the asset are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax discount rate that reflects current market assessments of the time Financial instruments are recognized/derecognized by the value of money and the risks specific to the asset. Impairment Group on the date it commits to purchase/sell the instruments. is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the recoverable amount. Impairment is reversed G | Trade and other receivables only to the extent that the asset’s carrying amount does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined, Trade and other receivables are stated at their cost less net of depreciation or amortization. impairment (on which see J ). II Financial assets H | Expendable parts and supplies A financial asset is considered to be impaired if objective evidence indicates that one or more events have had a negative Expendable parts and supplies are stated at the lower of effect on the estimated future cash flows of that asset. cost and net realizable value. Inventories are carried on a first-in-first-out basis. Net realizable value is the estimated An impairment loss in respect of a financial asset carried at market price in the ordinary course of business, less amortized cost is calculated as the difference between its 61 carrying amount and the present value of the estimated future L | Employee benefits Retirement benefit costs cash flows. An impairment loss in respect of an available-forsale financial asset is calculated by reference to its fair value. The Group maintains defined contribution and defined benefit pension schemes for its Luxembourg based employees. Significant financial assets are tested for impairment on an individual basis. The remaining financial assets are Premiums paid to the insurance company in relation to assessed collectively in groups that share similar credit defined contribution retirement benefit plan are charged as risk characteristics. an expense as they fall due. All impairment losses are recognized in profit or loss. The defined benefit scheme in Luxembourg is accounted for as such under IAS 19, using the Projected Unit Credit An impairment loss is reversed if the reversal can be related Method, with actuarial valuations being carried out at each objectively to an event occurring after the impairment loss balance sheet date (see note 22). was recognized. For financial assets carried at amortized cost and available-for-sale financial assets that are debt Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability, which securities, the reversal is recognized in profit or loss. comprise actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan For available-for-sale financial assets that are equity assets (excluding interest) and the effect of the asset ceiling securities, the reversal is recognized directly in equity. (if any, excluding interest), are recognized immediately in Other comprehensive income ( OCI ). Net interest expense K | Interest-bearing liabilities and finance lease liabilities and other expenses related to defined benefit plans are recognized in profit or loss. Interest-bearing liabilities and finance lease liabilities are recognized initially at principal amount less related M | Provisions transaction costs. Subsequent to initial recognition, interest-bearing liabilities are stated at amortized amount A provision is recognized in the balance sheet when the using the effective interest rate method. Group has a present legal or contractual obligation that can 62 be estimated reliably as a result of a past event, and if it is III Net finance costs probable that an outflow of economic benefits will be required Net finance costs comprise the net result of I interest payable to settle this obligation. If the effect is material, provisions are on borrowings, and II interest receivable on funds invested determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at (Cash and cash equivalents and Other investments), a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of and gains and losses (realized and unrealized) on Other the time value of money and, where appropriate, the risks investments and on interest rate hedging instruments that specific to the liability. Accruals related to those provisions do not qualify for hedge accounting (see C ). are recognized as finance cost over the period. Interest income is recognized in the income statement Heavy maintenance costs ( D-checks ) relating to aircraft as it accrues, using the effective interest method where under operating leases are recognized as provisions on the appropriate. Dividend income is recognized in the income basis of the heavy maintenance supplier agreement. statement as Other operating income on the date the Group’s right to receive the payments is established. The Group accrues for re-delivery costs related to aircraft under operating leases as soon as it becomes apparent Q | Income tax that the asset does not meet the return condition criteria set forth in the lease agreement. Income tax on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred tax. Income tax is recognized in N | Trade and other payables the income statement except to the extent that it relates to items recognized directly in equity, in which case it Trade and other payables are stated at cost. is recognized in equity or in Other comprehensive income. O | Revenue Services rendered Current tax is the expected tax payable on the taxable income for the year, using tax rates applicable at the Cargo sales, net of discounts, are recognized as revenue balance sheet date, subject to any adjustment to tax when the transportation service is provided. Other revenue, payable in respect of previous years. Taxes that are not primarily third party aircraft maintenance, is also recognized assessed on the Group’s income (e.g. Net worth tax) are when the service is rendered. recognized in Other operating expenses. P | Expenses Deferred tax is computed using the balance sheet method, providing for temporary differences between the carrying I Operating lease payments amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting Rentals paid under operating leases are recognized purposes and the amounts used for taxation purposes. in the income statement over the term of the lease. Deferred tax is not recognized for temporary differences Lease incentives received are recognized in the income related to Investments in subsidiaries to the extent that statement as an integral part of the total lease expense they will probably not be reversed in the foreseeable future. over the term of the lease. The amount of deferred tax provided is based on the expected manner of realization or settlement of the carrying II Finance lease payments amount of assets and liabilities, using tax rates enacted Minimum lease payments are apportioned between the at the balance sheet date. finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding liability. The finance charge is allocated to each period A deferred tax asset is recognized only to the extent that it is during the lease term so as to produce a constant periodic probable that future taxable profits will be available against rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. which the deferred tax asset can be utilized. Deferred The interest expense component of finance lease payments tax assets are reviewed at each balance sheet date and is recognized in the income statement using the effective are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that interest rate method. the related tax benefit will be realized. 63 R | New and amended standards adopted by the Group after January 1, 2018 and earlier application is permitted. The Group is yet to assess the impact of IFRS 15. There are no IFRS or IFRIC interpretations that are effective for the first time for the financial year beginning on or after IFRS 16, ‘Leases’ sets out the principles for the recognition, January 1, 2015 that would be expected to have a material measurement, presentation and disclosure of leases. The impact on the reporting result of the Group. objective is to ensure that lessees and lessors provide relevant information in a manner that faithfully represents S | N ew standards, amendments and interpretations those transactions. This information gives a basis for users of issued but not effective for the financial year beginning financial statements to assess the effect that leases have on January 1, 2015 and not early adopted the financial position, financial performance and cash flows of the entity. IFRS 16 eliminates the current dual accounting A number of new standards, amendments to standards and model for lessees, which distinguishes between on-balance interpretations are effective for annual periods beginning sheet finance leases and off-balance sheet operating leases. after January 1, 2015, and have not been applied in Instead, there is a single, on-balance sheet accounting preparing these separate financial statements. Those model that is similar to current finance lease accounting. which may be relevant to the Group are set out below. The new standard takes effect in January 2019. Like all The Group does not plan to adopt these standards early. groups that lease major assets for use in their business, the Group will see an increase in reported assets and liabilities. IFRS 9, ‘Financial instruments’, addresses the classification, measurement and recognition of financial assets and financial liabilities. The complete version of IFRS 9 was issued in 4. Determination of fair values July 2014. It replaces the guidance in IAS 39 that relates to the classification and measurement of financial instruments. A number of the Group’s accounting policies and disclosures require the determination of fair value, for both financial and IFRS 9 includes revised guidance on the classification and non-financial assets and liabilities. Fair values have been measurement of financial instruments, including a new determined for measurement and / or disclosure purposes expected credit loss model for calculating impairment on based on the following methods. Where applicable, further financial assets, and the new general hedge accounting information about the assumptions made in determining requirement. It also carries forward the guidance of fair values is disclosed in the notes specific to that asset recognition and derecognition of financial instruments from or liability. IAS 39. The standard is effective for accounting periods beginning on or after January 1, 2018. Early adoption I Investments in equity securities is permitted, however this standard has not yet been The fair value of financial assets is determined by reference endorsed by the EU. The Group is yet to assess IFRS to their quoted bid price at the reporting date. 9’s full impact. II Derivatives IFRS 15, ‘Revenue from contracts with customers’ deals Fair values of hedging instruments, representing unrealized with revenue recognition and establishes principles for gains and losses, are determined on the balance sheet reporting useful information to users of financial statements date based on third party pricings and valuations, including about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of valuations provided by the Group’s counterparties to the revenue and cash flows arising from an entity’s contracts hedging transactions. Where feasible any counterparty with customers. Revenue is recognized when a customer valuation is verified by the Group using independent obtains control of a good or service and thus has the ability sources. The values assume a normal functioning of financial to direct the use and obtain the benefits from the good markets. Market volatility will necessarily have an impact on or service. The standard replaces IAS 18 ‘Revenue’ and said pricings and valuations as well as the Group’s eventual IAS 11 ‘Construction contracts’ and related interpretations. liability with respect of the hedging instruments booked The standard is effective for annual periods beginning on or at the balance sheet date. 64 65 III Other financial assets/liabilities owned by the Group fails to meet its contractual obligations The fair value of non-current receivables and payables is because of insolvency, bankruptcy or similar event. determined by discounting future cash flows using current market interest rates. Other financial assets and liabilities Liquidity risk are carried at the fair value (on which see note 3 J above). Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in meeting the obligations associated with its financial liabilities that are settled by delivering cash or 5. Financial risks another financial asset. The Group’s approach to managing and risk management liquidity is to ensure, as far as possible, that it will always have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, Risk management framework under both normal and stressed conditions, without incurring unacceptable losses or risking damage to the The Group has exposure to the following risks with respect Group’s assets or reputation. of its financial assets and use of financial instruments: · credit risk Market risk · liquidity risk Market risk is the risk that changes in asset prices resulting · market risk from fluctuation in foreign exchange rates. Interest rates or fuel prices will affect the Group’s income or the value of its The objective of risk management is to manage and holdings of financial instruments. control risk exposures within acceptable parameters, while optimizing the benefit expected to be derived from the General investing and risk management activities, respectively. This note presents information about the Group’s exposure to each of the above risks, the Group’s objectives, policies Credit risk and processes for measuring and managing risk, as well Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the Group if a as the Group’s objectives and policies for the management counterparty to a financial instrument or issuer of a security of excess cash. Where applicable, further quantitative 66 disclosures are included throughout these financial or interest rates. Structured products are designated as statements. Other investments and recorded at fair value in the balance sheet with any change in value flowing through the income The Board of Directors has overall responsibility for statement. The Group does only purchase securities or the establishment and oversight of the Group’s risk structured investment products from a counterparty having management framework. The Board has established the a minimum, pre-determined credit rating and which makes Risk Management Committee, which is responsible for a daily market in those securities or financial instruments. executing and monitoring the Group’s risk management policies. The Risk Management Committee reports on A | Credit risk a regular basis to the Board of Directors and its Audit Committee on the committee’s activities and on the Cash, derivatives and other financial instruments evolution of the Group’s derivative portfolio. Generally, the Group limits its exposure to credit risk by only making deposits with, investing in securities issued The Group’s risk management policies are established by and buying protection from counterparties that have a to identify and analyze the risks faced by the Group, to long-term credit rating of at least BBBfrom Standard & set appropriate risk limits and controls, to determine Poor’s and Fitch and Baa3 from Moody’s. Any exception appropriate instruments to protect the Group against risks to this rule must be approved by the Risk Management and to monitor risks and financial limits. Risk management Committee and is closely monitored and reported to the policies and procedures are reviewed as required to reflect Executive Committee and the Board of Directors. Credit changes in market conditions and the Group’s activities. limits for each counterparty are in place and monitored The Group, through its training and management on an ongoing basis. This enables the Group to cap the standards and procedures, aims to develop a disciplined maximum amount of business that can be transacted with and constructive control environment in which employees any given counterparty. Compliance with those credit limits involved in the risk management activity understand is monitored on a daily basis. their respective roles and obligations. The carrying amount of financial assets represents the Risk management policies maximum credit exposure. The Group buys derivatives in order to manage market risks. In connection with purchases of derivatives, the Trade and other receivables Group sometimes also sells derivatives. Such transactions The Group’s exposure to credit risk is influenced mainly are carried out within the risk management framework by the individual characteristics of the customer and the and control mechanisms described below. Where possible demographics of the Group’s customer base, including the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting for those the default risk of the industry and country in which instruments in order to reduce volatility in profit or loss. customers operate. The Group distinguishes between The Group’s risk management policy prohibits short selling countries considered as low risk and countries of higher of options. risk depending on their geographical and political situation and monitors customers on either list separately. Investment policy The primary goal of the Group’s investment policy is to The Credit Committee has established a credit policy under maximize investment returns while always protecting which each new customer not paying through CASS (Cargo the invested capital. To this effect, the Group invests Accounts Settlement Systems) is analyzed individually for excess cash, subject to limits established in its treasury creditworthiness before the Group’s standard payment and policy, in investment funds, bank deposits, zero-coupons delivery terms and conditions are offered. The Group’s review and structured products with a capital guarantee at includes external ratings, when available, and in some cases maturity. The return on structured products depends bank references. Purchase limits are established for each on the performance of the underlying used, which may customer, which represents the maximum open amount be equities, commodities, indices, currencies, securities allowed for trading without requiring approval from the Credit 67 Committee; these limits are reviewed regularly. Customers through CASS and ICH (79.21% in 2014). As of December 31, that fail to meet the Group’s benchmark creditworthiness may 2015, 99.64% (99.22% in 2014) of the total outstanding transact with the Group only on a prepayment basis or if they trade debtors were within the contractual payment terms. can offer collateral e.g. bank guarantees or letters of a credit. The average DSO of trade receivables was 40.4 days in 2015 The creditworthiness of customers paying through CASS is (42.2 days in 2014). In 2015 the Group suffered a credit loss assessed and monitored by IATA which runs this clearing of US$ 0.49 million (2014: US$ 0.08 million). and settlement system on behalf of the cargo carriers. B | Fuel risk Not more than 10% (2014: 10%) of the Group’s revenue is attributable to sales transactions with a single customer. Fuel price The five largest customers of the Group represent 38% The price of fuel significantly affects the Group’s earnings. (2014: 41%) of the net cargo sales. More than 57% (2014: At a 2015 average of US$/tonne 522, the jet market price 61%) of the Group’s customers have been transacting with decreased by US$/tonne 384 compared to the preceding the Group for over four years, and losses have occurred year. The average reflects both the strong fuel market infrequently. In monitoring customer credit risk, customers are prevailing until summer and the substantial price weakening grouped according to their credit characteristics, including during the rest of the year. whether they are an individual or legal entity, whether they are standalone entities or part of a larger group, geographic Fuel hedges location, aging profile, maturity and credit history. Customers To manage its fuel price risk the Group uses derivative that are graded as high risk are closely scrutinized and instruments, mainly options. Call options are purchased as monitored, and future sales are made on a prepayment or insurance against high fuel prices. The Group is protected collateral basis with approval of the Credit Committee. against high fuel prices above the call strike price and pays a premium for this insurance. The worst outcome of this The Group’s credit risk exposure is mitigated by a credit risk strategy would be that the premium is not recovered. Fuel insurance purchased from a professional and international exposures are hedged over time. The hedging portfolio and insurer that retrocedes the risk to the Group’s captive the strategy are reviewed in regular meetings of the Group’s reinsurance company to cover delinquent customer payments. Fuel Risk Management Committee. The Committee works within a Governance framework of Policy and Procedures The Group establishes an allowance for impairment that and actively manages the fuel hedge portfolio regularly represents its estimate of incurred losses in respect of reporting to the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors. trade and other receivables (see note 17). As at December 31, 2015, the fair value of fuel derivatives The maximum exposure to credit risk for trade receivables was as follows: at the reporting date by areas was: In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 Derivative assets 134 7,547 Area I 29,504 41,379 Derivative liabilities – – Area II 85,908 95,011 Balance at January 1 134 7,547 Area III 79,155 100,889 194,567 237,279 Non-qualifying hedges recognized (134) (7,413) in profit and loss Cargolux is a member of the IATA clearing systems CASS (Cargo Derivative assets – 134 Accounts Settlement Systems) and ICH (IATA Clearing House) Derivative liabilities – – commonly used by forwarders and airlines, respectively, to Balance at December 31 – 134 settle payments. In 2015, 78.44% of receivables were cleared 68 None of these positions have been considered for hedge accounting. The Group has taken the decision to stop hedging fuel due to the significant decline of fuel prices, the extreme volatility in the market and the overall efficiency of its own fuel surcharge mechanism. Once this level of efficiency reaches an established trigger level, hedging activities will be reconsidered. C | Currency risk The Group is exposed to currency risk on sales, purchases and borrowings that are denominated in a currency other than the functional currency of the Group. Generally, the Group does not incur non-dollar denominated indebtedness to finance its assets stated in US$ in order to eliminate any related volatility in profit or loss. At the balance sheet date, the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows: In thousands of U.S. Dollar EUR HKD CNY other % of total Deposits with third parties 5,822 125 62 309 15.9 Trade receivables and other receivables 111,820 44,282 27,265 29,598 77.8 Other investments 2,240 – – – 3.2 Cash and cash equivalents 108,875 5,162 22,973 18,706 33.9 Employee benefits (6,691) – – (938) 100.0 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings (65,774) – – – 61.6 Finance lease liabilities (31,846) – – – 1.7 Trade payable and other payables (72,069) (5,418) (4,395) (10,899) 34.6 Taxes payable (18,999) – – (55) 98.7 At the immediately preceding balance sheet date, the Group’s exposure to foreign currency risk was as follows: In thousands of U.S. Dollar EUR HKD CNY other % of total Deposits with third parties 5,550 110 1,061 313 16.5 Trade receivables and other receivables 73,788 50,907 33,526 39,756 72.0 Other investments 54,867 – – – 48.1 Cash and cash equivalents 47,303 3,559 5,049 19,374 24.6 Employee benefits (8,247) – – (900) 100.0 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings – – – – 0.0 Finance lease liabilities (17,916) – – – 1.1 Trade payable and other payables (117,963) (5,576) (5,872) (16,358) 39.7 Taxes payable (22,917) – – (233) 100.0 69 Relevant foreign exchange rates relative to the US$ were as follows: Average rate Reporting date spot rate 2015 2014 2015 2014 EUR 1.11034 1.32902 1.09260 1.21600 HKD 0.12899 0.12895 0.12902 0.12890 CNY 0.15919 0.16231 0.15408 0.16118 Depending on market views, the Company hedges the foreign exchange risk related to payables and receivables through the use of forwards and options. D | Interest rate risk The Group is exposed to interest rate risk on interest payments relating to its on balance sheet debt and on rental payments. Additionally, the Group is also exposed to interest rate risk related to future, non-contingent interest bearing liabilities such as financings for aircraft to be delivered outside the current reporting period. The Group adopts a policy of ensuring that its exposure to increases in interest rates on borrowings is capped or reduced while allowing the Group to benefit to a certain extent from a low interest rate environment. Generally, this objective is achieved by buying caps and selling floors. This strategy is generally deemed preferable than fixing the rate at the time the loan is contracted or the payment liability is crystallized, unless at that time interest rates are deemed to be very low and in which case such rates are locked in via a swap or fixed interest loan, strategy that the Group has pursued in 2015 and is likely to continue to pursue in 2016. Where possible the Group seeks to apply hedge accounting for those instruments in order to reduce volatility in profit or loss. At the reporting date the interest rate profile of the Group’s As at December 31, 2015, the fair value of interest rate interest-bearing financial instruments was: derivatives was a follows: In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 Fixed rate instruments Derivative assets 9,855 9,877 Financial liabilities 1,095,633 945,504 Derivative liabilities (70,280) (89,038) Balance at January 1 (60,425) (79,161) Floating rate instruments Net change 15,781 13,546 in fair value recognized in equity Financial assets 528,814 420,191 Non-qualifying hedges Financial liabilities 919,734 926,208 (855) 5,190 recognized in profit and loss Interest rate derivatives Derivative assets 8,561 9,855 Nominal amount of underlying Derivative liabilities (54,060) (70,280) financings in place at the balance 736,207 804,759 sheet date Balance at December 31 (45,499) (60,425) 70 71 E | Liquidity risk The Group’s approach to manage liquidity risk is to ensure that it will have sufficient liquidity to meet its liabilities when due, under both normal and stressed conditions. Major known 2016 liabilities and how the Group expects to cover same is discussed below. The Group is subject to loan covenants for some of its borrowing and finance lease arrangements, which in case of breach, unless waived, would entitle the lending parties to demand prepayment of the loan. Financial covenants require the Group to respect certain balance sheet, interest and rental coverage ratios. Under one such covenant EBITDAR (Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation, amortization and rentals) must cover 1.3 times net interest expense plus rentals for the period and under the second covenant the shareholders’ equity must represent at least 16.7% of total liabilities. As at December 31, 2015, the Group was in compliance with this and all other contractual financial covenants. The following are the contractual maturities of liabilities: Carrying Contracted Further In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2016 2017 2018 amount cash flows than 2018 Interest-bearing liabilities (105,905) (142,862) (11,331) (11,676) (11,745) (108,110) Finance lease liabilities (1,830,503) (2,206,401) (288,882) (271,064) (238,466) (1,407,989) Trade payables and other payables (250,237) (250,550) (241,901) (2,202) (1,654) (4,793) Derivative liabilities (54,060) (55,720) (18,256) (11,335) (8,272) (17,857) (2,240,705) (2,655,533) (560,370) (296,277) (260,137) (1,538,749) In addition to routine capital repayment under interest bearing loans, finance lease liabilities and rentals under operating leases, the Group foresees the following payments during the year immediately following the balance sheet date: · Capital expenditures relating to aircraft components (approximately US$ 83.9 million). · Payment of the last anti-trust fine installment of US$ 22.0 million to the Department of Justice (US DoJ). The Group will be able to meet its financial obligations in 2016 out of a mix of the proceeds of operating cash flows, PDP repayments from Boeing and the facilities mentioned below. The level of liquidity of the Group at the balance sheet date is expected to be maintained by the following additional measures during 2016: · The Group intends to close a US$ 45 million refinancing of two debt-free B747-400F. · The Group maintains credit lines to ensure that it will be able to face its obligations when they fall due. As at December 31, 2015, the Group had the following committed credit lines (i.e. lines with respect of which the Group pays commitment fees) available for drawing: US$ 36.8 million (US$ 27.5 million and EUR 8.5 million) with a maturity ranging from June to December 2016. F | Sensitivity analysis In managing currency, interest rate and fuel price risks, the Group seeks to reduce the impact of shortto medium-term changes in values on the Group’s budgeted earnings and cash flows. Over the longer term, however, permanent changes in any or all of the above would have a material impact on earnings and cash flows. 72 For the year 2015, it is estimated that a general increase/decrease of one percentage point in interest rates would have decreased/increased the Group’s profit before tax before marked-to-market of derivative instruments by respectively approximately US$ 0.4 million and US$ 0.6 million. Interest rate swaps and other hedging instruments that were in place at that time have been included in this calculation. It is estimated that a general increase/decrease of one percentage point in the value of the US dollar against other foreign currencies throughout the year would have decreased/increased the Group’s profit before tax by approximately US$ 8.3 million. No forward exchange contracts or other hedging instruments were in place at that time. It is estimated that an increase/decrease of US$/tonne 50 in the price of jet fuel (basis barges Rotterdam) over a one-year period would have increased/decreased the Group’s fuel bill by around US$ 55 million. The impact on the Income statement of a fuel price increase can to a large extent be mitigated by cash inflows from the fuel surcharge program and in addition fuel hedging. G | Fair values The fair values of financial assets and liabilities, together with the carrying amounts shown in the balance sheet, are as follows: December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 In thousands of U.S. Dollar Carrying amount Fair value Carrying amount Fair value Assets carried at fair value Other investments 23,464 23,464 17,583 17,583 Interest rate transactions through profit and loss 8,561 8,561 9,855 9,855 Fuel derivative contracts through profit and loss – – 134 134 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging – – 123 123 32,025 32,025 27,695 27,695 Assets carried at amortized costs Loans and receivables 293,357 293,357 284,515 284,515 Cash and cash equivalents 459,687 459,687 306,046 306,046 753,044 753,044 590,561 590,561 Liabilities carried at fair value Interest rate transactions used for hedging (54,060) (54,060) (70,280) (70,280) Forward exchange contracts used for hedging – – – – (54,060) (54,060) (70,280) (70,280) Liabilities carried at amortized cost Secured bank loans (41,071) (36,558) (71,361) (65,475) Unsecured bond issues (65,556) (56,579) (100,000) (95,417) Finance lease liabilities (1,908,740) (1,562,452) (1,699,414) (1,407,823) Unsecured bank loan – – – – Trade and other payables (241,589) (241,589) (255,171) (255,171) (2,256,956) (1,897,178) (2,125,946) (1,823,886) The basis for determining fair values is discussed in note 4. 73 H | Fair values hierarchy December 31, 2015 December 31, 2014 In thousands of U.S. Dollar Level 1 Level 2 Total Level 1 Level 2 Total Other investments 23,464 – 23,464 12,484 5,099 17,583 Interest rate transactions through profit and loss – 8,561 8,561 – 9,855 9,855 Fuel derivative contracts through profit and loss – – – – 134 134 Forward exchange contracts used for hedging – – – – 123 123 23,464 8,561 32,025 12,484 15,211 27,695 Interest rate transactions used for hedging – (54,060) (54,060) – (70,280) (70,280) Forward exchange contracts used for hedging – – – – – – – (54,060) (54,060) – (70,280) (70,280) Level 1: quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities Level 2: inputs other than prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. as prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices) Level 3: inputs for the asset or liability that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs) Fair values determined for disclosure purposes on assets and liabilities carried at cost are considered level 3. 74 6. Revenues In November 2014, the operating lease aircraft LX-VCC performing a freight flight experienced a hard landing in Libreville, resulting in structural damages. The aircraft was In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 repaired and re-entered into service in April 2015. Cargo sales 1,822,621 2,106,961 Maintenance revenues 19,331 25,575 9. Aircraft maintenance expenses Trucking, handling and other services 14,344 15,951 1,856,296 2,148,487 In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 Cargo sales represent revenues directly related to the Engine repair and overhaul 30,395 23,492 Group’s core business, i.e. air freight, net of customer Engine reserve 11,391 9,162 incentives and rebates. The largest contributors to net Heavy maintenance ( C-checks turnover were Area II (Europe, Middle East, Pakistan & (438) (327) and D-checks on dry leased aircraft) Africa) traffic with 41.9% (2014: 43.9%), followed by Area Component and brakes repair 10,328 10,349 III (Asia & Pacific) traffic with 38.6% (2014: 36.8%), with the Stock consumption 12,068 10,724 balance accounted for by Area I (the Americas) and charter Line maintenance at stations 7,485 8,192 traffic with 19.5% (2014: 19.3%). Other maintenance expenses 14,147 11,786 85,376 73,378 7. Other operating income As of January 2014, the Group capitalizes the cost of engine shop visits and depreciates the related cost over an In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 average period of 3,700 cycles up to the next shop visit. Gain / (loss) on sale of property, (514) (520) Heavy maintenance cost includes provision releases of plant and equipment aircraft under operating lease contract. Miscellaneous 5,344 6,913 4,830 6,393 10. Personnel costs and benefits Miscellaneous includes mainly credits received from third parties. In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 By category of expenses 8. Aircraft lease expenses Salaries, overtime, 13 th month 190,134 208,157 Social security 21,831 23,695 In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 Employee benefits Expenses related to defined benefit plans 553 450 Aircraft rentals under dry leases 38,741 36,794 Expenses related to defined contribution plans 5,141 5,742 Return conditions provision 423 2,748 Other (accident and invalidity insurance) 7,071 6,757 in respect of dry leased aircraft 39,164 39,542 Training and sundry personnel charges 12,130 12,400 236,860 257,201 At the balance sheet date the Group dry leased the Personnel costs and benefits decreased due mainly to the following aircraft: LX-ACV, LX-DCV, LX-ECV, LX-OCV, weak Euro as the major portion of the Group’s salary cost LX-JCV, LX-FCL, LX-WCV and LX-VCC. is incurred in Europe. 75 Average number of staff by category 2015 2014 Active Flight Operations (including crews) 596 564 Sales and Marketing 292 535 Maintenance 445 422 Finance and Administration 138 98 General Management (Corporate Division) 48 39 Operation Management (Aviation Safety, Quality Assurance) – 19 Legal and Compliance Division 46 33 Commercial Planning 34 – Global Logistics 218 – Corporate Development 2 – 1,819 1,710 Other Reclassified staff 3 3 Employees on early retirement 14 16 Apprentices 10 10 1,846 1,739 As of December 31, 2015 1,567 (2014: 1,504) employees were based in countries of the European Union, of which 1,335 in Luxembourg (2014: 1,305). The collective work agreement (CWA) covering Luxembourg based staff other than managers and exempt employees was cancelled on December 29, 2014. The terms and conditions of this CWA remained in force until November 30, 2015. A new CWA entered into force on December 1, 2015 covering the years 2015 to 2018. 76 11. Other operating expenses In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 GSA commissions 13,528 15,722 IT services 22,426 25,309 Travel & entertainment 26,911 24,864 Office and office equipment (rental and maintenance) 17,469 19,386 Legal, audit and consulting fees 16,860 13,457 Other aircraft expenses 9,357 7,353 Purchase, maint. & repairs of ULD & packing material 3,644 821 Office & printing material 3,485 2,405 Net worth tax 3,581 2,240 Anti-trust – 10,626 Foreign exchange loss, net 8,370 15,464 Miscellaneous 9,368 17,933 134,999 155,580 GSA commissions represent commissions payable to the Group’s general sales agents. Legal, audit and consulting fees include US$ 4.4 million (in 2014: US$ 5.6 million) related to the anti-trust cases in various jurisdiction which are entirely provisioned (see also note 23). Legal, audit and consulting fees also include an amount of US$ 0.38 million (in 2014: US$ 0.51 million) accrued for audit fees and an amount of US$ 0.09 million (in 2014: US$ 0.18 million) paid for tax services to KPMG. 77 12. Net finance costs Recognized in profit or loss In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 Net change in fair value of financial instruments – 4,271 Interest income on bank deposits 3,057 3,046 Interest on loans and receivables 3,700 2,949 Other financial income (IATA call day adjustments, discounts received) 310 387 Financial income 7,067 10,653 Interest expense (74,571) (65,922) Net change in fair value of financial instruments (1,172) (44) Accrued interest on net present value of provisions and liabilities (1,570) (2,451) Other financial expenses (bank charges, loan agency fees, CASS commissions) 3,645 (2,785) Financial expenses (73,668) (71,202) Net finance costs (66,601) (60,549) Recognized in other comprehensive income In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 Effective portion of changes in fair value of interest cash flow hedges 15,790 14,501 Net change in fair value of cash flow hedges transferred to profit or loss (9) (955) Income tax on finance income and finance costs recognized in other comprehensive income (4,611) (4,026) Finance income recognized in other comprehensive income, net of tax 11,170 9,520 13. Income tax expense In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 Current tax expense Current year (23,498) (32,252) (23,498) (32,252) Deferred tax expense Origination and reversal of temporary differences (14,017) 5,443 Use / (Benefit) of tax losses 14,017 (5,443) – – Total income tax expense in income statement (23,498) (32,252) Income tax expense recognized in other comprehensive income 4,922 2,946 Origination and reversal of temporary differences mainly relates to different depreciation periods on aircraft and derivative accounting. 78 Reconciliation of effective tax rate In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2015 2014 2014 Profit / (loss) before tax 25,981 (29,398) Income tax using the domestic rate 29.22% 7,592 29.27% (8,605) Share of profit of associates (7) 142 Effect of current tax in foreign branches 65 (328) Non-deductible expenses / Non-taxable income (2,194) 8,638 Benefits of tax credits through finance lease (24,978) (32,772) Unrecognized DTA (3,930) 661 Tax exempt revenues (46) (47) Effect of change in tax rate – 59 Income tax expense (23,498) (32,252) The Group is subject to corporate income tax, municipal business tax and net worth tax in Luxembourg. The Group is also subject to certain taxes in foreign tax jurisdictions in which it maintains permanent establishments. In 2008, the determination of the tax basis of assets and liabilities and the related taxable income were changed and resulted in tax losses which are amortized over a period of six years. As of 2014, management has revised its accounting policy in the context of credits received related to ITC benefits generated indirectly through finance lease structures. The benefits were previously recognized as a reduction of the assets’ cost and depreciated over the useful life of the assets. These benefits are now recognized as a tax credit and therefore recorded in the income statement under Current tax as ITC benefits generated directly by the acquisition of the aircraft. In 2015, these benefits amounted to US$ 25.0 million (2014: US$ 32.7 million). Unutilized ITC benefits to-date generated through the acquisition of aircraft have not been recognized as a deferred tax asset and are reassessed on a regular basis. The reassessment of these benefits is linked to their expiry dates and they are not expected to be used due to the tax losses incurred in 2008, 2009 and from 2011 to 2014. As per the latest business plan, nil of ITC amounting to US$ 95.0 million (2014: US$ 95.5 million) was recognized as a deferred tax asset (in 2014: nil). In addition, an amount of US$ 7.3 million (2014: US$ 11.3 million) of deferred tax assets on tax losses was not recognized (see note 16). 79 14. Property, plant and equipment Payments on Aircraft and Land and Other accounts and In thousands of U.S. Dollar Total equipment buildings equipment assets in course of construction Cost at beginning of year 2,652,049 9,445 61,392 95,523 2,818,409 Acquisitions 371,221 101 2,182 26,195 399,699 Transfer from assets under construction 24,315 758 538 (25,611) – Reimbursement of advance payments – – – (50,880) (50,880) Disposals (note 7) (7,135) – (206) (57) (7,398) At end of year 3,040,450 10,304 63,906 45,170 3,159,830 Accumulated depreciation at beginning of year (716,964) (8,090) (40,431) (2,737) (768,222) Charge for the year (154,052) (593) (3,787) – (158,432) Impairment loss (44,335) – – – (44,335) Adjustments for disposals 2,409 – 206 – 2,615 At end of year (912,942) (8,683) (44,012) (2,737) (968,374) Net book value as of December 31, 2015 2,127,508 1,621 19,894 42,433 2,191,456 Net book value as of December 31, 2014 1,935,085 1,355 20,961 92,786 2,050,187 Change in estimates During 2014, the Company reassessed the residual values of the B747-400F airframes and decided to reduce those by almost 40%. In addition, management revised its estimate of depreciation of engines. Certain elements of depreciation are now based on the usage of the engine rather than on the passage of time. This better reflects the cost of usage of the assets. Impairment loss As of December 31, 2015, the Group reviewed the carrying amount of aircraft in light of current market condition. Following the review and the subsequent impairment tests applied, the carrying amount of several assets exceeded their recoverable amount. Accordingly the Company recognized an impairment loss of US$ 41.2 million (2014: US$ 39.8 million) against these aircraft. The estimate of value in use was determined using a pre-tax discount rate of 8% (2014: 7%). 80 Aircraft subject to finance leases The Group leases aircraft under finance lease agreements LX-RCV, LX-SCV, LX-TCV, LX-UCV, LX-VCV, LX-YCV, LX-VCB, LX-VCD, LX-VCE, LX-VCF, LX-VCG, LX-VCA, LX-VCH, LX-VCI, LX-VCK, LX-VCJ, LX-VCL and LX-VCM (2014: LX-RCV, LX-SCV, LX-TCV, LX-UCV, LX-VCV, LX-YCV, LX-VCB, LX-VCD, LX-VCE, LX-VCF, LX-VCG, LX-VCA, LX-VCH, LX-VCI, LX-VCK and LX-VCJ). At the end of each of the leases the Group has the option to purchase the aircraft at a preferential or favorable price. At December 31, 2015, the net carrying amount of leased aircraft under finance leases was US$ 2,020 million (2014: US$ 1,849 million). Security At December 31, 2015, aircraft and equipment with a carrying amount of US$ 2,069 million (2014: US$ 1,889 million) are subject to mortgages to secure the bank loans relating to LX-RCV, LX-SCV, LX-TCV, LX-UCV, LX-VCV, LX-YCV, LX-VCB, LX-VCD, LX-VCE, LX-VCF, LX-VCG, LX-VCA, LX-VCH, LX-VCI, LX-VCK, LX-VCJ, LX-VCL, LX-VCM and four GEnx spare engines (2014: LX-RCV, LX-SCV, LX-TCV, LX-UCV, LX-VCV, LX-YCV, LX-VCB, LX-VCD, LX-VCE, LX-VCF, LX-VCG, LX-VCA, LX-VCH, LX-VCI, LX-VCK, LX-VCJ and three GEnx spare engines). On May 28, 2008 the Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg ratified the Cape Town Convention on international interests in mobile equipment (Cape Town 2001). The convention was enacted into Luxembourg law effective of December 12, 2008. Some of the Group’s aircraft are subject to a mortgage registration in the Cape Town registry. Capitalized borrowing costs Assets under construction include capitalization of borrowing costs for an amount of US$ 0.9 million (2014: US$ 2.4 million). The average interest rate used during the year for interest capitalization is 4.5% (2014: 3.8%). 81 Deposits with third parties Advance payments to aircraft manufacturers are recorded under Other property, plant and equipment or Deposits with third parties depending on whether or not the Group keeps the risks and rewards of the aircraft under the intended financing structure. 15. Investments in associates and joint ventures The Group has the following investments in associates and joint ventures: Ownership Country 2015 2014 Champ Cargosystems S.A. Luxembourg 49% 49% 8F Leasing S.A. Luxembourg 33% 33% Global Aviation Technical Solutions GB (BVI) Ltd. British Virgin Islands 50% 50% In 2015, the Group made a contribution in kind to GATS amounting to US$ 4.9 million (2014: US$ 2.8 million). Summary financial information for equity accounted investees, not adjusted for the percentage of ownership held by the Group: Carrying Profit / In thousands of U.S. Dollar Ownership Assets Equity Liabilities Revenues amount (Loss) 2015 Champ Cargosystems S.A. (associate) 49% 27,106 68,552 32,981 35,570 58,555 2,650 8F Leasing S.A. (associate) 33% 5,757 139,851 11,570 128,281 12,396 (2,362) Global Aviation Technical Solutions 50% 20,738 41,678 41,429 249 5,570 (1,076) GB (BVI) Ltd. (joint venture) 53,600 250,081 85,980 164,099 76,520 (788) 2014 Champ Cargosystems S.A. (associate) 49% 28,420 72,876 32,710 40,166 64,403 2,960 8F Leasing S.A. (associate) 33% 6,544 151,665 13,932 137,733 11,698 (2,052) Global Aviation Technical Solutions 50% 16,411 31,835 32,832 (997) 4,855 (565) GB (BVI) Ltd. (joint venture) 51,375 256,376 79,474 176,902 80,956 343 82 83 16. Deferred tax assets and liabilities Deferred tax assets and liabilities are attributable to the following: Assets Liabilities Net In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 Aircraft and equipment 9,352 4,197 – – 9,352 4,197 Other property, plant and equipment – – (634) – (634) – Derivative assets – – (2,030) (2,352) (2,030) (2,352) Trade receivables and other receivables – – (1,944) (2,069) (1,944) (2,069) Other investments 1,007 726 – – 1,007 726 Finance lease liabilities 6,989 – – (60) 6,989 (60) Employee benefits 461 647 – – 461 647 Derivative liabilities 10,475 12,972 – – 10,475 12,972 Trade and other payables 4,165 5,647 – – 4,165 5,647 Provisions – – (17,292) (17,755) (17,292) (17,755) Benefit of tax losses brought forward – – – – – – Tax credit on loss carry forward 38,468 51,987 – – 38,468 51,987 Tax assets / (liabilities) 70,917 76,176 (21,900) (22,236) 49,017 53,940 Deferred tax assets – – – – – – Deferred tax liabilities (21,900) (22,236) 21,900 22,236 – – Net tax assets 49,017 53,940 – – 49,017 53,940 Deferred tax assets and liabilities are presented net because the Group has the legal right to offset. Deferred tax adjustments of US$ 4.9 million were recognized in equity in 2015 and US$ 2.9 million in 2014 (see note 13). An ITC for an amount of US$ 95.0 million (2014: US$ 95.5 million) and deferred tax assets on tax losses amounting to US$ 7.3 million (2014: US$ 11.3 million) were not recognized (see note 13). 84 17. Trade receivables 18. Other investments and other receivables In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 Trade receivables of US$ 203.8 million (2014: US$ 248.5 million) are shown net of any impairment losses recognized in the Restricted cash 45,663 96,562 current year. Securities held at fair value 23,464 17,583 through profit and loss In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 69,127 114,145 Trade receivables 203,814 248,476 Restricted cash comprises an amount of US$ 42.6 million Prepaid expenses 18,604 15,093 (2014: 37.5 million) of pledged deposits related to aircraft Advances paid to suppliers 4,154 3,443 financings and an amount of US$ 2.2 million (2014: VAT 8,478 7,258 US$ 56.2 million) securing letters of credit issued on behalf Derivative assets 1,612 2,103 of the Group. Other receivables 58,307 10,245 294,969 286,618 Cash and securities for an amount of US$ 0.8 million (2014: US$ 2.7 million) are pledged as collateral in derivative Prepaid expenses include security deposits made in transactions. connection with operating leases, rental payments made in advance and other prepayments. Other receivables include an amount which has been received in February 2016 from the EU Commission after the EU General Court ruled in favor of the Company and annulled the EU Commission’s 2010 decision. 85 19. Cash and cash equivalents The extraordinary general meeting of shareholders of September 8, 2011 resolved to renew for a period of 5 years the Company’s authorized capital of US$ 100 million IIn thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 and grant authorization to the Board of Directors to issue such instruments. On February 7, 2013, the Board of Bank balances 99,992 93,879 Directors approved the issue of up to US$ 100 million Short term deposits 351,304 204,734 interest-bearing mandatorily convertible bonds, with a Money market funds 8,391 7,433 maturity of 2 years. The mandatorily convertible bonds Cash and cash equivalents were originally issued to Luxair, BCEE and SNCI on in the statement 459,687 306,046 March 27, 2013 and have been converted into ordinary of cash flows shares on March 27, 2015 using the authorized share capital (see note 21). 20. Capital and reserves Reserves Share capital and main shareholders Reserves comprise the legal reserve, various nondistributable reserves, the free reserve and the hedging In thousands of U.S. Dollar reserves. 2015 2014 excluding share numbers Legal reserve Issued and subscribed 20,939,223 registered Under Luxembourg corporate law, the Company must common shares of no par value 525,007 425,007 allocate at least 5% of the statutory annual net profit to a (2014: 16,950,857) legal reserve until this reserve reaches 10% of the issued share capital. The legal reserve is not available for dividend At balance sheet date the main shareholders are: distributions. 2015 2014 Net worth tax reserve Luxair 35.1% 35.1% To forego payment of the net worth tax, the Company HNCA 35.0% 35.0% has utilized the option provided by Luxembourg law and Banque et decided to constitute and maintain a restricted reserve 10.9% 10.9% Caisse d’Epargne de l’Etat (BCEE) as of fiscal year 2003. Any dividend payments from this SNCI 10.7% 10.7% reserve during the restricted period would suffer tax. Luxembourg State 8.3% 8.3% Hedging reserve As at December 31, 2015, the share capital of the Company is represented by 20,939,223 common shares which are The hedging reserve comprises the effective portion of the fully paid in. cumulative net change in the fair value of cash flow hedge accounted derivative instruments. On April 23, 2014, the share sale transaction, involving the purchase by HNCA from the Luxembourg State of 3,489,926 common shares representing 35% of the share capital and the voting rights in the Company, as well as 1,395,928 mandatorily convertible bonds issued by the Company, was closed. 86 21. Interest-bearing loans and borrowings and finance lease liabilities This note provides information about the contractual terms of the Group’s interest-bearing loans and borrowings. For more information about the Group’s exposure to interest rate and foreign currency risk, see also note 5 C and D. In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 Non-current liabilities Secured bank loans 34,688 29,004 Convertible bonds 100,000 Unsecured bank loans (Schuldschein) 65,556 Loan originated costs (769) (531) Total: 99,475 128,473 Finance lease liabilities 1,673,270 1,533,534 Loan originated costs (75,220) (66,195) Total: 1,598,050 1,467,339 Grand total: 1,697,525 1,595,812 Current liabilities Interest payable on current and non-current liabilities 6,862 6,550 Loan originated costs (9,869) (8,830) Current portion of secured bank loans 6,383 42,357 Current portion of finance lease liabilities 235,507 166,817 Total: 238,883 206,894 Terms and debt repayment schedule Terms and conditions of outstanding loans were as follows: In thousands Currency Nominal interest rate Year of maturity Principal amount Principal amount of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 Secured bank loans US$ Fixed 2011, 2022 41,071 33,515 Unsecured bank loans EUR Euribor 6M + margin 2020 65,556 Secured PDP loans US$ Libor 1M + margin 2015 37,846 Convertible bonds US$ Libor 3M + margin 2015 100,000 2016, 2017, Fixed, Libor 6M + margin, 2020, 2023, Finance lease liabilities US$ EIB 3M + margin, 1,908,777 1,700,351 2024, 2025, Libor 3M + margin 2026, 2027 Total interest2,015,404 1,871,712 bearing liabilities The maturity analysis is provided in note 5 E. 87 Finance lease liabilities Finance lease liabilities are repayable as follows: Minimum lease Minimum lease In thousands Interest Principal Interest Principal payments payments of U.S. Dollar 2015 2015 2015 2014 2014 2014 Less than one year 280,354 44,847 235,507 199,787 32,969 166,817 Between one and five years 959,221 153,819 805,402 849,385 127,965 721,420 More than five years 971,504 103,636 867,868 895,978 83,864 812,114 2,211,079 302,302 1,908,777 1,945,150 244,798 1,700,351 Under the terms of the lease agreements, no contingent rents are payable. Capital Ratios 22. Employee benefits In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 Outstanding loans 105,905 170,769 Fair value of plan assets (7,729) (8,387) Outstanding finance Present value of net obligations 12,812 14,659 1,830,503 1,631,937 lease obligations Recognized liability for defined 5,083 6,272 Total debt 1,936,408 1,802,706 benefit obligations (see below) Less cash and cash equivalents Other employee benefits 2,546 2,874 (528,814) (420,191) and other investments Total employee benefits 7,629 9,146 Net debt 1,407,594 1,382,515 Present value of future lease payments 184,509 222,193 The Group maintains defined benefit and defined contribution Adjusted net debt 1,592,103 1,604,708 pension schemes for its staff in Luxembourg. Effective Equity 822,996 664,128 January 1, 1997, the terms of the pension plan were amended Net debt/equity 171.0% 208.2% for all staff who had not reached retirement age at that date. Adjusted net debt/equity 193.5% 241.6% All staff who had retired at this date continue to be covered by the previous plan. Under the new schemes (covering under identical vesting rules the crews and the ground staff See also note 5 E above. covered by collective work agreements and the managers), retirement benefits are generally paid in one lump sum. The rights to pension benefits commence at entry into service date and are fully vested after five years of service. The Group’s pension fund obligations (other than the liabilities with respect of the pensioners at January 1, 1997) and related assets were transferred to a life insurance company in 2002 and are held separately from the Group. The Group is current with respect of its payment obligations of the annual premiums due under the Group’s pension schemes and such premiums are expensed under Personnel costs and benefits. 88 The Group also maintains separate insurance schemes Expense recognized in the income statement providing for death, orphan, widow and disability benefits. These schemes are covered by an insurance plan and the In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 related insurance premiums are reflected as a current year operating expense. Current service costs 433 310 Interest on pension obligation 120 140 The Cargolux defined benefit scheme is not a multiemployer scheme and sufficient information is available 553 450 to determine the obligation, plan assets and costs to the Group. The funding requirements are determined pursuant The expense is recognized in Personnel costs and benefits. to the projected unit funding method and the pension cost and provision have been assessed by a third party Principal actuarial assumptions at the balance sheet date qualified actuary. The latest full pension scheme valuation (expressed as weighted averages): was performed by the scheme’s actuaries in January 2016. 2015 2014 Movements in the net liability for defined benefit obligations recognized in the balance sheet Discount rate at December 31 2.25% 2.00% Expected return on plan In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 2.25% 2.00% assets at December 31 Net liability for defined benefit 6,272 3,494 Assumptions regarding future mortality are based on obligations at January 1 published statistics and mortality tables. Contributions received (347) (65) Pension payments (400) (445) Expense recognized in the 553 450 income statement (see below) Foreign exchange impact (636) (416) Remeasurements (359) 3,254 Net liability for defined benefit obligations 5,083 6,272 at December 31 89 23. Provisions Heavy Return cost In thousands of U.S. Dollar Anti-trust Legal maintenance Total provision program Balance at January 1, 2015 16,516 5,900 8,391 5,731 36,538 Provisions made during the year – 4,385 2,387 596 7,368 Effect of net present value on provisions – – 73 353 426 Provisions used during the year (11,211) (4,285) – (2,021) (17,517) Provisions reversed during the year – – (1,964) (1,031) (2,995) Transfer from payable (Note 24) 87,299 – – – 87,299 Effect of foreign exchange (675) – – 1 (674) Balance at December 31, 2015 91,929 6,000 8,887 3,629 110,445 Non-current 87,299 – 3,071 2,907 93,277 Current 4,630 6,000 5,816 722 17,168 91,929 6,000 8,887 3,629 110,445 In 2015, provisions were recognized to cover the Group against remaining liability risks from pending anti-trust related civil proceedings. 90 The return cost provision of US$ 8.9 million represents 25. Operating leases the net present value of maintenance cost expected to be incurred to deliver the aircraft under operating leases Non-cancellable operating lease rentals are payable as follows: to the lessor at lease-end in conformity with the delivery conditions stipulated in the respective lease agreements. In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 The Group provides for two (2014: two) leased aircraft the Less than one year 35,279 33,568 cost of major aircraft overhaul or so-called D-checks and the related costs are recognized to operating expenses in the line Between one and five years 92,431 113,073 item Aircraft maintenance expenses, based on the estimated More than five years 72,057 96,319 remaining number of years until the next major overhaul. The present value of minimum lease payments related to operating leases of aircraft and the hangar facility 24. Trade payables amounted to US$ 184.5 million (2014: US$ 222.2 million) at and other payables the balance sheet date. This present value was calculated using actual rental terms and a discount factor equal to Libor, respectively Euribor end of the year rates. In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 Trade payables 60,887 74,701 26. Capital commitments Accruals for: General and administration 16,149 14,666 At the balance sheet date, the Group had firm purchase Maintenance 21,209 14,954 orders for one B747-8F aircraft to be delivered in 2017. This Fuel 8,589 11,846 delivery will take the total number of B747-8F in the fleet Handling, landing and overflying 37,494 38,666 to fourteen. Based on prices published by manufacturers Trucking, truck handling the total investment amount pertaining to this B747-8F 10,897 7,611 and interlining is close to US$ 0.4 billion. Incentive and worldwide commissions 16,888 21,277 Staff related costs 14,730 11,765 The Group constantly reviews its investment program to Derivatives liabilities 18,210 25,925 align it to the extent possible with the market environment. Anti-trust 22,092 96,314 In connection with aircraft purchases, the Group routinely Amount owed to related parties 3,204 3,377 makes down payments to manufacturers. Such advance Deferred income 30,086 37,912 payments are recorded under Other property, plant Miscellaneous 8,012 8,489 and equipment or Deposits with third parties depending Total trade payables 268,447 367,503 on whether or not the Group keeps the risks and rewards and other payables of the aircraft. of which current 259,799 281,095 of which non-current 8,648 86,408 27. Contingencies On December 16, 2015, the EU General Court ruled in favor Legal proceedings of the Company and annulled the EU Commission’s 2010 decision that imposed a fine of EUR 79.9 million against The Group is party to legal proceedings, both as defendant the Company. Due to potential re-adoption of the decision, and claimant, from time to time in the normal course of its the Group transferred the amount previously recognized business. In addition, the Group was subject to investigations as payable to provision (see note 23). and proceedings from anti-trust authorities in the US, EU, 91 Canada, Australia, New Zealand, South Africa, South Korea The Group has transactions and balances with government and Switzerland in connection with a worldwide investigation agencies and administrations that are customary to any entity of air cargo carriers regarding alleged violations of antiand which have not been disclosed as a related party below. trust laws. At balance sheet date, the Group had reached settlements with and/or accepted penalties imposed by the Key management personnel and directors competition authorities in the US, Canada, Australia, New Zealand, Switzerland, South Africa and South Korea. On In addition to their salaries, the Group also provides cash December 16, 2015, the EU General Court ruled in favor of (described below) and non-cash benefits (company car the Group and annulled the EU Commission’s 2010 decision and fuel card) to members of the Executive Committee that imposed a fine of EUR 79.9 million against the Group. At and 4 area vice-presidents and contributes (as for other balance sheet date, it is uncertain whether the EU Commission Group employees) to a defined contribution plan and to an will appeal the Court’s judgment. Management was advised accident/invalidity insurance on their behalf. by external counsel of the likelihood that the Commission may re-adopt its earlier decision, irrespective of whether or not they The compensations of the Executive Committee and heads appeal. Such re-adoption process would result in exposure to of areas are as follows: a new fine, and additional legal costs for the Group. In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 In the wake of the anti-trust proceedings, civil lawsuits were launched in the USA, Canada, England, the Salaries and profit sharing 5,611 7,276 Netherlands, New Zealand, Norway, South Korea, Germany Contribution to pension scheme and Australia against a number of air carriers, including 1,546 1,108 and accident/invalidity insurance against the Group. The Group won its case in New Zealand 7,157 8,384 and the plaintiff did not appeal, making the decision final. At the date of this report, none of the civil proceedings launched in European countries and based on the annulled These amounts, which are paid in euros, are included in EU Commission decision were discontinued. The Group Personnel costs and benefits (see note 10). settled the class action claims in the USA, Canada and Australia in previous years. As regards the USA, the final Directors are given an annual fee for their supervisory work class action opt-out claim was settled in 2015. on behalf of the Group. In addition Board members who sit on the Compensation Committee or the Audit Committee of In 2015 and prior periods, the Group constituted provisions the Board are paid attendance fees. The total remuneration to cover the Group’s exposure with respect to the anti-trust of Directors was as follows: related proceedings (see also notes 11 and 23). In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 28. Related parties Directors 435 575 Identity of related parties Shareholders The Group has a related party relationship with shareholders, its subsidiaries, joint ventures, associates and with its The Group paid landing fees to the Administration de la directors and executive officers. Navigation Aérienne . The amount charged to operations for such services was US$ 6.0 million (2014: US$ 11.3 million). The Group is an entity that is controlled by the State of GrandDuchy of Luxembourg directly and indirectly via its shareholders. The Group paid handling fees and other service charges to The Group uses the exemption in IAS 24 and discloses below Luxair in Luxembourg. The amount charged to operations for only the individual significant related party transactions. such services was US$ 74.9 million (2014: US$ 74.7 million). 92 93 The Group paid interest of US$ 1.3 million (2014: Structured entities US$ 5.3 million) on the mandatorily convertible bonds. A number of structures entities have been established for Interest and commissions of approximately US$ 0.02 million the purpose of aircraft financing, notably in the context (2014: US$ 0.16 million) were paid in 2015 and of finance leases. Given the nature of the contractual US$ 0.46 million (2014: US$ 0.03 million) of investment arrangements, the assets and liabilities are shown on the income was received in 2015 from banks which are balance sheet in accordance with accounting policy 3 C. shareholders. The Group did not pay any commitment fees in 2015 29. Group entities (2014: US$ 0.6 million) for a credit line guarantee to the State of Grand-Duchy of Luxembourg. Subsidiaries The Group receives freight and maintenance revenues Country of Direct from Luxair. The amount invoiced was approximately incorporation ownership US$ 1.0 million (2014: US$ 0.6 million). 2015 2014 Joint ventures and associates Cargolux RE S.A. Luxembourg 100% 100% Cargolux Italia S.p.A. Italy 40% 40% During the year ended December 31, 2015 the Group Italia Aerologistics S.R.L. Italy 98% 98% paid US$ 25.4 million (2014: US$ 32.1 million) for IT Luxfresh S.A. Luxembourg 100% – services to Champ Cargosystems S.A., overhead fees of US$ 0.7 million (2014: US$ 1.1 million) to Global Aviation Technical Solutions SECS and aircraft rentals of US$ 12.4 million (2014: US$ 11.7 million) to subsidiaries 30. Accounting estimates of 8F Leasing S.A.. and judgments Year end balances arising from sales purchases and Certain critical accounting judgments in applying the services are as follows: Group’s accounting policies are described below. Accounts receivable and deposit with related parties: Finance and operating leases The Group entered into a lease arrangement in relation In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 with the hangar it operates in Luxembourg. The lease contains three extension options for incremental five Associates and Joint Venture 19,994 16,518 year lease periods. This option can be exercised for the Shareholders 170,854 133,860 first time on the 15 th anniversary of the lease, i.e. on 190,848 150,378 June 15, 2024. Accounts payable and loan from related parties: In determining lease classification the Group evaluated whether substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership were In thousands of U.S. Dollar 2015 2014 transferred to the Group. Specifically, it was not considered as reasonably certain, at the inception of the lease, that the Group will operate the hangar beyond fifteen years. Associates and Joint Venture 4,563 4,601 Shareholders 4,101 102,411 Based on this judgment, it is concluded that the lease is 8,664 107,012 an operating lease. 94 Deferred tax asset and investment tax credits Residual values of aircraft Deferred tax assets are recognized on tax losses and/or Management estimates of residual values and carrying investment tax credits (see note 13). Their recoverability is amount are reassessed regularly on the basis of fact and based on the most recent business plan available at each circumstances existing at year end. Estimated market balance sheet date and represents a significant estimate. values published by external appraisers, observable The recognition of ITC benefits generated through finance transactions or usage of the aircraft are among factors that leases are reflected in current tax. would, when appropriate lead to revisions to the residual values, carrying amount and related impairment losses. Heavy Maintenance Check This was the case in 2015 and 2014 (See note 3 D V and note 14). The timing of C and D-check is determined in accordance with the Group’s maintenance program, which is based on recommendations of the manufacturer and is approved 31. Subsequent events by the civil aviation authorities (DAC). The amount provisioned is based on prices derived from contractual No event occurred after balance sheet date. arrangements concluded with providers and is discounted to the balance sheet date. As of July 2009 the Group performs the major overhaul C-checks in-house. Provision The recognition of a provision requires that the management is in the position to make a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation resulting from past events. When no reliable estimate can be made, a contingent liability is disclosed. 95 KPMG Luxembourg, Société coopérative Tel.: +352 22 51 51 1 39, Avenue John F. Kennedy Fax: +352 22 51 71 L-1855 Luxembourg Email: info@kpmg.lu Internet: www.kpmg.lu To the Shareholders of Cargolux Airlines International S.A. Aéroport de Luxembourg L-2990 Sandweiler REPORT OF THE RÉVISEUR D’ENTREPRISES AGRÉÉ Report on the consolidated financial statements We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Cargolux Airlines International S.A., which comprise the consolidated balance sheet as at December 31, 2015 and the consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, changes in equity and cash flows for the year then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Board of Directors’ responsibility for the consolidated financial statements The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union, and for such internal control as the Board of Directors determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Responsibility of the Réviseur d’Entreprises agréé Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audit. We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing as adopted for Luxembourg by the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier. Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from material misstatement. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the judgement of the Réviseur d’Entreprises agréé, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the Réviseur d’Entreprises agréé considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by the Board of Directors, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. 96 Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements give a true and fair view of the consolidated financial position of Cargolux Airlines International S.A. as of December 31, 2015, and of its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the year then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the European Union. Report on other legal and regulatory requirements The directors’ report, which is the responsibility of the Board of Directors, is consistent with the consolidated financial statements. Luxembourg, March 24, 2016 KPMG Luxembourg Société coopérative Cabinet de révision agréé Thierry Ravasio 97 sustainability sustainability report 2015 Cargolux has, for many years, accepted its responsibility at Luxembourg airport. Cargolux ranks in the top ten of towards global climate change and the role that Luxembourg’s most attractive employers. Thus, Cargolux commercial aviation plays. Operating a fleet of the most contributes to the country’s economic strength, securing environmentally friendly and energy efficient freighter stable and rewarding employment for many households. In aircraft available today, the airline has repeatedly 2015, Cargolux contributed in excess of €330 million to the demonstrated its commitment to keep the impact of its economy of the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg. Not ending activities on the environment as low as possible. here, the company’s commitment also extends to promoting cultural and sports activities, as well as education, research The company has also sought to mitigate its environmental and the support of humanitarian NGOs. impact at its offices and facilities with energy savings, waste reduction and recycling and the strengthening of an environmental awareness among its staff. more than €330 M Cargolux, as a launch customer, has driven the development of an advanced version of Boeing’s 747 freighter, the 747-8F, since its inception in 2005 and was the first airline to introduce it into scheduled service contributed worldwide. The company now operates 13 units of this to the economy type that is more fuel efficient and produces lower noise of the Grand Duchy disturbances during take-off and landing than its direct of Luxembourg predecessor, the 747-400F, itself one of the most efficient and quietest aircraft in its class. ECOVADIS Ecovadis provides a solution for 10 in the top the monitoring of sustainability in global supply chains; Cargolux is one of the companies audited by of Luxembourg’s Ecovadis. This produces a reliable most attractive assessment of the airline’s corporate employers social responsibility performance through comprehensive feedback, benchmarks and tools. Its methodology is based on sustainable development standards of the Based in Luxembourg since its foundation in 1970, Cargolux Global Reporting Initiative GRI, the United Nations Global has deep roots in the country and is firmly integrated with its Compact and ISO 26000. neighboring communities. The company is a major employer in the Grand Duchy and has also created thousands of jobs in other industries directly related to its air freight activities 100 key figures At a glance 1, 779 st a ff w orl dw i de 6, 919 m i l l i on t on n e -k i l om e t e r s f lo w n 26 ai rcraft – bi gge st f l e e t in t h e c o m p a n y h is t o r y. 13 747-400F s a n d 13 7478 F s E u rope ’s bi gge st a l l -c a rgo a ir lin e F i rst GDP c e rt i f i e d a i rl i n e w o r ld w id e F ou r Ca rgol u x st a t i on s a c c re d it e d a s Q u a lif ie d E n v iro t a in e r P rovi de r Complementary hub in Zhengzhou, China, more than 67,000 tonnes of freight flown since start-up of operation in June 2014 1 3 : 5 4 h o u r s d a i l y a i rc r a f t u t i l i z a t i o n o f t h e c o m b i n e d f l e e t ABOUT THE COMPANY Cargolux Airlines International S.A. is a leading global allOperational structure of the organization cargo airline, based in Luxembourg, operating a fleet of modern Boeing 747-8 and 747-400 freighters. It provides • Commercial Planning air freight transport services to freight forwarders in most • Corporate Development parts of the world through scheduled and charter flights. • Corporate Services • Finance and Administration This includes the regular transportation of perishables, • Flight Operations temperature and shock-sensitive goods, supply-chain • Global Logistics goods, project cargo, finished commodities and live animals • Human Resources, Legal Affairs and Compliance on its worldwide network that covers some 90 destinations. • Maintenance and Engineering The company has developed a unique expertise in the • Sales & Marketing handling of fragile and also outsized commodities that require increasingly sophisticated logistics and our highly Precautionary principles and risk management trained and dedicated staff guarantees the best possible service to our customers. Cargolux is firmly committed to ensuring full compliance with all applicable laws and regulations, as well as adherence Cargolux also offers third-party maintenance services at to internal rules and policies. It is convinced that ethical its maintenance center in Luxembourg. The company is corporate and individual behavior is a precondition for specialized in 747 line and hangar maintenance up to and sustainable and profitable business relationships, fostering including C-Checks. Its service offering includes a range of trust and avoiding the risk of reputational and other damage. specialized maintenance services such as, but not limited to, avionic modifications, structural repairs and worldwide Prevention is rooted in the Cargolux Ethics Code and AOG support. Policies that form the company’s constitutional documents. They summarize the principles that guide the Cargolux staff in doing business. Good, sustainable business is always Innovative concepts and the constant drive driven by values. Cargolux’s values – dedication, respect for quality have earned Cargolux a number and integrity, are also the basis for the ethics code. of awards throughout the years. In 2015, Cargolux Airlines was presented with the The Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) program of the group Asian Freight, Logistics & Supply Chain was further developed in 2015. The bottom-up identification of risks has been successfully concluded. Consequently, all Award in Hong Kong; the 2015 Annual process-inherent risks for key business processes of Cargolux’ Co-operation Award in Shanghai; the Best business divisions have been mapped. The mapping was Growth Airline 2015 Award in Xiamen and done in close co-operation with the business. the Quality Award Italy, while Cargolux Italia received the Invest in Lombardy Award that In addition, Cargolux’ Executive Committee engaged in a recognizes the airline’s investments in Italy’s top down risk identification exercise. Following a stringent Lombardy region. methodology, the top 10 strategic risks, as seen by senior management, were captured. 102 Industry associations and organizations • UN Global Compact worldwide Cargolux is committed to operating and acting in a socially and network environmentally responsible manner and have underpinned this commitment in 2007 when it signed up to the UN Global that covers some 90 Compact, pledging to apply its 10 key principles. • C orporate Charter for Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development d e s t i n at i o n s Already in 2005, Cargolux signed the Corporate Charter for Social Responsibility and Sustainable Development, an initiative launched by the Luxembourg Chamber of Commerce. These top 10 risks, along with major process-inherent • International Air Transport Association risks, were used as basis for the Internal Audit Plan 2016. The International Air Transport Association (IATA) is the It is foreseen to repeat the top 10 risk identification exercise trade association for the world’s airlines, representing some with senior management on an annual basis. 250 airlines or 84% of total air traffic. It supports many areas of aviation activity and helps to formulate industry In addition to the above, the Internal Audit function together policy on critical aviation issues. with support by an external party conducted an IT risk assessment. The risk assessment was based on the COBIT Cargolux is member of IATA’s Air Cargo Carbon Footprint 4.1 methodology and provided helpful insight on Cargolux’ (ACCF) working group. outsourced IT provider, Champ Cargo Systems (CCS). • Association of European Airlines (AEA) The exercise reflected the constructive spirit of co-operation The AEA is a non-profit industry association representing between Cargolux and CCS and will result in several strategic 29 of Europe’s major airlines. AEA works together with the measures taken by CV in regard to IT in the years to come. institutions of the European Union and other stakeholders in the value chain to ensure the sustainable growth of the Business risks are continuously monitored by management European airline industry in a global marketplace. and, where required, are brought to the attention of the Board. These include risks in the area of Aviation and Flight • Cargo 2000 Safety, where a dedicated function is in place, monitoring Cargo 2000 is the name for a joint effort by a group of airlines and identifying risks on a regular basis. and forwarders (members), and, today, is an IATA interest group aiming at improving the work processes in the air cargo The key risks of the entity can be found in section 3 of this transportation from shipper-through-to-the-consignee (end-toreport. A risk cockpit on current risk indicators for financial end). In early 2016, Cargo 2000 changed its name to Cargo iQ. risks was further developed in 2015 with the support of the business. It is foreseen to go live in 2016, with the As a platinum member, Cargolux finds itself among only objective of providing transparency on strategic financial nine members that have reached the highest level of the risks for the entity. C2K classification system. At a later stage, the implementation of a risk committee for • SAFUG all entity-wide risks is foreseen. Cargolux is a founding member of SAFUG (Sustainable Aviation Fuel Users Group), a cross-industry initiative that aims at promoting and bringing onto the market sustainable aviation biofuels. 103 ABOUT THIS REPORT This report provides information for the calendar year relating the company’s employees as well as data related 2015. The previous report was published in April 2015. to occupational health and safety. Data monitoring the It is published annually. company’s waste disposal also relates to our facilities in Luxembourg only. The report does not cover the activities Its elaboration is based on the continued analysis of the of separate legal entities fully or partly owned by Cargolux. company’s main impact and responsibilities, both with Our monitoring of fuel consumption and CO 2 emissions regard to the environment and society, and relative to the includes the data collected by Cargolux Italia. concerns raised by key groups of stakeholders in this area. Contact point This report is prepared in accordance with the CORE requirements of the G4 guidelines of the Global Reporting Cargolux invites all interested parties to enter into dialogue Initiatives. Cargolux endeavors to constantly review and about its sustainability policy, its activities and this report. further elaborate its Corporate Social Responsibility The company’s policy, further information about its activities program and the Sustainability Reporting Process. and previous reports can be found on its website at www.cargolux.com/about-us/corporate-responsability. This report pertains to Cargolux’s operations and All comments and enquiries are welcome and can be geographical presence overall, except where otherwise forwarded through the contact form on the aforementioned specified in the report. Certain indicators cover our webpage, or by writing to corpcom@cargolux.com. Luxembourg-based activities only. These include figures 104 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT AND MATERIALITY MATRIX Stakeholder groups include our shareholders, employees, Cargolux, in 2015, had to deal with difficult market conditions customers, investors and suppliers. They extend to and economic crises in many parts of the world that had an the communities potentially affected by the company’s impact on its operation. The management maintained an open activities, primarily living around the airport of Luxembourg, dialogue with the employees who were kept informed about its primary operational hub, and also include government important developments through a variety of communication and local authorities, national and industrial representations, channels, including the opportunity to submit questions and non-governmental organizations and auditing bodies. relay concerns to the management. Cargolux is engaged in an ongoing dialogue with its stakeholders The materiality matrix reconciles the sustainability via public events, direct representation or the media. objectives of the company with those of its stakeholders and the overall strategy of the company. Frequent and regular meetings between the senior management and the staff are a long-standing tradition at Cargolux. They are complemented by a variety of communication initiatives towards employees, including email, intranet, video, webcasts and electronic newsletters. This helped Cargolux to defend its position as a leading supplier of recognized, high-quality air cargo services in a very challenging environment. I m p o r ta n c e t o C a r g o l u x ’ s b u s i n e s s Less significant Significant V e ry s i g n i f i c a n t I m p o r t a n c e t o STAKEHOLDERS Less V e ry · Employee training · Green House Gas Emissions & Development · Respect · Noise emissions · Environmental compliance · Safety · Regulatory compliance Significant · Waste management · Labour relations · Integrity · Sustainable Procurement · Ethical business practices Practices · Employee Health & Safety significant significant · Community involvement · Economic Preformance · Diversity · Corporate governance · Employee engagement 105 OPERATIONAL SAFETY Following EASA, the European Aviation Safety Agency, aligned with a systematic operational risk management. requirements, Cargolux maintains a safety management The process includes the implementation of management system (SMS) that is based on ICAO, the International Civil of change and safety issue risk assessment procedures Aviation Organization, guidelines and recommendations. that enable a structured, pro-active risk assessment. They It embraces all stakeholders within the company, are documented in Cargolux’s Management System Manual especially the Flight Operations Department, as well and are mandatory for all operational stake holders. as the Maintenance and Engineering, Aircrew Training (ATO & FSTD), Maintenance Training (MTO) and Ground The organization has recognized crew fatigue as a safety Operations divisions. issue that needs to be monitored. Consequently, Cargolux has established a Fatigue Risk Monitoring System (FRMS) Cargolux’s safety management system is overseen by a as part of its SMS, using recommended practices based dedicated team of investigators, analysts, risk management on ICAO guidelines. A dedicated group of FRMS Safety and safety experts, who directly report to the accountable Officers, pilots’ representatives and flight operations manager. Additionally, safety critical issues can quickly management meets regularly to discuss fatigue-related be addressed through direct communication between the issues and recommends to management processes and aviation safety department and the responsible managers. procedures to reduce and/or control crew fatigue. The Cargolux Safety Review Board (SRB), the airline’s Improving the effectiveness of FRMS with scientific highest governance body for safety-related issues, tools allows Cargolux to better measure and predict the comprises all nominated persons, as required by EASA. fatigue level of pilots during flight duties. It also enables The board regularly meets to analyze and advance the management to take action before fatigue-related issues operational safety performance of Cargolux. occur. The SMS includes pro-active and re-active safety Over 1,000 safety reports submitted in 2015 were analyzed, reporting, flight data monitoring, hazard identification, risk classified and investigated. A steadily growing rate of promanagement and management of change procedures. active reports enabled the airline to take actions before These and other elements are used to identify and mitigate hazards become an event. potential safety related issues, thus keeping risks within acceptable levels, as low as reasonable possible. Several of the Cargolux Aviation Safety Department members are involved in safety industry groups and contribute to A number of safety performance indicators measure the generating best practices that are implemented within effectiveness of safety barriers. These indicators are Cargolux. These groups include amongst others, ECAST regularly presented to the process owners, as well as the (European Civil Aviation Safety Team), the IATA Safety SRB, to analyze potential problem areas and take proGroup, the IATA Hazard Identification Task Force and the active risk control action. EASA European Operators Flight Data Monitoring Initiative. Cargolux’s drive for continuous safety improvement within the organization supports the move towards a risk-based decision-making for operational issues; this culture is 106 ETHICS & COMPLIANCE In order to safeguard the company’s business, Cargolux training imparts special procedures for shipping goods to has established a robust compliance program that enables restricted countries and enables Cargolux staff to ensure employees and agents operating in diverse cultural, that the airline does not violate embargoes. political and economic environments to identify legal and ethical challenges and provides them with the necessary Confidential Reporting tools to handle such situations. Cargolux has tasked a specialized, independent external Cargolux firmly believes in sustainable and profitable organization with running a confidential reporting system. business relationships that are nurtured by ethical corporate This enables individuals to report potential misconduct in and individual behavior. The company is committed to an complete confidentiality and helps Cargolux to uncover ethical business culture and, thus, promotes compliance potential breaches of laws, internal rules or procedures with all applicable laws and regulations as well as adherence and to prevent reoccurrences. to internal rules and policies. The company’s own Compliance Consultation Desk aims Training to accurately and quickly respond to employees’ questions regarding applicable rules and their interpretation. It Cargolux has a compliance training program in place that has seen continuous growth in the number of submitted incorporates online and classroom sessions, with recurring questions since its launch a few years ago, which refresher training at regular intervals. It introduces the demonstrates the increasing risk awareness of employees. company’s legal obligations, values and ethical principles to all employees, sales agents and legal representatives Risk Analysis worldwide. Covering a variety of subjects, such as anticorruption, anti-bribery, money laundering, export controls Cargolux deals with a number of business partners and (embargoes and rules applicable to special commodities), suppliers worldwide. In order to ensure that these companies tax evasion, fraud, private data protection and antiwork according to its business ethics and compliance competitive behavior, it sets the stage for the company’s principles, the company performs due diligence on partners successful business dealings. classified as medium and high risk. This risk classification is country specific according to a corruption perception index In 2015, Cargolux conducted a total of 897 hours of and is also based on the type of services rendered. compliance classroom training for new employees and contractors in a program that lasted for 3 years. In Cargolux is based in a country with very high standards in addition, a new online training course was introduced on respect of the observance of human rights. Human rights the revised IT Policy. issues therefore play a minor role in the company’s daily business at its home base. However, Cargolux’s service Export Control level agreements require that its partners and suppliers also comply with its values and ethics and observe human Comprehensive procedures, as well as manual and rights in their business activities. electronic controlling systems ensure full compliance with embargoes applicable to individual countries. A targeted 108 DISCLOSURE ON MANAGEMENT APPROACH The Grand Duchy of Luxembourg is home to one of not only at its home base in Luxembourg, but also on a Europe’s leading air cargo hubs, offering a dedicated and more global scale by expanding in China via its dual hub efficient base for Cargolux’s operation since the airline strategy. This was clearly demonstrated by the fact that was founded in 1970. According to the World Bank’s 100 new employees were hired in Luxembourg during Logistics Performance Index (LPI) of 2014, the Grand the last 2 years and by Cargolux’s commitment to hire an Duchy ranks at number eight among the countries with the additional 100 pilots for its Luxembourg-based operation, best performance in logistics. Moreover, the development as well as to increase its flexible fleet capacity. At the end of the logistics industry has been a major focus of the of the reporting period, the company operated 26 aircraft, Luxembourg government for a number of years. the highest number in its history, and employed close to 1,779 employees worldwide. The success of Cargolux is in no small way attributable to the dedication and loyalty of its employees. The strong Cargolux sees itself as a people-driven company and team in Luxembourg and at the company’s stations its employees as its most valuable asset. While its staff around the world have made a significant contribution to turnover rate slightly increased to 5.9% during 2015, it the economic success, as well as the continued stellar still remained at a remarkably low level and demonstrates reputation of the airline in the industry throughout 2015. the continued commitment and trust the employees place Cargolux is committed to further developing its activities in the company. This holds true despite the sometimes 110 difficult discussions around the implementation of a new acquire new skills and extend their areas of competence collective work agreement during the year that, with the and expertise. will to compromise on all sides, came to a fruitful solution in December 2015. Building on this and the passion that Cargolux is furthermore committed to providing a safe and Cargolux people have shown throughout the company’s healthy workplace, a place where people feel comfortable history, the airline is increasingly investing in various talent and protected during their daily work life. The company’s management initiatives, including succession planning to efforts in this field resulted in the implementation of an better recognize, develop and retain its talents, as well occupational health and safety management system as well as to give employees better defined career paths and as the OHSAS 18001 certification of its Health & Safety opportunities. Skilled and motivated employees are the Division, a certification that will be extended to other foundation for the strong and sustainable economic future divisions over time. of Cargolux. Cargolux’s Milan-based subsidiary, Cargolux Italia, has also Looking to the future, Cargolux is devoted to nurturing seen a very successful year 2015, growing the fleet to four the next generation of air cargo professionals by closely aircraft and employing over 100 staff. The airline ranks as cooperating with schools in the Grand Duchy. The company the largest air cargo provider in Italy and has added to the has a long lasting apprenticeship program with the Lycée sustainability of the group by operating on financially more Technique Privé Emile Metz for the training of future challenging routes, such as Africa. aircraft mechanics. As an airline, Cargolux has accepted the responsibility it Cargolux puts great emphasis on the continuous learning has for the protection of the environment and has long and development of its staff. To achieve this, a broad taken steps and measures to lessen the impact of its catalogue of non-compulsory training and development activities as much as possible. Operating the most efficient opportunities is one of Cargolux’s greatest strengths. It and environmentally friendly freighter aircraft available goes well beyond the courses that serve to maintain and today has not only lowered the noise footprint during upgrade technical proficiency and allows employees to take-off and landing by around 30%, but also decreased 111 its fuel consumption and low carbon footprint. Cargolux The nature of the airline’s operation necessitates the is continuing with its fleet replacement program that handling of and working with hazardous substances. increases the number of the highly advanced Boeing 747-8F Here, Cargolux is constantly researching and replacing in the fleet, an aircraft that was launched by Boeing with the products it uses, making sure that they are the least Cargolux’s help and input. hazardous and most environmentally friendly alternatives available. In addition, Cargolux has developed day-to-day operational procedures, such as flight plan optimization, continuous Cargolux takes pride in its corporate social responsibility and descent approaches, variable flight speed and route puts great emphasis on business ethics and compliance, optimization, that have become an integral part of the operating a robust compliance program applicable not only company’s corporate culture. to its employees but also to its agents. As a major employer in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg, Cargolux commits to a The Cargolux environmental management system follows ‘just culture’ for its employees and fairness with business ISO 14001 standards in defining how to approach partners. The company also gives great importance to environmental challenges, giving the company a proven social respect as well as customer satisfaction. These and easily accessible track record. It also underlines that values continue to support the economic success and environmental values are lived throughout the organization. the sustainable future of Cargolux. The airline’s Ground Operations Division and its Luxembourg station, as well as its Flight Operations Division, the Type Rating Organization and its Maintenance and Engineering Division are ISO 14001 certified, while Cargolux also continuously assesses the environmental commitment of its ground handling agents throughout its network. Waste has always received special attention at Cargolux as the company is determined to preserve natural resources in its daily business by applying the strategy of the three Rs – reduce, reuse, recycle. Recycling, especially, is an important factor in the company’s waste management system and all facilities and rented offices in Luxembourg are equipped with a waste-sorting and recycling system. In addition, the company encourages its staff to reduce the use of paper, switch to recycled paper and control and segregate waste. These efforts have resulted in a 7.5% reduction of waste at Cargolux’s home base in Luxembourg in 2015. 112 STAFF & EMPLOYMENT At a glance Total number of employees 1,779: 4.04% increase i n st a ff t h ro u g h o u t t h e C a r g o lu x n e t w o r k . Ca rgol u x e m pl oys peo pl e f rom 6 3 n a t i on s Di v er s i t y : 19. 7% w om e n , a n in c re a s e o f 2 . 9 4 % c om pa re d t o pre vi ou s ye a r. A v er ag e s eni o ri t y o f C V s t a ff w o r l d w i d e : 1 2 . 0 9 y e a r s 3 8.1% year-over-year decline of inter nal accidents STAFF & EMPLOYMENT A New CWA 100 Cargolux and its social partners in Luxembourg, the unions OGB-L and LCGB, were engaged in intense negotiations about the conditions of a renewed collective work agreement (CWA) over the course of 18 months. Throughout this period, Cargolux stressed the necessity for change to safeguard jobs and enable growth at Cargolux in new pilots Luxembourg as well as to guarantee operational flexibility hired and financial sustainability in the increasingly challenging market environment. 60 The topic became increasingly pressing when the previous CWA expired on 30 November 2015. In order to facilitate the negotiations however, management committed to honoring the conditions of the previous CWA during the period of the discussions, on a discretionary basis. First Officers upgraded to Eventually, following several rounds of intense, late-night meetings, the parties reached a compromise and agreed Captains on a new CWA on 16 December 2015. The new CWA is valid for three years, starting from 1 December 2015. With the agreement, the social partners have achieved a significant improvement in the flexibility and economic efficiency of Cargolux while sending a strong signal for job security and increased competitiveness of Luxembourg as a logistic hub in Europe. Together, all parties have expressed their commitment to move forward, to defend Cargolux’s leading market position in Europe and continue to drive its growth in Asia with the implementation of the dual hub strategy between Luxembourg and Zhengzhou, China. As part of the agreement, Cargolux committed to hiring 100 pilots, upgrade 60 current First Officers to Captains and invest in an additional aircraft to be based in Luxembourg. These measures were also approved by the Board of Directors, underlining their strong support for Cargolux’s vision to be the Global Cargo Carrier of Choice. 114 VISION AND SPIRIT Building on the core strategic areas of focus for the coming years, the Executive Committee redefined the company’s vision and mission. In the highly competitive air freight market, Cargolux’s vision is to be the Global Cargo Carrier of Choice. The airline aims at being the preferred partner for forwarders, suppliers and service providers as well as LEADING BY EXAMPLE current and future employees, not only at its Luxembourg – home base but, underpinned by an extensive global RESPECTING EACH OTHER network, all around the world. – WORKING AS A TEAM As the Global Cargo Carrier of Choice, Cargolux’s mission – is to deliver consistent flexibility and reliability through its BEING DEDICATED AND valued and dedicated employees, creating sustainable PASSIONATE benefits for all stakeholders in a safe environment. – GOING The key values, defined in the previous year as the elements THE EXTRA MILE – embodying the Cargolux Spirit, such as respect for each BEING COST EFFICIENT other, dedication and passion, delivering service excellence – and working as a team, have remained unchanged. BEING FLEXIBLE These values are the hallmark of Cargolux’s success and – act as the strong foundation for the company in reaching DELIVERING SERVICE its business objectives in the coming years. EXCELLENCE 115 TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT All employees have access to a variety of soft skills trainings such as Improve your Presentation Skills and Training activities are an important element of the day-toProject Management Basics; courses that have proven to day operation of an airline. For Cargolux, training covers be very popular among the staff. The company also offers two main areas – more complex programs dedicated to leadership and management, including the Team Leader Program and the a) C ourses for pilots and mechanics to maintain and Management Development Program. upgrade their license, as well as training on new equipment, new technologies or the application of new Cargolux’s Technical Training Division was able to procedures. This type of training is a legal requirement. manage all trainings requested by its staff during 2015. It accommodated the requests of a new VIP customer and b) Various types of training for office staff, enabling generated increased revenues. Three new instructors were them to acquire new skills and develop their areas of hired who joined the company at the end of the year and at competence and expertise. This type of training lies the beginning of 2016. In addition, the division initiated the beyond legal requirements and constitutes a voluntary process for UAE GCAA CAR147 approval. action on behalf of Cargolux. Owing to the many regulations and high standards within 87 the aviation industry, Cargolux has long followed a wellestablished training philosophy. It has made training and development one of the company’s greatest strengths. Going beyond regulatory and mandatory trainings, Cargolux offers a great variety of voluntary personal development training hours training. The goal is to create a culture for continuous per employee , education and development, teaching and learning – both an increase of 26% in its headquarters and its stations all over the world. 116 Cargolux is interested in knowing its people what motivates them, what makes them unique and how the fit between the organization and individual career 2 aspiration can be optimized. The company knows that only when people are happy at what they do, they will be able to utilize their full potential and perform at their best. In this way, training and development supports full motion business continuity and increases individual job satisfaction. flight Talent Management simulators It is the company’s firm believe that continuous development and transparent feedback can improve 5,041 hours competencies and performance individually and as team. of utilisation To support employees in this matter, an appraisal system for the B747-400F for employees with managerial function was designed simulator and implemented in 2015. It is based on reviewing main tasks and responsibilities, setting objectives, analyzing competencies and creating an individual career development plan. The system was rolled out to the 3,802 hours airline’s global stations in early 2016. of utilisation for the B747-8F Succession Planning simulator Business continuity and matching organizational needs with individual career development are the goals of the recently launched project on succession planning. To Cargolux operates two full-motion flight simulators, one ensure undisrupted operations and to safeguard internal each for the B747-400F and the B747-8F, operating on a expert knowledge, Cargolux plans to implement a global 24-hours-per-day basis. In 2015, the B747-400F simulator process, which is also expected to enable Cargolux to was used for 5,041 hours while the B747-8F simulator better recognize, develop and retain its talents. was used for 3,802 hours. Flight Training The training volume for 2016 is expected to increase further due to the hiring of 100 new pilots, who will all undergo a 2015 was a busy year for the Flight Training Center in new type rating, the operator’s conversion course and the respect to flight crew training. Besides the annual recurrent differences training in order to be fully qualified to operate training program, which is mandatory for all flight crew both the B747-400 and B747-8 aircraft. Furthermore, members, the Flight Training Center conducted a number a number of commander trainings, as well as the annual of additional courses such as pilot command trainings, recurrent training program, will be performed in 2016. type rating instructor and type rating examiner trainings It will be the highest volume of flight crew training ever as well as line training commander trainings. In addition conducted by Cargolux, almost three times more than to the trainings conducted for the company’s own flight in previous years. crews and for mechanics from the Maintenance Division, a number of trainings were also performed for our customers such as type rating courses, operator conversion courses, differences training and line flying under supervision. 117 A SAFE WORKPLACE adherence to Cargolux processes and procedures was additionally regularly verified. Cargolux is committed to operating in a safe and healthy work environment and has in place an established Occupational Thanks to the constant OHS on–site presence and guidance Health and Safety (OHS) Program covering all aspects during 2015, the number of accidents with lost hours at of operations, to prevent workplace accidents and injuries. Cargolux Maintenance & Engineering decreased by 35%. Also in 2015, the Maintenance & Engineering Division Streamlining the processes with the company’s legally successfully passed its OHSAS 18001 control audit. required medical services, OHS has revised and aligned all documents in relation to the initial and recurrent medical Finally, the existing evacuation safety procedures were check and health surveillance. As a result, the co-operation optimized following an OHS audit that covered all buildings with Cargolux’s company doctor was improved with with evacuation equipment to ensure the safe evacuation more efficient and rapid medical checks as well as the of disabled persons in case of an emergency. implementation of recommendations. The issue of machinery safety at Cargolux has been of growing importance over the last 15 years. The company 35 % introduced periodic and preventive maintenance of its machines and tools and, in 2015, Cargolux certified its imported machinery according to EU safety standards. OHS has introduced an occupational hazard sensitivity DECREASE campaign, aimed especially at staff in high-risk areas, OF ACCIDENTS such as working at height or the labeling of hazardous substances. The campaign also involved contractors working for Cargolux, whose OHS knowledge and 118 ENVIRONMENT At a glance Fuel & Emissions: One of the best carbon footprint in its class J e t f u e l 1, 106, 436. 18 t on ne s C O 2 e m i ssi on s: 3, 485, 273 . 9 6 t o n n e s C O 2 C a rbon foot pri n t : CO 2 foot p r in t : 5 0 4 g r / FTK K ey fi g ures : 2 6 747 fre i gh t e rs: 13 7478 F, 9 7 4 74 0 0 F, 2 747-400B CF, 2 747-400ERF A ve ra ge a ge of t h e f l e e t o n 3 1 . 1 2 . 2 0 1 5 : 8 . 0 y e a r s N o i s e: O ne o f t he bes t no is e f oot p r i n t i n i t s c l a s s 1 00% of the Cargolux fleet is compliant with ICAO Chapter 4 Was t e: 2 1. 5% of produ c e d w a st e is re c y c la b le ( L u x e m b o u r g o n ly ) 3 1% re du c t i on of sol ve n t w it h h a lo g e n s c o m p a re d t o 2 0 1 3 ENVIRONMENT CLIMATE COMMITMENT INITIATIVES Our goals Relying on the seamless co-operation of its commercial, operations and maintenance divisions, Cargolux counteracted Cargolux has defined near and long term goals that follow the prevailing economic challenges in the worldwide markets IATA’s targets for airlines to reduce CO 2 emissions with the it served in 2015 with an optimized network and flexible aim to eventually achieve carbon-neutral growth. operations. Consolidating and re-routing flights resulted in an efficient balance between cost control and revenue Cargolux commits to generation. As a positive effect, it also enabled us to minimize an average improvement in fuel efficiency of 1.5% per fuel consumption and CO 2 emissions. year until 2020; a cap on aviation CO 2 emissions from 2020, in effect carbon neutral growth; ONGOING PROGRAMS a reduction in CO 2 emissions of 50% by 2050, relative to 2005 levels. The company continues a range of programs that support the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions for its fleet of aircraft. These include: FUEL CONSUMPTION Deep core engine washing; PIP Performance Improvement Package retrofitted to Cargolux has made significant investments to achieve the GEnx engines of the airline’s early 747-8Fs; these goals. Because a reduction of CO 2 emissions can Optimization of APU usage when no ground power most effectively be reached through a reduction of aircraft supply is available. fuel consumption, the airline has begun a fleet rollover program in 2011 that sees the introduction of the Boeing 747-8 freighter, the most fuel efficient and environmentally CERTIFICATIONS friendly aircraft in its class, gradually replacing Cargolux’s 747-400 freighter, which, in itself, still remains as one of the In 2015, Cargolux renewed the ISO 14001 certifications most efficient cargo aircraft in operation today. for its Luxembourg hub, its Maintenance & Engineering Division, its Flight Operations and Training Division and its Global Logistics Division for another three years. Cargolux Group 747 Fleet: Jet A Fuel: 1,106,436.18 tons GSE vehicles: Lead-free fuel: 1,969.87 liters Diesel: 15,123.22 liters Diesel / industrial machines: 91,926.47 liters 120 EMISSIONS C O 2 e f f i c i e n c y ( i n k g C O 2 / FTK ) C O 2 e f f i c i e n c y ( i n k g C O 2 / ATK ) 0.550 0.390 0.540 0.382 0.540 0.380 0.370 0.530 0.354 0.520 0.360 0.520 0.350 0.504 0.339 0.335 0.510 0.340 0.332 0.501 0.500 0.330 0.500 0.320 0.490 0.310 0.480 0.310 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Scope 1 Scope 2 The airline group can show exemplary greenhouse gas Cargolux offices and facilities recorded a CO 2 emission of emission intensity for its fleet of aircraft. Based on 9.5 2,475 tonnes for fuel and gas heating during 2015. Use of million ATKs (available ton kilometers) for the Cargolux and electricity emitted no CO 2. Cargolux Italia fleets, the CO 2 efficiency reached 0.332 kgs CO 2 per ATK.S Scopes The Greenhouse Gas Protocol defines three scopes of emissions: CO 2 CH 4 N 2O HFC S PCF S SF 6 scope 1 scope 2 scope 3 Direct Indirect Indirect Company facilities, purchased electricity, steam, All other emissions Company vehicles heating & cooling for own use attributable Scope 1 Scope 2 Scope 3 Direct greenhouse emissions from sources that Accounts for greenhouse emissions from the Category that covers all other indirect emissions are owned or controlled by the company. In the generation of fuel or gas heating and purchased attributable to the activities of Cargolux, but from case of Cargolux, emissions from the combustion electricity by the company. the company. Scope 3 has no relevance to the engines of its aircraft, ground vehicles and reporting of Cargolux and is not included here. industrial vehicles or machines. 121 EU EMISSIONS TRADING SCHEME At the same time, Cargolux is aware that its activities affect the (EU-ETS) communities around the airports it operates from and strives to minimize the impact of these activities as much as possible. Cargolux complies with the EU-ETS reporting requirements and continues to monitor and report the CO 2 emissions. The emission of noise is therefore an important area of environmental concern for the company, especially at the airline’s home base in Luxembourg where most of TRUCKING its aircraft movements take place. categories QTY % -30 % Euro 4 504 66% Euro 5 232 30% Euro 6 29 4% TOTAL 765 100% take-off noise footprint around airports NOISE CONTROL FOR THE 747-8F World trade, global economics, human healthcare and a decent standard of living rely on sustainable air freight Operating the world’s quietest freighter aircraft in its class, transport. Cargolux firmly believes that achieving this goal both the Boeing 747-400F and the 747-8F, represents a requires the collaboration of all partners in the transport significant measurable improvement for the surrounding chain as well as aircraft and engine manufacturers and communities. Introducing the 747-8F in particular, with governments. its advanced engine technology and new wing design, 122 reduced the 85db take-off noise footprint around airports by another 30%. Both aircraft types in the Cargolux fleet fully comply with the standards of ICAO chapter 4, -30% the most stringent aviation standard. Additionally, over the past years, the company studied and implemented a number of operating procedures to further on the amount of reduce community noise with its existing fleet. hazardous waste -78% WASTE CONTROL Cargolux runs a proven waste management system that enables the company to better control and segregate its waste. This system is operated by a specialized external on THE overall company, managing and monitoring the correct collection, amount of waste segregation and disposal of all categories of waste, produced by including recyclables and hazardous waste. Cargolux in 2015 Qty in kg qty in kg fraction % in 2014 in 2015 Due to renovation works at the Cargolux headquarters Recycable 90,625 74,103 21.55% -18.23% building and the related demolition works, the amount of residual waste was higher than in 2014, while the amount Oily Waste 25,219 21,801 6.34% -13.55% of hazardous waste was reduced by almost 30%. Hazardous Waste 176,146 124,948 36.33% -29.07% Residual Waste 76,029 117,086 34.04% 54.00% Stepping up its efforts in reducing oil-contaminated waste Others 4,972 6,007 1.75% 20.82% as well as lessen the impact of spills, Cargolux invested into TOTAL 372,991 343,945 -7.79% an innovative oil absorber product and has rented another two waste compactors to reduce the transportation costs Recycling is an important factor in the company’s waste and emissions that would otherwise result from the waste management system. All facilities and rented offices disposal process. in Luxembourg are equipped with a waste-sorting and recycling system. Wastewater from the airline’s maintenance The Cargolux waste management system again underwent operations and maintenance facilities in Luxembourg are its bi-yearly audit in 2015 and received its renewed directly collected by the airport sewage system followed ‘Superdreckskescht fir Betriber’ environmental label. by a wastewater treatment plant. In addition, the company encourages its office staff to adopt measures that cut down on waste production, including the use of electronic storage for documents, electronic communication methods or greater use of recycled paper. The overall amount of waste produced by Cargolux in 2015 went down by 7.8%. This was also driven by the fact that, within the 2014 figures, the dismantling of an old purification plant was included. 123 community support As a good neighbor and supporter of cultural and educational Graduates from Luxembourg’s AML apprentice scheme activities in Luxembourg, Cargolux has participated in a obtain a license in accordance with EASA regulations, Part range of initiatives throughout 2015, including school visits 66. After obtaining the AML, the junior mechanics have to and events that give youngsters the chance to explore job complete an in-house type rating training for the 747-400F opportunities and career paths. Many of these events allow and 747-8F aircraft in order to be fully licensed to work on students in the Grand-Duchy to get a first-hand impression Cargolux aircraft. of various aspects of the daily work life and to learn about requirements and opportunities for a career in In another successful year for the technical training the air freight industry. organization, Cargolux in 2015 employed four male and one female student in their first year of Cargolux puts great emphasis on approaching interested apprenticeship and three male students in their students and showing them the aspects and details of work second year. The practical part of the apprenticeship that a cargo airline offers, thus securing a motivated and takes place in Cargolux’s own workshops. This not qualified workforce for the future. These efforts not only only applies to Cargolux students, but, in the frame of include visits and presentations to school classes, but also enhanced synergies between Cargolux and Luxair, also students’ visits to the Cargolux premises where they can to students at Luxembourg’s national carrier, who has three take an immediate look behind the scenes. During 2015, each in their first and second year of apprenticeship. the company offered internships to 22 students. Furthermore, the technical training team was busy organizing open-door events at the LTPEM and an ‘on-the job’ info day at Dudelange’s Lycée Nic-Biever. 22 students These efforts were honored when Cargolux was named as one of the top five vocational training academies in Luxembourg and nominated for the Spring Awards Edition 2015 , sponsored by Luxembourg’s Chambre de Commerce. internships offered by Cargolux Cargolux maintains its co-operation and close relationship with the Lycée Technique Privé Emile Metz (LTPEM) in Luxembourg that runs an aircraft mechanics apprenticeship program. Students that successfully pass their exam become B.1.1-licensed AML aircraft mechanics with an opportunity to gain employment at Cargolux. B.1.1licensed mechanics are certified to perform mechanical and/or avionic works during base and line maintenance. 124 HELP TO HELP THE FINE ARTS Cargolux has a long history of support for NGOs in Since its early days, Cargolux has sought to support their work, bringing relief aid and medical goods to and promote Luxembourg’s cultural activities. As an people affected by epidemics and natural disasters. In international airline operating worldwide, the company co-operation with Médecins Sans Frontières, the airline has strives to enrich the cultural life of its home country and to also transported clothes, books and educational supplies support Luxembourg artists in their international exposure. for a number of charity organizations with the goal to This support is strongly anchored in Cargolux’s ambitions help people in need or support the education of children and the role it wants to play as a good citizen. around the world. Cargolux has a long-standing sponsorship agreement In 2015, nine flights with NGO shipments were flown, with the Luxembourg Museum of Modern Art, MUDAM, many of those to African countries in addition to the and regularly flies paintings, objects and other artworks traditional shipments for the stands at the Luxembourg for the museum’s exhibitions, mostly between Europe, International Bazaar. At this yearly event, organizers from the United States and Asia. Because transportation various countries sell goods and food and present cultural usually represents a large part of an exhibition’s costs, and social aspects from their home, with all proceeds Cargolux’s support contributes to tip the balance towards going to charity. a successful completion of such projects and constitutes an essential logistical link between MUDAM and other museums around the world. In 2015, MUDAM celebrated its 10 th anniversary and Cargolux has Cargolux is proud to have played its part in the museum’s transported success and the diversity of its high profile exhibitions. Clothes , books and educational In June 2015, Cargolux shipped around 190 tons of supplies artworks from New York, Los Angeles and Chicago to Basle, Switzerland, for the Art Basel 2015 Expo; an event for a number that stages the world’s premier modern and contemporary of charity art show. Spread over six flights, the shippers took organisations advantage of Cargolux’s specialized CV Precious product that not only meets the highest security standards, but sets them. Logistical planning around an art exhibition does not start with the transport and, due to the size and bulkiness of the artworks, the feasibility of an exhibition becomes increasingly dependent on Cargolux’s support and ample experience in the field of art transportation. 125 CUSTOMER CARE Hard work and dedication to service excellence have Reflecting this expertise in its CV Pharma product, one earned Cargolux a high level of trust and loyalty from its of eight specialized offerings in its product portfolio, customers and partners in the industry. Many of these makes Cargolux a preferred carrier for the transport of long-lasting partnerships have grown over decades and pharmaceutical goods and underlines the company’s Cargolux is proud that its efforts are recognized with the commitment to the safe and fast movement of high-value, many industry awards the company receives. temperature-sensitive healthcare shipments across its global network. Eager to maintain the high level of trust and support, Cargolux in 2015 initiated a customer survey to gauge In January 2016, Cargolux successfully passed its GDP the overall rate of satisfaction and areas of possible Surveillance Audit, validating its GDP certification for improvement. With a very good return rate of about 15%, another year. customers expressed their appreciation and gave the airline the chance to identify some areas that need more detailed attention. As a company in a competitive environment, 2016 Cargolux relies on valuable feedback like this to constantly grow and improve its service. 2016 was declared as Cargolux’s ‘Year of the Customer’. CargoluX’s Cargolux was the first airline worldwide Year of to receive the Good Distribution Practice the customer (GDP) certification that attests Cargolux’s management system meets the requirements of the EU directive ‘Guidelines on Good Distribution Practice of Medical Products for Human Use’, as well as World Health Organization guidelines. 126 127 appendix social and environment Employment 2015 2014 2013 Number of staff Worldwide 1,779 1,710 1,606 Headquarter 1,335 1,305 1,224 Rest of the world 444 405 382 Percentage of women 20% 20% 20% Permanent contract 1,622 1,580 1,556 Newly hired 181 188 125 CWA 1,164 1,148 1,078 Female 13% 12.5% 12.2% Male 87% 87.5% 87.8% Turnover 107 76 75 Retention rate after parental leave 100% 95% 95% Number of employees by age groups under 30 254 232 192 30-50 1,125 1,126 1,117 over 50 400 352 297 Absenteeism 2015 2014 2013 Lost days for accidents 362 273 506 Lost days for sickness 12,741 13,304 13,746 maternity leave 1,592 7,566 6,536 Occupational Health & Safety 2015 2014 2013 Number of injuries (accidents) Internal 26 42 33 External 14 16 15 Injury rate Work related fatalities Occupational disease rate Training 2015 2014 2013 Number of training hours per employee 87 64 45 128 Environment 2015 2014 2013 Materials A/C cleaning products, TOTAL (ltrs) 34,017 35,741 33,555 Honey bee 402 310 254 A/C cleaner 32,760 32,095 29,940 Hydraulic removal 855 3,336 3,391 De-icing and anti-icing product, TOTAL (kgs) Tarmac/airside (ltrs/kgs) 6,000 / 2,750 2,500 / 2,500 15,345 Salt (parking/road) 13,175 4,005 16,415 Paper (DIN A4) (kgs) 24,400 30,630 29,237 Cartridges (pcs) 162 240 247 Emissions Direct emissions: CO 2 emitted by aircraft (tonnes) 3,485,274 3,184,580 2,867,800 CO 2 emitted by GSE vehicles 289 233 257 Indirect emissions: Facilities 2,475 2,513 2,362 Consumption Water 9,183 9,296 8,639 Fuel (Heating systems for Lorang building) 70,052 87,599 85,160 Fuel (sprinkler pumps) 4,509 2,889 4,699 Electricity (kWh) 5,582,725 5,787,965 5,781,009 The following data regarding the indirect Energy Consumption are only available for CMC: Heating (kWh) 6,227,000 5,627,100 6,176,300 Cooling (kWh) 443,500 466,600 464,380 Compressed air (m3) 994,885 1,004,077 825,370 Gas (m3) 1,090,762 1,088,487 1,039,030 Fuel Jet A (tonnes) 1,106,436 1,010,978 910,413 GSE vehicles Industrial Fuel (ltrs) 91,926 71,305 75,406 Diesel (ltrs) 15,123 13,542 17,452 Unleaded Gasoline 95 (ltrs) 1,970 2,949 4,266 Waste Hazardous waste 124,948 176,046 144,615 Recyclable waste 74,103 90,625 91,037 Residual waste 117,086 76,029 56,836 Oily waste 21,801 25,219 21,664 Other waste 6,007 4,972 6,879 129 gri table 2015 General Standard Explanation / Page Disclosures Omission Strategy & Analysis G4-1 Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. Organisational profile G4-3 Report the name of the organisation. 102 G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 102 G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 102 G4-6 Report the number of countries where the organization operates, 102 and name of countries where either the organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. Joint-stock company (société anonyme) G4-8 Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, 102 sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries). G4-9 Report the scale of organization. 16 G4-10 a. Report the total number of employees by employement 113 contract and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees 113/128 by employement type and gender. c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised n/a workers and by gender. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. 113/128 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed n/a by workers who are legally recognized as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and supervised employees of contractors. f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers n/a (such as seasonal variations in employement in the tourism or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining 128 agreements. G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. Not reported data not available G4-13 Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the 102 organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply chain. G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle 104 is addressed by the organization. 130 General Standard Explanation / Page Disclosures Omission G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, 102 principles, or other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-16 List memberships of associations and national or international advocacy 103 organisations in which the organization holds a positioin on the governance body, participates in projects or committees, provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues, views membership as strategic. Materiality matrix G4-17 a. List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. b. Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated n/a financial statements or equivalent documents is not covered by the report. G4-18 a. Explain the process for defining the report content 104 and the Aspect Boundaries. b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining report content. G4-19 List all material aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 104 G4-20 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary within the organization. 104 G4-21 For each material aspect, report the aspect boundary outside the organization. 105 G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided Nothing to report in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope Nothing to report and aspect boundaries Stakeholder engagement G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organisation. 105 G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders 105 with whom to engage. G4-26 Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including 105 frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. G4-27 Report key and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder 105 engagement, and how the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised each of the key topics and conerns. 131 gri table 2015 General Standard Explanation / Page Disclosures Omission Report profile G4-28 Reporting period for information provided. 104 G4-29 Date of most recent previous report. 104 G4-30 Reporting cycle. 104 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. 144 G4-32 a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen 104 b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option. 104 c. Report the reference to the External Assurance Report, 104 if the report has been externally assured. G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice 104 with regard to seeking external assurance for the report Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms 108 of behaviour such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 132 133 gri table 2015 specific Standard Explanation / Page Disclosures Omission ASPECT: Materials G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 129 ASPECT: Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 129 G4-EN5 Energy insensity ASPECT: Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 129 G4-EN10 Water consumption (Percentage and total We have nothing to report as volume of water recycled and reused) we do not have this process in place. ASPECT: Emissions G4-EN15 Direct Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions 129 G4-EN16 Indirect Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions 129 G4-EN18 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) emissions intensity G4-EN19 Initiatives to reduce GHGE and reductions 119 achieved ASPECT: Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality Wastewater from our maintenance operations at the and destination maintenance facilities in Luxembourg are directly collected by the airport sewage system prior to a wastewater treatment plant. G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type 129 and disposal method G4-EN24 Total number and volume Monitoring implemented from October 2011; of significant spills reporting form designed Definition: significant spill = 100 l chemical substance; WE CHANGED TO 50 liters after ISO 14001 audit recommendation 134 specific Standard Explanation / Page Disclosures Omission ASPECT: Employement G4-LA1 Total number and rate of new employee 113 hires and employee turnover by age group, 128 gender and region. G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after 128 parental leave, by gender. ASPECT: Occupational Health & Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational 128 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender. G4-LA8 Health & Safety topics covered in formal 118 agreements with trade unions. ASPECT: Training and Education G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee 116 by gender, and by employee category. 128 ASPECT: Diversity and Equal Opportunity G4-LA12 Composition of governance bodies and 128 breakdown of employees per employee category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity. ASPECT: Investment G4-HR2 Total hours of employee training on human 108 rights policies or procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant to operations, including the percentage of employees trained. 135 Ernst & Young Tel : +352 42 124 1 Société anonyme Fax : +352 42 124 5555 35E avenue John F. Kennedy, www.ey.com/luxembourg L-1855 Luxembourg B.P. 780 L-2017 Luxembourg R.C.S. Luxembourg B47 771 TVA LU 16063074 To the Shareholders of Cargolux Airlines International S.A. Aéroport de Luxembourg L-2990 Sandweiler Independent Limited Assurance Report to Cargolux Airlines International S.A. We have been engaged by the Management of Cargolux Airlines International S.A. (“Cargolux”) to provide limited assurance on the “Sustainability Report” of Cargolux for the year ended December 31, 2015 as set out on pages 100-135. Management’s responsibility for the Sustainability Report Management is responsible for the preparation and presentation of the Sustainability Report in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) of the Global Reporting Initiative (“GRl”) as described on pages 104, 130–135 and the information and assertions contained within it, for determining Cargolux’s objectives in respect of sustainable development performance and reporting, including the identification of stakeholders and material issues; and for establishing and maintaining appropriate performance management and internal control systems from which the reported performance information is derived. Responsibility of the Réviseur d’Entreprises agréé Our responsibility is to carry out a limited assurance engagement and to express a conclusion based on the work performed. We conducted our engagement in accordance with the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE) 3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information as adopted for Luxembourg by the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier. This standard requires that we comply with applicable ethical requirements, including independence requirements, and that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the Sustainability Report is free from material misstatement. A limited assurance engagement on a sustainability report consists of making inquiries, primarily of persons responsible for the preparation of information presented in the sustainability report and applying analytical and other evidence gathering procedures, as appropriate. These procedures included: • Assessment of the suitability of the reporting criteria and their consistent application. • Inquires of management to gain an understanding of Cargolux processes for determining the material issues for Cargolux key stakeholder groups. • Interviews with senior management and relevant staff at group level and selected business unit level concerning sustainability strategy and policies for material issues, and the implementation of these across the business. • Interviews with relevant staff at corporate and business unit level responsible for data capture and preparation of the information in the Sustainability Report. A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 136 • Comparing the information presented in the Sustainability Report to corresponding information in the relevant underlying sources to determine whether all the relevant information contained in such underlying sources has been included in the Sustainability Report. • Review of material qualitative statements in the report with regard to consistency and plausibility. • Reading the other information presented in the Annual Report 2015 of Cargolux to determine whether it is in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the sustainability performance of Cargolux. The extent of evidence gathering procedures performed in a limited assurance engagement is less than that for a reasonable assurance engagement, and therefore a lower level of assurance is provided. Conclusion Based on the procedures performed, as described above, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Sustainability Report of Cargolux for the year ended December 31, 2015 is not presented fairly, in all material respects, in accordance with the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (G4) of the Global Reporting Initiative as described on pages 104, 130–135 of the Sustainability Report. Ernst & Young Société Anonyme Cabinet de révision agréé Werner Weynand Luxembourg, 7 April 2016 A member firm of Ernst & Young Global Limited 137 spanning the world european trucking network European road feeder network from and to Luxembourg Austria France Hanover Turin Spain United Linz Lille Leipzig Venice Alicante Kingdom Vienna Lyon Nuremberg Bilbao London Marseille Munich Netherlands Madrid Manchester Belgium Mulhouse MunsterAmsterdam Valencia Prestwick Antwerp Nice Osnabruck Maastricht Zaragoza Brussels Paris Stuttgart Rotterdam Ireland Strasbourg Sweden Cork Czech Hungary Norway Gothenburg Dublin Republic Germany Budapest Bergen Malmö Shannon Prague Berlin Stavanger Stockholm Bremen Italy Oslo Denmark Cologne Bologna Switzerland Billund Dortmund Civitanova Portugal Basle Copenhagen Dresden Marche Lisbon Geneva Dusseldorf Florence Porto Zurich Finland Frankfurt Milan Helsinki Hamburg Rome Road feeder network from Prestwick Aberdeen Cork Manchester Road feeder network from Budapest Belfast Derby Newcastle Birmingham Dublin Norwich Bratislava Ljubljana Soﬁa Bristol Glasgow Shannon Bucharest Prague Vienna Cardiff London Linz Sarajevo Warsaw Road feeder network from Milan Barcelona Fiumicino Naples Verona Road feeder network Basle Geneva Nuremberg Vienna from Istanbul Bordeaux Genova Stuttgart Zurich Civitanova Lyon Toulouse Adana Marche Marseille Turin Ankara Firenze Munich Venice Izmir Road feeder network from Barcelona Road feeder network from Maastricht Alicante Madrid Zaragoza Bilbao Porto Luxembourg Lisbon Valencia Amsterdam 140 Trucking Services out of Cargolux online stations Ad hoc trucking can be arranged upon client request, please contact our cargo services office for additional information. 141 destinations – route map 2016 Calgary Seattle Chicago New York Indianapolis Colombus Los Angeles Huntsville Atlanta Dallas Houston Miami Guadalajara Mexico City Aguadilla/San Juan Bogota Latacunga Manaus Petrolina Campinas São Paulo Rio Curitiba de Janeiro (also) flown by Cargolux Italia 142 Novosibirsk Prestwick Amsterdam Stansted Maastricht Luxembourg Munich Budapest Milan Vienna Almaty Toulouse Tbilisi Turkmenbashi Zaragoza Barcelona Istanbul Baku Beijing Komatsu Seoul Tokyo Beirut Zhengzhou Osaka Amman Shanghai Kuwait Cairo Dammam Bahrain Riyadh Sharjah Xiamen Karachi Taipei Dubai Doha Muscat Hong Kong Mumbai Ouagadougou Chennai Bangkok Bamako N'Djamena Ho Chi Minh City Lagos Abidjan Port Harcourt Kuala Lumpur Accra Singapore Nairobi Brazzaville Kinshasa Johannesburg 143 issued and edited by Photo Credits Corporate Communications Viktor Laszlo Pages 6, 15, 22, 25, 30, 33, 34, Cargolux Airlines International S.A. 37, 41, 45, 48, 53, 57, 59, 62, 66, 71, 77, 81, 90, 93, 104, 107, 111, Luxembourg Airport 115, 116, 118, 133 L-2990 Luxembourg Tel. : +352 4211-1 Christiaan van Heijst Pages 2, 10, 24, 29, 31, 36, 38, Fax : +352 4211 3747 43, 65, 74, 83, 85, 95, 109, 110, Corpcom@cargolux.com 122, 127 Designed by David Laurent Pages 12, 19 Concept Factory S.A. Frank Weber Page 8 Cargolux Page 27 Getty Images Cover, Pages 4, 5, 20, 21, 46, 47, 98, 99, 138, 139
