TABLE OF CONTENT Message from the CEO UNITED NATIONS Human Rights GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION Labour Environment Anti-corruption ProData Consult fact-sheet ON PROGRESS AUGUST 2016 Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT year and grossed more than EURO 62 million, and the company is represented in Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Holland, Poland and Germany. Message from the CEO The management of ProData Consult acknowledges Human Rights and accepts the responsibility which follows when you manage a larger European company. We take our role Labour of contributing to the local, but also global community very serious. This is also why we have uphold our Environment actions from previous years, while taken new initiatives to abide by the ten principles, but more importantly to Anti-corruption do our part in making this world a better place. ProData Consult fact-sheet With this annual report on progress we want to reconfirm and recommit ourselves to the ten principles CEO statement of the United Nations Global Compact Initiative ProData Consult has been a proud member of the covering Human rights, Labour, the Environment and United Nation Global Compact since 2014. When Anticorruption and urge other companies to do the we joined the United Nation Global Compact we same. incorporated the ten principles as an integrated part of our Code of Conduct. The ten principles is therefore a big part of the values we live and the way we run our August 1, 2016 organization. ProData Consult is a Danish based Business and IT Consulting Company. The company delivers some Søren Rode, CEO of the strongest and most advanced business and IT consultants to cutting edge technology projects in Europe. The company grew significantly the last Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT Human Rights • The Company has internal policies and processes where any client or project potentially violating Principle 1 above human rights have to be approved by Businesses should support and respect the protection Message from the CEO of internationally proclaimed human rights. Management. Human Rights Principle 2 • ProData Consult has since 2014 financially supported Amnesty International, Youth for Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Labour abuses. Human Rights and Unicef and thus directly contributed to organizations advocating and Environment working on protecting these rights. Actions Anti-corruption • The internationally proclaimed human rights are Measurement of outcome: an integral part of our Code of Conduct. It is a • No violations of human rights have been detected. ProData Consult fact-sheet central part of those values on which we build our company. • Thank you letters from receiving organizations, promoting and protecting human rights, were • Our participation in the UN Global Compact, our received acknowledging our donations. Code of Conduct and the full UN Human Rights Declaration have a permanent page on our • More than 500 visits on our website page, websites. describing the full UN Human Rights Declaration. • The Code of Conduct is the first thing you see when you enter our office. This way we are reminded every day, which values our company is built upon. • ProData Consult has a publicly known policy of not delivering to any public administration or company abusing human rights. Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com Labour • We do not discriminate due to race, sex, political or religious beliefs or sexual observation and have a Principle 3 no tolerance policy on any cases of discrimination Businesses should uphold the freedom of association discovered. and the effective recognition of the right to collective TABLE OF CONTENT bargaining; • ProData Consult welcomes a diverse labour force and sees differences as strengths. We work Principle 4 Message from the CEO towards having a diversified labour force. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Human Rights • All employees have once a year a personal and private interview with the line manager, with the Principle 5 Labour purpose to optimize the employees wellbeing in The effective abolition of child labour; the company. Environment Principle 6 • During 2016 we have renewed our office facilities The elimination of discrimination in respect of Anti-corruption in accordance to the wishes of the employees, but employment and occupation. also in accordance to best practice of creating a ProData Consult fact-sheet healthy office environment. Actions • ProData Consult fully supports freedom of association and all employees have the right to collective bargaining. Measurement of outcome: • No instances of forced and compulsory labour nor • We support the elimination of all forms of forced or child labour were detected. compulsory labour. • No cases of discrimination were detected. • ProData Consult financially supports Unicef and thus an organization working on abolishing child • Although we operate in a traditionally male labour in all its forms. dominated business segment (IT), we have an administration with +50% women employed by • Non-discrimination and labour rights are an 2016. integral part of our Code of Conduct. • No work injuries were reported. Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT Environment • All our major vendors are certified CO2 neutral. Principle 7 • More than 75% of our purchased groceries are Businesses should support a precautionary approach Message from the CEO to environmental challenges; organic. Human Rights Principle 8 • We are encouraging reduced printing and we consider the environment in all outgoing mails from Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Labour responsibility; all employees in all countries. Environment Principle 9 • In 2016 we have decided to make our consultant magazines digital, thus reducing the paper usage Encourage the development and diffusion of Anti-corruption environmentally friendly technologies. for hard copy magazines. ProData Consult fact-sheet Actions • We are delivering to and contributing to a large Measurement of outcome: number of IT projects focused around energy • All paper is recycled. savings and environmentally friendly technologies. This includes several large Scandinavian energy • For a third year in a row, we have managed to providers and public power suppliers, thus directly reduce our paper usage. contributing and being an instrumental partner in both the development and diffusion of new and • An increased internal awareness about the innovative technologies directly benefitting our environment, and how you affect the environment environment. in your everyday work, has been created. • We have digital contract system making our • Fewer expenses to hard copy magazines. contract flow 100% paperless. • Internally we recycle all paper. Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com TABLE OF CONTENT Anti-corruption • We support Transparency International financially. Principle 10 • We advice and support our freelance business Businesses should work against corruption in all its Message from the CEO forms, including extortion and bribery. partners within taxation and revision, in order to make sure they abide by the tax regulation and Human Rights rules. Actions Labour • Working against all forms ud corruptions are an integral part of our Code of Conduct. It is a Measurement of outcome: Environment central part of those values on which we build our company. • No incidents of corruption were detected and Anti-corruption Management can guarantee that no such • We run an honest, open and transparent company incidents have occurred. ProData Consult fact-sheet with these values as core values for our company. We only want to win business based on delivering • An increased internal awareness about antibest quality service for best price, nothing else. corruption has been created. • All expenses related to building relations with clients and sub-contractors have to be approved by Management (CEO level). Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com ProData Consult the leading provider of Business & IT Consultants TABLE OF CONTENT IT Consultants Business & IT Consultants • ProData Consult is a full-service Consulting Company. Message from the CEO Time and Material Time and Material • The largest business and IT Human Rights consultant provider in Denmark within our segment. Labour Nearshoring Nearshoring • With a mission to: Help our clients Environment IT Development in Warsaw IT Development in Warsaw with their business and IT by delivering uncompromising quality. Anti-corruption • With direct representation in: ProData Consult fact-sheet Vendor Management Vendor Management Denmark, Sweden, Norway, Poland, The Netherlands and Germany. Administration of consultant suppliers Administration of consultant suppliers Management Management Management Service and Business Development Management Service and Business Development Online Administration Module Online Administration Module Effective administration of consultants Effective administration of consultants Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com ProData Consult Business and IT consultants ProData Consult is one of the largest independent TABLE OF CONTENT consultancies in the Nordic region. The company Growing consulting company is headquartered in Copenhagen, with branches / ProData Consult awards subsidiaries in Denmark, Sweden and Norway as well as Message from the CEO Germany, the Netherlands and Poland. Founded in 1994 by IT consultants, ProData Consult is now owned by Human Rights a leading group of employees and board members. The company has Labour experienced steady growth over the years, and has continuously expanded Environment a national and international network of consultants in Scandinavia and Europe. Anti-corruption We deliver consistent positive financial results. ProData Consult fact-sheet In 2015, ProData Group grossed €62 million. Our extensive national and international network of business and IT consultants enables us to identify and present the right consultant for your business. We ensure that our consultants have industry-relevant experience and possess the right skills to do the job. ProData Consult is a consulting company characterized by competitive pricing, flexibility, quick delivery, security and stability as well as the highest standards of IT competencies. We believe cooperation and personalized service is paramount. Expert Business & IT Consultants www.prodataconsult.com
