SK Innovation History Contents Introduction 1960's 1970's SK Innovation History 02 1962. 10. Establishment of Korea Oil Corporation 1970. 05. Started operation of the Aromatics About this Report About this Report 03 1964. 04. Started operation of the No.1 Atmospheric Distillation Unit Manufacturing Plant CEO's Message 04 Since the first SK Innovation sustainability report was published 1967. 05. Expanded the No.1 Atmospheric Distillation Unit 1972. 09. Completion of an oil pipeline connecting Ulsan refinery with Daegu in 2005, we have published this report annually to share our Sustainable Value Chain 06 1968. 04. Started operation of the No.2 Atmospheric Distillation Unit 1968. 12. Started operation of the Lubricant Blending Plant 1972. 10. Started operation of the No.3 plans and performance results with our stakeholders. Also, this SK Innovation Profile 08 Atmospheric Distillation Unit 1973. 03. Started operation of the Naphtha report has been published after being reviewed and approved by Cracking Center the CSR Committee. 1974. 06. Expanded the No.2 Atmospheric Corporate Governance Distillation Unit Reporting Period 1977. 03. Expanded the Naphtha Cracking Center SKMS 12 January 2014 ~ December 2014 Active Stakeholder Engagement 13 (Some performance results include data from 2015) 2000's 1990's 1980's Corporate Governance 14 Ethical Management 16 Reporting Scope 2003. 11. Commencement of oil production at Vietnam’s 1990. 08. Started operation of the No.1 Synthetic Resin 1980. 03. Expanded the Lubricant Blending Plant Risk Responses 17 15-1 block Manufacturing Plant SK Innovation’s Head Office and its domestic operations, as well 1980. 12. Sunkyung Group acquired Korea Oil Talent Management 18 2004. 07. Launched the SK Angels (1004) Volunteer 1991. 05. Started operation of the No.4 Atmospheric Corporation as the domestic operations of its five subsidiaries: SK Energy, SK Group Distillation Unit Corporate Culture 20 1985. 12. Started operation of the new Aromatics Global Chemical, SK Lubricants, SK Incheon Petrochem and SK 2004. 09. Completion of the No. 2 Lubricant Base Oil Plant 1992. 11. Started operation of No.1 HOU (Heavy Oil Manufacturing Plant 2004. 10. Establishment of SK China Holding Co., Ltd. Upgrading) Unit 1987. 05. Started operation of the Grease Trading International. 2006. 03. Launch of SK Incheon Oil 1994. 11. Imported crude oil developed from Egypt Manufacturing Plant Innovation for the future 2006. 04. Completion of Ulsan Grand Park Northern Zaafarana’s block 1988. 01. Imported crude oil developed from Yemen’s 1996. 10. Started operation of the No.5 Atmospheric Marib’s block Reporting Principle 2007. 07. Launch of SK Holdings Co., Ltd. and SK Energy Materiality Test Result Report 24 Distillation Unit 1989. 12. Started operation of the No.2 Naphtha GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 2008. 02. Merged with SK Incheon Oil 1997. 01. Started operation of No.1 FCC (Fluidized Cracking Center Focus 1. 2008. 07. Completed the construction of the Lube Base Catalytic Cracking) Unit Oil Plant in Indonesia Enhanced business for sustainable growth 26 2008. 09. Completion of No.2 FCC (Fluidized Catalytic 1997. 03. Started operation of the No.2 Synthetic Resin Verification Manufacturing Plant Focus 2. Cracking) Unit Independent Assurance Report (DNV GL) 1997. 03. Establishment of SK Corp. 2009. 10. Launch of SK Lubricants SHE competitiveness at the global level 36 Focus 3. 2010's Mutual growth with suppliers 46 Focus 4. 2010. 10. Completion of the LiBS No. 4 and 5 production lines Achieve win-win through social 54 2011. 01. Reorganized as a four-subsidiary governance (SK Innovation, SK contribution Energy, SK Global Chemical, SK Lubricants) 2012. 03. Completed the construction of No.3 Lubricant Base Oil Plant 2012. 09. Completion of the SK Battery Plant in Seosan RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT 2012. 10. Completed the construction of LiBS No.6 and No.7 production lines and the FCCL/TAC production lines R&D 64 2013. 07. Spin off of SK Incheon Petrochem and SK Trading International 2013. 12. Completed the construction of LiBS No.8 and No.9 production lines 2014. 01. Established a joint venture BESK with Beijing Electronics Holding APPENDIX and Beijing Automotive Industry Holding 2014. 01. Expanded the Seosan Battery Plant Management’s Discussion and Analysis 67 2014. 04. Purchased a block for oil production in Texas and Oklahoma, US 2014. 05. Established a joint venture Nexlene with SABIC Sustainable Performance 70 2014. 06. Completed the construction of the FCCL No.2 production line Third Party’s Assurance Report 78 2014. 06. Completed the construction of SK Incheon Petrochem’s PX plant GRI G4 Index 80 2014. 10. Completed the construction of a joint venture ‘Ulsan Aromatic Corporation’ Plant in Ulsan with JX Energy 04 Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction 05 CEO's Message Dear Stakeholders, I would like to sincerely thank you all for the continued support you have shown to our company, SK Innovation. Companies faced many difficulties in 2014 due to the business environment being aggravated by oil prices and exchange rates and increasing uncertainties. SK Innovation has taken these situations as an opportunity to take a leap forward by striving to achieve sustainable growth and to bring happiness to our stakeholders. This report sheds light on SK Innovation’s major activities and performances aimed at implementing sustainability management, while also introducing the future plans for our stakeholders. Strengthening Fundamental Competitiveness and Accelerating Global Growth In order to secure fundamental competitiveness, SK Innovation strengthens its core competencies differently for each business area. SK Innovation operated a new plant of high-performance polyethylene brand Nexlene, which was developed for the first time in Korea with its original technology, and also expanded the high value-added chemicals PX plant. Furthermore, we continuously developed technologies to reinforce our position, by ranking first in the global premium lube base oil production volume, ranking first in the most favored domestic brand for lubricant complete products, and ranking first for 16 consecutive years in the brand power survey. Also, we are tapping into overseas markets by investing abroad and strengthening partnership with global companies. The commercial production of our major overseas worksites began in full scale, including the Lube Base Oil plant in Cartagena, Spain and the Naphtha Cracking Center in Wuhan City, China. Besides these, we are establishing the foundation for successfully entering into the overseas markets by participating in North America’s unconventional resources development project consisting mainly of American oil development companies, while also setting up a joint venture EV battery plant in Beijing to tap into the Chinese market as it emerges as the world’s largest EV market. Securing SHE Competitiveness at the Global Level In order to respond to global climate change, it has become more important for companies to take strategic approaches to address energy consumption and GHG emissions. Before the implementation of the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) in 2015, SK Innovation has made multilateral analysis of the impacts from the ETS and set up an implementation system to be prepared. Also, we strive to take the lead as an eco-friendly company by actively implementing energy-saving campaigns and activities to improve energy efficiency. Recently, the social demand for being quick in addressing SHE (Safety, Health, Environment) accidents has increased because of the recent accidents at home and abroad. Therefore, SK Innovation analyzed the best practices of leading global companies to enhance its emergency response system to meet global standards. In addition to reinforcing the execution on the site, we re-assigned the responsibilities in emergency response and improved the emergency response system, so that our competencies were enhanced through periodic emergency response trainings held. Establishing a Win-Win Partnership Culture SK Innovation thinks of its suppliers as partners in company management. Going beyond the framework of providing support, we establish the framework required to achieve sustainable growth for our suppliers. To achieve this, we set up a division to be in charge of mutual growth, which provides programs on education, safety and funding to strengthen the suppliers’ competitiveness, as well as establishing a win-win partnership culture by conducting evaluations on suppliers fairly and sharing the results transparently. Meanwhile, we implemented CSR activities that create sustainable social value with more significance than just making donations. We strive to support the independence of social enterprises and to stimulate the social economy, while also establishing a reliable relationship with local residents by carrying out CSR activities that meet the conditions of local communities. We expanded the scope of these CSR activities to be implemented not only in Korea, but also at overseas worksites. An outstanding example is our CSR program Yachaywasi implemented in Peru, which supports advanced agricultural skills and techniques to farming villages so that they become more independent, with plans to open the third farm in Peru by receiving good responses from the Peruvian government, academia and farmers. Dear Stakeholders, SK Innovation will make every effort to attain its goal as a company respected by the society in embracing change and innovation in pursuit of higher stakeholder value. To that end, we will maintain open communication with our stakeholders and pay close attention to your opinions. I ask for your continuous support and encouragement as we move forward. SK Innovation CEO & President Chung, Chul Khil 06 Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction 07 Sustainable Value Chain Production of Petrochemicals and Production of Oil Products Product Sales Lubricants Producing oil products, including Selling products made to domestic Producing basic chemicals, high-performance gasoline, diesel, B-C oil, etc. and overseas customers chemicals and lubricants Crude Oil Transportation Transporting crude oil by using ships, etc. Information & Electronic Materials Products Producing information & electronic materials, including LiBS (Lithium-ion Battery Separators), FCCL (Flexible Copper Clad Laminates), TAC Film (Tri-Acetate Cellulose Film), etc R&D Battery Products Developing technologies in the Developing and producing EV batteries fields of petroleum, petrochemicals, polymers, lubricants, batteries and information & electronic materials Exploration & Production Searching for oil exploration blocks and drilling for crude oil 12 Sustainability Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 13 SKMS Active Stakeholder Engagement SK Innovation strives to achieve sustainable growth while pursuing stakeholders’ happiness. In this regard, SK Innovation A company’s sustainable growth is attained by establishing a reliable relationship with its stakeholders aimed at achieving mutual establishes an advanced management system and creates a sound corporate culture through transparent and accountable growth. Therefore, SK Innovation categorizes its shareholders, employees, suppliers, communities and customers as key stakeholders, management practices based on the SK Management System (SKMS). and seeks ways to achieve mutual growth by establishing a consensus between the company and its stakeholders through various communication channels. SKMS The SK Management System (SKMS) is SK Group’s fundamental framework for sustainability management The relationships and roles of the company and its stakeholders (SK Management efforts that is agreed upon and shared by all employees, consisting of SK Group’s unique corporate Establish a favorable environment to Create value via System) culture, management philosophy and management techniques. It was first established in 1979 so that all transparency and efficiency work voluntarily & willingly employees can be aware of the essence of management through the SKMS and enhance the level of Employees Shareholders business management by utilizing it in their decision-making process. Through these efforts, we will secure Contribute to corporate Invest the competitiveness required to become a leading global company in the global environment. Currently, all growth of the employees belonging to SK Group apply the SKMS in their management practices, while also striving to upgrade and improve the SKMS to adapt to the changing business environment. SKMS Framework Trust & support of business Support with trust & choice activities Customers Communities Management Provide customer Development of Win-Win Contributing to economic Perspective satisfaction business through partnership development, social contribution, SK-Way to cooperation ethical management Mission1) Our Value2) Achieve Our Value3) Suppliers Management Implementation Principles of SK Management System Stakeholder SK Innovation has various communication channels in place that are suitable for each particular stakeholder Principle Communication group. In recognition of the importance of two-way communication, we do our best to collect stakeholder opinions and incorporate them into the company’s decision-making process and business activities. Internal Environment for the Communication Channels and Key Issues by Stakeholder Group SUPEX Goal/Business Plan Role of SK People and Leaders SUPEX Quest Key Stakeholders Communication Channels 2014 Key Issues · General Shareholders’ meetings, earnings releases · Domestic/international NDRs (Non-Deal Roadshows) Static Factors Dynamic Factors · Domestic/International Conferences · Medium and long-term strategies Shareholders · One-on-one meetings, e-mail/phone consulting · Business portfolio Business · Disclosures, Reports Management Application of Static Factors Implementation of · Medium and long-term Strategies Factors Dynamic Factors · Business Portfolio · Marketing · Production · Implementation by SK People · In-house Broadcasting (GBS) and Newsletter · Research & Development · Implementation by the Company · Intranet (tong tong) · Biz. Status and Issue · Strategic Planning Employees · iCON (Change Agent) and a Management Council (M2M · Work-Life balance · Human Resource-Organization Dynamic Factor Board) · Implementation of innovative tasks · Accounting-Finance Ui-yok, Managerial Capacity, · Business Briefing session, etc. · Purchasing Coordination, Communication, · Regular meetings with suppliers · CR(Corporate Relations), etc SK-Manship, etc · Supplier-CEO seminars · Win-win partnership/ mutual growth Suppliers · Periodic meetings on logistics, machinery, equipment and · Fair Trade practices inspection, etc. · Meetings with local organizations 1) Mission: T  he corporate enterprise should achieve its ultimate goal of sustained progress by maintaining stability and growth. · Attending the local community committees in neighboring Furthermore, it should create value for its customers, people and shareholders, thereby contributing to social and · Social Contribution (including social enterprises) Communities areas and the patrol division safety councils · Volunteerism economic development and human well-being. · Attending the operating committees of welfare facilities and 2) Our Value: The ultimate goal of Our Value is the happiness of stakeholder. groups in neighboring areas 3) SK-Way to Achieve Our Value: Pursuing SUPEX via-Human-Oriented Management. · Expanding customer communication channels and · Customer Happiness Center (Call center service) CRM (Customer Relationship Management) · Operation of Enclean.com and Enclean App Customers · Enhancing Customer Satisfaction levels · Customer Satisfaction Survey on promotion, etc. · Uploading on official SNS channels, including · Facebook, blog, etc. Facebook and blog Corporate Governance SKMS 12 Active Stakeholder Engagement 13 Corporate Governance 14 Ethical Management 16 Risk Responses 17 Talent Management 18 Corporate Culture 20 14 Sustainability Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 15 Corporate Governance SK Innovation is doing its best to protect the rights of its stakeholders, including shareholders, customers, etc. We maximize corporate Enhancing the Expertise In order to ensure effective and professional activities at the BOD, our independant directors participate in value by implementing transparent and accountable management practices through the BOD, to become a trusting company that of Independant education programs on domestic and overseas corporate governance and businesses. We benchmarked Directors the best practices of advanced countries by attending conferences held by the two most prestigious creates and shares happiness with our stakeholders. organizations for corporate governance in the world, including NACD1) and ICGN2), while also using it as an opportunity to set up the HR network with the executives and directors of leading overseas companies. In addition, we enhanced the understanding of our company by holding orientations at the Head Office and local worksites for newly appointed independant directors. BOD-driven SK Innovation has the BOD in place as the highest decision-making body of the SKMS (SK Management 1) NACD : National Association of Corporate Directors 2) ICGN : International Corporate Governance Network Management System), so that the BOD-driven management can be carried out. The BOD-driven management reflects the interests of shareholders evenly by running the BOD true as the BOD is meant to be, ensuring a corporate Holding Periodic BOD Meetings Advanced and structure of ethical and transparent decision-making processes. To achieve this, the BOD and the CEO have Systematic BOD SK Innovation convenes the BOD meetings on a regular basis once every month (the fourth Thursday), with to cooperate with each other and build a trusting relationship by sharing responsibilities. materials provided in advance (five days before the BOD meeting, two days before the subcommittee Operation meeting) so that the BOD members are given sufficient time to review the agenda item beforehand. In Independence of the As of June 2015, SK Innovation’s Board of Directors (BOD) had 8 members: two executive directors and six addition, if it is necessary to make prompt decisions, we promote transparent management practices by BOD independant directors. The BOD’s percentage of independant directors is the highest (75%) in the private holding the meeting on an ad hoc basis to make quick decisions. sector of Korea. Thus, decisions made exclusively by independant directors can actually bring a conclusion of any major management-related agenda items, including changing to the Articles of Incorporation, Preliminary Review of Major Decision-Making Agenda mergers/separations and proposals for discharging directors. Also, the chairpersons of the committees Regarding important matters of the company, including large-scale investments, seperations and mergers, under the BOD are all appointed as independant directors to ensure the independence and transparency of they have to go through a three-stage process of preliminary review, discuss and feedback at the BOD, with the BOD. a separate BOD meeting held for voting afterwards. In 2014, when making a major investment decision on the exploration and production (E&P) of North America, we held an in-depth discussion not only on the purpose and profitability of the investment, but also on the credit rating agency and market evaluations Present) Chairman  of the SK SUPEX Commission Chairman of the Board, Human Resources which were taken into consideration. Executive Kim, Chang Geun Chairman of SK Innovation Committee member Directors (2 persons) Chung, Chul Khil Present) CEO & President of SK Innovation and SK Nomination Committee member, Strategic Planning Business Planning & Status and Performance Report Energy Committee member The BOD reviews the short-term business plans and medium-and long-term strategies (To-be Model) annually on a regular basis. Meanwhile, the BOD sets the direction for achieving sustainable growth by holding in-depth Present) Advisor at Dongguk Holdings Inc., Ltd. Audit Committee member discussions actively about internal and external environments and characteristics for each business area, BOD Lee, Jae Han Former) C EO of Samsung BP Chemicals Co., Ltd Chairman of the Strategic Planning Committee including petrochemicals and EV batteries. Also, when making reports on the quarterly management Members (As of June 2015) Strategic Planning Committee member, performances, the management issues, performances and plans of subsidiaries and affiliated entities are also Present) Advisor at Shin & Kim Law Firm Kim, Young Ju Human Resources Committee member Former) M inister of Commerce, Industry and Energy reported, so that the BOD members can conduct an overall evaluation of the company’s status. Chairman of the CSR Committee Human Resources Committee member, Former) A mbassador of the Republic of Korea to Independent Shin, Un Pakistan, Diplomatic Minister to the US Transparent Management Committee member Holding the BOD Meetings on the Site CSR Committee member Directors Present) P rofessor of Finance at KAIST Nomination Committee member, In order to enhance the BOD members’ on-site expertise and ensure better understanding about the (6 persons) Hahn, Min Hi Former) P resident of the Korean Marketing Association Transparent Management Committee member worksite, we hold the BOD on the site by visiting domestic and overseas worksites to implement on-site Present) P rofessor of Finance at Seoul National Chairperson of the Audit Committee, management practices. This allows the BOD members to enhance their expertise on the business by Choe, Hyuk University Nomination Committee member, Former) P resident of the Korean Finance Association CSR Committee member understanding the situations better on-the-spot and listening to the opinions of on-site workers, as well as Present) V  isiting Professor at the KDI School of Public raising the employees’ awareness of the BOD activities so that a consensus is established. In 2014, we held Audit Committee member Kim, Dae Ki Policy and Management BOD meeting held on the site at Ulsan complex. the BOD on the worksite in Ulsan complex, which provided an opportunity to listen to the opinions of Transparent Management Committee member Former) C  hief Secretary to the President for National Policy employees in person, by visiting the Paraxylene (PX) and Nexlene plants. Promoting Strategic Communication Session Composition of BOD Subcommittees (As of June 2015) SK Innovation periodically holds the strategic communication session attended by top executives and Ratio of independant directors, including the CEO, to get a better understanding about the company’s major agenda Committee independant Main duties items through discussions. At the communication session, the participants discussed openly about directors management philosophy, vision, strategic fit and difficulties, as well as issues that were raised during the Conducting audits on the job performance of directors and the accounting and management Audit 100% discussion. In 2014, there were in-depth discussions held about the business plans and medium-term practices, as well as evaluations on internal accounting management system. The 1st Strategic Committee Session held in 2014. business strategies of SK Innovation’s three CICs (Company In Company) and five subsidiaries. Nomination 67% Exploring and managing a pool of independant director candidates and recommending candidates. Strategic Planning 67% Reviewing medium-and long-term business plans and strategies, including major investments and BOD Performance Evaluation & Compensation plans. The BOD conducts annual performance evaluations in the categories of BOD composition, roles, responsibilities Human Resources 67% Reviewing major policies on HR management and recommending executive director candidates. and operations. The evaluation results are reported back to the BOD and presented in Annual Reports. BOD Transparent operational plans are developed for the following years based on these evaluation results with some 100% Reviewing transactions between subsidiaries and reviewing the Fair Trade Compliance Program. Management improvements made to its functions and operations when necessary. In addition, the HR Committee conducts CSR 100% Reviewing CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) activities and major CSR issues. preliminary review on the allowable limit for the remuneration of directors and gives the final approval at the General Shareholders’ Meeting after the BOD approves it, ensuring fair evaluation and compensation. 16 Sustainability Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 17 Ethical Management Risk Responses SK Innovation builds trust-based relations with its stakeholders to bring more happiness to the society as a whole. To achieve this, SK Innovation establishes a response system to manage the risks caused by internal and external uncertainties on the company. We ethical management was internalized in the SKMS that consists of SK Group’s management philosophy, with efforts made for all create the foundation for sustainable growth by minimizing the variability of business activities to ensure a stable environment and employees to follow ethical management in their daily lives by having a standardized ethical management system in place. seeking an opportunity to establish strategic directions. Ethical Management SK Innovation established the Code of Ethics that specifies the appropriate action and principles that Risk Management SK Innovation reviews various risk factors that might occur during the business operation, so that factors that System employees should comply with. At the same time, we have in place channels for reporting and consulting Strategies need to be addressed at the company-wide level are identified. We have in place an organization to be ethics-related issues, such as the Ethics Counseling Office and the Ethics Website, with rewards given to the prepared for various risks, including the dependence on foreign sources of crude oil and market price person who made the report. fluctuation risks, enabling us to take actions efficiently and quickly. Also, we gather information on best practices and share them with our employees. Ethical Management Ethics Training for Employees Programs SK Innovation conducts ethics training for employees, including new employees and those being promoted. Response Activities for Risks Associated with Dependence on Foreign Sources of Crude Oil In 2014, we held ethics training of 612 hours for a total of 612 employees. In 2015, we will create a fair and Various Risks Most Korean petroleum production companies are entirely dependent on importing crude oil, where the transparent culture to internalize ethical management by providing on-line training programs for all employees. supply and price of imported crude oil are determined by numerous factors. In particular, the most significant Status of Ethics Training for factors include the production volume decided by OPEC (Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries) Employees Spreading Business Ethics to Suppliers and other oil producing countries and the political situation in the Middle East. In addition, there are numerous (As of December 31, 2014) Number of Trainings SK Innovation implements ethical management based on trust-based relations with its suppliers. When risk factors like domestic and international energy-related laws, the political and economic situations of registering suppliers through the purchasing portal, they have to go through the process of signing a Fair countries that are developing resources, the present condition of global climate change, the economic 612 persons Trade Agreement with its suppliers. If a supplier is detected pursuing any illegal or corrupt activity, it will be subject to sanctions according to SK Innovation’s bylaws. Since 2011, we strive to comply with fair trading growth rate of China and the domestic economic situation. Training Hours rules by implementing the campaign of not giving and not receiving gifts during the holiday from external Risks Associated with Market Price Fluctuation of Crude Oil stakeholders, including suppliers, agencies and clients. SK Innovation takes numerous measures to minimize the risk factors arising from the fluctuation in market 612 hours Fair Transactions prices of crude oil, and various other global factors, whether economic, regulatory or political, as well as weather conditions, which can alter market prices. Also, there are risk factors arising from the difference in SK Innovation and its subsidiaries have worked towards creating a culture of fair transactions for the society by crude oil prices between the shipping month and the arrival month due to long-term contracts with the implementing fair trade practices. In 2014 and 2015, we will concentrate on addressing internal and external Middle East. environmental changes on fair transactions in the future by upgrading the levels of fair trade management for SK Innovation and its subsidiaries. Risks Associated with Fluctuations in Foreign Exchange Rates Unexpected fluctuations in foreign exchange rates can bring direct losses to the company’s profitability with Fair Trade Compliance Program (CP) impacts on sales volume, prices and cost of crude oil. In order to reduce losses that might arise from risks Ethical Management Website · Declared the compliance with fair trading rules and adopted fair trade associated with fluctuations in foreign exchange rates, SK Innovation closely monitors foreign exchange(https://ethics.skinnovation.com) CEO’s commitment to the Compliance Program compliance program related risks. Also, we decide on the acceptable level of foreign exchange risks and hedge excessive foreign · Specified the company’s policies on the CEO’s fair trade compliance exchange risks that go beyond the acceptable levels, so that foreign exchange rate-related risks are minimized. Appointment of compliance · Appointed the sustainability management department head as the officers compliance officer Risks Associated with Concentrated Production Facilities Publication and distribution of · Published the compliance handbooks Refining, transporting and storing crude oil, refined petroleum products and petrochemical products involves compliance handbooks · Published the fair trade compliance guidelines many significant hazards, including fires, explosions, spills and other unexpected accidents. Any interruption to operations as a result of an accident or any other unexpected problem adversely affects a company. At · Held the fair trade seminars for employees SK Innovation, we carry insurance in amounts recommended by overseas rating agencies to cover any Compliance training · Trained fair trade experts and provided specialized programs for each The 7 Steps of damages that might occur at Ulsan and Incheon complexes. The insurance coverage is deemed sufficient business area SK Innovation’s Compliance to restore all facilities in the event of an unforeseen accident and to compensate immediate monetary losses. Program (CP) · Established the Fair Trade Compliance Committee and operated the compliance management regulations Internal monitoring system · Operated an organization to be in charge of legal compliance Risks Associated with Environmental Regulations · Monitored compliance practices Petrochemical businesses are applied with various environmental laws and regulations at home and abroad. SK Innovation is in full accordance to meet the standards set by related laws and regulations regarding Disciplinary action on any violations of related regulations · Regulated disciplinary actions on employees who violated the Fair Trade Act pollutant emissions, fuel quality, the handling, use, storage, transportation and disposal of petroleum-based products, while also abiding by all applicable environmental laws and regulations regarding pollutants into the air, soil and/or water. As governmental and non-governmental groups continue to require stricter Documentation & database · Managed documents related to compliance practices through the system environmental regulations in the future, additional capital expenditures or operating expenses will be needed, operation which will ultimately affect our overall business performance. 18 Sustainability Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 19 Talent Management Recruiting talented people with expertise and global experience is the key factor for companies to achieve sustainable growth. Therefore, HRD Policies for Leaders and Employees SK Innovation recruits and fosters talented people with competitiveness, while also striving to create a pleasant working environment where employees can concentrate on their duties with pride. · Establishing HRD system for employees in stages Establishment of Total HRD Guide · Supporting HRD through diagnosis and training that determine the roles and Leadership Pipeline* competencies by stage * Leadership pipeline: Supporting HRD system according to different stages from new employees to the CEO Recruiting Outstanding Strategy for Recruiting Talented People Talent SK Innovation has the human resource development (HRD) policies directed at fostering highly trusted global · Supporting customized coaching suitable for executives individually experts who practice innovation and take on any challenge. We set up a system for recruiting talented people Strengthening Support · Providing leadership training and strengthening the support system for fulfilling the for Leader Positions from diverse fields without restrictions on gender and academic background through a fair and reasonable team leader’s role recruitment system. We refrain from a unified evaluation based on specifications and evaluate on internal and external experiences like work experiences and club activities, so that talented people with the job HRD Activities for Development of Next· Establishing HRD strategies and recruiting outstanding talented people competencies and abilities required for various job duties are hired and assigned at the suitable position to Different Positions Generation Leaders · Implementing advanced training programs for developing next-generation leaders realize their full potential. SK Innovation’s HRD Policies · Training for employees who are subject to promotion according to their role levels Training for Team associated with the leadership pipeline · Passion Leaders in Stages · Providing on-line learning that effectively supports the self-development of employees · Love · Integrity · Accountability Performance Evaluation Reasonable Performance Evaluation Trust and Compensation SK Innovation prohibits unfair discrimination based on gender and academic background and conducts evaluations regularly on employees’ abilities and competencies according to fair standards by using standard indexes, including promotion, transfer of position, training programs and compensations. The performance evaluation is applied to all regular employees to take into consideration SK Values, competencies and performances, with differentiation in evaluation categories and procedures according to the employees’ job Management position, such as team members being evaluated on their job competencies and team leaders on their role Principle as leaders. Fair Compensation Global Challenge/ SK Innovation operates the annual salary system and performance-related pay based on competencies to Expert Innovation · Expertise · Challenge motivate its employees and maximize business performance. According to the overall evaluation, we give · Globality · Innovation more compensation to employees with more outstanding results and abilities in grades. The performancerelated pay is given according to the employees’ performance results based on the EVA (Economic Value Added) and the KPI (Key Performance Indicator). There is no difference in salaries for male and female employees and we implement a fair and reasonable promotion system that takes into consideration the Fair Opportunities and Respect for Diversity overall evaluation results. SK Innovation strives to ensure fair and reasonable opportunities are provided for all job seekers without discrimination. All recruitment procedures abide by Korea’s Labor Standards Act and Equal Employment Act to ensure fair opportunities are given across the board regardless of gender, nationality and social status. Enhancing Employee SK Innovation operates diverse welfare programs to help the self-development of its employees and ensures Furthermore, we are working towards gradually increasing the ratio of female employees to create a Welfare they maintain a stable life. We provide regular medical check-ups and medical cost support, while also corporate culture of respecting diversity. helping out with loans to purchase or rent houses. Also, we support our employees’ leisure activities by providing condominium facilities and giving monetary support during times that call for congratulations or Human Resource The 4 Strategies of HRD condolences. Furthermore, we help out with the living expenses of our retired employees by running a Development (HRD) retirement grants system, with rewards given to long tenured employees. Based on the management principle of the pursuit of SUPEX through human-oriented management practices, we support the development of our employees from new employees to the CEO in various stages. We conducted HRD policies with the responsibilities of the company and on-site leaders and employees SK Innovation has continuously supported fostering female leaders above managerial levels by ensuring that Increasing Outstanding specified in the categories of SK Values, leadership, job competencies and globality. Through these efforts, fair opportunities are given regardless of gender. In particular, we give a generous maternity leave package we strive to create a happy workplace where all employees can realize their full potential. Female Employees and rest, to our female employees who are assured that they can later return to the same position. 20 Sustainability Report 2014 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 21 Corporate Culture Creating a corporate culture for a great workplace is an essential factor in achieving sustainable development. SK Innovation strives Addressing Employees’ Complaints to enhance the corporate culture by strengthening cooperation among employees and promoting the importance of the company’s SK Innovation reflects employees’ complaints that might arise from carrying out their job duties by operating development. the Grievances Committee. It consists of representatives recommended by the CEO and the labor union, which help out with improving working environment and working conditions verbally or via mail, phone, e-mail and other media. Operating an In-house Counseling Center Called ‘Harmonia’ Promotion of Open SK Innovation encourages employee engagement by sharing the company’s future directions through open Corporate Culture communication channels. Through these efforts, we establish a reliable relationship with our employees and SK Innovation operates an in-house counseling center called ‘Harmonia’ to assist its employees with their create a corporate culture and working environment where each employee can realize his/her full potential. stress management and career development. With certified psychology counselors on standby and ten Therefore, we got rid of partitions that blocked communication between employees, and addressed any more external specialists ready to help, the center provides employees with systematic counseling complaints made by employees. programs in the areas of life, career, work and family to receive good responses from employees and their spouses, parents and children. Also, we provide programs to support development at work, such as team Expanding Communication with Employees building, conflict management and leadership coaching. Since its opening in 2005, the number of Internal communication channels established can consolidate the employees’ competencies to create a employees using the service has grown over the years and reached 1,382 persons in 2014, showing a high winning culture. Starting from 2015, we plan to integrate the division in charge of communication to SKMS satisfaction among users with 4.8 points on a scale of 5. As such, Harmonia has become a trusted partner Department, so that diverse communication channels are provided. to our employees for their happiness and we plan to expand it to local worksites. Operating Channels Work-Life Balance First Korean Refiner to Adopt Flexible Work Hours SK Innovation adopted a flexible work hour system that is carried out according to each team. A flexible work · tong tong (Bulletin board): P roviding answers and holding open discussions about employees’ questions hour system means the employees can adjust their working hours by choice depending on their personal and recommendations situation and work status, so that they can achieve a balance between their work life and personal life. · In-house Broadcasting (gbs): S  preading the same messages to employees, such as sharing the company’s major policies On-line Enhanced Flexibility in the Work Process with the Smart Work System In order to enhance work efficiency and get rid of inefficient practices, SK Innovation adopted the smart work system. This is part of the efforts made to streamline the procedures of meetings and documentation, while · iCON: Spreading the SUPEX spirit and strengthening communication in a unit basis as a change agent also creating an environment where employees can adjust their working hours to enjoy time with their · Workshop in Stages: S  haring initiatives for change and providing a venue for discussions and families or use it for personal life recommendations · Management briefing session: Held regularly and irregularly to brief about major business issues · Leader’s Forum : Internal and external experts giving lectures to executives and team leaders and Off-line providing management seminars to employees · Management Council: O  perating an official communication channel between the company and employees Strengthening FamilyIncreasing the Certifications of Family-Friendly Management Friendly Management After receiving the Presidential citation for Outstanding Family-friendly Company in 2012, SK Innovation has made efforts to further strengthen its family-friendly management practices. We operate family-friendly systems like improving flexible working hours and providing a generous maternity leave package, while also achieving a work-life balance to contribute towards enhancing the quality of life at home and in the workplace. C-Talk (a Year-round Coaching Program) In 2014, SK Lubricants acquired the certification as an Outstanding Family-friendly Company. C-talk is SK Innovation’s one-to-one coaching program for assisting employees’ self-development. Employees can consult their team leaders or peer groups whenever they need motivation or advice Addressing Childcare Issues with Mandatory Childcare Leaves on new projects, career development, or work issues. To that effect, the company is systematically SK Innovation has made it mandatory to take childcare leave without feeling uncomfortable about applying assisting team leaders in developing their coaching skills because this coaching program is expected for childcare leave at the end of maternity leave. As a result, employees who have taken maternity leave are to highly enhance overall performance results and stimulate employees’ competency-building. automatically required to take at least a year off after giving birth. In a case where the employee does not want to take such steps or wishes to adjust the period, it can be done through an application made iCON (Innovation Communication ON) separately, and get the supervisor’s approval to suit individual situations. Until now the Junior Board was in place for each subsidiary, but starting from 2015, SK Innovation and its subsidiaries will integrate it into iCON. After going through a strict screening process with candidates nominated by executives and team leaders, a total of about 200 persons with at least one person from each In 2015, SK Innovation has taken ‘Winning Culture’ as the keyword for overcoming crisis. Also, SK Innovation’s Creating a Winning team, are selected for iCON. They will take the lead in adapting to changes and bringing innovations through leaders refer to people who make the organization and team members win in their assigned duties regarding communications with the management, leaders and other employees as an opinion leader with SK Value Culture projects and tasks. Therefore, all employees should be able to overcome structural problems arising from and competencies. Besides spreading the management philosophy and commitment and being active in global competition by seeking solutions and taking necessary action. Based on a winning culture, SK communicating with other employees, the opinion leaders will take the lead in change and innovation by Innovation will create a corporate culture where talented people with competitiveness and excellence can creating a winning culture at the workplace. Also, they will implement various activities across the board, realize their full potential. including reviewing the SKMS and SUPEX status and establishing guidelines. Innovation for the future Materiality Test Result Report 24 Focus 1. Enhanced business for sustainable growth 26 Focus 2. SHE competitiveness at the global level 36 Focus 3. Mutual growth with suppliers 46 Focus 4. Achieve win-win through social contribution 54 24 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 25 Materiality SK Innovation strives to select key issues of stakeholder engagement derived from materiality test and provides detailed information on them. In accordance with the global sustainability Test Result report guidelines GRI G4 report format, we connected the issues of high interest for our stakeholders with key aspects, so that they can be used in general reports and special reports Report depending on the importance of key material issues selected. Materiality Test Process Result of Focuses Chosen Step1. Pool of According to the result of reclassifying the 10 key issues derived from the materiality test evaluation in GRI G4, we decided Sustainability on 4 focuses with the general standard aspect for the issues related to transparent BOD operation and the specific Issues standard aspect for the other 9 issues. The four focuses were selected to proactively respond to the stakeholders’ areas of interests, which will be reported on its background, responses and future plans according to each focus. · A total of 117 sustainability issues were selected Issues derived from the through the global standard indexes like GRI G4, 2013 Sustainability Report Issue General standard aspect/ issues derived from past reports and the media Benchmarking advanced number Key issue Specific standard aspect Table of contents Pages Media research research process. companies Operation of transparent BOD General standard aspect Corporate Governance 14-15p · After making an in-depth evaluation on the pool of International Industrial issues Strengthening fundamental competitiveness 28-30p issues derived from the first evaluation, including Standard Indexes Focus 1. Enhanced business for sustainable growth issues found in advanced companies’ reports, key Accelerating global growth 31-33p issues in the industry and reflection of business Management of energy consumption and GHG 38-40p environment, we selected 41 key issues in the emissions Focus 2. SK Innovation’s 41 sustainability issues SHE competitiveness at the global level Step2. second evaluation. Implementing SHE management at the global level 41-43p Evaluations Helping out with advancing suppliers’ technologies Specific standard aspect 48-49p on Materiality Implementing activities for continuous communication Focus 3. Test with suppliers Mutual growth with suppliers 50-51p Transparent evaluation and compensation for suppliers 52-53p · After reorganizing the selected key issues into five categories, including industry and management, Securing the independence of social enterprises Focus 4. 56-59p Key issues Achieve win-win through social ethics, employees, safety & health and environment, Implementing community-based CSR activities contribution 60-62p society and mutual growth, we reached a conclusion Levels of stakeholders’ interests General * In the case of ‘Operation of transparent BOD’, it is reported as general standard aspect because it is classified as a general issue from the perspective of sustainability. by conducting a survey on internal and external issues stakeholders. · The result of materiality test for key issues and the survey results are all reflected when evaluating the Changes in Sustainability Issues materiality test through a separate review process. Impacts on the company In 2014, SK Innovation conducted a more detailed evaluation on materiality test to enhance the understanding about A Review of short-term and medium and long-term financial effects sustainability management issues of stakeholders. Compared to the materiality test evaluation of the previous year, we could find that stakeholders showed increased interest in the sustainable growth from the economic perspective, like B Survey on internal stakeholders the issues related to strengthening fundamental competitiveness and accelerating global growth. On the other hand, Evaluation on materiality test C Media research the interest in issues related to working environment and general business environment decreased in comparison. Analysis of issues derived from D advanced companies’ reports Step3. E Survey on external stakeholders Impacts on the company 2012 Top Priority Issues 2013 Top Priority Issues 2014 Top Priority Issues Decisions Levels of stakeholders’ interests on 1 Stakeholder engagement 1 Mutual growth 1 Implementing community-based CSR activities Focuses 2 Mutual growth 2 Social contribution 2 Helping out with advancing suppliers’ technologies 3 Implementing activities for continuous communication with · The four focuses are decided out of the key issues of 3 Employee safety & health 3 Employee safety & health suppliers (new) interest for stakeholders identified in the materiality Selection of 4 Environmental management 4 Stakeholder engagement 4 Transparent evaluation and compensation for suppliers test evaluations in connection with specific aspects Selection of (carbon management) materiality focuses 5 Corporate governance 5 Business performance 5 Securing the independence of social enterprises (new) that are defined in GRI G4. issues · After confirming the GRI G4 indexes applicable to 6 Mitigating climate change 6 Corporate governance 6 Accelerating global growth the focuses chosen, we decided on whether or not 7 Management of energy consumption and GHG emissions Selection of the top 10 issues in List of 4 focuses 7 Labor-management relationship 7 Sustainable use of resources it is possible to make the report. materiality test evaluation (new) 8 Fair competition 8 Working conditions 8 Implementing SHE management at the global level 26 Sustainability Report 2014 27 FOCUS 1 Enhanced business for sustainable growth Due to the prolonged economic downturn and a continuous fall in international oil prices, energy and According to the result of analyzing major areas of issues in 2014 aimed at SK Innovation’s five stakeholder Background chemical businesses experienced a management crisis in 2014. Under these situations, advanced Stakeholder groups, the highest interest shown in enhanced business for sustainable growth were issues related to companies strengthen fundamental competitiveness with the goal of overcoming the crisis, while also Survey strengthening fundamental competitiveness and accelerating global growth. In particular, customers focusing on increasing synergies between industries. Also, companies strive to become a market leader showed lots of interest in issues related to strengthening fundamental competitiveness, with suppliers by tapping into new markets at home and abroad and strengthening market position. Likewise, the efforts showing high interest in issues related to accelerating global growth. made to achieve sustainable growth by building a sustainable growth engine in the industry is the focus of many stakeholders. 12 Investors1) SK Innovation has in place an independent management system based on the principles of autonomy and Customers 37 12 Employees Response responsibility for its six subsidiaries according to each business area. In this regard, we strengthen the Strengthening Fundamental professionalism and enhance the flexibility of each company to respond quickly to changing business needs, Competitiveness (Unit: %) while also increasing company-wide synergies for higher efficiency and differentiated competitiveness. In addition, we aim to become a leading company in the market by actively exploring domestic and overseas markets, to respond to tighter competition in the domestic market and achieve higher growth in emerging markets like China. 13 Communities2) Suppliers 26 25 19 Investors1) Customers Accelerating Global Growth (Unit: %) Suppliers 28 19 Employees 1) Analysts, institutional investors, etc. 2) NGOs, social welfare institutions, etc. Communities2) 10 Performance and Future Plan Despite the difficult business environments, SK Innovation has achieved continuous performance through strategic operation of each business area. In the future, we will further strengthen fundamental competitiveness by aiming to enhance cost competitiveness, achieve operation excellence, and expand technology and optimization. Moreover, we will focus on increasing our market share in global markets with differentiated competitiveness by securing core technology and establishing strategic portfolio for each business area. Also, we will ensure fundamental competitiveness through business optimization, as well as actively exploring business expansion to take the lead in creating sustainable economic value. 28 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 29 Strengthening Fundamental Competitiveness FOCUS 1 • Enhanced business for sustainable growth Expanding Business Value of Each Business Area Optimizing Management Decision Making Processes: SK Innovation SK Innovation has in place a systematic decision making process based on scientific methods to optimize the overall efficiency of operation and management, that include purchasing, manufacturing and sales processes. We optimize the process for selecting raw materials to ensure optimal raw materials are purchased, by taking into consideration the present status of availability and installation Issue Definition in our main businesses, including petroleum and petrochemical businesses. Also, we optimize the operation process to allow plans to be adjusted for product production and process operation by Strengthening fundamental competitiveness refers to taking into consideration sales profit and production costs. Furthermore, we strive to optimize the each business area maintaining the autonomy for process operation, so that variables are controlled and managed with the goal of optimal operation for each process. Moreover, we promote enhancing capital efficiency by optimizing investment decisions, independent and accountable management practices. such as exploring alternatives or selecting the optimal investment plan to raise the investment profit By reinforcing the fundamental competitiveness through rate and withholding inefficient investments through long-term evaluation and analysis of investment the process of increasing efficiency and optimization, effects. companies can strengthen the efficiency of business organization, as well as establish a system that creates Securing Differentiated Competitiveness: SK Energy a virtuous cycle. SK Energy implements diverse innovation plans to secure a stable profit base in the rapidly changing environment. We plan to continue our efforts to strengthen our fundamental competitiveness focused on advanced optimization through minimum investment, including avoiding investment methods that increase the ratio of upgrading existing facilities, enhancing the process and operation flexibility and diversifying raw materials. Furthermore, we plan to enhance profitability by improving the cost structure to increase the efficiency of energy and domestic marketing, while also adopting crude oil with handling Business Review restrictions to ensure reasonable profits even in a critical situation for profit increase. Each business area acquiring growth potential through Reinforcing Commercialization of Nexlene Original Technology: SK Global Chemical its core competencies is the company’s first priority for SK Global Chemical strengthens its market dominance by increasing sales through their original achieving long-term goals. Therefore, we need to work technology development. As a high value-added petrochemical product developed by SK Global Key Figure towards strengthening the competitiveness of each Chemical’s original technology, Nexlene is a high performance polyethylene used in high value-added business area and creating company-wide synergies. films, auto parts, footwear interior materials and cable insulation that boasts a stronger performance in endurance, transparency and processability. An annual growth of more than 10% is forecasted for the high performance polyethylene market, with the Ulsan Complex expected to achieve sales of more Petroleum production capacity than KRW 400 billion per year. Moreover, SK Global Chemical signed a joint venture contract with 412 million barrels per year SABIC, a Saudi petrochemical company, for the production and overseas sales of Nexlene. The two companies agreed to set up a joint venture in Singapore, including the construction of the second (Total of Ulsan and Incheon Complexes) plant in Saudi Arabia. Through these efforts, we strive to strengthen overseas expansion and achieve Sustainability Review optimal business performance. Reinforcing differentiated competencies for different business areas to overcome difficult business conditions Sales (SK Innovation) at home and abroad and to achieve sustainable performance is the most important business strategy. KRW 65.9 trillion Through these efforts, we will proactively respond to changing business environment and prepare for the future to achieve sustainable growth by strengthening the growth foundation. SK Global Chemical’s Nexlene Production Plant 30 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 31 Strengthening Fundamental Competitiveness Accelerating Global Growth FOCUS 1 • Enhanced business for sustainable growth Leading the Market through Diversifying Product Lines: SK Lubricants SK Lubricants strives to meet the diverse needs of customers by developing various types of lubricant products, including a premium lube base oil called YUBASETM and an advanced lubricant called ZICTM. In particular, we expanded our product lines to offer 10 packages with about 800 lubricant products as of 2014, by developing original technologies for a higher level of catalyst and process that manufacture the raw material for premium lubricants, including Group II and III lube base oil products. In the future, we will develop various types of products, including automotive lubricants, industrial Issue Definition lubricants and special purpose lubricants, to reaffirm our position as being ranked first for Group III lube base oil products globally, ranked first in the Korean brand preference of finished lubricant International oil prices dropped due to the sluggish products, and ranked first for 16 consecutive years in the brand power survey (as of 2014). demand of emerging nations and the conflict between Expanding PX Plants to Maximize Value Added: SK Incheon Petrochem the US and the Middle East to gain the leadership made SK Incheon Petrochem aims to secure optimized competitiveness through maximizing value added. it difficult for the domestic oil refining industry. While Due to diversifying the business lines through expanding and upgrading production lines of uncertain business environments are expected to condensate-based products in 2014, SK Incheon Petrochem added an annual capacity of 1.3 million continue, we worked towards establishing a sustainable tons of paraxylene (PX), which is the raw material for polyester, to become Korea’s largest producer for growth foundation to overcome the crisis by reinforcing a single business site. As such, SK Incheon Petrochem strives to become a leading global oil and internal stability and expanding businesses abroad. petrochemical company by acquiring world-class productivity. Optimizing through Diversified Imports & Exports of Crude Oil and Products: SK Trading International SK Trading International pursues the optimization through the diversification of crude oil imports and products exported by utilizing local experts and infrastructure. We increase the purchase of feedstock Business Review from the Middle East and offshore area, including crude oil, heavy oil and naphtha, to reduce the introduction costs and purchasing risks related to feedstock. Besides our major export markets in In the case of Korea’s petroleum business, changes Asia, we are increasing exports of petroleum products to Europe, Africa, the Americas and Central and in the market environment led to more intense South America. In particular, we establish a sustainable growth foundation by strengthening the local competition between oil refinery companies. As such, marketing network focused on regions that are expected to achieve high growth rates like the US, it is necessary to create economic performance Key Figure Australia and Southeast Asia. through business strategies for revitalization, such as tapping into overseas markets, while also securing long-term growth engines. Blocks in Holding Sustainability Review 15 Countries 22 Blocks London Europe Increasing business opportunities by tapping into overseas markets is an important factor of sustainable China Seoul Japan management practices. Therefore, companies need Houston Bangladesh Hong Kong Taiwan to satisfy the stakeholders, including shareholders and LNG Projects India Vietnam Philippines Panama customers, by entering into a market that is highly 4 4 Singapore Malaysia Indonesia profitable to expand businesses and dominate the market. Countries Projects Australia New zealand SK Trading International’s Global Imports & Exports 32 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 33 Accelerating Global Growth FOCUS 1 • Enhanced business for sustainable growth Strengthening Global Partnership Expanding Investments Globally Accelerating Localization by Establishing Regional Base Oil Production Systems Securing a Bridgehead for Entry to the US Market by Developing Unconventional SK Lubricants strive to drive overseas expansion by establishing regional base oil production systems Resources in Asia and Europe. In Asia, we set up Patra SK with Pertamina in Indonesia to run a lube base oil plant SK Innovation has started to participate in projects for developing unconventional resources, including locally, as well as having a production plant for finished lubricants in Tianjin, China. In accordance with shale gas and oil, conducted by the US oil development companies. Unconventional resources are oil Europe’s environmental standards being strengthened recently, we began the commercial production resources that had not been developed due to technological limitations and high development costs in full scale starting from October 2014, including establishing a joint venture company called Iberian associated with the traditional methods, but economical mining is allowed now as a result of the latest Lube Base Oil Company with Spain’s largest energy company, Repsol, and constructing a lubricant new technologies being developed. Most representative examples are tight oil and gas including oil production plant in Cartagena, Spain. In order to gain global market share, SK Lubricants plans to A drilling site for developing unconventional resources in sands and shale oil & gas. SK Innovation plans to expand its unconventional resources development Oklahoma, US. accelerate global growth based on various strategies for localization in the future, such as setting up a projects in the US, which is the home base of the Shale Gas Revolution by internalizing the technologies joint venture company and agreeing to strategic alliance. and know-hows on horizontal boring and hydraulic fracturing offered by the US oil development companies. In the future, we will continuously enhance our competencies in projects for unconventional resources, to extend global projects from North America to cover South America and China. Diversifying Entry into the Chinese Market SK Global Chemical joined hands with China’s largest state-run petroleum company, Sinopec, to construct a Naphtha Cracking Center (NCC) in Wuhan City and initiate full commercial production. With a gross production capacity of 2.5 million tons of petrochemicals, including 800,000 tons of ethylene, 600,000 tons of polyethylene and 400,000 tons of polypropylene, we recorded profits in only one year after starting commercial production, by achieving sales of 18.4 billion yuan in 2014. As a result of the successful Wuhan project, we established the foundation for tapping into overseas markets to create economic profits, while also securing a production base for petrochemicals in the Chinese market. In addition, we plan to set up the Ningbo-SK Synthetic Rubber Co., Ltd in collaboration A production plant for lube base oil in Cartagena, Spain. with the Ningbo Municipal Government and start commercial operation in April 2015, to provide an annual EPDM production capacity of 50,000 tons. This is very meaningful because it is the first large project being implemented in China, led by SK. Dominating the EV Battery Market in China In order to enter into the Chinese market that has emerged as the world’s largest EV market, SK Innovation set up a joint venture with Beijing Electronics Holding and Beijing Automotive Industry Holding in China named Beijing BESK Technology. BESK has a battery package production line in its plant in Beijing to produce automotive batteries. Since the second half of last year, BESK supplies EV batteries for Beijing Automotive Industry Holding’s ES210 and EV200, especially ES210 EV has been used as the official vehicle for the APEC (Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation) held in November, 2014. In cooperation with BESK, SK Innovation plans to grow into the No.1 EV battery company in China. A complete view of Wuhan plant in China. Expanding the World’s Top Three Oil Logistics Hubs Besides the Middle East (branch in Dubai), SK Trading International has overseas subsidiaries and branches in the world’s top three oil logistics hubs, including Singapore (subsidiary in Singapore), Europe’s ARA (Amsterdam, Rotterdam, Antwerp), and the US’s Gulf Coast (subsidiary in Houston). Major overseas subsidiaries enhance their trading professionalism by hiring local traders and operating ES210 EV chosen as the official vehicle at the APEC. storages. In the future, we plan to expand our global competitiveness through acquiring hubs with high growth potentials and recruiting local human resources. 34 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 35 Actively Implementing Domestic Marketing FOCUS 1 • Enhanced business for sustainable growth SK Innovation provides a variety of customized services that place top priority on Customers that Participated in 3,000 Offering Membership and Promotional Benefits Privilege Points customers’ convenience to increase domestic market share. Through these efforts, we Since introducing the concept of membership to the oil business for the first time in Korea, SK Energy ranked first in the domestic market share for sales volume of light oil (SK Energy) in 0.97 million persons 1.56 million persons 1.06 million persons offers all Enclean Bonus Card holders with 0.1 percentage of their purchase in SK Cashbag points for 2014. In the future, we will strengthen our position as the No.1 oil company in Korea by 3 times 4 times 3 times filling up gas at SK gas stations and 0.5 percentage of their purchase in SK Cashbag points for using its actively implementing marketing strategies. charge stations. Besides this, we provide services that give discounts of up to 100~150 KRW per liter and accumulate points from it through various alliance cards available. Moreover, we actively develop more alliances cards through an alliance between SK Energy and all card companies. Starting from 2012 2013 2014 2012, we started the campaign of 3,000 privilege points that allow customers to receive at least seven Promoting Synergy Marketing times more gifts than the customer points. According to the customer survey conducted regarding the campaign, it showed that the final customer satisfaction level scored 4.2 points out of 5 points. SK Innovation provides convenience to customers through strategic alliances and joint marketing strategies with other industries besides the energy industry, while also striving to strengthen brand Customer Survey competitiveness. Final Customers Distribution Customers Increasing Multi-purpose Gas Stations Levels of customer satisfaction Levels of customer satisfaction 4.2points 4.0points (a perfect 5 point) (a perfect 5 point) While holding the largest number of gas stations in Korea (as of the end of December 2014), SK It was effective in improving the Energy aims to strengthen the competitiveness of each gas station, while also improving the 98% brand image of SK Gas Stations. accessibility of customers. Besides providing the existing services of car wash and maintenance It resulted in a positive impact on 96% for customers using the gas stations, we expanded them into multi-purpose gas stations by choosing the SK Gas station. exploring various types of non-oil businesses that meet the characteristics of customers and I felt the value of points more than Realising the contribution 97% before. to gas station businesses. the commercial districts of gas stations. We plan to improve profitability by incorporating various It was effective in managing types of non-oil businesses that make profits, including fast food franchises, convenient stores I will participate again next time. 100% 75% customers. and marts, and strengthen the struggle for survival to gain market share in the domestic market. Improving Customer Value SK Innovation operates diverse channels to gather customers’ opinions. We improve the reliable relationship with our customers by reinforcing our services through these channels, while also enhancing our brand image. Promotion of CS Standards and Checking on the CS Levels of Gas Stations By developing the SK Gas Station CS Guidelines as CS standards for SK gas stations and promoting it on the site, we aim to provide standardized services to our customers. Also, we run an on-site CS monitoring system at all of the SK gas stations to check the customer satisfaction level together with a professional research institute. The evaluation results are analyzed and sent to the gas station A multi-purpose gas station with self-service in Sangin, Daegu. A Haengbok multi-purpose gas station in Incheon. individually to be used for future improvements. Collecting Voice of Customer (VOC) Operating Web and Mobile Services At SK Innovation’s SK Energy Customer Happiness Center for its customers, skilled CS attendants We provide diverse services to our customers by operating SK Energy’s marketing website (www. specializing in their respective service areas promptly address customer inquiries and complaints. The enclean.com). Recently, we attempted to actively implement customer-oriented activities, including VOC feedback process allows the company to continuously improve the process to improve customer opening a mobile Enclean app based on smart phones. satisfaction level. Protecting Customer Information enclean.com (www.enclean.com) In order to safeguard the privacy of the Enclean membership holders, we make sure that leakage of customer information is prevented by using the latest version of anti-virus program and always encrypting customer information. In addition, we established the Security Operation Center (SOC), which reinforces the information security management and limits only a handful of trained employees to have access to handling customer information. Meanwhile, we provide on-line and off-line training programs to all employees at the group level in SK, aiming to raise the employee awareness of protecting customer privacy. 36 Sustainability Report 2014 37 FOCUS 2 SHE competitiveness at the global level The variety of variables surrounding the business environment, such as the growing consequences of According to the result of analyzing major areas of issues in 2014 aimed at SK Innovation’s five stakeholder Background climate change affecting the earth environment and the number of industrial safety accidents increasing, Stakeholder groups, the highest interest shown in securing SHE competitiveness at the global level, were issues not only have direct and indirect impacts on local communities, but also on the company’s sales. Also, Survey related to managing energy consumption and GHG emissions and implementing SHE management at the interests of the government, academia and industry have grown to establish a response system and the global level. In particular, high interests were shown by local communities in the case of issues related take a more pro-active management style on SHE (Safety, Health, Environment) issues to achieve to managing energy consumption and GHG emissions, with employees showing high interest in issues sustainable growth. In this regard, major companies are establishing reliable relationships with their related to SHE management at the global level. stakeholders by adopting a proactive management style focused on SHE issues and sharing relevant information with stakeholders transparently. 19 Investors1) Customers 22 Management of Energy Consumption 9 SK Innovation is focusing on reinforcing its competencies of SHE management to systematically respond Employees Response to policies and systems on climate change that will be newly introduced, while also maintaining and and GHG Emissions (Unit: %) improving the SHE management system at the global level. In this regard, we will internalize the SHE culture and expand investments on the environment and upgrade facilities to meet global standards. Also, we strive to secure global competitiveness by actively investing in reducing GHG emissions and energy consumption and improving energy efficiency. Suppliers 18 32 Communities2) 18 Investors1) Customers 21 Implementing SHE Management at the Global Level (Unit: %) Suppliers 17 25 Employees 1) Analysts, institutional investors, etc. 2) NGOs, social welfare institutions, etc. 19 Communities2) Performance and Future Plan SK Innovation will implement various activities to secure the SHE (Safety, Health, Environment) competitiveness at the global level. We aim to bring out the best results by enhancing the emergency response system to meet global standards and establish an implementation system to address and comply with the laws and regulations related to the Emissions Trading Scheme, which will be implemented starting from 2015. In the future, we plan to continuously upgrade the SHE management system, while also increasing investments to improve the SHE competitiveness of all employees and suppliers and establish an advanced SHE culture. 38 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 39 Management of Energy Consumption FOCUS 2 • SHE competitiveness at the global level and GHG Emissions Building a Response System to Climate Change Building a GHG & Energy Management System (GEMS) SK Innovation operates its own GHG & Energy Management System (GEMS) in connection with its Operation Information System (OIS). The GEMS gathers all the necessary data to automatically calculate GHG emissions from the OIS, allowing us to manage GHG emissions systematically. In addition, SK Innovation is in the process of improving its system, so that various information required Issue Definition for the Emissions Trading Scheme can be handled at the same time. Responding to the GHG & Energy Target Management System In order to respond to global climate change, the necessity of strategic management on energy Since SK Innovation’s subsidiaries, including SK Energy, SK Global Chemical, SK Lubricants and SK Incheon Petrochem, have been designated to the GHG & Energy Target Management System, we have consumption and GHG emissions has been raised. been managing GHG emissions and energy consumption in accordance with the government’s Target Therefore, efforts have been made to reduce major Management System Guidelines. With the mandatory target management system ending in 2014, we energy resources by leading global companies, will faithfully comply with laws and regulations and reduce GHG emissions by building an implementation including improving facility efficiency and establishing system focusing on the newly introduced Emissions Trading Scheme that starts in 2015. the database for resources used, with many stakeholders taking interest in moving closer to Implementing the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) implementing green management in the future. As part of its efforts to reduce GHG emissions, the Korean government has been implementing the Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) starting from 2015. In response to this, SK Innovation was the first company to adopt an internal Emissions Trading System in Korea. Based on the accumulated experiences from operation, we do our best to respond to climate change. In particular, we strive to adapt to the ETS by establishing an implementation system at the company-wide level and operating Business Review a GHG management system. SK Innovation will strengthen its competitiveness in the industry by actively utilizing the ETS, such as covering a shortage of allowances in the short term, and reducing its Abnormal climate and environmental changes can GHG emissions at the same time, thereby taking the lead in creating environmental value. cause unexpected losses to the company’s businesses and management practices, which may block new investment opportunities by increasing Key Figure costs associated with it. However, a company that adapted to these changes with environmental management, including effective management of Energy Consumption in 2014 energy and GHG emissions, is able to discover new value through differentiated competitiveness. History of SK Innovation’s Emissions Trading System 208,860 TJ 2011 2015 Sustainability Review Participated in Korea’s Implemented Korea’s pilot Emissions Trading Emissions Trading Maintaining the balance of our Earth’s ecosystem Scheme Scheme and conserving resources for future generations and social value, are opportunity factors for achieving GHG Emissions in 2014 2007 2009 2010 long-term development. It is necessary for companies 13,311 thousand tCO2eq to continuously participate in environmental protection activities, including reducing energy consumption Adopted the internal Emissions Trading System for the first time in Korea Operated a company-wide integrated Emissions Trading System internally Conducted a pilot Emissions Trading Scheme between SK Innovation and Korea and GHG emissions and making investments in East-West Power technology development. 40 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 41 Management of Energy Consumption Implementing SHE Management FOCUS 2 • SHE competitiveness at the global level and GHG Emissions at the Global Level Energy Conservation Campaigns Adopting Electric Vehicles (EV) for Business Use and Installing Charge Stations Starting from 2012, SK Innovation adopted electric vehicles (EV) for business use and installed charge stations, so that as of 2015, there are 4 Soul EVs, 1 Ray EV, 8 slow chargers and 1 fast charger at our Head Office. While reducing the use of fuel by using EVs, we also raise the awareness internally and externally on the use of new and renewable energies. Issue Definition Enhancing the Efficiency of Internal Energy Companies can implement SHE management more SK Innovation’s Head Office building utilizes an Ice Thermal Storage System that takes advantage of effectively for its employees, worksites and local idle electricity after midnight to make ice, which is reused to create cool air during the day when aircommunities through the system management. In conditioning the office building, allowing us to save approximately KRW 300 million in electricity bills annually. In addition, we adopted the Building Energy Management System (BEMS) to optimize the particular, the social demand for SHE management operating hours and settings of various facilities, which reduced carbon emissions by 17.3%. As a result has increased due to the series of big accidents that of these performances made, we were selected as an Outstanding Eco Mileage Organization by the occurred recently, which resulted in the importance Seoul Metropolitan Government in 2014. of building a SHE management system that reflects the company’s differentiated competitiveness. Reducing GHG Emissions at the Head Office Building (Unit: kgCO2) Category 2013 (April~September) 2014 (April~September) Increase/Decrease Electricity 3,203,908 2,708,932 15.4% reduction Business Review Gas 347,507 224,034 35.5% reduction Waterworks 10,544 9,944 5.7% reduction If a company neglects the SHE management, it can Total 3,561,959 2,942,910 17.3% reduction bring a huge loss to the business and cause big * Based on the data submitted to the GU office for being selected as an Outstanding Eco Mileage Organization in the second half of 2014. accidents. Moreover, it will put the company at a disadvantage if it fails to meet the strengthened Recycling Outside Energy environmental regulations, such as restricting business SK Innovation enhances energy efficiency by implementing a collective energy project that activities. However, we can gain the trust of our Key Figure provides a stable supply of steam to neighboring companies by recycling and reusing its surplus society if we set up SHE guidelines that are above resources. Furthermore, we turn gas generated from the Seongam Sanitary Landfill in Ulsan into legal standards and transparently disclose the fuel, which is supplied to Kumho Petrochemical Co., Ltd. and a waste incineration plant in Ulsan, results. 2014 LTI1) to make the most of biomass resources. Energy Use in 2014 0.16 (Unit: TJ) Sustainability Review Direct energy Indirect energy Classification Total amount The SHE management is an essential factor for Fuel Electricity Steam achieving sustainable development. Managing and SK Innovation 944 1,950 0 2,894 addressing SHE issues, including running a safe SK Energy 65,053 17,209 8,727 90,989 worksite, improving employees’ health and minimizing 2014 UCL2) SK Global Chemical 55,620 10,292 12,846 78,758 pollutants, are not only social responsibilities that SK Lubricants SK Incheon Petrochem 2,199 1,225 2,344 5,768 corporate citizens should keep, but they are also 0.208 23,817 6,446 186 30,449 needed to establish reliable relationships with Total 147,633 37,122 24,103 208,858 stakeholders and achieve mutual prosperity. 1) LTI: Lost Time Incident rate, the ratio of lost time injuries for every 100 persons working approximately 1 year (2,000 hours) 2) UCL: Unplanned Capacity Loss, the ratio of lost time volumes due to accidents compared to the annually planned operating hours (%) 42 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 43 Implementing SHE Management FOCUS 2 • SHE competitiveness at the global level at the Global Level Reinforcing On-site Emergency Responses SHE Management System In order to encourage quick emergency responses on the site, SK Innovation offers a clear operational rule, which stipulates primarily protecting life and environment and then protecting assets and images after SK Innovation recognizes that the SHE (Safety, Health, Environment) management practices are that. All rights associated with on-site emergency responses are given to the highest-ranking officer at the essential to achieve the company’s sustainable development. The SHE Division is a company-wide worksite, while also improving the responsiveness by coming up with a clear standard for internal and organization overseeing SHE management that fulfills the role of upgrading the SHE management external reporting. Meanwhile, we improved our emergency response grade system to stipulate the system to meet global standards, while also raising the employee awareness on SHE issues and operation of an integrated crisis management committee, so that the corporate image and the possibility establishing an advanced system to meet legal compliance. Instead of the traditional notion of social of accident expanding are taken into consideration besides the existing scope of losses when calculating responsibilities, such as reducing accidents and pollutants, it is essential to have a SHE management the grade. system with global competitiveness to achieve sustainable growth and gain the trust of the society. As such, we set up a company-wide SHE guidelines and work procedures to be implemented. Meanwhile, Operational Rule for Emergency Response we strive to ensure continuity in the implementation by securing the control of SHE management leadership and establishing SHE audit practices. 3rd Protecting assets and 1st Protecting life 2nd Protecting environment images SHE Management System Framework Drive Occupational Implementation Strengthening Emergency Response Management for Big Accidents Operations and Environment Safety and Health Reliability Stewardship SK Innovation re-established the relationship between the Head Office and worksites’ emergency Management response management in detail to minimize damages caused by an accident occurring at the worksite, Chemicals SHE Incident Emergency quickly. The Head Office focused on securing sustainability management at the company-wide level Management Investigation Management and improving on-site emergency responses. Also, we newly adopted the operational rule for emergency SHE Leadership and SHE Audit response meetings to respond quickly to issues that were difficult to address in big accidents only, with SHE Capability Accountability Management of Contractor SHE Development and a detailed manual. Meanwhile, in the case of a big accident, we ensured accurate and efficient Change Management Training communication in writing by adopting it as a report form in the emergency response plan. SHE Legal SHE Stakeholder Adopting the Operational Rule for Emergency Response Meetings Compliance Communication Strengthening execution Improvement Feedback 1. M  eetings to set up 4. M  eetings to approve plans response goals and give instructions Building an Emergency Response System at the Global Level Planning Cycling Operational Rule Recently, the social demand for the company’s emergency response system has increased due to the series of big accidents occurring. Therefore, SK Innovation enhanced its emergency response system 2. M  eetings to establish 3. M  eetings to set up by benchmarking the best practices of foreign companies from abroad, while also focusing on three strategies implementation plans major areas, including reinforcing on-site emergency responses, strengthening emergency response management for big accidents and enhancing emergency response capabilities. Major Improvement Directions Enhancing Emergency Response Capabilities SK Innovation strives to strengthen emergency response training, including clarifying training item and Reinforcing on-site · Establish SK Innovation’s emergency response plan cycle and making it mandatory to submit the training report. We enhance management capabilities by · Clarify the standards for internal and external reporting emergency responses · Improve the emergency response grade system regularly reviewing and monitoring the emergency response system and frequently checking on changes made to the organization and human resources. Strengthening emergency · Reestablish the Head Office’s emergency response mission and duties response management for · Set up the operational guidance for emergency response plan big accidents · Establish detailed emergency response standards for the media and SHE issues Enhancing emergency · Strengthen emergency response training response capabilities ·R einforce emergency response system, including standard procedure and facility management 44 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 45 Safety and Health Pollutant Control FOCUS 2 • SHE competitiveness at the global level Management at Worksites Running a safe and healthy worksite is the basic factor in achieving sustainable and SK Innovation applies its own strict environmental standards that include managing air stable business growth. SK Innovation has thoroughly implemented the safety and pollutants, water pollutants and wastes. We strive to reduce the environmental impacts health management, such as monitoring the levels of implementation and risk factors by conducting the environmental impact assessment on the production process found from the worksites’ safety and health management and conducting safety training, regularly, while also doing it on an ad hoc basis when changing the processes and work contributing to enhancing the health of all employees and preventing industrial safety methods and purchasing raw materials. accidents. Furthermore, we strive to improve the safety and health management capabilities of our suppliers. Safety Control at Worksites Air Pollutant Emissions (Unit: Tons) Air Pollutant Control In order to proactively prevent safety accidents at worksites, SK Innovation adopted the Process Safety SOx NOx Dust In order to limit the levels of air pollutant emissions, SK Innovation adopted the Tele-Metering System Management (PSM) system supervised by the Ministry of Employment and Labor. By monitoring the 3,779 (TMS) for pollutant emissions monitoring and periodic check-ups at its major facilities where air pollutants 2012 8,335 process and safety regularly, we manage the whole process, which resulted in 7 plants out of 14 plants 282 are discharged. At the same time, we control odors to maintain a clean and pleasant environment, while earning the highest grade ‘P’ grade as of the end of 2014, with the remaining seven receiving the second also operating VOC to address environmental issues arising from neighboring areas. highest ‘S’ grade. We plan to continue implementing process safety management practices to earn ‘P’ 3,598 2013 8,016 grade for all plants subject to the PSM grading, while also holding various safety training to enhance the 226 Water Pollutant Control employees’ SHE competencies and create the SHE culture. 3,743 SK Innovation is striving to enhance the efficiency of water use and its wastewater treatment capabilities. 2014 8,910 Besides installing a remote water quality monitoring system and highly efficient biological wastewater Employee Health Management 195 treatment system called the Membrane Bio Reactor (MBR), we manage the water quality of wastewater * Based on worksites in Ulsan (SK Energy, SK Global In order to create a healthy workplace for our employees, SK Innovation operates various facilities and Chemical) and Incheon (SK Incheon Petrochem). by using our original technology of WAO*. Also, water that contains corrosive materials generated from programs. At the Ulsan Complex, we have an Industrial Health Center with doctors and nurses on the production process is reused as water to remove salt after reprocessing, with some of the reclaimed full-time standby. The center also has an affiliated clinic, physical therapy room, physical strength water used for fire extinguishing and watering gardens. testing & exercise room as well as medical equipment to assist employees’ health management. In * WAO: Wet Air Oxidation addition, we upgraded the regular health check-up to total health check-up and a Health Management Center at the Tech R&D Center has been installed to provide a more systematic support to employees’ Wastewater Treatment health management. At the same time, the Head Office, Ulsan Complex and Tech R&D Center operate Sports Centers to help employees and their families keep healthy. Worksite Treatment Facility Treatment Method Destination Ulsan CLX Wastewater Treatment Plant Biological + Advanced treatment Public bodies of water (East Coast) Safety Control at Suppliers’ Worksites SK Energy (Ulsan) No. 2FCC Wastewater Treatment Plant Biological treatment Youngyeon Wastewater Treatment Plant In accordance with the basic policy that the suppliers’ SHE competencies have to be enhanced PE/PP Wastewater Treatment Plant Physiochemical treatment Yongam Wastewater Treatment Plant for its sustainable competitiveness, SK Innovation operates various programs to support SK Global Chemical enhancing the safety management practices of suppliers. (Ulsan) EPDM Wastewater Treatment Plant Biological treatment Yongam Wastewater Treatment Plant SK Incheon Petrochem Incheon CLX Wastewater Treatment Support for Building Suppliers’ Safety and Health Management System Biological + Advanced treatment Gajwa Wastewater Treatment Plant (Incheon) Plant SK Innovation supports its suppliers’ safety management levels to remain above the level of legal compliance, so that the suppliers’ employees can feel proud at the high levels. To achieve this, we are implementing the project to help our suppliers acquire the KOSHA and OHSAS 18001 certifications in Waste Discharge Volume (Unit: Tons) Waste Control collaboration with the Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency (KOSHA). Under the slogan of Designated Waste General Waste SK Innovation manages waste generation through its own waste treatment system and periodic on-site Achieving Safety Together in 2015, a total of 41 suppliers are provided with support programs where SK Innovation helps out in building a safety and health management system, including supporting 2012 33,850 inspections. In the case of waste oil, which is a designated waste, it is reused by sending it to renewable 69,419 consulting costs. fuel plants. We also promote recycling waste at the company-wide level by holding recycling training 30,368 programs for our employees and suppliers. 2013 58,974 30,609 2014 61,695 * Based on worksites in Ulsan (SK Energy, SK Global Chemical) and Incheon (SK Incheon Petrochem). 46 Sustainability Report 2014 47 FOCUS 3 Mutual growth with suppliers Suppliers are the key partners for achieving mutual prosperity and development. Through mutual growth According to the result of analyzing major areas of issues in 2014 aimed at SK Innovation’s five stakeholder Background with suppliers, companies can achieve sustainable growth and fulfill their social responsibilities at the same Stakeholder groups, the highest interest shown in mutual growth with suppliers was about issues related to helping out time. Therefore, it is necessary to achieve mutual prosperity with suppliers by conducting transparent Survey with advancing suppliers’ technologies, implementing activities for continuous communication with performance evaluations on them and providing customized support to enhance their competencies. Also, suppliers and conducting transparent evaluation and compensation for suppliers. In particular, investors establishing a cooperative corporate ecosystem that communicates and grows together with stakeholders showed high interest in issues related to helping out with advancing suppliers’ technologies and customers through various win-win partnership policies and programs emerged as a social issue, contributing to in implementing activities for continuous communication with suppliers. Also, customers and investors bringing mutual prosperity to suppliers and local communities. both showed high interest in issues related to conducting transparent evaluation and compensation for suppliers. 34 Investors 1) In order to systematically achieve sustainable growth, SK Innovation set up a division to be in charge of Helping Out with Advancing Suppliers’ Customers 13 Response mutual growth directly under the CEO to provide high level of support to its suppliers. By providing Technologies (Unit: %) communication channels for our suppliers and compensating them based on transparent performance evaluations, we make sure the partnership relationship with our suppliers is the top priority in SK Innovation’s Suppliers 16 management practices for achieving mutual prosperity. 23 Employees Communities2) 14 13 Investors 1) Implementing Activities for Continuous Customers 25 17 Employees Communication with Suppliers (Unit: %) Suppliers 23 22 Communities 2) Transparent Evaluation and Customers 28 28 Investors 1) Compensation for Suppliers (Unit: %) 16 Employees Suppliers 17 1) Analysts, Institutional Investors, etc. 11 2) NGOs, Social Welfare Institutions, etc. Communities2) Performance and Future Plan In order to establish a reliable relationship with suppliers, SK Innovation implements various activities for its suppliers, including expanding support, diversifying communication channels and conducting transparent evaluations and giving compensation. Through these efforts, we were selected as an Outstanding Company for three consecutive years in evaluating mutual growth indexes since 2012. In the future, we will reflect the opinions of our suppliers through various communication channels and establish transparent performance evaluation system and culture by ensuring fair compensation. 48 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 49 Competency Building Programs FOCUS 3 • Mutual growth with suppliers for Suppliers Educational Support Since the suppliers’ competencies are connected with SK Innovation’s competitiveness, various education and training programs are provided for the employees of its suppliers. The costs associated with education and accommodation are all supported by SK Innovation to reduce the burden on suppliers, including Ulsan CEO Seminar, MBA job training, e-learning course and on-line technology education, providing education in areas that need improvement like accounting, finance, marketing, process and equipment. Issue Definition Present Status of Education Program Classification Target Contents The activities to help out with strengthening the Education on business management, economy, organizational and change Ulsan CEO Seminar CEO suppliers’ competencies set the foundation for management, domestic and foreign market conditions, current events, etc. MBA job training Mid-level managers Education on planning, accounting, finance, marketing, HR, etc. sustainable growth. Therefore, establishing an Online e-learning course Working-level employee Education on marketing, leadership, HR, accounting, IT, CS, OA, etc. environment where the company can grow together Education on process, equipment, inspections of materials, corrosion, On-line technology education Working-level employee with its suppliers through various support programs, equipment, statistical process management, etc. Education on market conditions and forecasts of crude oil, naphtha and including providing funds and supporting technology Technology seminar Working-level employee chemicals, introduction of new products and technologies, etc. development for suppliers, became important in ensuring the long-term development of the company. Safety Management Support SK Innovation operates a Safety & Health Win-Win program to enhance the health & safety management Business Review of suppliers and prevent industrial accidents and disasters. In this regard, SK Innovation and its three subsidiaries, including SK Energy, SK Global Chemical and SK Lubricants, has appointed a Safety & In the process of creating value through resource Health Supervisor from each company to hold meetings for the Safety & Health Win-Win program and development, crude oil refining and sales, cooperation at the working-level once every quarter and once every month, respectively. In 2014, we held an explanatory session on Risk Evaluation Manual for 67 suppliers to improve their management with suppliers is no longer an option but a necessity. competencies to ensure a Safety & Health environment. In addition, we are greatly interested in The technological value of outstanding suppliers also operating a safe environment for our suppliers by making sure they follow the four essential safety has a direct impact of reducing exploration and regulations at worksites (wearing protective hats, complying with safe work procedures, putting safety production costs, as well as bringing a positive effect marks and holding the safety & health education programs), supporting the suppliers’ own safety & health programs and compensating outstanding employees in SHE practices. Key Figure on the supply chain evaluation. Financial Support In addition to direct funding that lends funds to suppliers, SK Innovation also operates various fund Present Status of Support for Sustainability Review support programs to provide indirect support using network loans and to support credit guarantees Suppliers in 2014 through the mutual growth guarantee agreement. In particular, SK Innovation provides financial While the difficult business environment is expected to support to suppliers that need urgent help by operating the Mutual Growth Fund, with contributions of KRW 58.7 billion continue with the slowdown of growth and profit rates, KRW 27 billion and KRW 22 billion from SK Innovation and SK Global Chemical, respectively. the social demand is focused on the responsibilities and roles of large companies to achieve mutual growth Introducing Win-Win Partnership Programs with its SME suppliers. As a result, various support programs, investments and joint projects are being Operating Mutual Growth Fund Holding a Job Fair for Suppliers actively carried out to create opportunities for mutual In order to revitalize the regional economy and help our SME suppliers to employ outstanding talent, known to be difficult for small companies, we held a win-win prosperity with suppliers. KRW 49 billion partnership job fair for our suppliers. With about 40 suppliers of SK Innovation, SK Energy, SK Global Chemical, SK Lubricants and other SMEs in Ulsan in attendance, the recruitment process was conducted by each supplier. In particular, we made sure the job fair ran smoothly by receiving applications for prior registration and providing information about the suppliers that will be participating beforehand, through the website. In addition, we offered various programs that are helpful to job seekers, such as lectures on employment and aptitude tests for local youngsters, occupational psychological tests and photo-taking to be used in resumes, so that both job seekers and suppliers were satisfied with the event. 50 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 51 Implementing Activities for Continuous FOCUS 3 • Mutual growth with suppliers Communication with Suppliers Communication Channels for Suppliers in 2014 Win-Win Partnership CEO Once a Sharing best practices of management innovations for Seminars month suppliers’ CEO, etc. Once a Sharing and discussing about suppliers’ quality and SHE Supplier CEO Seminars year management plans, etc. Issue Definition Regular meetings with Once a Holding Safety & Health monitoring and education for In order to offer customized support that is needed equipment suppliers month equipment suppliers, sharing best practices, etc. for the sustainable growth of suppliers, it is necessary Meetings with equipment, On a regular Discussing about enhancing the SHE management to have better understanding through endless inspection, machinery and basis competencies of suppliers and work expansion plans, etc. logistics partners communication. Therefore, the need to establish various communication channels and using them to seek the optimal way of achieving mutual growth with suppliers has increased. Win-Win Partnership CEO Seminars SK Innovation holds seminars for the suppliers’ CEO on a regular basis to share management knowledge and know-how. The CEO of each company attends the seminar to raise the awareness of partnership between suppliers to establish a reliable relationship with SK Innovation, by discussing Business Review about recommendations to the Chairman of the SK Win-Win Partnership Committee. The recommendations made by the suppliers are reborn as customized support programs to meet the Continuous communication with suppliers not only needs of SMEs on the site. establishes a close and reliable relationship between Regular meetings with equipment suppliers the two companies, but it also sets the foundation for SK Innovation holds a monthly meeting on a regular basis to enhance the SHE (Safety, Health, enhancing work efficiency by raising the awareness Environment) management competencies. The regular monthly meetings with about 80 persons in of mutual prosperity. Furthermore, we can look forward attendance handles safety as the major agenda, contributing to raising the safety awareness of to mutual growth and prosperity by identifying the suppliers by sharing best practices of safety & health education and awarding outstanding persons in Key Figure needs of suppliers and providing them with practical emergency response management practices. Also, we listen to difficulties that our suppliers face by support and education. communicating with the executives in charge of issues related to safe environment and facilities. Number of persons attending the Win-Win Partnership CEO Seminar Sustainability Review Strengthening partnership and raising the awareness 309 persons on mutual prosperity through close communication with suppliers are essential in establishing a reliable relationship with stakeholders. Through continuous communication with the suppliers’ CEO and employees, Introducing Win-Win Partnership Programs we can build the foundation for achieving sustainable Total number of persons attending regular growth. Win-Win Partnership Consultations and Reports on Unfair Trade Practices meetings with equipment suppliers in 2014 In order to ensure transparent and fair trading practices, SK Innovation operates a channel to report on unfair trade 699 persons practices and receive win-win partnership consultations. In the case of an unfair trading occurring with a supplier or if there is a recommendation, you can log on to SK Innovation’s integrated purchasing system (www.skbiok. com)and SK Global Chemical’s website (www.skglobalchemical.com) to receive consultations and report on unfair trading practices. All of the consultations and reports made are confidential and we will create a culture of mutual Integrated Purchasing System growth by sharing the measures taken on the applicable case through e-mail. 52 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 53 Transparent Evaluation and FOCUS 3 • Mutual growth with suppliers Compensation for Suppliers Periodic Evaluation on Suppliers In order to provide fair performance evaluation and compensation for suppliers, we conduct periodic evaluation of our suppliers every year to select the outstanding suppliers. In particular, in 2014, we conducted evaluations of a total of 35 suppliers by expanding the scope of evaluation. According to the evaluation results consisting of quality, construction ability and SHE management, we help out with enhancing the performances of our suppliers, such as providing various benefits and requesting for corrective action to be taken. Issue Definition Profit Sharing Fair performance evaluation and compensation not only motivates suppliers, but are also essential in In order to establish a partnership with our suppliers through profit sharing, we came up with profitmaintaining continuity in transactions between companies. sharing initiatives registered with our profit-sharing total management system. By promoting a culture Therefore, the social interest in establishing a fair of profit-sharing, we strive to establish a culture of allocating profits that ensure win-win partnership for SK Innovation and our suppliers. As part of these efforts, we focus on developing joint technologies, business partnership based on transparent evaluation enhancing work quality and safety management and reducing costs. and compensation has increased from the perspective of selecting and managing suppliers. Providing Maintenance Building for Free We are paying close attention to preventing human injuries and safety accidents to improve the levels of work quality and safety management, so that enhancing the facility reliability can be the top priority. We offer the maintenance service building (office space, equipment, utility services) for free to our Business Review suppliers that are outstanding in their safety management, allowing residing suppliers to receive evaluations on appropriateness and relocation by reflecting their periodic evaluation results. In 2015, Providing compensations through a fair performance we conducted the evaluation of a total of 41 suppliers, including already residing ones and newly evaluation can increase work efficiency and productivity entering ones, with plans to provide more benefits to our suppliers by establishing an evaluation by raising the motivation of suppliers’ workers. Also, it committee in the future to ensure that the evaluation for entering into the maintenance building is can prevent unfair trade practices between companies transparent and fair. by establishing a fair performance evaluation system. Key Figure Sustainability Review Periodic Evaluations on Suppliers in 2014 By providing fair compensation and benefit, it can 35 companies enhance the competencies of suppliers as well as A complete view of maintenance service building is provided free to suppliers. revitalize the regional economy. Therefore, besides the periodic evaluation, it is necessary to continuously improve the evaluation system in connection with Companies that were inspected for using performance and evaluation. Introducing Win-Win Partnership Programs the maintenance service building for free. 41 companies Selected as the Outstanding Company for Win-Win Partnership in 2014 SK Global Chemical was selected as the outstanding company for win-win partnership for three consecutive years since 2012, with the title given also in 2014. In addition to periodic communication with suppliers, SK Global Chemical was the only petrochemical company to be selected for three consecutive years with high grades in recognition of its systematic support programs, including improving competencies, building R&D infrastructure and enhancing safety management levels. In the future, SK Global Chemical will strive to realize win-win partnership with its suppliers by setting up a cooperative and reliable relationship with its suppliers. 54 Sustainability Report 2014 55 FOCUS 4 Achieve win-win through social contribution Today it has become mandatory for a company to fulfill its social responsibilities as a corporate citizen, as According to the result of analyzing major areas of issues in 2014 aimed at SK Innovation’s five stakeholder Background well as create the economic ecosystem around the company and pursue mutual growth, instead of it being Stakeholder groups, the greatest interest shown in achieving mutual growth through social contribution, was with optional. This is very important because it not only enhances the company’s image and ensures the Survey issues related to securing the independence of social enterprises and implementing community-based independence of the society as a whole, but also contributes to the national economic development. activities at worksites. In particular, employees showed great interest in issues related to securing the Therefore, many governments and industries are looking back at the essential meaning of social contribution independence of social enterprises and investors in implementing community-based activities at worksites. by seeking ways to achieve sustainable growth by establishing an infrastructure that creates shared value, 16 instead of making a charitable one-time donation. Investors1) Customers 23 SK Innovation has provided a new paradigm of social contribution activities that go beyond and above Response being a charitable one-time donation to resolve social issues and help those in need develop their Securing the Independence of independence on their own. The representative support activities involve social enterprises. Social Enterprises (Unit: %) SK Innovation supports the whole process of planning, establishing and operating a social enterprise, 24 thereby contributing to community development by setting up a sustainable business model that creates Suppliers jobs for the underprivileged. In particular, we take the lead in achieving greater value by exploring social enterprises, support projects and markets. 25 Employees 12 Communities2) Customers 19 26 Investors1) Implementing Community-Based Activities at Worksites (Unit: %) Suppliers 21 16 Employees 1) Analysts, Institutional Investors, etc. 18 2) NGOs, Social Welfare Institutions, etc. Communities2) Performance and Future Plan SK Innovation implements community-based social contribution activities for a cooperative relationship with local communities. In particular, we will do our best to explore social enterprises and realize diverse ideas to establish and support social enterprises. In the future, we will improve sustainability and independence of social enterprises by supporting management consulting, marketing, and market to promote the ecosystem of social enterprises. Also, we will establish a cooperative relationship with local communities by implementing social contribution activities that bring actual help instead of being just one-time events. 56 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 57 Securing the Independence FOCUS 4 • Achieve win-win through social contribution of Social Enterprises Social Enterprises at Overseas Worksites Yachaywasi’s My Eco-Tech Farm Program Implemented Together with Residents in Peru Due to the lack of national policies for rural development and insufficient information and technologies, the farming villages in Peru are suffering from extreme poverty and many people are migrating to the cities, which is why Yachaywasi has been set up as a Farming Promotion Institute together with the private sector, government, academia and NGOs led by SK-Prosynergy. As the first global social enterprise set Issue Definition up by a Korean conglomerate outside of Korea, Yachaywasi provides agricultural produce tracing programs on its online platform as well as one-stop services that include supporting farming specialists’ A social enterprise refers to a company that conducts visits to local farmers for aid and arranging micro-financing for local farmers to help them be financially profit-making activities to help resolve social problems independent. Since the first branch of Yachaywasi was established in December 2012, we opened the and allows people to be financially independent. Also, second branch in September 2013. In 2014, we improved the profit model by tapping into profitable a social enterprise contributes in creating jobs for all agricultural product markets, such as Maka and Quinua. In 2015, we plan to continue our support by considering setting up the third branch of Yachaywasi with good responses from the Peruvian government, parts of the social sector and promoting reinvestments, academia and local farmers. including generating jobs for the underprivileged and providing social services. Business Review Social enterprises distribute benefits to all parts of the social sector by creating value. As such, the support provided for the independence of social enterprises Complete view of the first branch of Yachaywasi. My School Program creates a stable climate in the corporate ecosystem and contributes to the national economy. Key Figure Present Status of Participation for My An On-line Platform Participated by Local Teachers, Parents and Students in Peru School Program In addressing the underdeveloped public education system and low level of interest in education in Number of Teaching Staff Who Peru, SK Innovation has been implementing My School Program to provide opportunities to receive Performance of Farming Promotion Programs Participated (Unit: Number of Persons) high-quality education. My School Program offers on-line teaching skills and instruction materials to conducted by Yachaywasi in 2014 local teachers, students and parents on its website, and also provides various education materials like 634 899 1,126 Sustainability Review e-textbooks, on-line library and workbooks. In addition, the program also provides self-assessment, a Number of Farms Visited parental monitoring system and on-line communities for interactive communication between teachers and parents, with off-line educational services offered through the Catholic University of Korea, 432 farms Social enterprises are similar to the existing NGOs or welfare facilities from the perspective of creating allowing the teaching skills of teachers to be enhanced and contributing to higher academic 2012 2013 2014 achievements of students. The number of users for My School Program offered through the website Number of Farms Visited in Other Regions social value. However, there is a huge difference in has shown a gradual increase. SK Innovation will contribute to better education in Peru through that social enterprises have a structure where social Number of Students Who continuous support provided for further improvements. 90 farms value is created through profit-seeking activities and Participated (Unit: Number of Persons) help the underprivileged to be financially independent. 7,034 9,935 12,756 Number of Rural Students Who Participated Therefore, our support for the independence of social enterprises contributes to ensuring the stability and 98 persons sustainability of the corporate ecosystem. 2012 2013 2014 Number of Cases of Agricultural Technologies Transferred 40 cases 58 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 59 Securing the Independence FOCUS 4 • Achieve win-win through social contribution of Social Enterprises Social Enterprises in Korea Happy Market In order to acquire and promote markets for social enterprises, SK Innovation opened and operated Exploring and Supporting Social Enterprises social enterprise pop-up stores in 2013, and opened a social enterprise market at the Cheonggyecheon In 2013, SK Innovation was the first Korean conglomerate to start a joint project to explore and support Plaza of Seorin Building in 2014. We introduced various products made by social enterprises to SK social enterprises in collaboration with the Community Chest of Korea and the Korea Association of employees, office workers in neighboring areas and tourists who visited Cheonggyecheon (Stream), Community Senior Club. In addition to tackling social problems, the main purpose of the project aimed including a kit for cultivating mushrooms by using coffee grounds, handmade paper cards where buds at senior citizens is developing a business model that creates jobs with stability and security for the come out when you water them, and Tongyong region’s traditional quilt products made by migrant underprivileged. In 2015, we expanded the scope of support to implement the third project for all women. underprivileged classes, including senior citizens, the disabled, women and multi-cultural households. Happy Flower Garden The business model that has been selected receives various kinds of support required to become a social enterprise, such as funds needed for about three years and know-how on corporate operation, Every spring for years, SK Innovation has been implementing social contribution activities that create human resources development, labor affairs, accounting and marketing. flower gardens on a piece of land remaining at the welfare facilities where SK Angels (1004) Volunteer Group work together with social enterprises that produce and sell flowering plants. The Happy Flower Present Status of the Development and Support Projects of Social Enterprises Garden Program was implemented annually to greatly improve the satisfaction level of the welfare institutions by increasing sales of social enterprises, enhancing the environment of welfare facilities Jongno Senior Club (Jongno) and diversifying volunteer activities, with thorough follow-up management provided. Seoul Metropolitan City’s Integrated Bundang Senior Club (Bundang) Subway Delivery Service called Happy Farm Operating laundry service shops ‘Silver Narae’ Since starting the support for social enterprises through 24-hour Childcare Center Projects in 2006, SK Innovation has established social enterprises like Mezzanine I-Pack, Mezzanine Ecowon and Grateful Hands in 2008 and 2009. Based on the know-how accumulated over the years from Seonganm Senior Club supporting the establishment of these social enterprises, we set up a social enterprise called Happy (Seongnam) Cheongwon Senior Club (Cheongju) Farm by participating in the whole process including planning, establishment and operation. Project for producing and selling Running lunch box delivery service business Happy Farm is a social enterprise set up to resolve the problems of insufficient green spaces in urban bean rice cakes areas and lack of jobs for senior citizens in the aging society. With the profits made through cultivating and selling flowering plants, wild flowers and shrubs, we created jobs for senior citizens (continuous employment of 8 persons as of 2014). Recently, we have been trying to ensure job security by Sharing People (Jeonju) Daedeok Senior Club (Daejeon) diversifying profits like managing houseplants and delivering flowers. In addition, we signed business agreements with welfare facilities, the mental health and welfare center and daycare centers inside the Producing Jeonju bread and Cultivating blueberries and producing operating shops and selling processed goods district of Gyeonggi-do Siheung-si where Happy Farm is located to provide horticultural treatment and farm experiences. In 2014, about 300 local residents including the underprivileged, participated in Happy Farm’s activities and received its services. Daegu Suseong Senior Club Yeonmin Dongrak (Yeonggwang) (Daegu) Producing and selling dried Running apartment delivery agricultural products service business (Completed the approval as a preliminary social Bundang Senior Club (Starting Ceremony of Sharing People (Jeonju Bread Café) Daegu Suseong Senior Club (Apartment Delivery enterprise in April 2015) Laundry Service Business) Service) After selecting four institutions in 2013, we chose four additional institutions (Seongnam Senior Club, Bundang Senior Club, Daedeok Senior Club, Cheongwon Senior Club) as our social enterprises through the second idea contest for projects. The selected institutions are implementing various projects, including selling rice cakes, operating laundry service business, cultivating blueberries, producing and selling secondary processed goods and delivering lunch boxes. About 110 jobs were created for senior citizens through the first and second projects and it is expected that more social value Social Enterprises’ Happy Market Happy Flower Garden Happy Farm will be created as they turn into social enterprises and the projects stabilize over the years. 60 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation for the future 61 Community-Based Social FOCUS 4 • Achieve win-win through social contribution Contribution Activities Social Contribution Channels by Worksite Ulsan · Executive Committee of the Ulsan Youth Counseling Welfare Center · Operating Committee of the Ulsan Buk-gu Multicultural Family Support Center · Operating Committee and Advisory Committee of the Ulsan Happy School · Operating Committee of the Ulsan Gym for the Disabled · Director and Working Committee of the Ulsan Volunteer Center · Director of the Ulsan Nam-gu Volunteer Center Issue Definition · Operating Committee of the Ulsan Social Welfare Community Chest · Standing Committee of the Korea National Red Cross Ulsan Branch Many companies are implementing social contribution activities for the underprivileged and local residents Incheon · Operating Committee of Incheon Crime Victim Support Center · Operating Committee of Incheon Seo-gu Volunteer Center living near their worksites. As a result, it has become · Residents’ Advisory Committee of Incheon Seo-gu 4-dongs · Advisory Committee of Incheon Seo-gu Voluntary Crime Prevention Group necessary to establish close relationships with local · Operating Committee of Incheon Seoknam Patrol Division’s Seo-gu Life Safety residents for better communication, so that community Council -based social contribution activities that suit the regional characteristics can be implemented. Environment “Love Our Environment” Writing Contest The “Love Our Environment” Writing Contest started off for children in 1993, but changed into a Business Review writing contest for children and youngsters who are visually impaired in 2011. Since then, we have expanded it to include children with hearing impairment, intellectually and developmentally In order to increase sales and ensure smooth challenged and autistic children. In 2014, we allowed not only children from special-education implementation for business activities being conducted, schools, but also children from special classes at regular schools to participate in the writing “Love Our Environment” Writing Contest it is necessary to strengthen close relationships with contest. As a result, about 2,700 special children and youngsters showed off their talents in local residents and actively participate in promoting the various categories, including poetry, prose, picture diary, writing beautiful lyrics and “Love Our regional economy. Through communication with local Environment” reporter sections. . residents and investing in local communities, companies Key Figure Energy-Saving Education and Campaign can enhance their image and also establish cooperative SK Innovation made 12 pieces of animation, learning games and webtoons under the theme of Saving relationships with other companies and local Energy and provided them for free through Korea’s largest on-line company, Junior Naver, which communities. recorded more than 5 million hits as of the end of April 2015. In addition, the contents produced were Number of Persons Who Participated in Social Contribution Activities (Accumulated) used in textbooks for Education for Sustainable Development (ESD), which will be used in elementary schools across the nation through MOU with the Ministry of Education. We also participated at Jeju 10,173 An Event for the Day of Energy and Ulsan’s sharing festival and the Day of Energy event to promote the idea of the importance of Sustainability Review persons saving energy to local residents and children, as well as an exposition for donations towards education hosted by the Ministry of Education with more than 120,000 persons in attendance. In 2015, we plan By continuously operating environmental and community to provide an energy experience program called Energy Tomorrow for elementary and middle school -based activities, companies can emphasize the students across the nation, together with our employees’ talent donation in collaboration with the true intention of their social contribution activities and Korea Energy Management Corporation. establish trusting relationships with local residents. Workshop in the Forest of Ulsan Grand Park As a corporate citizen, the trusting relationships with customers will establish the foundation for achieving In 2006, SK Innovation opened a workshop in the forest of Ulsan Grand Park as an education space Total Hours of Social Contribution Hours for natural learning experience, which was handed over to the Ulsan City and managed directly to sustainable growth. contribute in developing the leisure activities and culture of local residents. In 2014, we operated 34,053 hours various programs, including wood craft program under free themes, wood craft program held in English, Hanji (Korean paper) craft program, napkin craft program, space maker program and perler Ulsan Grand Park (Workshop in the Forest) beads, to provide happiness to 3,251 Ulsan residents who participated. In 2015, we plan to run a volunteer program that makes gifts for the underprivileged together with middle and high school students in Ulsan. 62 Sustainability Report 2014 Community-Based Social RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT Contribution Activities Mutual Growth Happy Companionship In 2013, five companies out of about 240 cooperative institutions were selected, including suppliers of SK Innovation’s subsidiaries and SK Energy’s branches, while seven companies, including Taesung R&D 64 Plant, Daeshin Petroleum, Daegwang Petroleum, Hanyu Energy and Ilshin Chemical, were selected in 2014. As such, we supported running social contribution programs on education, culture, environment and welfare for the underprivileged in neighboring areas of these suppliers located in Seoul, Jincheon, Happy Companionship (Happy Green House) Chungju and Yangsan. Our Happy Companionship celebrated its second year in 2014 to systematically support social contribution programs from the planning stage, which had not been easy for our suppliers to carry out until now, thereby reinforcing their experiences and competencies regarding social contribution activities. Meanwhile, we contributed to improving the quality of life for the underprivileged in the neighboring areas of our suppliers by providing them with better services. Local Communities Sharing Books In May 2013, SK Energy signed social contribution agreements with the Ministry of Health & Welfare and SBS (Seoul Broadcasting System) to run a program for sharing books by donating them and creating a small library at the Community Children’s Center together with SK gas station and refueling customers. To achieve this, SK Energy raised funds for the campaign by contributing a certain amount of money each time a customer buys gas at SK gas stations, while SK gas stations also established a Sharing Books one-on-one relationship with the Community Children’s Center in the region to donate a certain amount of money voluntarily. Through these efforts, the total number of books donated in September 2014 exceeded 100,000 books, so that we successfully donated a total of 140,942 children’s books by the end of 2014. Meanwhile, we modified and repaired two Community Children’s Centers that were out of date in 2013 and turned them into small libraries. This was followed by six centers turned into small libraries in 2014. We also held the second Reading Contest to evaluate reading activities and give funds to support outstanding children and Community Children’s Centers. Netruck House To promote and improve the welfare of truck drivers, SK Energy runs the Netruck House, a rest area service network exclusively for truck drivers. Since the opening of the first station in Gwangyang in January 2006, the number has increased, and there are currently 14 stations across the nation as of 2015, with plans to construct four new stations. Job Experience Classroom for Middle School Students In order to help realize a happy education that develops the dreams and talents of middle school students who are our future generation in the neighboring areas, SK Incheon Petrochem is running the Job Experience Classroom for about 460 students from seven middle schools together with the Incheon Seobu Office of Education. The Job Experience Classroom is a program that invites children to SK Incheon Petrochem’s plant to get a better understanding about the energy business and explore Job Experience Classroom careers for the future through various lectures and on-site visits regarding job types and duties. Since the first Job Experience Classroom for middle school students was held in October 2014, it received good responses from local communities, and we also run an energy classroom for elementary school students under the theme of producing and saving energy. 64 Sustainability Report 2014 Innovation RESEARCH & forDEVELOPMENT the future 65 R&D Providing high-quality products and services through technology development not only strengthens the company’s competitiveness, but also acts as a means of providing differentiated value. SK Innovation explores new growth engines and reinforces differentiated competitiveness by conducting R&D in diverse fields. Global Technology Introduction by Field SK Innovation has made continuous investments in developing technologies related to energies and chemicals aimed at promoting competitiveness through innovation and exploring new businesses based on technologies. Developing petroleum resources and high-performance petroleum products by Global Technology is an organization for developing core technologies in charge of the R&D of SK Innovation and continuously developing high-tech petroleum technologies, including technologies its subsidiaries, including petroleum, petrochemicals, polymers, lubricants, batteries, IE materials. Petroleum for handling extra-heavy crude oil and technologies for increasing supplies Technology for improving crude oil / Environment-friendly and high-performance petroleum products / Asphalt R&D Fields · Aromatics & olefins · Premium lube base oil ·C arbon materials & acrylic coating Producing the premium lube base oil of Very High Viscosity Index (VHVI) called · Premium lubricant Petrochemimaterials YUBASETM and the premium lubricant called ZICTM made from it · Industrial lubricant Lubricants cals · New catalyst & process Lubricant Premium lube base oil (YUBASETM) / High-performance lubricant (ZICTM) / High ·C hemicals for semiconductor viscosity base oil manufacturing process · Premium fuel / asphalt · High value-added · Premium polyethylene (Nexlene) · EPDM products of low price Petroleum Synergy Polymers · Differentiation of PE/PP products distillates Possessing independent catalyst and processing technology for producing high · E&P technology value-added aromatic products Petrochemical Olefin technology / Aromatic technology / Petroleum technology / Chemical product · Separation films for lithium batteries · EV vehicles technology Batteries IE Materials · Flexible printed circuit board materials · Energy storage system · Optical materials Developing high-performance polyolefin manufacturing technology and diverse Innovation and Growth Strategies for Polymers customer-oriented polymers Nexlene / EPDM rubber / On-demand products Technology Competitiveness SOC BARC Catalyst / Process Carbon Materials Nano Tube PSPBO Advanced Developing and producing lithium polymer batteries for EV and batteries for energy Specialty storage devices Carbon Battery EV batteries / Batteries for energy storage devices Fiber Electronic Energy Long chemicals distance EV batteries Carbon Material Aramid Coating Developing and producing new materials in the fields of IE and energy by using Electric storage system IE Materials core competencies in polymer and petrochemical NextFCCL (Flexible Copper Clad Laminates) / Optical films generation ATF Battery High IE materials value-added Premium products of low base oil Low-K price distillates products coverlays Developing Environment-Friendly Technologies : WMA (Warm Mix Asphalt) Lubricants High moleculeThe WMA (Warm Mix Asphalt) technology is an environment-friendly asphalt technology that reduces the manufacturing and construction temperatures Low-K FCCL saa (Flexible Copper of the asphalt mixture by about 30℃ compared to the existing HMA (Hot Mix Asphalt) technology. This technology ensures the original function of the Oil refining Clad Laminate) road, and also modifies the asphalt’s characteristics so that it is easier to do the coating and compactness at a lower temperature. From the Nexlene Petrochemenvironmental perspective, it has the advantage of reducing CO₂ emissions and fuel consumption and increasing the use of recycled asphalt icals Chemicals concretes. Also, from the road function perspective, it reduces damage to roads like potholes formed by strengthening the compactness of asphalt pavement and improving water resistance. According to the Korea Institute of Civil Engineering and Building Technology, it has been established that EPDM & Materials Premium using the WMA technology helps in reducing CO₂ emissions and fuel consumption by more than 30 percent. Asphalt APPENDIX 67 Appendix Management's Discussion and Analysis Fluctuations in the Dubai Crude Oil Prices International Crude Oil Market Annual Average (Unit: $/barrel) In 2014, the international crude oil market continued to experience excess supply due to the slowdown of economic recovery around the world and the increase in the production volume of non-OPEC countries, including the US. In 109.1 105.5 96.6 the case of global crude oil supply, OPEC countries maintained the same level of production as the previous year, but the non-OPEC countries’ supply increased 1.9 barrels per day (2.1 percent) from the previous year to record Management’s Discussion and Analysis 67 93.3 million barrels per day. On the other hand, the non-OECD countries achieved the highest economic growth rate for global crude oil demand, but the oil demand decreased for the OECD countries because of the economic Sustainable Performance 70 downturn in Europe and Japan, to record 92.4 million barrels per day with an increase of 0.6 million barrels per day 2012 2013 2014 Third Party’s Assurance Report 78 * Based on Platts for disclosing prices. (0.7 percent) from the previous year. In 2014, the annual average Dubai crude oil price dropped from the previous year’s $105.5 per barrel to record $96.6 per barrel. Also, the violent fluctuations of oil prices due to increased GRI G4 Index 80 geopolitical uncertainties like the Iraq crisis resulted in a forecast ranging from the highest price of $111.23 per barrel to the lowest price of $53.60 per barrel. Market Conditions by Industry Petroleum Industry Crude oil prices are crucial to petroleum product prices. As Korea depends entirely on imported crude oil, its market is sensitive to the effects of exchange rates and the export policies of oil-producing nations in the Middle East and elsewhere. Since the petroleum industry value chain includes importing crude oil and refining the oil into petroleum products, transporting and storing the product and finally selling it, the crude oil shipped in oil tankers from oilproducing countries is sent to the places where refinery plants are located and discharged to storage tanks near the refinery plants to be imported into Korea. Also, the products are sold differently according to the wholesale prices sold at direct sales places, gas stations and intermediate seller and the retail prices sold at gas stations (or charging stations) for the general consumers. In 2014, the year-to-date petroleum product consumption fell by 4.3 percent from the previous year. With a steady growth in the number of vehicles registered to authorities and an increase in the aerial demands, the domestic demand for gasoline, diesel and aviation fuel increased from the previous year. However, in the case of other types of products, the LPG consumption decreased due to a decrease in the number of LPG-fueled vehicles, the kerosene consumption for heating purpose decreased because of changing to other fuel sources due to the waning need for kerosene-fueled boilers and the distribution of city gas, and the demand for non-transportation use like heavy oil fell compared to the previous year Consumption Trends by Type (Unit: thousand barrels, %) Classification Total Petroleum Kerosene Diesel Heavy oil Naphtha LPG Others 2014 822,092 73,475 15,414 144,755 31,094 396,979 89,674 70,701 (accumulated) (100.0) (8.9) (1.9) (17.6) (3.8) (48.3) (10.9) (8.6) * Source: Korea National Oil Corporation Petronet (as of December 2014) / Consumption ratio indicated inside the bracket. Petrochemical Industry Basic Chemical Industry l Basic chemical industry refers to a business of basic materials that use naphtha to produce olefin products like ethylene and propylene and aromatic products like ethylene and propylene, so that chemicals like synthetic resins, synthetic rubbers and synthetic fibers are produced. It is a process industry that requires a huge initial investment in plant and equipment where the economy of scale applies because of a high entry barrier and the effect of technological preoccupation. On the other hand, due to the industrial characteristics of producing basic materials by using naphtha that is produced from crude oil, the basic chemical business is sensitive to oil price fluctuations with repetition of downturn and boom according to the global economic and supply-demand conditions. Chemical Material Industry l Chemical material industry uses basic distillates like ethylene, propylene, benzene and xylene to produce chemical products like synthetic resins, synthetic rubbers and 1.4 BDO (Butanediol). It is one of the key industries for supplying raw materials to core industries like automobile, electronic, construction, pharmaceutical and apparel material. Due to the industrial characteristics, the chemical material industry is sensitive to changes in profitability resulting from oil price fluctuations and business fluctuations of related industries. 68 Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX 69 Management's Discussion and Analysis Lubricant Industry Petroleum Business Lubricant industry is an industry that produces finished products by using base oil as its major raw The company’s petroleum business sales fell by approximately 1.7 percent from KRW 49,896.8 materials. Since the lube base oil is produced through an additional process (vacuum distillation, billion in 2013 to reach KRW 49,056.3 billion in 2014, with the operating profit dropping approximately catalyst) for unconverted oil (UCO) that are made from a high value-added equipment called KRW 1,58.7 billion from the previous year to record KRW 999 billion to show deficits. In 2014, the Hydrocracker during the oil refining process, it is very difficult to enter into the lubricant market other petroleum business recorded a huge loss due to the continued weakness in refining margin resulting than the oil refiners with large-scale facility investments. The market for lube base oil can be divided from decreased demands of major importing countries in the region and the inventory losses from into Group I, Group II and Group III according to the quality and function, with different growth rates oil price fluctuations. In 2015, it is forecasted that the pressure of falling oil prices around the world shown for each market. In the case of the lube base oil (Group I) with lower function and life will continue due to high supply volume compared to the crude oil demands. However, SK Innovation expectancy of the products, the growth rates have slowed down and it is expected that the demand plans to maintain our number one position in the Korean refining industry by maximizing synergies will decrease in the future. However, the premium base oil (Group II/ III etc.) market is forecasted to with the largest refinery in operation and running our facilities efficiently with differentiated maintain high growth rates due to the changes in environmental regulations and demands. The technologies. Also, we strive to take a step forward to become a global energy company by domestic lube base oil market has four oil refiners with refining facilities and high value-added improving our business structure and reinforcing our expertise, such as strengthening the trading facilities participating in it. Since the domestic demand has exceeded the supply, most of the business and setting up a hub for the global market. products are being exported to Asia, the Americas and Europe. Korea’s lube base oil market has more than 200 companies competing with one another, including 19 companies registered as full Chemical Business members at the Korea Lubricating Oil Industry Association and other non-registered companies. The company’s chemical business sales fell by approximately 4.3 percent from KRW 12,112 billion Major companies include SK Lubricants, GS Caltex, Kukdong Oil & Chemicals, Michang Oil in 2013 to KRW 12,635.2 billion in 2014, with the operating profit dropping approximately 58.6 Industry, Dongnam Petroleum Industry, Valvoline, Cals Corporation, S-OIL Total Lubricants and percent to record KRW 359.2 billion. In 2014, our chemical business showed improvement in Hyundai Oilbank. In the case of foreign lubricant completed products, there are major oil refiners like olefins, but the market condition of PX products, a representative product of aromatic business, got Shell, Exxon Mobil, BP, Chevron, Total, Petro China, Sinopec, Fuchs, and Ashland (Valvoline). Since worse to post a huge fall in operating profit from the previous year. Due to the downstream of market there are many lubricant companies already in place at each region, it is not easy for domestic conditions like PTA and the expansion of large-sized facilities in the region like China, the PX spread companies to tap into new markets abroad. fell substantially from the previous year. In 2015, it is forecasted that the PX market condition will turn around somewhat as a result of the number of facilities being expanded decreasing. In order to overcome the limits of domestic market and achieve continuous growth, SK Innovation will establish Business Performance by Business Segment sales channels in China, Southeast Asia, the Middle East and Latin America to enhance our global Due to the difficult business environment in 2014 like inventory losses resulting from falling oil prices competencies and diversify our business areas. Also, we plan to achieve qualitative and quantitative and continuous weakness in refining margin and PX market, SK Innovation posted KRW 65,865.3 growths by producing diverse solvent products and high value-added polymer products. billion in sales on a consolidated basis, which is a decrease of KRW 174 billion from the previous year, with an operating profit dropping KRW 1,637.7 billion from the previous year to record KRW Lubricant Business 231.3 billion. The international oil prices that fluctuated around $107 per barrel at the beginning of The company’s lubricant business sales increased by approximately 7.0 percent from the previous the year in 2014 rapidly dropped by about 50 percent to $54 per barrel at the end of the year due to year to record KRW 2,981.8 billion in 2014, with the operating profit dropping approximately 86.5 the global oversupply of oil production such as increased shale oil production in North America and percent to record KRW 289.9 billion in 2014 compared to KRW 155.4 billion in 2013. Due to the the same level of production from OPEC countries. As a result, there were huge inventory losses in decrease in the raw material costs resulting from falling oil prices, the base oil spread increased and the petroleum business, which also aggravated the oil development business. In the future, SK showed an improved performance from the previous year. In 2015, it is forecasted that there will be Innovation is forecasted to be greatly affected by the international oil fluctuations. Most of the a small improvement or it may remain at the same level as the previous year because of limited experts in the industry predicted weak demands and a rise in interest rates due to the surplus of expansion of facilities. SK Innovation set up a joint venture company together with a multilateral crude oil supply. Therefore, it is highly likely that the low oil prices will continue for a medium-and company Repsol in April 2014, and it also set up a Group III lube base oil plant in Spain with full short-term basis until there is a sign of improvement in excess supply or there is a full recovery of commercial operation in September 2014. Currently, SK Innovation’s Group III lube base oil market demands. share is estimated to be around 35 percent. We will strive to become a market leader in the base oil market by making active investments and acquiring capacity. Business Performance by Business Segment (Unit: KRW million) Petroleum Development and Other Businesses Sales Operating Profit and Loss The company’s petroleum development and other business sales fell by approximately 4.2 percent Classification 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 to reach KRW 1,192 billion from the previous year, with the operating profit dropping approximately Petroleum Business 56,588,893 49,896,814 49,056,300 279,070 59,662 (999,031) 63.4 percent, falling from KRW 324.4 billion to KRW 118.7 billion. The biggest reason behind the poor performance is because of decreased sales and profits in petroleum development business Chemical Business 11,835,945 12,111,982 12,635,174 770,567 866,967 359,189 resulting from international oil price fluctuations. In 2015, it is forecasted that the performances will Lubricant Business 2,901,055 2,786,124 2,981,801 313,224 155,365 289,851 fall from the previous year because of falling oil prices and low oil prices even though the production Oil Development and 1,268,572 1,244,385 1,191,994 355,424 324,424 118,714 volumes from the blocks in Vietnam and North America increased. Other Businesses Total 72,594,465 66,039,305 65,865,269 1,718,285 1,406,418 (231,277) 70 Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX 71 Sustainable Performance Economy Condensed Income Statement (Unit: KRW million) Sales and Operating Income by Business Segment (Unit: KRW 100 million) Classification 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Classification Sales 72,594,465 66,039,305 65,865,269 Sales Operating Income Operating Income Chemical Sales Operating Income Cost of goods sold 69,002,293 62,765,681 64,291,605 Petroleum 565,889 2,791 498,968 597 490,563 (9,990) Gross margin 3,592,172 3,273,624 1,573,664 Chemical 118,359 7,706 121,120 8,669 126,352 3,592 SG&A expenses 1,873,887 1,867,206 1,804,941 Lubricant 29,011 3,132 27,861 1,554 29,818 2,899 Operating income 1,718,285 1,406,418 -231,277 Petroleum development and others 12,686 3,554 12,444 3,244 11,920 1,186 Financial income 2,158,039 1,637,784 2,616,560 Finance costs 2,322,453 1,862,975 2,965,644 Gains or losses from equity method 139,949 67,709 130,775 Government Grants (Unit: USD 1,000) Non-operating income 89,456 127,256 86,445 Classification 2012 2013 2014 Non-operating expenses 81,264 237,045 129,928 Energy Special Accounting Fund 24,673 7,592 13,946 Income before income taxes 1,702,012 1,139,147 -493,069 * Energy Special Accounting Fund (loan amount of energy special accounting) is a governmental loan that is provided to support resource development companies. Continuing operations income before income taxes 507,099 337,111 -17,237 Continuing operations net income (loss) 1,194,913 802,036 -475,832 Shareholders with more than 5 percent of outstanding shares (Unit: shares, %) Discontinued operations net income -12,562 -23,303 -61,334 Name No. of shares in holdings Ownership Net income (loss) 1,182,352 778,733 -537,166 SK Corp. 30,883,788 33.4 Other comprehensive income -226,432 55,585 88,695 National Pension Service 7,735,070 8.41 Total comprehensive income 955,920 834,318 -448,471 * As of Dec. 31, 2014 SK Innovation’s share in its subsidiaries (Unit: %) SK Energy SK Global Chemical SK Lubricants SK Incheon Petrochem SK Trading International Condensed Statement of Financial Position (Unit: KRW million) 100 100 100 68 100 Classification 2012 2013 2014 * As of Dec. 31, 2014 Current assets 17,885,166 16,997,440 14,888,371 Non-current assets 15,945,914 18,291,430 20,212,943 Total assets R&D Investments (Unit: KRW million, %) 33,831,080 35,288,870 35,101,314 Current liabilities 12,024,818 11,665,350 11,403,361 Classifications 2012 2013 2014 Non-current liabilities 5,458,237 6,708,266 7,636,896 R&D expenses 149,401 151,331 138,379 Total liabilities 17,483,055 18,373,616 19,040,257 R&D expenses/sales 0.20 0.23 0.21 Capital attributed to owners of the parent company 15,371,342 15,839,458 15,000,341 Capital 468,570 468,570 468,570 Other paid-in capital 5,757,017 5,756,998 5,756,982 Ratio of Local Purchase (Unit: KRW 100 million, %) Consolidated retained earnings 9,114,823 9,535,337 8,636,046 Classifications 2014 Other capital 30,932 78,553 138,743 Amount of goods and equipment purchased through all the suppliers 9,126 Non-controlling interests 976,683 1,075,796 1,060,716 Amount of goods and equipment purchased through local suppliers 4,153 Total shareholders’ equity 16,348,025 16,915,254 16,061,057 Ratio of local purchase 45.5 * Local: based on domestic suppliers 72 Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX 73 Sustainable Performance Environment Energy Intensity (Unit: TJ/person) Air Pollutant Emissions Classification 2014 Air Pollutant Emissions Volume (Unit: Tons) Intensity (energy consumption/total employees) 33 Classification 2012 2013 2014 SK Energy (Ulsan) 3,206 3,165 3,322 SOx SK Global Chemical (Ulsan) 213 208 200 GHG Emissions (Unit: 1,000 tCO2eq) SK Incheon Petrochem (Incheon) 360 225 221 SK Energy (Ulsan) 6,226 6,097 6,887 Classification 2012 2013 2014 NOx SK Global Chemical (Ulsan) 1,197 1,157 1,189 Direct emissions 40 39 48 SK Incheon Petrochem (Incheon) 912 762 834 SK Innovation Indirect emissions 74 74 95 SK Energy (Ulsan) 224 177 141 Subtotal Dust SK Global Chemical (Ulsan) 38 32 31 114 113 143 SK Incheon Petrochem (Incheon) 20 17 23 Direct emissions 6,120 5,996 6,420 SK Energy Indirect emissions 1,140 1,170 1,316 Subtotal 7,260 7,166 7,736 Air Pollutant Emissions Concentrations Direct emissions 2,461 2,424 2,688 Classification Legal limit/ Company standard 2012 2013 2014 SK Global Chemical Indirect emissions 1,122 1,159 1,289 SK Energy (Ulsan) 180/170 27.4 28.9 35.1 Subtotal SOx (ppm) SK Global Chemical (Ulsan) 180/160 16.9 14.9 12.5 3,583 3,583 3,977 SK Incheon Petrochem (Incheon) 180/160 20.2 15.1 7.3 Direct emissions 62 75 105 SK Energy (Ulsan) 200/180 73.3 79.1 89.8 SK Lubricants Indirect emissions 147 146 207 SK Global Chemical (Ulsan) NOx (ppm) 150/130 94.4 91.6 98.9 Subtotal 209 221 312 SK Incheon Petrochem (Incheon) 250/235 74.2 69.3 41.5 Direct emissions SK Energy (Ulsan) 50/40 5.4 4.7 4.1 632 575 830 Dust (mg/m2) SK Global Chemical (Ulsan) 30/20 4.9 4.3 3.9 SK Incheon Petrochem Indirect emissions 190 171 313 SK Incheon Petrochem (Incheon) 30/25 4.4 4.5 1.9 Subtotal 822 746 1,143 * Retroactive application of GHG emissions from 2012 and 2013 due to changes in the applied emission factor. * Based on statement Water Pollutant Emissions Concentration (Unit: ppm) GHG Emission Intensity (Unit: 1,000 tCO2eq/person) Classification Legal limit/ Company standard 2012 2013 2014 SK Energy Ulsan CLX 40/20 10.5 8.1 9.3 2012 2013 2014 No.2FCC 90/70 17.3 14.9 20 Direct emission intensity (GHG emissions/ total employees) 146 143 159 COD SK Global Chemical PE/PP 90/70 8.5 8.4 6.9 Indirect emission intensity (GHG emissions/ total employees) 43 41 51 EPDM 90/70 24.1 25 15.4 Total emission intensity (GHG emissions/ total employees) 189 184 210 SK Incheon Petrochem Incheon 90/40 19.8 14.6 10.9 SK Energy Ulsan CLX 10/8 2.9 4.4 3.1 No.2FCC 80/60 36.7 32.5 25 Oil Imported Volume by Year (Unit: 1,000 barrels) SS SK Global Chemical PE/PP 80/60 16 16 16.2 EPDM 80/60 13 14 9.7 Classification 2012 2013 2014 SK Incheon Petrochem Incheon 80/30 10.8 5.9 5.9 Oil imported volume 307,019 293,185 278,667 SK Energy Ulsan CLX 5/1 0.4 0.3 0.3 No.2FCC 5/3.7 2.7 1.3 1.4 * Based on PEDSIS (Korea National Oil Corporation) report Oil SK Global Chemical PE/PP 5/3.7 0.4 0.3 0.4 EPDM 5/3.7 0.1 0.1 0.2 SK Incheon Petrochem Incheon 5/3 0.78 0.46 0.47 74 Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX 75 Sustainable Performance Total water withdrawal by source (Unit: Tons) Findings of the Quality Grade by the MOE Water Sources and Volume 2012 2013 2014 Gasoline emissions Nakdong River 2012 2013 2014 34,832,388 35,420,067 46,855,051 SK Energy (Ulsan), SK Global Chemical (Ulsan), SK Lubricants (Ulsan) Classification Legal limit First half of the year Second half of the year First half of the year Second half of the year First half of the year Second half of the year Han River 2,858,223 3,015,131 3,710,574 SK Incheon Petrochem (Incheon) Sulfur Content (ppm) Below 10 5 6 5 6 5 5 Geum River Sulfur Quality Grade ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ 1,086,429 Below 10 SK Innovation (Seosan, Jeungpyeong, Daedeok) Benzene Content, vol% Below 0.7 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.4 * Collected the water withdrawal volume starting from 2014 for SK Innovation. Benzene Quality Grade Below 0.7 ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ Overall Quality Grade ★★★★★ ☆★★★★ ☆★★★★ ☆★★★★ ☆★★★★ ☆★★★★ Waste Control Waste Discharge by Type (Unit: Tons) Diesel emissions Classification 2012 2013 2014 2012 2013 2014 Classification Legal limit SK Energy (Ulsan) 25,402 20,389 17,799 First half of the year Second half of the year First half of the year Second half of the year First half of the year Second half of the year SK Global Chemical (Ulsan) 5,007 5,438 9,291 Sulfur Content (ppm) Below 10 5 5 5 5 5 6 Designated wastes SK Lubricants (Ulsan) 147 235 151 Sulfur Quality Grade Below 10 ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ SK Icheon Petrochem (Incheon) 3,294 4,306 3,368 Overall Quality Grade ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ ★★★★★ Total 33,850 30,368 30,609 SK Energy (Ulsan) 49,551 42,363 45,889 SK Global Chemical (Ulsan) 14,009 11,873 10,700 General wastes SK Lubricants (Ulsan) 2,654 591 2,356 SK Icheon Petrochem (Incheon) 3,205 4,147 2,750 Total 69,419 58,974 61,695 Discharge Volume by Treatment Method (Unit: Tons) Classification 2012 2013 2014 In-house treatment (landfill) 733 18 299 Outsourced volume – Recycled 41,110 34,261 52,623 Outsourced volume – Incinerator/landfilled 33,110 28,473 39,383 1) 2012, 2013: Based on SK Energy (Ulsan) 2) 2014: Based on SK Energy (Ulsan), SK Global Chemical (Ulsan), SK Lubricants (Ulsan), SK Incheon Petrochem (Incheon) Environmental Investment (Unit: KRW 100 million) Classification 2012 2013 2014 Environmental Investment 385.4 501.2 595.9 1) 2012, 2013: Based on SK Energy (Ulsan), SK Global Chemical (Ulsan), SK Lubricants (Ulsan), SK Incheon Petrochem (Incheon) 2) 2014: Based on SK Innovation (Seosan, Jeungpyeong, Daedeok), SK Energy (Ulsan), SK Global Chemical (Ulsan), SK Lubricants (Ulsan), SK Incheon Petrochem (Incheon) 76 Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX 77 Sustainable Performance Society Present Status of Employees by Category (Unit: persons, %) Number of Employees on Parental Leave and Number of Employees Who Returned to Work (Unit: Number of Persons) Classification 2012 2013 2014 Classification 2012 2013 2014 Total Employees 6,346 6,350 6,338 Male 1,042 927 1,300 Number of employees entitled to parental leave Regular Persons 6,229 6,240 6,231 Female 182 191 220 Ratio 98.2 98.3 98.3 Male 1 2 By contract Number of employees who used parental leave Non-regular Persons 117 110 107 Female 43 58 61 Ratio 1.8 1.7 1.7 Male Number of employees who worked at least one Male Persons 5,697 5,656 5,623 year after returning from parental leave Female 48 41 25 Ratio 89.8 89.1 88.7 Gender Female Persons 649 694 715 Number of Consulting and Reporting through Business Ethics Infrastructure (Unit: number of cases) Ratio 10.2 10.9 11.3 Under age 30 Persons 568 510 734 Classification 2012 2013 2014 Ratio 9.0 8.0 11.6 Number of consultations 64 103 81 Between 30 and 50 Persons 4,190 4,075 4,263 By age years of age Ratio 66.0 64.2 67.3 Social Contribution Investments (Unit: KRW 100 million) Above age 50 Persons 1,588 1,765 1,341 Classification 2014 Ratio 25.0 27.8 21.2 Annual social contribution investments 306 Underprivileged Disabled Persons 113 87 130 * Excluding executives and advisors Number of 1004 Volunteers* and the Annual Volunteering Hours (Unit: persons, hours) Number of Retirees and Severance Rate (Unit: %, persons) Classification 2012 2013 2014 Number of volunteers 5,867 5,836 5,762 Classification 2012 2013 2014 Annual volunteering hours 48,256 42,562 34,053 Severance rate 1.3 0.9 1.2 Total persons 81 59 74 * 1004 volunteers: SK Innovation’s enterprise-wide volunteer group Number of retirees Male 66 39 59 Female 15 20 15 Ratio of worksites giving back to local communities, conducting impact assessment and implementing (Unit: %) * Based on December 31 of every year development programs * Severance rate: Number of retires / Number of total regular employees * Retroactive application for 2012 and 2013 due to changes in severance rate standard. Classification 2012 2013 2014 Ratio of worksites giving back to local communities, conducting impact assessment and implementing 100 100 100 development programs Average Service Years (Unit: years) Classification 2012 2013 2014 Average service years 15.2 15.5 15.9 78 Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX 79 Third Party’s Assurance Report Introduction Conclusion DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. (hereinafter “DNV GL”) is commissioned to carry out the assurance engagement In DNV GL’s opinion, and based on the scope of this Assurance Engagement, the report provides a reliable and fair of the Sustainability Report 2014 (hereinafter “the Report”) of SK Innovation Co., Ltd. (‘SK Innovation’). This engagement representation of SK Innovation’s sustainability strategy, policy, practices and performance in 2014. The report is prepared focused on the information provided in the Report and the underlying management and reporting processes. SK ‘In accordance with Core option’ of GRI G4.0. Standard disclosure items assured are indicated in the verification report Innovation is responsible for the collection, analysis, aggregation and presentation of all information within the Report. submitted to SK Innovation. Further opinions with accountability principles are made below; DNV GL’s responsibility in performing the work follows terms of reference and scope of work agreed. The assurance engagement is based on the assumption that the data and information provided to us is complete, sufficient and Inclusivity authentic. SK Innovation’s stakeholders are the intended recipients of the assurance statement. SK Innovation has engaged with a wide range of stakeholders which are shareholders, employees, business partners, local communities and customers. The report includes a process to derive expectations and interests of internal and external stakeholders. Main issues were clearly represented in the report. Scope of assurance Materiality This Assurance Engagement covered data and information presented only in the Report. The scope of DNV GL’s SK Innovation has formed a sustainability issue pool by analyzing stakeholder’s opinion, and media coverage for its Assurance Engagement includes the review and assessment of followings: sustainability and reviewing the material issues reported by peer groups. The material issues are determined by combining · Evaluation of the reporting principles for defining the sustainability report content and the quality in the Global Reporting the issues which are important for stakeholder and the issues which are relevant for SK Innovation in terms of sustainability. Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines 4.0 The output of the process clearly brings out material issues. · Evaluation of adherence to Accountability principles provided in AA1000 Accountability Principles Standard (APS)2008 Responsiveness: with a moderate level of assurance and Type 1. SK Innovation monitors and reports performances of material issues drawn by the materiality assessment process in the · Check of GRI 4.0 Disclosure level against GRI 4.0 Disclosure option report. The report includes financial (economical) and non-financial (social and environmental) performances. SK Innovation states its vision and business strategies with the performances in the report. Limitation Opportunities for Improvement The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of SK Innovation’s suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as The following is an excerpt from the observations and opportunities reported to SK Innovation’s management. However, part of this Assurance Engagement. Any financial information from SK Innovation’s annual report and company reporting these do not affect our conclusions on the Report and are provided to encourage continual improvement. on operations in 2014 or other sources are not included in the scope of the Assurance. Economic performances based · The Data and information in the sustainability report should be gathered and compiled in a consistent manner. It is on the financial data were cross-checked with internal documents and the audited financial statements. The aggregation recommended to establish internal reporting principles and guidelines to improve consistency. and calculation process for building economic performances is reviewed and tested by the verification team. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data are used for the verification. The qualitative statements addressed in the GRI Content Index are not verified but the audit team has just confirmed that Statement of Competence and Independence the indicator is reported in the GRI Content Index DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. DNV GL is a leading provider of sustainability services, including the verification of sustainability reports. Our environmental Verification Methodology and social assurance specialists operate in over 100 countries. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the verification process. The Assurance Engagement was planned and carried out in accordance with the DNV GL Verification Protocol for Sustainability Reporting (VeriSustainTM V.4.1) and AA1000AS (2008). As part of the verification, we challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls. In accordance with the VeriSustain, the Report was evaluated with regard to the following criteria: DNV GL has examined and reviewed documents, data and other information made available by SK Innovation. We performed sample-based audits of; June 2015 · The process for determining the materiality of the contents to be included in the Report. Seoul, Republic of Korea · The process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. In-Kyoon Ahn · The accuracy of data Country Representative · Visit to Headquarter of SK Innovation DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. 80 Sustainability Report 2014 APPENDIX 81 GRI G4 Index General Standard Disclosures Specific Standard Disclosures Economic Code Code Description Page External Assurance Aspect Code Code Description Page External Assurance Strategy and Analysis DMA 28, 31p 78-79p G4-1 CEO Message 4-5p Economic EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate 39p 78-79p Performance change Organizational Profile EC4 Financial assistance received from government 71p 78-79p G4-3 Name of the organization 8-9p 78-79p DMA 56p 78-79p G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 8-9p 78-79p Indirect Economic EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 57-59p 78-79p G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters 8p 78-79p Impacts EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 57-59p 78-79p G4-6 The number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has 8-9p 78-79p significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report Procurement DMA 48, 50, 52p 78-79p G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form 71p 78-79p Practices EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 71p 78-79p G4-8 The markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and beneficiaries) 8-9p 78-79p G4-9 Scale of the organization 8-9p 78-79p G4-10 Status of employment type, contract, and region 76p 78-79p G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 21p 78-79p G4-12 The organization’s supply chain 48-53p 78-79p Environmental G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or its supply 14p chain Aspect Code Code Description Page External Assurance G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 17p 78-79p DMA 38p 78-79p Materials G4-15 List Externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or 21, 44p 78-79p EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 72p 78-79p other initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses DMA 38p 78-79p G4-16 Memberships in associations (such as industry associations) and / or national / international advocacy organizations in 44, 58p 78-79p EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 40p 78-79p which the organization Energy EN5 Energy intensity 72p 78-79p Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 40p 78-79p G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 8-9p 78-79p DMA 45p 78-79p G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries 24-25p 78-79p Water EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 74p 78-79p G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 24-25p 78-79p DMA 38, 45p 78-79p G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Aspect Boundary within the organization 24-25p 78-79p EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) 72p 78-79p G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 24-25p 78-79p EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) 72p 78-79p G4-22 The effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements 3p 78-79p Emissions EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 72p 78-79p G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries 3p 78-79p EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 40p 78-79p Stakeholder Engagement EN21 Nox, Sox, and other significant air emissions 45p 78-79p G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 13p 78-79p Effluents and DMA 45p 78-79p G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 13p 78-79p Waste EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 74p 78-79p G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by stakeholder 13p 78-79p group DMA 38, 45p 78-79p Overall G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has 13p 78-79p EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 74p 78-79p responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided 3p 78-79p G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any) 3p 78-79p G4-30 Reporting cycle such as annual, biannual 3p 78-79p G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 84p 78-79p G4-32 Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen 80-82p 78-79p G4-33 Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report 78-79p 78-79p Governance G4-34 Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body 78-79p Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics 16p 78-79p 82 Sustainability Report 2014 GRI G4 Index Social Labor practices and decent work Aspect Code Code Description Page External Assurance DMA 41p 78-79p LA5 Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety 21p 78-79p committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs Occupational LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and total number 41p 78-79p Health and Safety of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 42-44p 78-79p LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 21p 78-79p Society Aspect Code Code Description Page External Assurance DMA 60p 78-79p SO1 Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessments, and 77p 78-79p Communities development programs SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities 45p 78-79p Sustainability Report Published Status 2010's 2013 2012 2011 2010 2000's 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 This report was printed with soy-based ink to minimize environmental impact. Jongno 26, Jongno-gu, Seoul, Korea Telephone : 82-2-2121-5114 Fax : 82-2-2121-7001
