Social Responsibility Report Social Responsibility Report 1 INDEX Message from the CEO.....................................................................................................3 I BIAL Mission, Vision, Values.....................................................................................................5 Innovation in Health.........................................................................................................6 Social Responsibility........................................................................................................8 II BIAL AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Human Rights.................................................................................................................10 Labour Practices.............................................................................................................12 Environmental Protection...............................................................................................18 Anti-Corruption . ............................................................................................................21 III PATRONAGE Social Responsibility and Patronage..............................................................................23 BIAL Foundation.............................................................................................................24 Social Responsibility Report 2 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO For more than 90 years, BIAL is at the forefront of research, production and the marketing of new therapeutic solutions with the goal of providing people with a longer and better life. We have tried to do it with professionalism and commitment, respecting the best practices and following the highest ethical standards. Working hand in hand with the best professionals has allowed us to evolve as a company, with continued progress and we strive daily to achieve excellence. This is the course we want to maintain. A path of growth and progress, focused on the discovery of new high quality drugs that we can deliver to people all over the world. A path that we have set bearing in mind the huge social, scientific, technical, labour, environmental and economic challenges we are faced with daily, as a company and as a dynamic force in the society. In the future, as in the past, we want respect for People and Human Rights, for the Environment, for Ethical Principles and for the best Working Practices to guide our work. These are the principles upon which BIAL is based and that we will always uphold. Therefore, we renew our commitment to the UN Global Compact, of which this Progress Report is an example, in full confidence that we share the same goals and that we want to help in building a more inclusive, cooperative and sustainable society. Social Responsibility Report 3 I BIAL Social Responsibility Report 4 I BIAL MISSION, VISION, VALUES Founded in 1924, BIAL’s mission is to discover, develop and provide new therapeutic solutions within the area of health. “Caring for your Health” is our motto and we have as strategic areas Research and Development, the Internationalisation and Quality. We want to play an active part in global economy growth and be part of the response to the permanent needs of the market, with the ultimate aim of improving human health. We also want to contribute to the construction of a knowledge society, one that is competitive and dynamic, based on scientific development and innovation. The values that guide us reflect our identity: • Serving your health • Commitment to Quality and Innovation • Excellence in scientific research • Integrity, thoroughness and high standards of ethics • Responsibility and team work • Respect for the universal values Social Responsibility Report 5 I BIAL INNOVATION IN HEALTH We believe that, in order to serve the interests and In the past few years, we have patented several needs of everyone, we should not constrain ourselves new drugs worldwide. The average amount of time the to the production and supply of medicines and that we pharmaceutical industry spends on researching a new must go further. That is why we decided that a strategic medication is between ten to fourteen years and the focus for BIAL should be the research of new therapeutic research investments can reach 1 billion Euros. During solutions. this process, thousands of molecules are left behind either because they are not effective or safe or because To be able to do more for the development of they have undesirable effects on the human organism. mankind, we feel we should discover, invent and actively From a universe of 7,000 molecules, it is estimated that contribute to the treatment of the many diseases that only one ends up reaching the market as a new drug. affect human beings. To live every single day in a spirit of creativity and invention, within a highly professionalised In 2009, BIAL placed Portugal on the world map of business sector, means engaging our employees, our therapeutic innovation by launching onto the market the shareholders, our customers and our suppliers in the first medicine researched and patented in Portugal, a BIAL project. drug to treat epilepsy. This drug is currently marketed in several European countries including Portugal, Spain, BIAL invests over 20% of its turnover in Research the United Kingdom, Germany, France, and also in the and Development (R&D); in recent years, this investment USA. exceeded 40 million Euros. In 2014, we were the company with the second largest investment in R&D After this medication, other innovative drugs from in Portugal, according to EU data. We have also been BIAL may reach the market in the coming years. A new included on the list of the companies who have invest treatment for Parkinson’s disease has already been most in R&D around the world. approved by the European Medicines Agency and will be launched in 2016. The Group’s R&D projects are developed in its two R&D centres which are located in Trofa, Portugal, and Bilbao, Spain. These centres employ over 100 people from 9 nationalities, of whom 35 have PhDs. BIAL’s research focuses mostly on the central nervous system, cardiovascular system and allergic immunotherapy, and the aim is further therapeutic development to provide the market with products that improve people’s quality of life. Social Responsibility Report 6 I BIAL INNOVATION IN HEALTH In recognition of our commitment to research and development, BIAL has been admitted to the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Industries and Associations (EFPIA), the prestigious federation of the leading research companies in the European pharmaceutical sector. At BIAL, we feel compelled to contribute actively to Portugal’s economic and social development, by fostering a society founded on the pillars of knowledge, competitiveness, cooperation, science and innovation. BIAL is a founding member and an associate of the Health Cluster Portugal, a pole of competitiveness in health whose mission is to make Portugal a competitive player in the research, design, development, manufacture and marketing of health related products and services. Social Responsibility Report 7 I BIAL SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY BIAL’s policy of social responsibility is an integral part of the Company’s management practices and dictates the relationship with its various stakeholders. It involves several areas: management of people; quality and environmental protection; initiatives to promote/support scientific research, and signing up for humanitarian causes and social organisations throughout the world. We are not alone in this mission. Over the past few years, BIAL has allied itself with a number of bodies and organisations that share our vision of cooperating to build a more responsible and sustainable planet. Driven by the desire to promote sustainable progress of the economy, we are a member of the United Nations Global Compact, acting in accordance with its ten principles regarding our management practices. We are also a signatory to “Caring for Climate”, a declaration by the members of the Global Compact that sets out to promote solutions for the climate problems that affect our world. The Group is also a member of EPIS – Businessmen for Social Inclusion. This association was created in 2006 and its action is focused on education, with special emphasis on tackling school failure and early drop-out. Social Responsibility Report 8 II BIAL AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT Social Responsibility Report 9 II BIAL AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS The People • Principle 1: BIAL supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; • Principle 2: BIAL makes sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. The human factor is a priority in BIAL Group’s management policy. We believe that our employees are the cornerstone of the Group’s success, recognised today by public and private institutions alike as a benchmark in the labour market. The BIAL Group has consistently and steadily created job opportunities. In 1995, BIAL employed 250 people. Today, the Group has about 1000 employees. BIAL’s commitment to people is also reflected in the quality and qualifications of its employees. BIAL is proud of its extremely thorough selection and recruitment procedures, as it strives to attract, select and retain skilled workers, with the best qualifications. This stringency is proved by the percentage of employees with higher education degrees – more than 77%. Social Responsibility Report 10 II BIAL AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS Human Rights We also carry out every two years an Internal Satisfaction Survey, where employees can report any We are constantly concerned with the respect for situations that might contradict the Universal Declaration Human Rights in all our activities and in our relationship of Human Rights. with our Employees, Suppliers, Health Professionals, Patients, among others. BIAL does not make any kind of discrimination. “Although we have defined a corporate policy For this reason, we are always calling for equal common to all group companies, there are of opportunities. We have employees from 10 different course different habits and cultures between nationalities and, as a result of our commitment to countries or nationalities. Perhaps the first rule internationalisation, we are present in more than 50 to manage an international team is the respect countries in Europe, America, Africa and Asia. for the differences.” When non-Portuguese co-workers are integrated Luís Portela, in the company, we support them in their search for Chairman of BIAL in Portal da Liderança a house, school for their children and in obtaining the [Leadership Portal]. necessary documentation to stay in Portugal. All these employees are offered individual classes of Portuguese during the first year of work, to facilitate their integration in the country, the company and in their function. BIAL has never been involved in any case related to the violation of human rights and we have a Code of Ethics and Group Conduct, read and accepted by all employees, that develops the theme of the respect for the non-violation of Human Rights. Social Responsibility Report 11 II BIAL AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR PRACTICES • Principle 3: BIAL upholds the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: BIAL condemns all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: BIAL condemns all forms of child work. The strategy of BIAL is future-oriented, but always respecting the basic principles that any company has to uphold in order to be socially responsible. Below we have provided some examples that reflect the development of BIAL’s activity, aimed at sustained growth and with full respect for society and the human being. -BIAL has a pro-active policy of employee development through talent management programs, such as training and development actions, and several opportunities for domestic and international mobility. -Health and safety are a constant priority for the company. BIAL has a medical and nursing office and complies with all legal and regulatory requirements related to health and work-related accidents, a fact that is recognised and validated by the certification of its health management and safety system in accordance with international standard OHSAS 18001. Social Responsibility Report 12 II BIAL AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR PRACTICES • Principle 6: BIAL guarantees the elimination of discrimination in respect to employment. The BIAL Group does not engage in any kind of discriminatory practice in its recruitment process, particularly with respect to disability, gender, religion, political or sexual orientation, civil status, nationality, ethnic origin and trade union membership. Just as an example, 51% of our workers are female. 48.7% GENDER DISTRIBUTION 51.3% Women Men 44% GEOGRAPHIC LOCATION 56% Rest of World Portugal Social Responsibility Report 13 II BIAL AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR PRACTICES LABOUR RELATIONS BIAL aims to develop the best practices with regard to the management of people, and labour relations are no exception. BIAL is a member of the Portuguese Pharmaceutical Industry Association (APIFARMA), an entity whose main mission is to foster innovation and the development of therapies that address treatment needs and prevent new diseases, as well as providing medicines that will act to improve the health and the quality of life for all populations. As part of APIFARMA, one of the main responsibilities of BIAL is to follow the guidelines and rules of the Collective Bargaining Agreement of the Pharmaceutical Industry, an existing agreement between the companies involved in the sector who are members of the Association. This collective agreement regulates the sector’s activities in all matters relating to Labour Law, Establishment of Employment Relationships, Vocational Training, Safety, Hygiene, Health and Safety at work, among others. Moreover, BIAL is part of the “ISO Group”, a project developed in partnership with Infarmed (National Authority of Medicines and Health Products I.P.), which aims in creating a working group of representatives of each industry to harmonise procedures and promote potential synergies between the participating entities. It should also be stressed that our company gives priority to job security and stability and prides itself on having about 90 % of our workforce on permanent employment contracts. Social Responsibility Report 14 II BIAL AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR PRACTICES HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY In the same evaluation, the employees are given the opportunity to elaborate on the strengths and Mobility and Turnover improvement areas, as well as their career expectations. In BIAL, we favour the turnover of our employees, This type of information allows BIAL to generate a and almost all the existing opportunities in the group “mapping” of the needs of the employees and develop are disclosed internally, thus offering our employees specific training plans. At the same time, it also enables the chance to integrate new functions in different us to gain a more detailed idea of the interests, departments and countries. motivations and ambitions of the employees in the short and medium-term and align them with the strategic In 2014 and 2015, the rate of recruitment completed needs of the Group BIAL. with internal employees exceeded 40%. Whenever BIAL enters a new market and/or creates international teams, it is common to appoint those Training and Development countries head office employees to leadership and/ or other roles with some impact and responsibility. To continually improve our human resources Other than provide a better integration of the business department, BIAL promotes teamwork and set in place processes, this type of policy also enables a better an ongoing training system that enables the updating integration and transmission of the values, culture and and expanding of skills and competencies. ethical principles of the company. But BIAL does not rule out the importance of also having well integrated local Individual development is the objective of programs employees in order to ease the company’s inclusion in specifically developed by BIAL to create high levels of the communities where we operate. motivation and performance which allows our employees to reach their full potential. In 2015, BIAL had an average of 56 hours of training per employee, and we expect to exceed this number in 2016. The goal is to have Performance Management well-trained and informed employees. Here are some examples of the training projects implemented in BIAL: Performance Management is crucial and an essential management tool to align the employee with • Integration Training – Training provided to all the organisation’s strategy. In BIAL, a performance new employees who start working in our company. evaluation is carried out annually with all employees, based on the analysis of both the objectives (corporate, • Executive Coaching – Held annually with the departmental and individual objectives) and the main aim to provide a set of employees with key strengths and areas needing improvement, which will skills for the performance of their duties. result in a development plan with concrete actions and measures. Social Responsibility Report 15 II BIAL AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR PRACTICES • Leadership Training – Every year BIAL’s • Curriculum Enrichment – BIAL contributes to or leaders undergo leadership training, prepared supports the costs of our employee’s graduation, and implemented by partnerships with renowned master, PhD and MBA studies which may be institutions. “MyTeam” and “Me&BIAL” are two considered as an added value to the business. examples of these programs. • Language Training – Held every year so that gradually all employees can improve this skill in order to streamline, optimise and accelerate the internationalisation process that we have set for the Group. • Internal Training – All employees receive updating internal training every year on processes, procedures or equipment. Employees are also • Management and Leadership Good Practices trained in key areas such as Best Practices in Programs the Pharmaceutical Industry, Hygiene and Safety at Work, Pharmacovigilance, among others, and last year we also developed training on our Code of Ethics and Conduct. Proving once again our commitment to offer training to all employees, BIAL has also developed an internal training e-learning platform, named “Biself”, which can be accessed by the vast majority of the Group’s employees anytime and anywhere. Social Responsibility Report 16 II BIAL AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT LABOUR PRACTICES Internal Satisfaction Internal Communication Because the opinion of our employees is important Since BIAL is present in more than 50 countries and to overall growth, every 2 years we conduct an internal has 950 employees, good communication is key so that satisfaction survey. This survey provides an opportunity all employees are well informed and are aware of the for employees to express their views on several issues changes that occur within the organisation. related to their work. The overall goal is to contribute continuously an improve job satisfaction, teamwork and BIAL has Intranet available to all employees, even the global BIAL results. to those who are physically distant, with information relevant to all employees being systematically updated. In the last Internal Satisfaction survey, conducted in 2015, the participation rate was 83% the and overall Every year, on BIAL’s anniversary, the Chairman, employee satisfaction reached 86%. The best listed the CEO and the Directors of the different areas share question was “I take pride in working for BIAL”. In 2017, information about the present status and the future we will carry out a new survey and our aim is to obtain at of the company. In addition, international meetings least the same results as above and that our employees are held annually with all Directors and Officers to continue to feel joy and pride working for the company. share information and take decisions on the definition/ adjustment of the company’s strategy. Furthermore, BIAL usually participates in the study Best Companies to Work to in Portugal. In 2015, the Defining internal motivation and the maintenance of company was listed in the 60th position at national level a spirit of cooperation and collaboration as priorities, and, in 2013, in the 43th. BIAL has been creating a virtuous circle of satisfaction between the Company and its employees, whereas the high satisfaction of employees of the Group a source of pride, which is recognized internally and externally. Social Responsibility Report 17 II BIAL AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Quality and the Environment as Principles -Requiring suppliers to comply strictly with the specifications and requirements of the various • Principle 7: BIAL supports a precautionary materials, products and services, to act responsibly approach to environmental challenges; in relation to the environment and health and safety, encouraging them to get involved in improving their • Principle 8: BIAL undertakes initiatives to processes, products and services. promote greater environmental responsibility; -Continuously improving the performance of the • Principle 9: BIAL encourages the development system so that we deserve to be accepted by the and diffusion of environmentally friendly community, regulatory authorities and the market, technologies. with consequent delivery of value to the company and to its shareholders, employees, medical profession, consumers and other interested parties. The satisfaction of our customers, employees, shareholders and other stakeholders is one of the fundamental values of BIAL’s culture. We constantly In 2001, BIAL was the first pharmaceutical company strive to improve it because it is only by meeting and and the first company operating in the area of health exceeding their expectations that the company will in Portugal to obtain certification of its Environmental preserve its existence and continuity in the market. Management System under ISO 14001. The Environment as well as Health and Safety are The main environmental aspects that directly and an intrinsic part of our commitments. In the strategies indirectly depend on its activity are monitored regularly used and in all efforts to develop and to optimise our and systematically. They comprise: processes, products and services, we must keep in mind the respect for the Environment and for the Health and -Waste Production Safety of our employees. -Water Consumption and Wastewater The commitments will be fulfilled throughout all areas of the company, by adhering to the following principles: -Energy -To guarantee the quality, efficacy and safety of -Gaseous Emissions the medicines produced, in harmony with the environment and the health and safety of employees; -Environmental Noise -To strictly comply with the regulatory, technical and -Law Compliance Promotion for the “People who work normative requirements that apply to our activity and on behalf of or for the Organisation”. other regulations to which BIAL subscribes; -To maintain an organisational level that ensures high standards of quality, respect for the environment as well as the health and safety and the competitiveness of the company, by preventing non-compliances, adverse effects on the environment and harm to employees and/or third parties, who may be affected by our business operations in any way; Social Responsibility Report 18 II BIAL AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION WASTE PRODUCTION In 2015, a volume of 6,500 m3 wastewater was produced and treated in our Effluent Industrial Chemical The overall waste production was, in 2015, 156 and Biological Treatment Plant, representing a decrease tons, the same as 2014, and it was all sent to licensed of 14% over the previous year. operators. The company’s Biological Treatment System treated In 2015, the production of recyclable waste around 5 tons of effluent containing Volatile Organic (plastics, aluminium, glass, card, paper, etc.) at BIAL Compounds, which represented a saving of about corresponded to about 50% of the total waste generated. €5,000 in the shipment of this type of waste for treatment The economic value of this waste led to gains for the abroad. company of about 14% of the total costs associated with the disposal and the landfilling of waste. BIAL monitors its paper consumption. It is worth ENERGY noting that, despite the increase in the number of employees registered in 2015, the implementation of Energy consumption is mainly associated with two several consumption strategies, such as the transition types of “sources”: Electricity and Natural Gas, the to documents in digital form, the use of “double-sided totality of which is recorded under Primary Energy, TEP. printing” and the reuse of paper, resulted in a reduction Energy consumption has shown some fluctuations over in paper consumption of around 4% when compared to the past 10 years, alternating positive and negative 2014. variations from one year to the other. Apart from recyclable waste, BIAL produces In 2015, BIAL’s facilities consumed a total of hazardous waste resulting from the return of the approximately 1164 TEP, a consumption profile similar to product from the market (pharmacies, wholesales) and the one registered in 2014. from production leftovers. In 2015, hazardous waste Under the applicable law, the BIAL Group is amounted to about 32 tons. considered an intensive energy consumer and is implementing an Energy Rationalisation Plan. WATER COMSUPTION AND WASTE WATER During 2015, 11,273 m3 of water from the public GASEOUS EMISSIONS supply system were consumed, water being used for According to the “Gaseous Effluent Characterization” human consumption and for the production process. This held periodically and as a consequence of the figure increased by 4% when compared to 2014, in line improvement actions taken, BIAL maintains mass flow with the increase in the number of employees. rates of pollutants below the respective minimum mass In order to reduce the costs and related impact, flow thresholds, and is, therefore, not required to comply the company’s fire prevention network, irrigation with the respective Emission Limit Values (ELV). systems, washings and cooling systems use untreated water obtained from borehole, and 6964 m3 have been consumed, which means an equal saving in the consumption of drinking water has been made. Social Responsibility Report 19 II BIAL AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ENVIRONMENTAL NOISE In the area of health, in addition to the usual auxiliary diagnostic tests that support the medical fitness According to the provisions of applicable law and assessment appointments, two additional campaigns based on the results obtained in the last measurement were also developed: one on audiometric tests and (conducted in 2012), BIAL meets the noise indicators another on optometric tests. values, not exceeding the exposure limit values or the discomfort limit values. The choice of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) is made taking into account the risks to be protected and the characteristics of the employees who will use them. In addition to providing all PPE required for the tasks to LAW COMPLIANCE PROMOTION FOR THE be performed, BIAL replaces them whenever they are “PEOPLE WHO WORK ON BEHALF OF OR FOR THE damaged or their useful life has expired. ORGANISATION” Technical audits of the facilities are also carried Throughout 2015, BIAL has continued to promote out, in order to verify the safety conditions of the the implementation of training and awareness actions workplaces (work equipment, working environment, in the Environmental area with special emphasis on PPEs, fire-fighting equipment, exposure to chemical, subcontractors. biological and physical agents) and to check their legal In 2016, BIAL will pursue the adequacy and compliance. These audits also check the machines, the effectiveness of the Environmental Management use of shields and other aspects related to OSH. These Systems and the Health and Safety at Work System, audits result in reports that include the findings and the and their evolution in time, with particular attention to corrective measures proposed. compliance with applicable legislation and continuous improvement. HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK (OSH) BIAL promotes a healthy and safe working environment, adopting the necessary measures to prevent accidents that may occur during the course of work and minimizing or eliminating, where possible, the risks. In respect to training/awareness raising and communication programs, several actions were developed with all employees, both in conference rooms and in the workplace, and several simulation exercises in the field of emergency response were also conducted. In 2015, there were several actions of training/ awareness raising, highlighting good practices in OSH in general, emergency response, exposure to chemical and physical agents, manual handling of loads or explosion protection. Social Responsibility Report 20 II BIAL AND THE 10 PRINCIPLES OF THE UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT ANTI-CORRUPTION • Principle 10: BIAL works against corruption in -Some examples of this are the training, at the all its forms, including extortion and bribery. beginning of 2016, of our medical information team in “Ethics & Transparency: From Concepts and Guidelines to Practical Issues” and, in 2015, the training of all employees in the code of ethics and BIAL has been in the market for more than 90 years conduct. The latter will be converted into e-learning and throughout these years has followed closely the format, so that it can reach all employees. highest ethical standards. High ethical principles have always been part of our DNA. -As part of BIAL’s commitment to integrity in the exercise of its business activities, all Officers, BIAL’s Code of Conduct has been drawn up in such Employees, and anyone acting on BIAL’s behalf, a way as to highlight the ethical principles that govern are strictly prohibited from offering, giving, soliciting, our activity and the relationship with all our partners. accepting or receiving a bribe (including attempt to). Because our image and success depend on the work of each employee and because our strength, integrity -A bribe is the direct or indirect offer to give or and ethics rely on, and are expressed, in our daily receive anything of value to a Government Official activities, BIAL will continue to work responsibly to make or commercial person or entity, with the intent to a difference and to provide all people with a longer and corruptly influence that official, person or entity to better life. award new business, continue existing business or to gain any improper advantage. -For the purposes hereunder, the term “anything ANTI-BRIBERY AND ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASURES of value” includes cash or cash equivalents, -The company defends and promotes the fight gifts, services, employment offers, loans, travel against corruption in all its forms. BIAL meets the expenses, entertainment, political contributions, Medicinal Product Status and the Codes of Ethics charitable donations, subsidies, per diem payments, governing the Pharmaceutical Industry in all activities sponsorships, honoraria or provision of any other to disseminate its products to health professionals, asset. as well as all legislation in this area. The company -Failure to comply with anti-bribery laws could lead to conducts regular training and awareness raising criminal and civil penalties for BIAL and personally actions, advocating transparency, ethics and integrity for its Officers and Employees. It could also lead to in its activity. Our employees are expected to behave significant business disruptions and harm BIAL’s in accordance to those principles. reputation. Social Responsibility Report 21 III PATRONAGE Social Responsibility Report 22 III PATRONAGE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY AND PATRONAGE Once a year, a blood donation and bone marrow collection by the Portuguese Institute of Blood and Transplantation is held in BIAL premises. Every year the BIAL Group contributes actively to the development of several institutions, associations, hospitals, schools, universities, municipalities and other BIAL integrates several entities and institutions bodies who work to foster the well-being of today’s whose aim is the sustainable development of the planet society and future generations. BIAL gives particularly and the creation of a more just and responsible society. attention to the support of our local community, namely the Municipality of the city of Trofa, local schools in BIAL is part of “Porto de Futuro” [Porto of the Future], Trofa, and Maia districts and local sport clubs as well as a pioneering and innovative educational programme other associations. in the country, which is a response to the need for greater involvement of the civil society in school live, BIAL also participates in the “Drug Bank” initiative, recognizing the key role of education in the sustainable established by a protocol between the Ministry of development of a more competitive and dynamic society. Solidarity and Social Security, Infarmed, Apifarma and Its purpose is to generate a culture of knowledge based the “União das Misericórdias”. The “Drug Bank” is a on merit, creativity, innovation and entrepreneurship, as platform that can be used by social institutions that a reflection of the educational project that is expected to provide medical and pharmaceutical services to access be developed for the city of Porto. free medication donated directly by pharmaceutical companies. In the area of Health, we have also In this programme, BIAL supports a Group of Schools established partnerships with several bodies, medical from the city of Porto and surroundings and, from the societies and patients associations with a view to various programs, we highlight the “Right Arm” project. training, educating and raising awareness of the various This project aims to receive students in BIAL for a problems that affect the health of the population. working day as the right arm of one of our employees, accompanying him/her on all his/her tasks and activities. BIAL’s patronage also embraces the promotion Furthermore, every year, some employees of BIAL of artistic activities, including the publication and volunteer training to students of one of that Group’s dissemination of a variety of cultural works in the areas schools on topics such as “Family”, “Citizenship”, “The of painting, literature, sculpture, music and photography. Economy”, among others. Every year, we collect food products, school books, toys and clothing to support charities. In 2015, BIAL also participated in the 1st edition of “Marketplace Porto”, organized by the Municipality of the city of Porto and by the FIX Social Engagement, whose goal was to bring together in the one place companies and charities, in order to encourage and facilitate cooperation between them. Social Responsibility Report 23 III PATRONAGE BIAL FOUNDATION Since its establishment, the BIAL Award has already analysed 626 applications and mobilised 1474 investigators, physicians and scientists. Over sixteen editions, 245 authors of 95 prize-winning works have been distinguished. As a result of more than 30 years of commitment to research, 37 award-winning works – out of a total of over 300,000 – have been published and distributed free-of-charge to the medical and scientific The BIAL Foundation was created in 1994 to promote communities. science and research in health. A public utility institution, the Foundation’s mission is to foster and motivate the The Scientific Research Grants are designed to scientific study of Man, in its physical and spiritual encourage research in the field of Neuroscience. The aspects. competitions already carried out have benefited more than 1200 investigators in 25 countries, including Over the years the BIAL Foundation has recognised Germany, Australia, Canada, United States, France, and stimulated scientific research through the BIAL Japan, United Kingdom, Sweden, Portugal, and many Award and Research Grants which support the scientific more. community and the world at large. With the same goal of stimulating the Established in 1984, the BIAL Award is regarded as neurophysiological and mental study of Man, the one of the most important prizes in the area of health BIAL Foundation has been organising every two in all of Europe. Overall it is worth 340 thousand Euros, years since 1996 the “Behind and Beyond the Brain” shared among two prizes and four honourable mentions symposium, which is currently an international forum for for the best medicine-related research work. discussion and for deepening the research in the field of neuroscience. We are dreaming of the future. We are working for health. We believe in the sustainable development of the whole Humanity. Social Responsibility Report 24
