General Period covered by Communication on Progress (COP) From: January 2015 To: December 2015 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) MarkPlus, Inc. with many other companies and institutions have signed a long-term commitment to become a member of Indonesia Global Compact Network on April 8, 2006. Throughout these years, we have been continuously promoting and practicing Global Compact initiatives through our core vision, mission, and corporate values. Internally, we also have constantly promoting good Corporate Governance to our employees in conducting business, and providing good and safe working environment to all of our employees. We will continue contribute ideas and concepts to other Indonesia Global Compact Network members, and encourage other organizations to support the Principles of UN Compact Network. We believe that by adhering to this core set of universal values which are fundamental in meeting the socio economic needs of the world, we would be able to foster sustainable growth. Hermawan Kartajaya Founder & President MarkPlus, Inc. Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals MarkPlus, Inc. has made an internal and external commitment to respect human rights in our operations. The company’s philosophy, values, policies and procedures covering management and employee roles reflect the company’s implementation in respecting human rights. These implementations on the Company Regulation and Code of Business Ethics has been consistently practiced and re-evaluated regularly. Regulations involving order and disciplinary procedures, advancement opportunities, competitive compensation and benefits, work environments, as well as obligations to the community ensure that the company is not complicit in human right abuse. We also have 4 (four) core values that represent our passion in daily activities. These passions are: Passion for Knowledge, Passion for Business, Passion for Service, and Passion for People. Implementation MarkPlus Annual Gathering 2015 MarkPlus Annual Gathering 2015 (held in December 13-14, 2015) carried a theme entitled, “FUNDAMENTAL TRANSFORMATION: Into Productive, Creative & Entrepreneurial Organization , in which achievers within the company are recognized and awarded and the company’s business direction and strategy are discussed together. At this specific Annual Gathering, MarkPlus, Inc. intends to encourage its employees to further work on improving their capability. The journey of MarkPlus, Inc. has reached 25 years. Accordingly, the management of MarkPlus, Inc., in which represented by the council members, has identified several crucial points as follows: 1. The necessity of MarkPlus, Inc. after its 25 years journey to renew its vision, mission, and values in accordance with the most recent challenges of a very dynamic business landscape which also has been changing tremendously; 2. The necessity to indeed implementing the world-wide renown concept of Marketing 3.0 right at the originating campus in Indonesia, and 3. The necessity of MarkPlus, Inc. to leverage its strength as the biggest provider of marketing integrated solution in ASEAN as the cornerstone to provide more holistic benefits to its stakeholders. Social Gatherings In 2015, MarkPlus, Inc. continuously encourage its employees to start to show the company’s ethical code as a true MarkPlus Citizen by actively participating in every MarkPlus event, especially in its biggest annual events, “MarkPlus Conference” and “MarkPlus Annual Gathering” at the end of the year. We name this participation as “MarkPlus Purple Week”. Monday Morning Message Our CEO, Mr. Hermawan Kartajaya send all of the employee a weekly message, every Monday he will give an updated message regarding his view towards the business, corporate culture, corporate values, etc. The purpose of these morning messages are to give a motivation and guidance to all of the employee. Other than that, the purpose of the messages also as a reminder of corporate values and culture. Through this message, Mr. Hermawan expect this message can become a media corporate connectivity tools for all of the employee to share their thoughts and gives feedbacks towards company policy. MarkPlus Code of Conduct This Code of Conduct (“Code”) is a statement of our principles and expectations that guide business conduct at our Firm and support the overall Firm’s culture philosophy that encourages all employees to be Excellent, Professional and Ethical individuals. Professional Excellence with Integrity is the key to MarkPlus’ continued success in all our dealings with our clients, customers, plan sponsors, employees, providers, shareholders, regulators and others with whom we do business. This Code covers a wide range of business practices and procedures. It does not cover every issue that may arise, but it sets the basic principles to guide all employees and officers of the Firm (including all of its subsidiaries). The basic principles discussed in this Code are part of the Firm’s policies and are subject to any Firm’s policies covering the same issues. This Code applies to all of the Firm’s officers, employees, contract workers, including those in the Firm’s subsidiaries and facilitators with full-time and exclusive status, whether operating inside or outside of Indonesia. Selected codes may also apply to departing and former employees of the Firm. All of MarkPlus employees and officers must conduct themselves accordingly; use their judgment, to be accountable for their actions and to conduct business with integrity, seeking to avoid even the appearance of improper behavior. In addition, the Firm’s policies apply to various Firm operations and you need to know and follow those policies that apply to your company work. Every year in the MarkPlus Annual Gathering, we will ask all the employees to re-sign the code of conduct which they have previously signed before. Unrivalled Personal Growth Employees are provided with a dynamic and challenging environment. They are often given a diverse range of tasks and projects, giving them the opportunity to deepen their knowledge not only in one field, but also learn across a wide range of business and marketing topics. Employees are be able to learn from a range of activities whether from reading the latest books, the latest research journals, listening to/working with more experienced people or experts within a particular topic, or experiencing challenging business problems to solve. At MarkPlus, employees get to meet different levels of people from various industries, hence sharpening their ‘people’ and communication skills. They will also learn to multi-task and work well in teams as working in teams is how we do things here. Employees work with groups of smart, motivated, dynamic, helpful and supportive people. Whenever an employee needs help, peers will go to extraordinary lengths to make certain that they are assisted. We constantly invest in their personal development, from career-long formal trainings to day-to-day coaching from team mates. To support the personal growth, especially knowledge growth, we held internal training, with various topics (Product knowledge, marketing knowledge, professional image, grooming, etc). The participant also adjusted according to their needs. The format of the training itself varied depends on the requirement, such as symposium, workshop, etc. Measurement of Outcomes 1. Daily Alignment Meeting Each day we have two alignment meetings, in the morning before office hour starts and in the evening, before office hour ends. These meetings purpose is to ensure that all related units understand and reporting the plan of their work each day and also to coordinate with other business units. 2. Weekly Internal Review Meetings This is to ensure that all of us are better coordinated and more committed to execution. This meetings and the monitoring systems are very important for all of us to achieve our goals and targets, especially this year. The meetings are held among all business unit, industry, and knowledge team. Each of the related units will have their own weekly schedule 3. Ethics Committee A committee of selected people are chose to represent all business units and regularly conduct a monthly meeting to discuss and evaluate the implementation of MarkPlus Core Values and also MarkPlus Characters. 4. Monthly Operational Report Meeting A monthly meeting among the top-management level to discuss all operational and business aspect. This meeting also act as evaluation for all action taken within a month. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy and Goals Freedom of Association Through i-Link, MarkPlus, Inc. facilitates communication programs to allow dialog with employees to understand their aspirations as well as sharing ideas that are work related. Employees are able to post news or articles from outside sources as well as their own work and receive feedback in forms of comments. Through this blog system, every employee has the opportunity to express his or her opinions. Political Activities MarkPlus Inc. is not affiliated to any political party. Employee joining political party is considered personal affair. Employees should not use the company’s time and resources in conducting his/her political activities. Collective Agreement Every employee is recommended to discuss any work related matters to his or her supervisor in order to find the best solution. Every MarkPlus, Inc. employee has the right to collective bargaining, which aims to reach a collective agreement that are usually set out for issues relating to employees pay, working hours, training, health and safety, and rights to participate in workplace or company affairs. Employment Policy With the re-evaluated employment policy, MarkPlus, Inc., again, reminds all employees of the official working hours. The standard working hours can be found in the Employment policy, in which it supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Minimum Working Age All of MarkPlus, Inc.’s employees are of working age (18 years or older). MarkPlus, Inc. policy strictly does not allow to hire any child labor at any cost and condition. Distinctive MarkPlus Culture At MarkPlus, Inc, our culture is defined by our core passions: the Passion for Knowledge, Passion for Business, Passion for Service and Passion for People. Satisfied and smart associates are the key to our success. We work in teams, where we are singularly competent but also collectively dependent. Our current goal is to create a workplace of diversity that attracts the most talented associates and enables them to develop their fullest potential. We believe that a successful company embodies a diverse yet inclusive culture, where we respect and leverage the differences we bring to the workplace. Implementation Working Environment Policy is in place and implemented across business units. MarkPlus, Inc. provides a working environment that is free from harassment and discrimination and has hired employees from diverse backgrounds, including that of race, ethnic, color, religion, national origin, disability, marital status, age, sexual orientation, or gender. Promotions Promotions that are made at the end of the year and announced during the MarkPlus Annual Gathering are all fully based on individual performance and potentials, evaluated by immediate superior, and approved by superior’s superior and Head of Human Resource. Reporting A government regulation (Regional Regulation Perda No. 6 Year 2004) about the reporting obligation regarding the employee/labor welfare facility at the company. HR Newsletter Our HR division create an initiatives to provide a HR newsletter distributed via e-mail to all of our employee. This newsletter contains various information start from our CEO message, general information (grooming guides, company events, company information, etc.). Other than company informations, we also announce the information about our employee (baby birth, wedding, and also condolences news). Measurement of Outcomes 1. Weekly Internal Review Meetings This is to ensure that all of us are better coordinated and more committed to execution. This meetings and the monitoring systems are very important for all of us to achieve our goals and targets, especially this year. 2. Ethics Committee A committee of selected people are chose to represent all business units and regularly conduct a monthly meeting to discuss and evaluate the implementation of MarkPlus Core Values and also MarkPlus Characters. 3. Monthly Operational Report Meeting A monthly meeting among the top-management level to discuss all operational and business aspect. This meeting also act as evaluation for all action taken within a month. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy and Goals 5S 1. Seiri : Sort, Clearing, Classify 2. Seiton : Straighten, Simplify, and Set in order, Configure 3. Seiso : Sweep, shine, Scrub, Clean and Check 4. Seiketsu : Standardize, stabilize, Conformity 5. Shitsuke : Sustain, self-discipline, custom and practice Implementation Energy Preservation In order to preserve energy, MarkPlus has placed a policy regarding air conditions and lights. Air conditioning and lights are not to be turned on before 8:00AM. Air conditions that are on are limited to be set to 22°C, not lower. This policy has been in forced early in 2009. MarkPlus Goes Paperless In the spirit of living up to our continuous support for the global impact, we would like to ask all of the employee to contribute to the environmental sustainability. We have come up with a new movement called “MarkPlus Goes Paperless”. This is where we can start to make a difference, no matter how small, by using less papers in the office. We provide a few simple tips that can we do to contribute: 1. Use a smaller font size 2. Recheck before printing 3. Print one sample at a time 4. Start copying on both sides of the paper 5. Communicate using technology 6. Make the most of the blank space MarkPlus KX (Knowledge Exchange) MarkPlus, Inc. has also revitalized an internal portal (MarkPlus KX) that contains information that are related to the knowledge from all the divisions. This portal serves as an information hub that can be accessed by every authorized MarkPlus employee in order to keep him or her updated and well informed, mainly about the knowledge. Through this system, MarkPlus employees are able to keep track of the case study, training modules, research insight, journal, etc. Measurement of Outcomes 1. Monthly 5S (Seiri,Seiton,Seiso,Seiketsu,Shitsuke) Meeting Every month we organize a meeting among the 5S committee to evaluate and discuss about the working environment, including the punishment for those individuals or business units who does not implement the 5S policy. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Assessment, Policy and Goals Promoting Good Corporate Governance The company also supports some government institutions, universities and business community by providing seminar related to the implementation of Business Conducts and Practices. Gifts MarkPlus, Inc. employees have consistently abided by the rules of conduct, in which they are provided with guidelines in dealing with “gifts”. In MarkPlus, Inc., it is never appropriate to offer or receive bribes, kickbacks or gratuities, which can subject the employee to criminal or civil penalties. Employees should politely decline all gratuities and immediately notify Chief Asset Officer and/or Corporate Secretary about any bribe or kickback offered to them. They are recommended to seek guidance from the Legal Department whenever they are unsure if a payment or gift is a bribe, kickback or gratuity. This statement also included in MarkPlus Code of Conduct. Access to Regulations and Policies The i-Link system, in which all employees are able to access, contains all the guidelines related to compliance with laws, regulations and company’s policies; fair dealing; conflicts of interest; outside engagements, insider trading, gifts & entertainment; integrity of financial records, crisis management, establishment of authorities, group asset and confidential information protection. Implementation Measurement of Outcomes 1. Ethics Committee A committee of selected people are chose to represent all business units and regularly conduct a monthly meeting to discuss and evaluate the implementation of MarkPlus Core Values and also MarkPlus Characters.
