Communication on Progress 2015 1 HL Display’s corporate responsibility programme is established and decided by the Board of Directors. The work is headed by the Company’s R&D Manager with the support of members of Group management. The Group’s local entities have a high level of responsibility for day-to-day ­sustainability work, particularly with regard to e ­ nvironmental, and health and safety issues at the production facilities. Participant in UN Global Compact HL Display has been a participant in the UN Global Compact since 2010. “ At HL Display, we are engaged in ­ ontinuous improvement work in the area c of corporate responsibility. Through our membership in the UN Global Compact, we demonstrate that we support the UN’s ­fundamental values and that we integrate their ten principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption into our strategy, culture and day-to-day ” business. Nina Jönsson, President and CEO HL Display Human Rights UN Global Compact principles Policy documents Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of HL Display has developed clear guidelines for the corporate internationally proclaimed human rights; and responsibility work. The important governing policy documents are HL Display’s Corporate Responsibility Principle 2 policy, the Company’s Code of Conduct, policy for equal make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. opportunities, policy for external and internal working environmental, policy for whistleblowing and purchasing policy. The Board reviews these policies each year. HL Display’s Code of Conduct expresses clear statements of The Code of Conduct is a key policy document and position ensuring that the Company supports and respects the a culture carrier that HL Display wants to permeate protection of human rights and that the Company is not complicit the Company. It is linked to other principles, including in human rights abuses. those enshrined in the UN Global Compact. The Making sure all employees are aware of the contents of the Code of ­Conduct clarifies the fundamental principles Code of Conduct and that they agree to comply with it is an that HL Display expects every employee to follow. important part of the work to secure that HL Display is not It contains information about how the Company views complicit in human rights abuses. All employees within the Group its responsibility in terms of social and ethical, as well as have the Code of Conduct explained to them and then sign it. environmental issues. The areas of responsibility described A reminder of the Code is provided each year in the annual include among others human rights, labour standards, performance review between employee and manager. environment, anti-corruption, consumer interests, Suppliers that HL Display engages must sign the Company’s competition and conflicts of interest. purchasing policy, thereby undertaking to comply with areas such as respect for human rights. See also the Cooperation with suppliers section on page 3. Historically, HL Display has a very low risk related to human rights. No incidents related to human rights were reported during 2015 (2014: 0). 2 Labour Cooperation with suppliers UN Global Compact principles HL Display has clear requirements for its suppliers of production inputs and products. A central component Principle 3 of work in this area is that all suppliers must sign ­ Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the HL Display’s purchasing policy. By signing the document effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; suppliers agree to meet defined requirements in several areas. These include compliance with ILO (International Principle 4 Labour Organization) conventions and other principles the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; related to human rights and labour. In addition, there are clear guidelines on business ethics (corruption) and Principle 5 environment. Failure to comply with the purchasing the effective abolition of child labour; and policy can lead to the contract being cancelled. Principle 6 HL Display regularly makes site visits and audits of the the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment company’s most important suppliers. These will be and occupation. audited at least once every other year, but the majority gets a visit from HL Display every year. HL Display is a multicultural company. The Company will The audit is made up of two parts. The first part concern endeavour to give all its employees equal opportunities for if suppliers fully understand and apply HL Display’s professional development, promotion and pay growth, regardless requirements in accordance with the purchasing policy. of background, gender, ethnicity or age. This is clearly emphasized The second part relates to the production organisation. in HL Display’s policy for equal opportunities. Representatives from HL Display perform a review of the workshop based on a number of predefined criteria, Working conditions and standards basically making sure that the workshop is at the level required to produce for HL Display. The working conditions and standards that HL Display follows are defined in the Code of Conduct. In brief, these include a clear The result of the audit is a rating from A, which is the statement of position in favour of freedom of association and the rating of a top supplier, to D, which is the worst rating right to collective bargaining, and an equally clear position against leading to an immediate cancellation of the cooperation. forced labour, child labour and all forms of discrimination. In The B and C ratings imply that improvements are addition, HL Display will offer a working environment that is needed in various degrees. healthy, safe and in accordance with international standards and local laws for all employees. HL Display is keen to follow collective agreements in countries where such agreements are in place. In general, the terms of accordance with the principles of the ILO (International Labour employment that HL Display applies are in accordance with local ­Organization) and UN, and work systematically to ensure laws and applicable collective agreements, whether the employees compliance with legal requirements. choose to be unionised or not. HL Display also expects its suppliers to adhere to the same There is a further emphasis on the working environment in standards in these areas. Suppliers are required to sign the HL Display’s external and internal working environment ­Company’s purchasing policy, thereby undertaking compliance policy. The policy states, for example, that HL Display will with ILO conventions and similar principles on working respect European health and safety standards in its factories, ­conditions. See also the Cooperation with suppliers section respect employees’ freedom of association at all workplaces in on above. Employee facts 2015 2014 Number of employees as of December 31 1,026 970 Gender structure, % Male 57 62 Female 43 38 Education level, % University 36 37 Upper secondary school 42 34 Compulsory school 21 28 Investment in staff training Total, MSEK 1.6 0.6 Per employee, KSEK 2 1 Costs related to health promotion activities Per employee, KSEK 1 1 Number of workplace accidents leading to absence or sick leave 20 38 3 Employee development Environment The basis of HL Display’s efforts to develop employees and UN Global Compact principles create a talent base in the Company consists of a well-established performance review process, which is followed up every 6 months. Principle 7 More information about HL Display’s Human Resources work Businesses should support a precautionary approach to can be found on page 6-7. environmental challenges; Health and safety in the workplace Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Health and safety is monitored continuously at HL Display’s responsibility; and facilities. Health risks at the Company are mainly associated with production. By carrying out preventive work, HL Display aims to Principle 9 ensure safe workplaces with a good working environment. The encourage the development and diffusion of Company regularly updates its safety procedures and examines environmentally friendly technologies. different risk factors. During 2015, 100 percent of the factory employees at all HL Display production facilities (Sweden, China, Poland and UK) have undergone health and safety training. HL Display’s Corporate Responsibility Policy and Code of The production facilities in Harlow, UK, and Sundsvall, Conduct define the fundamental guidelines that the Company Sweden have its work environment management systems certified follows with regard to environmental impacts. according to the OHSAS 18001 standard. It is HL Display’s HL Display has four production facilities, which are located ambition to eventually have the work environment management in Sweden, Poland, the UK and China. The main environmental systems certified according to the OHSAS 18001 standard for all impacts of HL Display’s production are related to plastic waste, production facilities. use of plastic raw materials and energy consumption. The The number of workplace accidents leading to absence or sick Company has a presence in approximately 40 markets, which leave in 2015 was 20 (2014: 38). No fatal accidents occurred. means that shipments of products also represent a source of environmental impacts. HL Display also defines environmental requirements for its suppliers in the Company’s purchasing policy. Suppliers must Whistleblower function guarantee that they comply with all applicable environmental laws and regulations in the country where they operate. They A whistleblowing function has been in operation at ­ must also sign a written undertaking with regard to REACH (the HL Display since 2013. The function enables employees EU’s chemicals legislation). HL Display’s major suppliers are large to report malpractice to a central unit. This will international producers of plastic raw materials, which have their ­complement the natural dialogue that takes place own comprehensive environmental programmes in place. between employees and managers about malpractice at the Company. ISO 14001 Certification During 2014 an additional whistleblowing channel was Certification under the ISO 14001 environmental ­management added. It is a global and secure whistleblowing service standard has been an important part of HL Display’s called Whistleblowing Centre, which is part of TripleB, ­environmental work. The majority of HL Display’s factories were a Swedish sustainability consultancy. By using the site certified under the standard as long ago as the late 1990s. the employee is guaranteed anonymity when reporting Changes in the production structure in recent years mean that the malpractice. proportion of factories with ISO 14001 certification has fallen. Examples of malpractice that HL Display wants to pick up by introducing whistleblowing channels Raw materials and include non-compliance with local laws or breaches input goods 2015 % (2014) of HL Display’s Code of Conduct in areas such as human rights, labour and anti-corruption. Information that comes through the whistleblowing channels will be investigated centrally. If the malpractice proves to be well founded and correct, it will result in disciplinary and, where applicable, legal action. PVC 37.9 (43.2) PET 16.2 (14.7) Polystyrene (PS) 3.3 (4.8) ABS 5.8 (7.5) Other plastic materials 3.5 (4.6) Packaging materials 11.2 (11.2) Aluminium, steel and wire 12.6 (8.9) Other materials 9.5 (5.1) 4 Waste management, metric ton Packaging Mixed Other safe Total safe Hazardous Total Plastic Metal material material waste waste waste Re-use own production 218 – – – – 218 – Recycled externally 1,165 204 144 93 1 1,607 1 Deposit – – – – 108 108 7 In 2015, the production facility in Gliwice, Poland, received its Water is used primarily for cooling in certain of HL Display’s certification, which meant that the proportion of factories with production processes, in particular the cooling of extruded and ISO 14001 certification was 75 percent at the end of 2015. The injection moulded plastic products in water baths. In 2015, factories in Sweden and China also have ISO 14001 certification. 347,120 m3 of water were used at the Group’s production It is HL Display’s aim that its factory in the UK will be certified as facilities (2014: 344,163 m3). Several of HL Display’s factories soon as this is practicable. use closed cooling water systems for injection moulding in order to reduce water consumption. Raw materials Transport HL Display’s main raw material is plastic, notably PVC. See the table below for more details about raw materials use. HL Display has sales companies and distributors in Western HL Display complies with REACH, the EU’s chemicals and Eastern Europe, Asia, the Middle East and South Africa. ­legislation, and this is taken into account in the Company’s This means that transport is a major part of HL Display’s approval of new materials. No substances classified as SVHC ­environmental impacts. HL Display engages third-party (Substances of Very High Concern) may be used, and the presence suppliers for its transport and requires these suppliers to have of phase-out substances is also checked. ­environmental programmes in place. The majority of shipments are by truck, for example from the Waste management European factories to the European hubs, and from the hubs to the customers. Sea transport is the primary shipping method for The waste generated at HL Display’s factories consists largely of ready-made goods from Asia as well as tools bought in Asia for plastic. HL Display addresses the problem of waste in production use in the European factories. in two ways. The first is to reduce plastic waste generated in HL Display constantly endeavours to improve transport production by streamlining production processes where possible. efficiency by increasing the number of products per package and The second is to recycle plastic and other waste as far as possible. reducing package size. The ability for a product to be efficiently HL Display’s goal is that all waste from production will eventually packaged is taken into consideration already in the product be recyclable. Total waste at the Company’s production facilities development phase. in 2015 was 1,941 tonnes (2014: 2,408 tonnes), and 94.1 percent of this was recycled (2014: 95.5 percent). The Company’s fleet of vehicles Energy consumption It is HL Display’s aim to gradually reduce CO2 emissions from its fleet of vehicles. The Company has four different categories of HL Display’s direct electricity consumption in production was vehicles and there are limits on CO2 emissions for each category. 25.5 GWh in 2015 (2014: 25.5 GWh). Various measures for These limits are reviewed every 12-18 months to see if they can reducing electricity consumption are being implemented at the be lowered. During 2015, the CO2 limits have been decreased by factories. These range from heating the premises using waste heat between 10-20 gr CO2/km, depending on category. from machinery to installing time-controlled lighting. Under an energy agreement signed with the electricity supplier Respect for the environment Vattenfall in 2010, HL Display’s Sundsvall factory and logistics in all our operations centre in Falkenberg run entirely on hydrogenerated electricity. This is a conscious choice on HL Display’s part and the Company HL Display endeavours to promote a high level of environmental pays a somewhat higher electricity fee for using renewable energy. awareness in everyday activities at its offices around the world. This means collecting and sorting paper, packaging material and old electronic equipment and ensuring they are sent for recycling. HL Display has been using telephone and video conferences as an alternative to travel between offices for many years now. With Energy consumption technological development and the launch of services such as 2015 Skype, Google Hangout and others, the use of video conferencing Electricity “green” (MWh)* 14,778 at HL Display has increased further. This means lower travel costs Electricity (MWh) 5,534 for the Company and a reduction in the environmental impacts of Gas (MWh) 5,164 business travel. Water (m3) 347,120 * Electricity from renewable sources. 5 Anti-Corruption HL Display’s UN Global Compact principles Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, HR work including extortion and bribery. HL Display’s employees are important to the Company’s competitiveness. The combination HL Display’s Code of Conduct demonstrates the Company’s of a local presence, knowledge of the sector strong position against corruption. HL Display will maintain a good reputation for honesty, integrity and taking responsibility. and innovation capacity is the key to delivering This means that HL Display will not tolerate involvement in ­products and solutions that meet customers’ bribery, extortion or corruption in any form. needs. It is therefore a key task for HL Display to create the right conditions for employees to grow Corruption identified as a risk area and feel committed to the Company. The risk analyses that HL Display has conducted have identified corruption as the area where the Company has the greatest risks. Risks are mainly associated with purchases made in local Performance Management markets. The risk is lower for large purchases of raw materials for production, for example. This is because the counterparties HL Display has a well-established process for supporting employees are large international suppliers which share HL Display’s high in their development. The annual performance review process standards in the area of anti-corruption. is where employees are given clear work targets, performance The risk of corruption also exists in customer relationships. feedback, development and career planning. This is followed up HL Display operates in some risk markets, where some parties try every 6 months. to facilitate deals by making direct payments to individuals in the client company. Major development work Several measures in place HL Display pursued major development work in 2015 based on against corruption a new global organisational health survey, which all employees were invited to participate in at the beginning of the year. The To combat corruption, all employees must sign HL Display’s results of the survey identified clearly what was perceived as good Code of Conduct, which contains clear rules of practice with in the business and where there was a need for improvement. In regard to corruption. This is also followed up each year in the addition to the results for the entire Company, HL Display has annual performance review. The whistleblowing function has broken down the results for each subsidiary. The survey results given HL Display an additional tool for detecting possible generated many constructive workshops locally and there was a corruption in the Group. high level of employee engagement for improving the business and Increased centralisation and control of purchasing activities implementing actions which are aimed at developing the Company. also plays an important part in the Company’s anti-corruption A clear signal from the survey was that clarification of the efforts. Any local suppliers that HL Display wishes to engage in strategy for the future, the Company’s values and where the the regions must be validated centrally. This ensures that the Company stands today was needed. In response, a roadshow prices and other terms are in line with the Company’s other was organised, Essential We Are, which involved Company collaborations. Under the local purchasing procedures, the management explaining the future vision to all of the operations individual placing a purchase order is not the one who identifies around the world. This was followed up with local workshops and selects a supplier. in all countries to discuss how the strategies and values can be In the selling activity, agreed prices are entered into integrated into the daily work of the local operations. HL Display’s ERP system. Invoicing and customer payments relating to each order are controlled by the Company’s backLeadership and learning at work office function and are completely separate from field sales. HL Display did not have any corruption-related incidents that Leadership is perhaps the single most important component of led to disciplinary action in 2015 (2014: 1 incident). how employees perceive their work situation and what results are achieved. In 2015, HL Display developed a new leadership profile that defines what is expected of a manager at HL Display and what qualities and skills are called for. The profile will be an important parameter in annual performance reviews to identify development areas, and in the recruitment of new leaders to HL Display. HL Display was also active in the training and education of employees in 2015. Sales training was provided for all new sales personnel at the Company as well as global product training aimed at the sales force. Other examples of training initiatives during the year included English language training for employees in France and Poland, and ongoing health and safety training for all factory staff at HL Display’s production facilities. 6 Number of employees Age distribution 800 400 58 26 600 300 196 12 324 15 400 200 251 149 70 5 0 200 46 100 0 353 51 21 55 9 178 100 10 0 58 65 0 0 Sweden Other Asia <20 21-30 31-40 41-50 51-60 >60 Europe Women Asia Men Other Europe Sweden Analysing and improving Be Bold Award compensation conditions During 2015, the Company initiated a new form of employee During the year, HL Display conducted a comparative survey of recognition, the Be Bold Award, which aims to recognise employees the compensation conditions offered to employees in different who have in some way shown boldness in their work. Being countries for the main groups of professionals. The analysis was bold – taking new steps and daring to do the unexpected – was done by an external partner. Factors such as employee benefits, identified as a particular key success factor for HL Display in the bonus plans and pension provisions were compared, both workshops arranged during the year. All employees can nominate internally within HL Display and with market conditions in each any colleague for the prize, and so far, two employees won the country. The aim was to ensure that HL Display has attractive award for their bold efforts in 2015. and fair conditions throughout the Group, and to plan for alignment actions if needed. Late in 2015, the Company developed a new incentive model for the entire commercial organisation. The model is common for all HL Display markets, and aim to drive sales performance and target transparency across the group. 7 HL DISPLAY AB (publ) BOX 1118, Cylindervägen 18 info@hl-display.com SE-131 26 Nacka Strand www.hl-display.com Phone: +46 8 683 73 00 Fax: +46 8 683 73 01 8
