U N G l o b a l C o m pa c t – C o m m u n i c at i o n O N P r o g r e s s 2 0 1 5 – c o r p o r at e i d e n t i t y c l o t h i n g Communication on Progress 2015 Nimbus Nordic A/S – August 2015 – Introduction sured through our business policies, supplier evaluation system We are pleased to confirm that Nimbus Nordic A/S reaffirms and through our supplier agreements. its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact within the areas of Human Rights, Labour, EnvironWe strongly believe that by upholding the different principles of ment and Anti-Corruption. the UN Global Compact, we are contributing to a positive impact In this annual Communication on Progress, we point out our on environment, economies and societies. Nimbus Nordic A/S actions on continually improving the integration of the Global believes that all companies are obliged to contribute to the imCompact and its principles into our business strategy, culture provement of general CSR. and daily operations. We also commit to share this information Working on improvement following our Code of Conduct and with our stakeholders using our primary channels of commuUN´s Global Compacts principles, should be considered as a nication. continuous journey, where structured focus can help us to define and fulfill numerous of important targets in regard to CSR. The Ten Principles of Global Compact’ exemplify and indicate ways in which Nimbus Nordic A/S do our utmost to drive our Over the coming years, Nimbus Nordic A/S will continue to business responsibly. Our participation in the UN’s Global Compromote and embed our CSR standards into everyday busipact helps us to maintain our focus on social and environmental ness, using UN´s Ten Principles as a guideline. This perspective responsibility in our activities and ensures continual communiwill include providing our employees in key business functions cation on the progress we make in the implementation of our with training and education to support the implementation and CSR strategies. knowledge of our CSR standards. We will also work with our stakeholders primarily our customers and suppliers to enStatement courage their support for our approach and standards while furAs a registered member of the Global Compact, Nimbus Nordic ther incorporating them into our business practices, including A/S has incorporated the business policies in our management communications, contracts and supplier agreements. and we do fully support the Ten Global Compact principles. Sincerely yours, Our dedication to UN´s Global Compact-project is particular Lars Hammer apparent in our collaboration with our stakeholders and is asCEO, Nimbus Nordic A/S Nimbus Nordic A/S • Sundkaj 7 • Pakhus 47 • DK-2150 Nordhavn • +45 70 20 14 64 About Nimbus Nordic A/S Our mission for the future is only to do business with suppliers Nimbus Nordic A/S was founded in 1995 in Copenhagen, Denwho have the same high standard of human rights as Nimbus mark, developing, promoting and selling the lifestyle brand Nordic A/S. We believe that ongoing dialogue and close coop“Nimbus Scandinavian Apparel” for the promotional business. eration is one of the key elements in achieving the best results. “Nimbus Scandinavian Apparel” offers fashionable and highly deOur goal is that our current and future suppliers not only suptailed apparel inspired by big city style with a touch of the Scanport international human rights, but also actively respect them. dinavian aesthetic. Practical actions From in-house design to support on sales, marketing and logisNimbus Nordic A/S has internal procedures regarding illness, tics, the Copenhagen based Head Office houses a professional stress, health, pregnancy etc. Procedures, which are all, along team of dedicated employees. with our views on human rights, communicated to our business partners and suppliers. The Danish outerwear heritage has made Nimbus one of the strongest trendsetting apparel design companies and a leading Both announced and unannounced audits and supplier controls supplier of corporate identity clothing in the promotional busiare carried out by external partners along with frequently visits ness market. from our own employees in China. Since the first jackets were sold in Copenhagen, Denmark, back For production sites in Turkey, a specialist from Head Office in in 1995, Nimbus has established sales channels reaching from Copenhagen is appointed to lead projects related to audits and the Scandinavian countries Sweden, Norway and Finland to the like. Germany, Austria and Switzerland and spanning to markets in This we do to ensure that our suppliers comply with our agreethe Czech Republic, Poland, Benelux and the UK. ment on following our Code of Conduct and the human rights. Based in the great surroundings of the north harbor of CopenOur business terms reflect the way we seek to do business with hagen, Nimbus Nordic A/S covers all aspects of the developcurrent and prospective partners and by communicating our ment of corporate fashion, from design to sales and distribution. support for Global Compact externally as well as internally, we have defined and communicated a code of conduct which reflects CSR Policies our company’s ethical views, values, and standards for doing In the following sections, this report will outline some of the business. http://service.nimbusnordic.com/codeofconduct.php?lang=5 CSR policies, practical actions and outcomes which Nimbus The Ten Principles of UN Global Compact is a core value to Nordic A/S has started, achieved and will continuing workour organization therefore we developed our Code of Conduct, ing on. The CSR policies are highly related to the UN Global which we require, as a minimum, all important partners and Compact’s Ten Principles including human rights, labour, the suppliers signs. It is prepared in accordance with the UN Global environment and anti-corruption. Nimbus Nordic A/S, will Compact’s ten principles. This Code of Conduct is available on at any time, do our best in incorporating this in our manageour website. ment. As a creative and knowledge-based company we consider our HUMAN RIGHTS employees as our greatest asset. Therefore, we are highly focused on the rights of our employees by having a specific emPrinciple one: Businesses should support and respect the protecployee policy regarding the rights, duties, and personnel condition of internationally proclaimed human rights and; tions of the employees at Nimbus Nordic A/S. Our Employee Principle two: Make sure that they are not complicit in human Policy covers, among others, the following aspects: rights abuses • Employee development Policy • Insurance and other employee benefits Nimbus Nordic A/S complies with the universal declaration of • Working conditions human rights. We support the UN Declaration of Human Rights as well as the general ideas about human rights which are emWe require that our suppliers’ adhere to the local laws as we bedded in the Scandinavian culture. Further, we are commitdo ourselves. We have during the past year increased our diated to respecting human rights throughout all of our business logue with our suppliers on how to avoid identified potential activities, including the way we treat our employees, suppliers, noncompliance issues. This we have developed a process for, customers and other stakeholders. helping us being consistent. We are focusing on diversity and we are working continuously Measurement of outcomes to create an unique workplace with room for everyone. Not only We require that our suppliers adhere to the laws in the countries do we want to include the majority of organization in primary they operate in as we do ourselves. strategic decisions – we also want to promote a culture with reIn our supplier agreements, our main suppliers are required to spect for the law and good practice with our suppliers. comply with our requirement linked to human rights. Nimbus Nordic A/S • Sundkaj 7 • Pakhus 47 • DK-2150 Nordhavn • +45 70 20 14 64 Our suppliers must also accept that Nimbus Nordic A/S, either and unannounced controls, to examine if the above guidelines itself or through a third party can carry out both announced and are followed. unannounced controls, to see if the different guidelines and requirements are followed. Our suppliers shall at all times permit Measurement of outcomes such inspections. We continually advise our main suppliers on how to improve Internally, we undertake a yearly employee development meetworking conditions and we have earlier coordinated social auing among our staff to ensure that all of our employees are dits on app. 20% of our main suppliers’ facilities. Before the aucomfortable and satisfied with their job and the company. We dits are conducted, our Chinese office has provided the supplicontinuously encourage our employees to help us create an even ers with detailed advises and guidelines on how to improve the better working environment. conditions for the employees and thereby also to achieve a high score in a social audit. The social audits have been conducted by LABOUR a third party inspection company. Principle three: Businesses should uphold the freedom of assoIn cases where our suppliers received an unsatisfactory score ciation and the effective recognition of the right to collective in a social audit, or our own internal inspections identify areas bargaining: which do not comply with our code of conduct, we request that Principle four: The elimination of all forms of forced and comour suppliers initiate actions in order to improve the general pulsory labour; conditions at the factory. Principle five: The effective abolition of child labour; and This work will continue to ensure that our suppliers do not vioPrinciple six: The elimination of discrimination in respect of late on these demands we have on working conditions. employment and occupation ENVIRONMENT Policy We are aware that many elements must be optimized when unPrinciple seven: Businesses should support a precautionary apdertaking the processes needed running a socially responsible proach to environmental challenges; company. This is (and will continue to be) an on-going process. Principle eight: Undertake initiatives to promote greater enviWe want to focus on the process of development, production ronmental responsibility; and and sales, and motivate all our suppliers to promote social rePrinciple nine: Encourage the development and diffusion of ensponsibility within all areas of concern. vironmentally friendly technologies. We still try to compel our suppliers to be responsible in ensuring that their production methods includes decent working condiPolicy tions, respect to workers, trade unions and NGOs in producing Due to the nature of our business, the main environmental imcountries into account. pacts are related to our suppliers and the transportation of our productions. Our ambition is that all of our suppliers must deNimbus Nordic A/S do not accept any kind of child labour, unvelop a code of conduct or practice for its operations and prodreasonably long working hours or wages that do not meet apucts that confirms commitment to care for health and the enpropriate industry standard in the country of production. vironment in order to ensure that irreversible environmental damage does not occur. Our Suppliers must always ensure to The core value of freedom specifically includes our support for obtain prior approval before certain products, deemed potenfreedom of association, speech, thought and action, while rectially hazardous, are developed. ognizing the business framework in which we operate. Nimbus Nordic A/S supports the conventions of the International Labor We are obligated to comply with applicable Danish environOrganization. The work environment and conditions for our mental laws, and we will impose on our suppliers, through our employees and our suppliers’ employees have always been and Code of Conduct, to follow the environmental principles of the will continue to be, a high priority for Nimbus Nordic A/S. UN Global Compact. Responsibility towards the environment is a key element to Nimbus Nordic A/S in order to conduct busiPractical actions ness. We find solutions to recycle and more sustainable transOur supplier agreements which have been accepted by all our portation as good investments. main suppliers, specifically underline, that in line with our commitment to international frameworks, our company policy upPractical actions holds the international conventions of labor standards, includIn 2011, Nimbus Nordic A/S started to increase focus on the ing, eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour, abolish environmental aspects of the company, and this focus is conchild labour and eliminate discrimination in respect of employtinuously expanding. The first part of the work involved the ment and occupation. preparation and communication of Nimbus Nordic A/S’ enviAll our main supplier has accepted that Nimbus Nordic A/S, eironmental requirements to our suppliers and customers. ther itself or through a third party can carry out both announced This was supported by creating supplier agreements with all our Nimbus Nordic A/S • Sundkaj 7 • Pakhus 47 • DK-2150 Nordhavn • +45 70 20 14 64 main suppliers where our requirements are specified. The Additionally, The Supplier must guarantee that all products second part of this work concerns the testing of different are AZO free and ensure that any sub suppliers also comply product and accessories for chemicals substances. Test rewith these demands. sults have only been good, and should any related problems occur we will take immediate actions. ANTI CORRUPTION Additionally, we will continue the work for new ways to Principle ten: Businesses should work against corruption in reduce our energy consumption. It is within our ambition all its forms, including extortion and bribery. that all productions from Far East will be transported to our warehouse by sea rather than by air. We continuously dePolicy velop processes that helps us control both productions and Nimbus Nordic A/S adheres to the anti corruption princitransport, so that airfreight is not necessary. ples and we are kept up to date with developments through the CSR network participation and newsletters. We will, at Since 1995 most of Nimbus Nordic A/S´s production have any time, work against corruption in all its forms, including been placed in China. In the beginning of 2015 we began extortion and bribery. We do not accept any kind of corrupproducing in Turkey as well which helps us reduce the route tion related to our business and we expect all our employees of transportation and by this increase our positive impact and partners in the supply chain to embrace this. on the environment. Due to the new production sites being closer to market, we aim to reduce the amount of airfreight Practical actions in 2015 compared to 2014 significantly. Our Code of Conduct addresses this issue and require that our suppliers have the same position as us – willingness to Measurement of outcomes fight corruption. All employees and suppliers are informed Our focus and concern regarding environmental issues has of the importance of Nimbus Nordic A/S’ view on anti-corbeen addressed in our supplier agreements. Regarding the ruption. use of chemical substances, our suppliers must guarantee that their deliveries comply with the European ”REACH” Measurement of outcomes Regulation (EU Regulation 1907/2006). The Supplier must Nimbus Nordic has not been involved in any cases which inbe able to present their respective statements of compliance volves corruption. It is transparent for all of our stakeholdon Nimbus Nordic A/S’s request within 10 weekdays. The ers, that Nimbus Nordic A/S has a policy that clearly state, supplier declaration must be signed by the Supplier. If new that corruption will not be tolerated. This is specifically deproducts are to be produced by the Supplier, an updated decfined in our supplier agreements and we communicate this laration will be send for signature and this will afterwards view to our customers as well. replace the former declaration. Nimbus Nordic A/S • Sundkaj 7 • Pakhus 47 • DK-2150 Nordhavn • +45 70 20 14 64
