Commitment to Global Compact: Communication on progress at Oil India Limited, 2015 Oil India Limited is a Navaratna Company under the Ministry of Petroleum and Natural Gas, Government of India. It is engaged in the business of Exploration, Production and Transportation of crude oil and natural gas and production of LPG. OIL is the second largest national upstream oil and gas Company in India as measured by total proved plus probable reserves and production. With a glorious legacy of hydrocarbon exploration spanning over five decades and with the Core Purpose of becoming “The fastest growing Energy Company with Global presence providing value to stakeholders” OIL has carved a niche as a premier national oil Company in the upstream sector with a share of over 9% of the country’s total crude oil production and 8% of natural gas production. The Authorized share capital of the Company is Rs. 2000 Crores. The Issued, Subscribed and Paid share capital of the Company is Rs. 601.14 Crores. At present, the Government of India, the Promoter of the Company is holding 67.64% of the total Issued & Paid-up Capital of the Company. The balance 32.36% of the Equity capital is held by Public and others including Corporate Bodies, Mutual Funds, Banks, FIIs, Resident Individuals etc. Oil India Limited (OIL) is committed to the principles of Global Compact. The policies followed by OIL support and respect these principles which also form a part of the Company’s vision statement, thereby integrating them into its short term and long term goals and objectives to: Ø Inculcate high standards of business ethics Ø Involve participation and support innovation for employee growth and satisfaction Ø Care for the community, ecology and environment. During the year 2014-15, OIL carried out its policies confirming commitment to the following ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption: 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights OIL has always subscribed to the protection of internationally proclaimed Human Rights. It ensures that its employees and communities living in and around its operational areas are not adversely affected by its operations and that there is no danger to life or damage to the environment in any way. It deploys technology which is safe, efficient and employee friendly. Its work and maintenance programmes ensure safety and security of its employees and people living in and around its operational areas. The Company organizes safety training courses and health check-ups round the year to ensure a fit and healthy staff. Officials from State & Central Pollution Control Board, MOEF(Ministry of Environment & Forest), DGMS(Director General Mines Safety) authorities, OISD(Oil Industry Safety Directorate) External Safety Audit team members (under MOP&NG) inspect OIL’s installations from time to time. Institution / Govt. Agency Nos. of Audits/Inspections No. of Audits/Inspections No. of Audits/ during 2013 during 2014 Inspections during 2015 State Pollution Control Approx. 08 to 10 Over 8 Inspections 8 Inspections Board inspections Over 3 Inspections 1 Inspection MOEF 3 4 inspections DG MS 8 inspections 13 Inspections 97 Inspections 9 Audits NIL OISD 11 Audits 2. Ensure that the organization is not complicit in human rights abuses We at OIL believe that employees are not to be subjected to forced or compulsory labour which is also a fundamental provision of the principle of human rights. The same is also in accordance with UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights and is subject to ILO Core Conventions 29 & 105. We prohibit the deployment of forced labour across our entire operations. For the current reporting period we did not have a single operation or any significant suppliers exposed to the risk of forced or compulsory labour. 3. Upholding the freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective Bargaining Collective bargaining is the protection of the right of workers to organize collectively in organizations of their own choice. We uphold and support the freedom of association of our employees by recognizing and encouraging the right to collective bargaining. The employees’ union engages with the management through structured as well as informal mechanisms. We also keep a close eye on the operations in which the freedom of association might be at risk. For the last three years we have not been able to identify a single such instance and it speaks volumes about the efficiency of our control system. We have organized discussion sessions with the officers’ association for understanding their basic needs and developing plan of action for acting on those requirements. We ensure all around participation in the events of workers union. 4. Organization supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour OIL believes in voluntary labour and right to work. As per directives of the Government of India, the Company ensures payment of minimum wages to labour. The Company also abides by the strict statutory guidelines laid down by the Mines Safety Directorate, the Industrial Act and other statutory regulations of the Government of India. We prohibit the deployment of forced labour across our entire operations. For the current reporting period we did not have a single operation or any significant suppliers exposed to the risk of forced or compulsory labour. 5. The organization supports effective abolition of child labour OIL ensures that every single one of its installations is routinely monitored to ensure that no child labour is employed at any of them. We strongly condemn the use of child labour and the nature of our operations that require years of training and experience to carry out are a natural barrier to prevent child labour. We also perform a rigorous process of due diligence before employing suppliers to ensure that there is no incidence of child labour in their operations among other ills. 6. Organization promotes elimination of discrimination in respect of employment The Company is an equal opportunity employer. There is no discrimination for employment or career progression on the basis of caste, gender, colour or religion. Government guidelines are strictly followed for employment of scheduled castes/scheduled tribes and physically challenged persons. 7. The organization adopts a precautionary approach to Environmental Challenges OIL is well aware of the myriad impacts that its operations have on the Environment. Our business operations by their very nature are prone to negative environmental impacts. We take this fact very seriously and have therefore made a commitment to ourselves and our stakeholders to ensure that we mitigate our environmental impacts to the greatest extent possible. OIL follows the precautionary approach to manage its environmental challenges. We also put a lot of emphasis on control of environmental pollution and conservation of energy and have always adopted a proactive approach to the conservation of the environment. This endeavour of the Company is reflected in the vision of the Company which clearly mentions OIL’s commitment to Safety, Health & Environment. Following are the existing environmental standards/rules acts enforceable under mandatory regulations and strictly followed by the organization: ü Tolerance Limits prescribed by State Pollution Control Board, Assam and Central Pollution Control Board for effluent discharge. ü Environmental Protection Act, 1986 & Rules. ü W at er Act & R ule s. ü A i r A ct & R u le s. ü The Batteries (Management & Handling) Rules, 2001. ü The Municipal Solid Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, 2000. ü The Bio-Medical Waste (Management & Handling) Rules, 1998. ü Noise Pollution (Regulation or control) Rules. ü Public Liability Insurance Act & Rules, 1991. ü The Ozone Depleting substances (Regulation & control) Rules, 2000. ü Hazardous Waste (management, handling, & trans boundary movement) rules, 2008 8. The organization initiates promotion of greater environmental responsibility OIL has adopted key environmental management practices, pollution control measures and environmental management systems as crucial mitigation measures. Several Environmental Impact Assessment (EIA) studies have been carried out for all its upcoming projects. The social issues and societal impacts are assessed & measured and mitigation measures are implemented as per the recommendations of the EIA studies. Some of the key Environment Mitigation Measures Adopted in OIL are detailed below: Ø As a measure of safeguarding the environment a policy decision has been taken for mandatory use of Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Chain of Custody Certified Paper and Print Products in all sphere of OIL, wef 12.09.2012 Ø For judicious use of paper, OIL has adopted a policy wef 18.12.2014 on “Economic Use of Paper in Offices” in all spheres of OIL, as the trees are considered the major source of paper pulp production and injudicious use of paper would create bad impacts on the environment. The basic guidelines of the policy are – To use both side of the paper, Single spacing typings, Policy or other circulars through website instead of paper circulation, switching over to eform system than manual submission of returns etc and recasting of proforma etc in a Simplified & shortened format. Ø Rain Water Harvesting has been made mandatory for all upcoming projects Ø OIL has carried out a full-fledged study on effect of gas flare on surrounding paddy crop and initiated mitigation measures accordingly. Ø Green belts are developed and maintained around major installations. Annually 7,000-8,000 trees are planted in different operational areas, survival rate of which is about 80-90%. OIL’s endeavor to harness Non-conventional Energy sources: Ø We, at OIL have installed 13.6 MW (31.03.2012) & 54 MW Wind Power plants (30.03.2013) in Rajasthan, which are supplying power to Rajasthan Rajya Vidyut Utpadan Nigam Ltd (RRVUNL). Ø The other major Wind Energy project of OIL is of 54 MW, which is a split project between the states of Gujarat and Madhya Pradesh (16 MW Wind Farm at Patan in Gujarat and 38 MW Wind Farm at Chandgarh in Madhya Pradesh). Ø We also installed first mega Solar Power Plant of capacity 5 MW in Ramgarh, Jaisalmer, Rajasthan (20.01.2014). We have further plans to take up more projects in both Wind and Solar Power in near future. Ø The total installed capacity of OIL’s Wind Energy and Solar Energy projects stands at 126.6 MW. OIL generated revenue of Rs. 67.50 Crore in FY 2014-15 from Renewable Sources. Other initiatives: ü OIL has Installed Solar Power Plants of various ratings – 100 KW at Joypur OCS (31.03.2012), 100 KW at Tanot Village Complex, Jaisalmer (31.03.2013) , 30 KW at Corporate Office (16.07.2012), 20 KW at Jagi Road Repeater Stations in Pipeline (28.10.2014)– We have plans to install more such solar plants at various locations including Gujrat & Madhya Pradesh. ü Replacement of conventional Generator Sets with a 30 KVA Solar Generator Set in FHQ for night illumination purpose at Work-over locations has been carried out and is proposed for more locations ü OIL has carried out installation of Solar Lighting Systems, Solar Lanterns & Solar Photo-Voltaic cells atTanot-GGS , Baghewala (Rajasthan), Security Camp at Well279. It is also used for MART Communication system at Fields Head Quarters of OIL, and in OIL’s pipeline systems. Its use is proposed for more similar locations. In addition to having a sound Environment Policy, the Company also has a robust Sustainable Development Policy. The Sustainable Development Policy of OIL outlines its commitment towards reducing its carbon footprint. The Company calculates the carbon footprint and greenhouse gas (GHG) emission level of various operational units. To reduce GHG emissions, a Low Carbon Strategy is evolved as part of which OIL has identified opportunities for reducing GHG emissions through technology, process improvement levers and a strategic implementation plan. This strategy is then extended in initiating projects such as the proposed 5.0 MW Kumchai Power Plant (KPP), which was inaugurated in November, 2013. The proposed site of power plant is in the Changlang District of Arunachal Pradesh and is about 450 Kms from Itanagar. The power plant is to be fed with the associated gas production (presently approximately of 30,000 SCMD) for running this KPP. It is proposed that the existing 11 KV line would be converted to 33 KV line for evacuation of power. The project will lead to a reduction in GHG emissions because of a reduction in the flaring of gas. It will also lead to the utilisation of high calorific value gas, which is presently flared as a substitute for higher carbon intensive fuels. Finally it is set to have the beneficial impact towards conservation of depleting non-renewable natural resources and thus the promotion of sustainable economic growth via the implementation of an environment friendly technology. OIL aims at reduction of Gas Flaring through initiatives such as the one mentioned above The Company has also planned a project on mass tree plantation in degraded forest landscapes in and around its operational areas, which is set to provide a solution to combat Climate Change through sequestration of GHGs through the plantation of trees with high carbon absorption potential. As such, OIL carries out compensatory & obligatory tree plantation in its operational areas. The Company has taken many other proactive measures on the front of environmental management and Sustainable Development, including initiation of projects on conservation of endangered biodiversity in and around its operational areas in India. The project on conservation of the Hoolock Gibbon, the only non-human ape species found in the entire Indian subcontinent is noteworthy. OIL has taken an ambitious project for spreading awareness for the conservation of this important species in its operational districts in upper Assam, which form one of the its’ last home ranges in India. Secondly, the Company is also planning to set up an eco-tourism centre in the Kaziranga Tiger reserve, with the help of Assam Tourism Development Corporation Ltd. (ATDCL). 9. Organization should encourage development and diffusion of environment friendly technologies In the above context, the following Environment Mitigation Measures have been adopted in OIL: Ø Pilot project of using Bio Diesel fuel in Diesel Engines, is an initiative of OIL towards implementation of Bio-fuel policy of Govt. of India. Ø OIL in collaboration with TERI has taken up bioremediation project for treating the hazardous waste. In the year 2013-14, 9,028 m3 of oily sludge was bio remediated. The said project is taken up for applicable cases. Ø In collaboration with Institute of Advanced studies in Science & Technology, Guwahati OIL had taken up a Pilot Project on Phytoremediation, where selected species of plants were planted in oil contaminated plot of land size (30m X 20m) near Jorajan OCS. These plants degraded the hydrocarbon and heavy metal content of the contaminated area was restored to its normalcy – considering the success, OIL is planning to take out more such projects in other areas. Ø OIL has undertaken various environmental projects such as bioremediation, GHG emission & carbon footprint mapping, E-Waste management, Integarted Waste Mangement etc in all spheres of OIL . Ø Proper enclosures around the flare pits are provided, which helps in combating the effect of heat & light on the crops/environment Ø Flare pits are properly designed with multi burner facilities with arrangement of abundant supply of air for proper combustion Ø 95% of the Produced Formation Water is Recycled to Subsurface for the purpose of maintaining formation pressure Ø Water oil clarification plants are installed wherever necessary to restrict the oil content less than 10 ppm Ø Solid waste and biomedical waste are disposed as per Municipal Solid Waste Rules & Biomedical Waste Rules Ø Hazardous wastes are treated as per “The Hazardous Wastes (Management, Handling and Trans boundary Movement) Rules, 2008, and sent to TSDF facilities (Treatment, Storage and Disposal Facilities), for which OIL has taken Membership Ø Oily sludge is recycled through registered recyclers. Ø OIL has installed a sludge treatment and recovery plant. Ø Lining of drill site waste pits with High Density Poly Ethylene Sheets(HDPE) is carried out Ø All Oil Collecting Stations, Gas Collecting Stations and LPG plant are connected with Flare Systems and Closed Blow Down Vessels & safety release flare systems for arresting hydrocarbon emissions Ø Floating Roof Tanks are used for Crude Oil Storage Tanks of the Pipeline Department, in order to minimize emission of hydrocarbons Ø Noise attenuators/barriers are provided at the source Ø Acoustic enclosures are provided around gen sets to reduce noise pollution. Ø Personnel Protective Equipments (PPE) like ear muff/plugs are provided to personnel working in noise prone areas. Ø Environmental protection measures are safe guarded by monitoring the Environmental parameters with the process of their continual improvement Ø Oil India Limited has established a state-of-the-art research facility in its Fields Headquarters in Duliajan, for application of Biotechnology in E&P thrust areas. The Centre, by the name of, “Jaivalaya”, was inaugurated and inducted into the service of the Company on 26th September, 2014. In addition, a number of OIL’s facilities are certified by ISO and other certifier agencies. The detailed list is given below. OIL Installations Certified with [ISO-9001:2008, ISO-14001:2004, OHSAS-18001:2007 & ISO/IEC 17025 :2005]: The following installations/ departments of the Company are ISO/OHSAS/IEC certified ü Pipeline Deptt: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007) ü LPG Plant: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007) ü Fire Service Deptt: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007) ü Power House: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007) ü Water Treatment Plant: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007) ü Transport Maintenance Workshop: (ISO 9001:2008, ISO14001:2004, OHSAS 18001:2007) ü Medical Deptt. : (ISO 9001:2008, OHSAS 18001:2007) ü Well Logging Workshop: (ISO 9001:2008) ü Central Workshop: (ISO 9001:2008) ü Chemical Deptt.: (ISO 9001:2008) ü ER Deptt.: (ISO 9001:2008) ü L&D Deptt: (ISO 9001:2008) ü Kolkota Office: (ISO 9001:2008) ü R&D Centre of OIL: ISO/IEC 17025 :2005 (NABL Accreditation) OHSAS-18001: Occupational Health & Safety Management System ISO-9001: Quality Management System ISO: 14001: Environment Management System ISO/IEC 17025: Competency of Testing and Calibration Laboratories (NABL: National Accreditation Board for Testing and Calibration Laboratories) 10. Organization should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Oil India Limited is a signatory to Integrity pact with Transparency international for following strict & transparent policies. OIL endeavors to work against corruption in all its forms through well-defined Whistle Blower Policy. The policy provides all the employees with free access to the Management in case they observe unethical and improper practices or any other wrongful conduct in the Company and to prohibit managerial personnel from taking any adverse personal action against those employees. Oil India Limited has also adopted a Conduct Discipline & Appeal Rules and any unethical behaviour is construed as misconduct. An employee violating these codes is subjected to investigation and appropriate action. Vigilance cell of the Company looks into any such misdoings for investigations. Care for the Community: OIL as a Responsible Corporate Citizen The CSR vision statement is embedded as one of the core vision statements of the Company which mandates OIL to operate in a legal, ethical and economic environment, committed towards the society, to contribute to sustainable socio-economic development in its areas of operations for the community, employees and their families, shareholders, customers, suppliers and other stakeholders in ways that enhance the value for both the business and society. Every single one of our spheres of operations carries out some form of CSR. The Vision statement reads as under: OIL’S CSR Vision Statement “OIL is a Responsible Corporate Citizen deeply committed to socio-economic development in its areas of operations.” The core philosophy on corporate social responsibility in Oil India Limited (OIL) is the firm conviction that islands of prosperity cannot survive in a sea of poverty. This is a typical scenario in the oil and gas Exploration and Production industry in developing countries, where companies operate in populated remote rural locations. As mandated by guidelines of Department of Public Enterprise on CSR for CPSEs as well as the provisions under the new Company’s Act 2013, OIL’s CSR projects and initiatives are carried out in different thrust areas such as Health, Education, Sustainable Livelihood generation, Rural development, Skill development, Augmentation of Rural infrastructure etc. in its operational areas in Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram, Rajasthan and Andhra Pradesh. Key CSR projects of Oil India Limited : HEALTH Project SparshaThe Mobile Dispensary Services It has always been one of the most significant community welfare projects of the Company. Started way back in the early eighties, the mobile health care project “Sparsha” covers OIL operational areas of Tinsukia and Dibrugarh districts in Assam and Arunachal Pradesh. This effort of OIL caters to the primary health care needs of the people in OIL operational areas. The project is conducted through St. Luke’s Hospital in addition to OIL’s in-house Mobile Health Care team. In 2014-15, 760 health camps were conducted, screening and primary healthcare services were extended to around 1,23,000 patients. Mobile Dispensary services under Project Sparsha, being provided to local people of OIL operational areas Project Arogya: Reduction of Infant Mortality Rate (IMR) & Maternal Mortality Rate (MMR) Project ‘Arogya’, is an initiative with an umbrella focus on reduction of IMR and MMR in and around OIL’s operational areas in the states of Assam and Arunachal Pradesh in the North East. The Program aims at caring for the new born, as well as addressing maternal and adolescent health issues at various stages of life. Since the beginning, the program has been spreading awareness on prenatal and postnatal healthcare, sanitation, hygiene and cleanliness, which has led to reduced maternal and child mortality and better health for women and children across the targeted villages of OIL’s operational areas, in the last few years. Under the project, which was launched in 2012-13, more than 30 health camps have been conducted in 30 different villages in OIL operational areas, providing pre-natal & post-natal check-up facilities and community health awareness generation; with coverage of over 2000 beneficiaries (pregnant mothers, adolescent girls, 0-5 years children). Training is also provided to Health workers in all the villages covered under the programme. Till date more than 400 Health Workers have been trained under the programme in Community Health practices. Awareness camps and counselling are given at regular intervals for Institutional delivery, family planning, hygiene, sanitation, nutrition, etc. During the year 2014-15, 2 Girls’ Schools, with around 900 students from classes VIII to XII, were adopted under the project. The tracking and follow up of expecting mothers is also undertaken in the Project. Till date more than 200 pregnant women’s health progress has been tracked and immunization of more than 800, 0-5 year old babies has been carried out. In all, the project has touched the lives of more than 15,000 individuals in one form or the other since inception. Combating HIV, AIDS, Malaria & TB: Oil India Limited is the first Indian company to partner the Global Fund in the fight against HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis & Malaria. OIL signed the MoU with the Global Fund in November, 2014. OIL contributed an amount of INR one crore for the project in the current fiscal, which will be equally matched by the Global Fund. The Project will be implemented by IL&FS across the OIL operational areas in the states of Assam, Arunachal Pradesh, Mizoram and Andhra Pradesh in India for a period of five years. SUSTAINABLE LIVELIHOOD GENERATION AND RURAL DEVELOPMENT Project Rupantar : OIL with the partnership of the State Institute of Rural Development (SIRD), Assam, started Project Rupantar in 2003, which is a sustainable livelihood generation project based on the self-help group (SHGs) and joint liability group (JLG) model in the agro based sector. It has a central focus to assist SHGs for development of agro based industries like bamboo cultivation, floriculture, fishery, sericulture, organic farming, etc. and other allied activities like duck farming, pig rearing, goat farming, dairy farming, handloom, small business, etc. along with a Computer Centre thereby help the unemployed youths to find alternate employment providing a scope for entrepreneurship (55,000 students trained till date since 2004). Keeping in perspective the visible success of the project and the requests from the local residents of OIL operational areas for enlarging the project, OIL had supported another 500 SHGs/JLGs under CSR in the financial year 2014-15. Left: A woman participating in handloom making under the project. Right: Students taking classes at the Computer Centre under the project. Handicraft Training & Production Centre (HTPC): OIL’s Handicraft Training and Production Centre, located at Duliajan, Assam has been imparting nine-month stipendiary training in Weaving, Cutting & Tailoring, Embroidery & Knitting to young girls from OIL operational areas. The students are selected through written test and viva-voce. During 2014-15, a total of 42 Nos. of rural women were imparted such training. In the current year a total of 42 nos. of women are undergoing similar training in the training centre. Post training assistance are also provided to the trainees. Since 1984, more than 900 women have been trained. Trainees of the HTPC program, undergoing classes on tailoring, stitching, etc. Project Kamdhenu: OIL has taken up a dairy development project to provide sustainable livelihood opportunities to local communities modeled on the Gujarat’s Amul success story. The Baseline Survey of the project has been completed. OIL aims at replicating the Amul story of cooperative dairy farming in the Company’s operational areas of Upper Assam, resulting in milk production -‘White Revolution’ and economic empowerment of the rural communities. General Nursing Midwifery (GNM) training: The nursing school in OIL Hospital Duliajan conducts 3 years General Nursing Midwifery (GNM) training course, which is recognized by the Directorate of Medical Education, Government of Assam. The annual intake is 20 (Twenty) young women from OIL operational areas. Stipend is paid to the students in addition to limited hostel accommodation, uniform and protective clothing. RURAL DEVELOPMENT Agriculture Project under Oil India Rural Development Society: The primary objective of Agriculture Project is to introduce modern methods of cultivation to generate large scale production and thus provide an opportunity to the unemployed youth to adopt agriculture as a means of earning livelihood and thereby attain economic empowerment. While doing so, maximum emphasis is given in extending in-field training by experts from Agriculture Department, Government of Assam & Assam Agriculture University for proper and adequate use of technology. To boost the encouragement of the farmers, the Oil India Rural Development Society (OIRDS) introduces high yielding paddy seeds specially collected from Regional Agriculture Research Centre, Titabor and organic manure to revitalize the paddy fields. Till date, OIRDS has adopted more than 102 villages, covering more than 15,200 farm families under its Agriculture Project. Spreading Smiles through Rural Development: A woman beneficiary of the Agriculture Project under OIRDS SKILL BUILDING Project Swabalamban on Skill Building: Under the project, OIL provides skill based placement oriented training to youth from its operational areas, by focussing on various employable skills in sectors. The project is being implemented by 3 reputed agencies, viz. Indian Institute of Entrepreneurship (IIE), Guwahati, Construction Industry Development Council (CIDC), New Delhi and IL&FS Educational Technology Services (IETS), New Delhi. Till date over 5500 candidates have been trained and over 4000 candidates have been placed under the Project, in various trades of Construction Industry, Hospitality & Housekeeping Management, Industrial Sewing, Jewellery Making, Electrical Engineering Techniques, besides setting up of livelihood clusters in domains like handloom and handicrafts. Candidates of Project Swabalamban undergoing training in various vocations EDUCATION Oil India Ltd.’s commitment to socio-economic development in its areas of operations encompasses education as one of the most important areas indispensable for the overall development of an individual and well-being of the society at large. OIL Super 30: OIL India Super 30 which started in July 2010, is an 11 months completely residential coaching program for IIT-JEE & other Engg. entrance examinations, for the meritorious students from backward sections of the society. Presently there are 5 OIL Super 30 centres at Guwahati, Jorhat and Dibrugarh in Assam, Jodhpur in Rajasthan and Itanagar in Arunachal Pradesh (started in 201516). Students have been admitted in various engineering institutes like IIT, ISRO, NIT, State Engineering colleges, Medical institutes and leading Engineering Colleges. Successful candidates of IIT Photograph of passing out batch of Entrance Examination-2015 of OIL ‘OIL Super 30’ centre of Jorhat Super 30 Jodhpur Centre Oil Awards and Merit Scholarships: Every year OIL rewards meritorious students of operational areas passing class X & XII with OIL Awards and OIL Merit Scholarships which go a long way in encouraging the students to perform better. Till date around 10,000 students have benefited through merit scholarships (inclusive of students from BPL families). Computer Education under Project Dikhya : {Project on imparting mobile computer education to school students, through innovation teaching and learning methodologies.} The computer literacy programme is being implemented in eighteen schools within OIL’s operational areas in the districts of Dibrugarh, Tinsukia and Sivasagar. The project is being implemented through State Institute of Rural Development (SIRD), Assam and IL&FS Education & Technical Services via mobile education vans/buses which visit each of the areas and schools. Since 2013-14, 5200 school children from clasess V-VIII have been provided computer education through mobile computer labs (buses). Students actively participating in the Computer Bus learning sessions under Project Dikhya Project Dikhya on Adult Literacy: Under the project, adult literacy classes are held across OIL’s operational areas in the districts of Dibrugarh, Tinsukia and Sivasagar in Assam. The project is implemented through State Institute of Rural Development (SIRD), Assam. The course content has been developed as per the Sarva Siksha Mission of the Government. Till date over 900 adults have been covered under the program. Adult Literacy classes under Project Dikhya in session in villages of OIL operational areas in the Assam OIL Shikshya Ratna Puraskar: Oil India Limited introduced “OIL Shikshya Ratna Puraskar” for recognizing the all-round contribution of the teaching fraternity from provincialised schools and colleges under Dibrugarh University within the districts of Tinsukia and Dibrugarh. The awards consist of cash incentive of Rupees One Lakh and a citation to each awardee presented on the occasion. 5. SPORTS Promotion of Sports as a CSR initiative apart from providing a platform and motivating the budding talent from the rural parts of OIL’s operational areas, plays the role of uniting the communities, mobilizing, inspiring and instilling responsible behavior among the children and youth. OIL’s contribution and collaboration with the social groups, district administration and sports bodies, has helped in making rural sports as one of the most popular sports event in the rural areas creating social advantage, over the years. Young children participating in the OIL Rural Sports initiative Project Sakshyam for the differently abled: Every year as a special gesture under the OIL Merit Scholarship Scheme, OIL provides scholarship in the form of monetary support to students with disabilities and special needs, studying in two special schools of Mrinaljyoti Rehabilitation Centre and Moran Blind School. The two schools visibly located in the OIL’s operational areas of Upper Assam in Duliajan and Moran respectively cater to students not only from Upper Assam but also from far flung areas of North East. The Project was initiated with the prime objective of catering to the needs of the two schools whether in terms of infrastructure development, running costs or any special project which will act as a support base for enabling the students as productive and independent citizens of the mainstream. Swachh Bharat Abhiyan: OIL has constructed 1471 school toilets across 5 districts of Assam under the project (namely Dibrugarh, Tinsukia, Jorhat, Sivasagar, Dhubri, Barpeta and Bongaigaon) along with other ongoing initiatives under the programme in OIL’s operational states. The details of the initiatives under the programme are given below. 1. Construction of toilets in Government Schools under Swachh Vidyala Abhiyan: OIL has constructed 1500 school toilets in the 7 (seven) districts of Assam, namely, Dibrugarh, Tinsukia, Jorhat, Sivasagar, Barpeta, Bongaigaon and Dhubri. Sample Photos of Toilets constructed in schools by Oil India Limited in 7 districts in Assam under the Swachh Vidyalaya Abhiyan 2. Installation of Drinking water plants in villages in OIL operational area of KG Basin Project: OIL has undertaken an initiative for installation of 20 nos. of RO/UV drinking water plants in villages of East Godavari District, in the operational area of OIL's KG Basin project. The work under the first phase of the project is in progress. In the first phase, 8 plants have been installed and the balance shall be installed in the second phase in 2015-16. 3. Construction of 2 nos. of separate toilet for men & women in Ranau and Ramgarh villages of Jaisalmer district in OIL operational area of Rajasthan, which at present do not have such facilities: Construction of the toilets in both the villages under this initiative was completed by 31st March, 2015. 4. Cleaning and maintenance of Bondajan water body within the periphery and campus of OIL's Pipeline Headquarters, at Narangi, Guwahati, Assam: This initiative on deepening, widening and de-silting of the Bondajan water body at Guwahati, near OIL's Pipeline Headquarters (as part of the project on flood free Guwahati), has been implemented by the Guwahati Metropolitan Development Authority(GMDA). The work under the project has been completed. 5. Providing garbage bins & garbage disposal trucks to Guwahati Municipal Corporation for garbage collection and cleanliness in different locations of Guwahati city 1000 nos. of garbage bins & 2 nos. of garbage disposal trucks: The project has been taken up in two phases. In the first phases, 250 nos. of Twin Litter Bin Systems are being installed in the Guwahati city. The remaining items shall be installed in the second phase of the project. -----------------------------------------------------x-------------------------------------------19
