Sustainability Report 2015 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 About This Report Contents SK innovation has published its annual sustainability report since 2005 to transparently disclose management activities and roadmaps for the future, and incorporate stakeholder feedback into management activities. This Report is published upon the review of and approval by the Board of Director’s CSR Committee. Reporting Standard This report follows the Global Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Guidelines and the global standard on social responsibility, ‘ISO 26000.’ Please refer to pages 77~79 for specific indexes. About this Report Cover Report Summary Stakeholder Engagement & Material Topics 2 Materiality Test Process CEO Message 4 To determine the topics with the most material impact on the company and our stakeholders, we adopted a materiality test process based on the GRI G4 Guidelines. 01 To assess the materiality of topics, we gathered internal and external information including global standards for susCorporate SKMS 8 tainable management, industry trends, and media – and identified 32 topics, which were then prioritized based on Other information Information Our Commitment 9 discussions with both internal and external sustainability experts, and a stakeholder survey. To prioritize the topics, we Report Assurance Corporate Governance 10 comprehensively reviewed topics from the 2014 report, recommendations of the global sustainability reporting guideline To enhance the accuracy and At a Glance 12 including the GRI G4, and SK innovation’s ability to disclose data. Finally, 10 material topics were selected for the 2015 credibility of the content, DNV GL Business Value Chain 14 report. provided independent assurance SK innovation & Subsidiaries 16 of the report. Please refer to the Independent Assurance StateReporting Scope ment on pages 75-76 for method02 The 10 material topics addressed in this report include enhancing Board-driven management, securing financial health, ologies and scope of assurance Business Market Outlook 32 accelerating global growth, strengthening fundamental competitiveness, boosting R&D, creating and sharing economic and the final opinion. Review Our Strategy 34 value, strengthening ethical management, implementing global-standard SHE management, maintaining work life Reports from previous years Risk Management 40 balance, and strengthening capacity building and communication with suppliers. This report contains our managerial SK innovation has published the approach, standard disclosure and miscellaneous issues we deem necessary to disclose to represent SK innovation’s sustainability report since 2005. 03 efforts in sustainable management. The 2005~2014 reports are available on our website (http://www. Sustainability Ethical Management 44 Reporting Boundary skinnovation.com). Review SHE 48 Talent Management 54 The reporting boundary of this report is limited to the domestic operations of SK innovation’s headquarter in Seoul and Additional Information Mutual Growth 58 its five subsidiaries (SK energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants, SK incheon petrochem and SK trading international) Additional information on SK and the production plants in Jeungpyeong, Cheongju, Seosan, Ulsan and Incheon as well as the Daedeok R&D Park. To innovation’s sustainable manageLocal Communities 62 align with our global strategy, we will endeavor to expand the reporting boundary to include overseas business sites in ment can be found on our website (www.skinnovation.com) and 04 future reports. inquiries may be directed to the Appendix Financial Statement 68 Sustainability Management PlanReporting Period ning Team Sustainable Performance 69 This report includes performance data from January to December 2015. For some performance indicators, data from Auditors’ Report 74 Sustainability Management the period of 2013 to 2015 is included to capture and convey the change in trends. For other corporate management Assurance Statement 75 Planning Team information and particular results considered to have potential influence in stakeholder decision-making, data up to the Mail ski_sr@sk.com GRI G4 index 77 first half of 2016 is included. Phone +82-2-2121-5114 Membership Status 80 1 Stakeholder Engagement & Material Topics A company’s sustainable growth is attained by establishing a trust-based relationship with its stakeholders Prioritization of Topics aimed at achieving mutual growth. Therefore, SK innovation identifies its customers, employees, shareholders, local communities, and suppliers as key stakeholders and seeks ways to achieve mutual growth 1 Enhance Board-driven transparent management through consensus building between the company and its stakeholders through a wide-range of 8 2 4 communication channels. 2 Secure financial health Impact of shareholder decision 5 3 SK innovation has various communication channels in place tailored to each particular stakeholder 3 Accelerate global growth Stakeholder group. In recognition of the importance of two-way communication, we do our best to collect stake7 holder opinions and incorporate them into the company’s decision-making process and business 4 Strengthen fundamental competitiveness Communication 9 activities. 5 Boost R&D 10 Communication Channels and Key Topics by Stakeholder Group 6 6 Create and share economic value 1 Key Stakeholders Communication Channels 2015 Key Topics 7 Strengthen ethical management > ‘Customer Happiness Call Center’ (call center services) 8 Implement global-standard SHE management > Operation of EnClean.com Economy > Accelerate global growth > Customer Satisfaction Survey on promotion, etc. 9 Maintain work-life balance SHE > Implement global-standard SHE > Facebook (www.facebook.com/if.skinnovation) & Blogs management Impact of SK innovation’s views Strengthen capacity building and (http://skinnovation-if.com), etc. 10 Customers communication with suppliers > SK energy Facebook (www.facebook.com/skenergy) & Economy > Secure financial health Blogs (blog.skenergy.com), etc. > Implement global-standard SHE Status of Material Topics Included in the Report > In-house Broadcasting (GBS) & Newsletter SHE management > Intranet (tong tong) Economy > Strengthen fundamental > iCON (Change Agent) & Management Council (M2M competitiveness 2015 Material Topics GRI G4 Aspect 2015 Report table of content Board) Employees > Business Briefing sessions, etc. Society > Maintain work-life balance 1 Governance (Generic Disclosure) Corporate Governance p.10 > General Shareholders’ Meetings, Earnings Releases Economy > Accelerate global growth 2 3 4 5 6 Economic Performance > Domestic/overseas NDR (Non-Deal Roadshow) > Domestic/International Conferences > Respond to internal-external Economy risks 7 Anti-corruption Our Strategy p.34 > 1:1 Meeting, e-mail/phone counseling Shareholders > Disclosures, Reports Economy > Secure financial health 7 Anti-competitive behavior Ethical Management p.44 > Meetings with local organizations Society > Protect client health and safety 7 Compliance > Attending the local community committees in neighboring areas and the patrol division safety councils Society > Fair trade act compliance 8 Environment > Attending the operating committees of welfare facilities SHE p.48 Local Communities and groups in neighboring areas SHE > Pollutant management 8 Occupational health & safety > Implement global-standard SHE Talent Management p.54 SHE 9 Employment management > Regular Meetings with Suppliers > Supplier-CEO Seminars SHE > Pollutant management 10 Supplier assessment for social impact > Business Briefing Session, etc Mutual Growth p.58 Suppliers Society > Maintain work-life balance 10 Procurement practices 2 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 3 CEO Message Dear SK innovation stakeholders, I would like to convey my deepest gratitude for your continued support of SK innovation. Although 2015 was challenging with external business conditions worsening since 2014, SK innovation recorded its highest operating profit since 2011. As our strenuous efforts helped us overcome unprecedented challenges last year, we will continue to strive not merely to survive, but to achieve sustainable growth. We would like to share our major business activities, performance and plans for increasing our corporate value and efforts towards refining our sustainable management practices through the 2015 Sustainability Report. Structural innovation to increase corporate value SK innovation endeavored to overcome the challenges of a difficult business environment through innovations in its profit, business and financial structures. SK innovation not only streamlined and reduced costs in industrial complexes located in Ulsan and Incheon, but also increased its market share in the oil product, chemicals, and lubricants markets to further solidify its market leadership. Moreover, SK innovation expanded its global partnerships through, for example, formation of SABIC SK Nexlene Company (SSNC) and Iberian Lube Base Oils Company (ILBOC), built additional battery production capacity, and increased its corporate value by reinforcing our E&P business in North America. Further, by improving SK innovation’s financial structure which had been weakened at the end of 2014, SK innovation was able to restore its credit rating to be on the same footing with other global leaders. Today, SK innovation continually strives to increase corporate value by diversifying its business portfolios. Management innovation for enhancing execution ability Built upon the SK group’s unique management system, SK Management System (SKMS), SK innovation aims to evolve and develop into a company that is strong in the face of a crisis and equipped with excellent execution capacity. While innovating SK innovation’s management system to respond rapidly against sudden changes in the business environment, we also work to improve policies and remove inefficiencies from outdated practices. In particular, SK innovation promotes the spirit of ‘Self-Design’ policies and individual cultures uniquely fit for each of the five subsidiaries of SK innovation and its business units as part of our ‘separate yet unified’ approach as we strive to strengthen on-site operational excellency. Enhancing Sustainable Management to pursue stakeholders’ happiness SK innovation is making its best effort to not only increase corporate value, but to also live up to its reputation as a company that is trusted and respected by all stakeholders. SK innovation endeavors to secure its employees’ health and safety, manage Safety, Health, and Environment (SHE) in accordance with global standards, pursue mutual growth with suppliers, and enrich the quality of life for local communities. Moreover, in support of various global initiatives on sustainability including the UN Global Compact (UNGC), SK innovation will actively participate in the global discourse on corporate social responsibility including the responsibility to uphold human rights and labor rights, safeguard the environment, and spearhead anti-corruption initiatives. Dear esteemed stakeholders, All of us at SK innovation concertedly strive to become a global leader in the energy and chemical industry through change and innovation. SK innovation will earn your respect and affection by always listening to your opinions and communicating with all of our stakeholders. Respectfully yours, SK innovation Vice Chairman and CEO, Chung, Chul-Khil 4 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 5 01 Corporate Information SKMS 8 Our Commitment 9 Corporate Governance 10 At a Glance 12 Business Value Chain 14 SK innovation & Subsidiaries 16 Night View of SK energy Ulsan Complex 6 7 01 Corporate Information | SKMS | Our Commitment | Corporate Governance | At a Glance | Business Value Chain | SK innovation & Subsidiaries SKMS Our Commitment SK innovation strives to achieve sustainable growth while pursuing stakeholders’ happiness. In this regard, SK innovation, committed to fulfilling our social responsibilities and duties as a global corporate citizen, joined SK innovation establishes an advanced management system and creates a sound corporate culture through the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in October 2007. We proclaimed our commitment to support the Ten transparent and accountable management practices based on the SK Management System (SKMS). Principles of UNGC covering four areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We strive to adhere to the Ten Principles in our various management practices by incorporating them in our talent management strategies, Safety Health Environment (SHE) policies and ethics guidelines. The SK Management System (SKMS) is SK Group’s fundamental framework for sustainability manSKMS (SK agement efforts that is agreed upon and shared by all employees, consisting of SK Group’s unique Management corporate culture, management philosophy and management techniques. It was first established in 1979 so that all employees can be aware of the essence of management through the SKMS and System) enhance the level of business management by utilizing it in their decision-making process. MoreThe Ten over, SKMS goes beyond theories, embedding real business cases to sharpen employees’ practical Principles of skills. Through these efforts, we will secure the competitiveness required to become a leading global company in the global environment. All of the employees belonging to SK Group apply the the UN Global Principle 1 Support and respect Espousing belief in ‘human-oriented SKMS in their management practices, while also striving to upgrade and improve the SKMS to adapt Compact the protection of management,’ SK innovation endeavors internally proclaimed to maintain a workplace free of human to the changing business environment. Human human rights rights abuse. We have identified a ‘trusted Rights global expert with the spirit of challenge Principle 2 M  ake sure that they and innovation’ as our ideal employee, and are not complicit in recruit talent in a fair and sensible manner. SKMS Framework human rights abuses. Furthermore, employees are offered equal opportunities in light of respective aptitude, Principle 3 Uphold the freedom skills and duty compatibilities. We also of association and the recognize the freedom of association effective recognition and collective bargaining rights and hold of right to collective periodic dialogues with employees to Management bargaining address their work-related concerns and improve the work environment. Perspective SK-Way to Principle 4 Eliminate all forms of Mission(1) Our Value(2) Achieve Our forced and compulsory Labour labour Value(3) SK innovation has prioritized environmental Principle 5 Effectively abolish child management as its core task, and labour established and comply with internal Principle 6 Eliminate environmental standards that are more Principles of SK Management System stringent than regulatory requirements discrimination in in order to become a role model in the Management respect of employment industry both at home and abroad. To that and occupation end, we are contributing to environmental Implementation Principle 7 Support a protection by minimizing the emission of Principle SUPEX Role of SK People and Internal Environment precautionary greenhouse gas, wastewater and toxins. To further promote values conducive to Goal / Business Plan Leaders for the SUPEX Quest approach to environmental preservation through our environmental business operation, we are channeling (1) Mission: The corporate challenges efforts to develop eco-friendly technology enterprise should achieve its Principle 8 Undertake initiatives and achieve innovation in energy. ultimate goal of sustained Environ to promote greater progress by maintaining Static Factors Dynamic Factors* -ment environmental stability and growth. Furthermore, it should create responsibilities Building upon our exclusive management value for its customers, people system SKMS, we established an ethical Principle 9 Encourage the and shareholders, thereby > Marketing > Implementation by SK People code of conduct for appropriate behavior and development contributing to social and > Production > Implementation by the Company value assessment among employees, and economic development and Business and diffusion of set application guidelines to offer specific > Research & Development environmentally human well-being. Management > Strategic Planning * Dynamic Factors: Ui-yok, criterion. To foster high ethical standards Managerial Capacity, Coordination, friendly technologies among employees, we also provide ethics (2) Our Value: The ultimate goal of > Human Resource·Organization our value is the happiness of Factors Communication, SK-Manship, etc. Anticounseling and firmly address unethical > Accounting·Finance Principle 10 Work against all forms stakeholders. behavior upon receiving tip-offs through an > Purchasing corruption of corruption, including online channel. (3) SK-Way to Achieve Our Value: > CR (Corporate Relations), etc. extortion and bribe Pursuing SUPEX via-HumanOriented Management. 8 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 9 01 Corporate Information | SKMS | Our Commitment | Corporate Governance | At a Glance | Business Value Chain | SK innovation & Subsidiaries Corporate Governance Systematic Holding Periodic Board Meetings The Board convenes on the fourth Friday of every month. The directors are provided with necesand Advanced sary materials at least five days prior to the Board meetings and two days before the Committee meetings to allow for a thorough review of agenda items. In addition, Ad-hoc meetings are convened Operation of to make prompt decisions on any urgent matters, thereby promoting transparent management practhe Board of tices. In 2015, 14 Board and 21 Committee meetings were held. Directors Preliminary Review of Major Decision-making SK innovation places the Board as the highest decision-making body of the SKMS to carry out Board-driven Matters critical to the company, including large-scale investments, separations, and mergers are required to undergo a three-stage process comprised of preliminary review, Board discussion and management. Board-driven management reflects the interests of shareholders evenly by ensuring the Board is feedback, and a separate Board meeting for voting purposes. In 2015, we held in-depth discussions operated true to its mission and promotes a corporate structure of ethical and transparent decision-making. To on the divestment of shares of Peruvian gas transport company (TgP), the status of the Lithium-ion achieve this, the Board and the CEO strive to cooperate with each other and share responsibilities. battery separator(LiBS) project and the mid-and long-term business plan. Business Planning & Status and Performance Report The Board reviews short-term business plans and medium-and long-term strategies (To-be Model) As of June 2016, SK innovation’s Board has eight members, comprised of three executive direcannually on a regular basis. Meanwhile, the Board sets the direction for achieving sustainable growth Ensuring an tors and five independent directors. The chairmen of the Board’s committees are all appointed by holding in-depth discussions actively about internal and external environments and characteristics Independent from among the independent directors and the majority of the committee members are comfor each business area, including petrochemicals and EV batteries. Also, when making reports on the prised of independent directors to ensure the independence and transparency of the Board. Board of quarterly management performance, management issues, performance and plans of subsidiaries and Current Board Members affiliated entities are also reported, so that the Board members can conduct an overall evaluation of Directors (as of June 2016) the company’s status. Executive directors Independent directors PRESENT) Chairman and PRESENT) Visiting professor, PRESENT) Chairman, The Council’s Talent Cultivation KDI School of Public Policy Spinners & Weavers Holding Board Meetings On-site Committee of SK SUPEX and Management Association of Korea We hold Board meetings at domestic and overseas worksites to implement on-site management pracCouncil FORMER) Chief Secretary to the PRESENT) President & CEO, PRESENT) Chairman, SK President for National Policy Kyungbang Co. tices. In 2015, we actively implemented such management practices by holding the Board meeting at Innovation Board > Audit Committee(Chairman) > Strategic Planning Kim > HR Committee Kim Dae Ki > Strategic Planning Kim Joon Committee(Chairman) SK incheon petrochem site the Board also attended the ribbon cutting ceremony of the Nexlene Plant Chang Geun Committee > Audit Committee > Transparent Management > HR Committee in Ulsan, and other on-site activities. Committee PRESENT) President, Energy FORMER) Ambassador, PRESENT) Professor, Hongik Promoting Strategic Communication Session Chemical Committee of SK Embassy of the Republic of University SUPEX Council Korea to the Islamic Republic PRESENT) Chairman, Korean SK innovation periodically holds the strategic communication session attended by top executives and PRESENT) Vice Chairman & of Pakistan Chemistry Olympiad, Korean CEO, SK innovation FORMER) Senior Advisor & Chemical Society independent directors, including the CEO, to gain a better understanding about its major agenda items Chung > Recommendation & Shin Un Head, Delegation of KSP Ha > Transparent Management through discussions. At the communication session, the participants openly discussed management Nomination Committee Consultation(Pakistan Policy Committee(Chairman) Chul-Khil > Strategic Planning Advisory Group) Yun Kyoung > CSR Committee philosophy, vision, strategic fit and difficulties, as well as issues that were raised during the discussion. Committee > HR Committee(Chairman) > CSR Committee(Chairman) In 2015, there were in-depth discussions held during the sessions about status of the global petroleum > Recommendation & Nomination Committee industry and its implications, the medium-term business strategies of SK innovation’s subsidiaries, and other pertinent issues. PRESENT) President, Global PRESENT) Professor, KAIST College of Business Growth Committee of SK FORMER) President, Korea Marketing Association SUPEX Council PRESENT) President & CEO, > Recommendation & Nomination Committee(Chairman) > Audit Committee Board Performance Evaluation & Compensation SK E&S > CSR Committee The composition, function and operation related matters of the Board are assessed annually. The result > Transparent Management (1) Yu Hahn Min Hi Jeong Joon Committee NACD: National Association of is reviewed and then documented in the annual reports. Incorporation of the results in the Board operCorporate Directors ation plan and its active implementation spurs our Board’s continued growth. To provide fair reward to (2) the directors, the HR Committee sufficiently deliberates in advance on the pay ceiling, which is then Composition of Board Committees ICGN: International Corporate Ratio of Governance Network voted on during the Board meeting and confirmed in the General Shareholders’ Meeting. independent Committee directors Main duties Conducting audits on the job performance of directors and accounting and management practices, as well Audit 100% as evaluations on internal accounting management system. To promote effective and professional activities at the Board, our independent directors actively participate Recommendation & Nomination 67% Exploring and managing a pool of independent director candidates and recommending candidates. Enhancing the in educational programs related to domestic/overseas governance structure and businesses. By attendStrategic Planning 67% Reviewing medium-and long-term business plans and strategies, including major investments and plans. Expertise of ing conferences held by the two most eminent global institutions in corporate governance, NACD(1) and Human Resources 67% Reviewing major policies on HR management and recommending executive director candidates. ICGN(2), our directors benchmark advanced global practices and network with managers and directors from Transparent 67% Reviewing transactions between subsidiaries and reviewing the Fair Trade Compliance Program. Independent Management world-renowned companies. Furthermore, newly appointed independent directors are offered orientation CSR 100% Reviewing CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) activities and major CSR issues. Directors programs at the headquarter and local business sites to enhance their company knowledge. 10 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 11 01 Corporate Information | SKMS | Our Commitment | Corporate Governance | At a Glance | Business Value Chain | SK innovation & Subsidiaries At a Glance Business Operation Status and production capacity of major production sites 2015 Business Performance > Nation’s pioneer in commercial resource Crude oil exploration at 9 blocks I China (2), Vietnam (2), Australia (2), Oil and gas development Crude oil secured Established 1962. 10. 13 Exploration Morocco, Equatorial Guinea, Peru > Participates in 16 production blocks & 4 LNG based on proven HQ 26 Jongno, Jongno-gu, Seoul and Crude oil production at 7 blocks I Peru (3), Vietnam, U.S. (2), Libya reserve Business Areas Petroleum, lubricants, projects in 11 countries as of the end of 2015 4 LNG Projects I Yemen, Peru, Oman, Qatar Production petrochemicals, > Proved reserves of approx. 550 million BPD 550 million barrels macromolecule, green energy, E&P and other businesses battery, I/E material Representative Vice Chairman & CEO, > Equipped with the value chain essential for battery Revenue: Chung Chul-Khil Electric vehicle Battery, manufacturing battery supply Employee no. 1,419 persons Seosan plant I Production line for lithium-ion batteries KRW 1 trillion 149.8 billion Information & > Pursues joint projects and collaborations with Jeungpyeong, Cheongju plant I Production line for battery material, circuit 30 thousand Operating profit & loss: Electronic (I/E) business partners home and abroad material units/yr material > Solidifying global status in the mid/large battery and KRW 45.1 billion I/E material industry Established 2011. 01. 01 Annual HQ 26 Jongno, Jongno-gu, Seoul > Supports ‘Open Innovation’ in diverse fields Petroleum Business Areas Petroluem products including petroleum, new materials and green product Representative President & CEO, Kim Jun energy capacity Employee no. 2,433 persons R&D Global Technology I R&D in petroleum, lubricant, petrochemical, > Builds strong cooperation among functions to macromolecule, new energy, battery and I/E material Petroleum business Ulsan Complex identify new growth engines and strengthen 293 million barrels Revenue: competitiveness SK incheon KRW 35 trillion 299.7 billion Established 2011. 01. 01 > Korea’s first oil company and a leading domestic petrochem Operating profit & loss: Ulsan Complex 137 million HQ 26 Jongno, Jongno-gu, Seoul energy provider for the last 50 years KRW 1 trillion 299.1 billion barrels Business Areas Petrochemical products Refinary plant I Atmospheric distillation process, vacuum distillation process, > Possesses more than 50 different crude oil types Representative President & CEO, Petroleum hydrogen desulfurization process, catalytic reforming process, asphalting process Kim Hyungkun as the world’s largest crude oil refiner (1.2 million products Intermediate oil cracking plant I HOU plant 2nd vacuum distillation process, Employee no. 1,001 persons BPD) intermediate oil cracking process, intermediate oil desulfurization process, hydrogen Annual > Exports over 50% of the products by leveraging Petrochemical production process, sulfur recovery process, lube base oil process, lube oil process, efficient and stable operational excellence grease production process 1st and 2nd FCC plant RHDS process, RFCC process, product PRU process, MTBE process, ALKY process capacity Petrochemical business Established 2009. 10. 01 > Supplies diverse raw/subsidiary materials ranging Petrochemical plant I Produces aromatics, breaks down naphtha, produces Ulsan Complex HQ 26 Jongno, Jongno-gu, Seoul Revenue: Business Areas Lubricant and lubricant base oil from cutting-edge materials to daily products paraxylene (PX) and cyclohexane 7 million 637 Representative President & CEO, Lee Kihwa > Spearheads the growth of domestic petrochemical Polymer plant I Produces linear low-density polyethylene (LLDPE), high-density thousand ton KRW 9 trillion 288 billion Employee no. 283 persons Petrochemical industry by strengthening technological prowess via polyethylene (HDPE), polypropylene (PP), ethylene propylene diene monomer SK incheon petrochem* Operating profit & loss: products continued infrastructure investment and R&D (EPDM) products 1 million 467 KRW 430.9 billion > Reinforces the functional chemical product and Lubricant base oil and lubricant plant I Produces lube base oil, YUBASE products, thousand ton high value-added product lines to maximize future SK ZIC products Established 2013. 07. 01 profitability * based on px HQ 415 Bongsu-daero, Seo-gu, SK incheon petrochem Incheon Refinery plant I Atmospheric distillation process, hydrogen desulfurization Business Areas Petroleum products and Annual Base oil > Dominates the domestic lubricant market and the process , sulfur recovery process, gas recovery unit, vacuum distillation process product capacity petrochemical products Lubricants, Lubricant business Group III advanced base oil market with the leading Petrochemical plant I Aromatics production process naphtha, reformed Representative President & CEO, base oil lube oil brand SK ZIC, and the base oil YUBASE 23 million 810 Lee Jae Hwan gasoline, produces quality base chemical oil Revenue: thousand barrels Employee no. 578 persons KRW 2 trillion 618.8 billion > Exports and imports raw material and products Operating profit & loss: Import for SK energy, SK global chemical and SK incheon Annual Lubricant Established 2013. 07. 01 crude oil, America, Europe, Singapore Corporations, Dubai Branch product capacity KRW 294.7 billion HQ 26 Jong-ro, Jongno-gu, Seoul petrochem > Procure crude oil and petroleum products used domestically export Business Areas Trading of crude oil and > Leads the effort in strengthening core > Export petroleum products manufactured domestically 1.81 million petroleum petroleum products competencies and global growth of SK innovation’s > Trading and Bunkering Business etc. barrels Representative President & CEO, Song Jin Hwa products Employee no. 110 persons subsidiaries *For information on the shareholding structure of SK innovation and its subsidiaries, please refer to the website (http://www.skinnovation.com) 12 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 13 01 Corporate Information | SKMS | Our Commitment | Corporate Governance | At a Glance | Business Value Chain | SK innovation & Subsidiaries Business Value Chain SK innovation has successfully advanced into the business of exploration and production of oil, gas and other resources overseas. We are gaining attention for our success with a stream of projects in countries including Vietnam, Peru, and the United States. Moreover, we are utilizing our outstanding crude oil refining technologies to produce not only fuels, such as high-quality gasoline, diesel, and kerosene, but also high-quality base oil, lubricant, and a wide range of products with everyday applications including basic chemical products, chemical solvents, and synthetic rubber. We are increasing the competitiveness of our existing businesses by optimizing the entire operational process from importing crude oil to producing and selling products. We are also striving to create future growth engines based on technologies accumulated over the past 50 years. As a result, we are entering into the I/E materials business areas of batteries and battery separators for electric E&P and Other Businesses vehicles, and are starting to gain traction with major customers in the global market. E&P Petrochemical and Petroleum Business SK innovation explores Key Product Lubricant Business major blocks around Explothe globe and produces Production ration oil and gas to secure SK energy and SK global chemical, SK lubricants, a source of energy for natural resource-poor SK incheon petrochem (Refining Industry) SK incheon petrochem (Petrochemical Industry) Korea and contribute to Crude LNG Crude oil is refined to remove foreign substances and Chemical products, base oil and lubricants are used in the country’s economic Oil impurities to produce fuel, LPG, asphalt, naphtha, and a wide range of areas and produced by reforming and growth. base materials for chemical products. eliminating the impurities of the byproducts generated during the refining process. Key Products Refining B&I PetroLubricants chemical SK innovation is gaining Key Product Naphtha, UCO recognition for its superb technology from major global auto manufacturImport crude LPG Key Products ers in the market for oil Key Products lithium-ion batteries used Cell Module Battery Management EV Battery in electric vehicles (EVs). System (BMS) Moreover, we are poised to become a global Asphalt Petrochemical Lubricant player in the information Fuel Gas Asphalt electronic sector with Product our LiBS and FCCL techAnode & Cathode Separator Pouch Separator nology. Material Polyimide Drying Export Trading Copper FCCL foil SK trading Export Key Products international R&D The trading business manages the GLOBAL import of crude oil and naphtha necessary for producing petroMARKET SK innovation continuously strives to strengthen the competitiveness of its existing businesses through technological innovation and provide customers with new value by developing new growth engines. leum products as well as the Export & Import export of products made by SK materials·products energy and SK incheon petrochem to customers around the world. 14 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 15 01 Corporate Information | SKMS | Our Commitment | Corporate Governance | At a Glance | Business Value Chain | SK innovation & Subsidiaries SK innovation Exploration & Production (E&P) SK innovation is actively engaged in Exploration and Production (E&P) business around the world, participating in 16 production blocks and four LNG projects in 11 countries as of the end of December 2015. SK innovation’s production blocks in countries such as Peru and Vietnam produce approximately 63 thousand barrels of oil equivalent per day (BPD). With the proven reserves totaling 550 million BPD or the equivalent of an eight-month supply for Korea, SK Vietnam innovation is helping Korea secure energy resources and contributing to its economic growth. Overview After acquiring exploration rights in Block 15-1 in Vietnam, SK innovation carried out exploration of Major and development for five years and started production in 2003. In September 2014, we successfully made additional developments, making the Su Tu Nau field our fourth oil field. This was an Overseas exceptional case of a Korean private company undertaking the entire process from exploration and Overview of Blocks Development development to commercial production. Regions Peru After starting crude oil production in Block 8 of Peru, SK innovation began production at Blocks 88 and 56 in 2004 and 2008, respectively. In 2010, the Peru LNG project was completed with the construction of the company’s own LNG plant as part of the value chain consisting of E&P, pipeline transportation, LNG production, and exports. With the plant’s completion, SK innovation achieved vertical integration and is now able to manage the entire value chain from exploration to sale of products. Foum Assaka 04/20 U.S. SK Plymouth 17/03 SK innovation accelerated its advancement into the U.S., the hub of the Shale Revolution, by acquirSK Permian (1) Unconventional NC174 resources: Shale ing assets in Oklahoma and Texas in March 2014. In Oklahoma, it successfully reduced the drilling 15-1 Gas, Oil sands, UltraYemen LNG heavy oil and other time and increased the daily production volume by 30% with an effective drilling method. SK inno15-1 / 05 Oman LNG resources that are vation is propelling its E&P business capacity forward by obtaining the U.S.’s unconventional(1) E&P 8 S 123 difficult to extract with Ras Laffan LNG 88(Camisea) conventional methods technology and know-how through its operation of production blocks in the U.S. WA 34R Peru LNG WA 425P 56 China Z-46 In 2015, SK innovation became the first Korean company to venture into the South China Sea. The two blocks (04/20, 17/03) are shallow in depth ranging from 50 to 400 meters, allowing relatively low-cost exploration and drilling. The location of the blocks near China and Korea serves as an advantage that could reduce transportation fees, making them even more promising assets. With Blocks LNG Projects Exploration Blocks Production Blocks 04/20 and 17/03 each being 2.8 times (5,138km2) and 4 times (7,686km2) the size of Jeju Island, SK Country Project Name Participating Country Block Name Participating Country Block Name Participating innovation established a branch in Shenzhen for exploration activities and is developing the blocks Since Since Since jointly with China National Offshore Oil Corporation (CNOOC). Yemen Yemen LNG 1997 Morocco Foum Assaka 2013 Libya NC174 2000 Oman Oman LNG 1996 Vietnam 15-1/05 2007 U.S SK Plymouth 2014 123 2008 SK Permian 2014 SK innovation wrote success stories in Yemen’s Marib, Vietnam, and Peru, built its reputation and Qatar Ras Laffan LNG 1999 Equatorial Guinea S 2009 Vietnam 15-1 1998 Future Plans became a trusted business partner. Currently, SK innovation is strengthening its business portfoPeru Peru LNG 2003 Australia WA 34R 1998 Peru 8 1996 lio consisting of exploration, development, and production by exploring in strategic locations and WA 425P 2009 88 (Camisea) 2000 acquiring new blocks. In 2016, SK innovation will maximize the production efficiency in the existChina 04/20 2015 56 2004 17/03 2015 ing blocks and continue development activities to discover additional reserves to maintain reliable Peru Z-46 2008 sources of revenues. Furthermore, exploration at the two new blocks in China will be carried out promptly. Moreover, we will accumulate our experience and continue to strengthen our technological competitiveness by securing talented E&P professionals through M&As and acquisition of production blocks. 16 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 17 01 Corporate Information | SKMS | Our Commitment | Corporate Governance | At a Glance | Business Value Chain | SK innovation & Subsidiaries SK innovation Battery Division: Expansion of EV Battery Supplies Batteries and Information & Electronics Materials Although SK innovation had a late start in the battery market compared to competitors, it has made meaningful achievements by securing world-class domestic and foreign car manufacturers including (B&I) Hyundai-Kia Motors, Beijing Automotive Industry Holding Co.(BAIC), and Daimler Group as cutomers. In 2015, the Seosan Plant operated at 100 percent capacity around the clock to respond to the rising demand for Kia Motors’ electric car, Soul EV, and BAIC’s EV200 and ES210. In early 2016, the company captured a stable source of demand by signing a large size contract with the Daimler Group to supply the company’s EVs with batteries. SK innovation has integrated the entire value chain for battery manufacturing and is maintaining its cooperative relationship with global automotive manufacturers to strengthen its position in the global battery industry. In Models Powered by SK innovation Batteries addition, building on over 50 years of chemical technology competency, SK innovation became the first Korean company to independently develop lithium-ion battery separators (LiBS) and the world’s first developer of Infrared Rays continuous curing FCCL production technology, which enables us to produce more advanced I/E materials. KIA SOUL EV KIA RAY EV BAIC EV200 BAIC ES210 SK innovation is developing and supplying lithium-ion batteries for electric vehicles to major domestic and foreign customers. Also, SK innovation’s lithium-ion battery separators are superior to our competitors’ products in terms of uniformity, safety, and permeability. We are supplying FCCL with I/E Materials Division: 2nd Largest Producer of LiBS in the World industry-leading dimensional stability and flexibility in step with the miniaturization and weight SK innovation successfully developed LiBS in 2004 and initiated commercial production in Decemreduction trends in IT devices, such as smartphones and tablets. ber 2005. In 2015, we captured the second largest global market share with annual LiBS sales reaching 150 million m2. In 2016, SK innovation expects to rapidly close the gap with the largest producer, Key Products propelled by the EV battery market’s explosive growth. In the EV and lithium-ion secondary battery markets, safety is gaining increasing importance on top of chemical property requirements, slimmer design, and thermal resistance. As such, SK innovation will use its specialty ceramic coated separaLiBS Production at tors to accelerate into the next level and become a market leader in the wet LiBS market by 2020. Jeungpyeong Plant I/E Materials Division: Continued Development of FCCL Technologies (1) LiBS: Li-ion Battery Separator Batteries LiBS(1) FCCL(2) SK innovation’s FCCL Business has secured its superior position in both quality and competitiveness (2) FCCL: Flexible Copper Clad Laminate by producing its own key raw materials and introducing a manufacturing method (the world’s first to develope IR(3) continuous curing FCCL production technology) that surpasses all competitors. Although the domestic business conditions were not favorable in 2015 due to a sluggish mobile Battery Division: Expansion of the Seosan Plant device market, we are growing our business by advancing into new global markets and diversifying Major In 2015, SK innovation completed expansion of the Seosan battery plant, doubling its capacity, and our client base. We are seeing tangible results from our activities such as production of differentiAchievements began operating at full capacity. The Seosan battery plant is now equipped with EV battery producated products such as ultra-thin and thick films and new application of our products in car transmis(3) IR: Infrared Rays sions. We are continuously developing new products to boost our factory utilization rate. tion facilities that can produce a total of 800MWh, enough to supply 30 thousand units of EVs, in 2015 twofold the original capacity. As China is expected to become the largest EV battery market in the world, SK innovation will conFuture Plans tinue to pursue growth with a focus on China, partnering with global companies as in the case of Beijing BESK Technology, which is a joint venture with Beijing Electronics Holding Co., Ltd (BEHC) and Beijing Automotive Industry Holding Co., Ltd. (BAIC) to produce batteries in China. The I/E Materials Division is planning facility expansion in 2016 to respond to the surge in market demand. The expansion will solidify SK innovation’s place in the global market as the second largest LiBS producer and push the company towards its goal of becoming the No. 1 company by 2020. There is continued competition among companies in the FCCL business due to recent oversupply in the market. However, the supply and demand balance is expected to improve following steady market growth. SK innovation will continue to secure new customers by using differentiated technology to develop superior products. 18 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 19 01 Corporate Information | SKMS | Our Commitment | Corporate Governance | At a Glance | Business Value Chain | SK innovation & Subsidiaries SK energy LPG Business SK energy’s LPG Division is building on its brand loyalty through a differentiated retail customer care program to strengthen its long-term competitiveness and secure a stable business foundation. In addition, customer relationship management (CRM) programs that target customers at fuel stations have been introduced in order to boost network competitiveness and brand value. SK energy is focusing on reinforcing marketing capabilities to ensure sustainable growth and high profitability in the future. Specialty Petroleum Products Business SK energy continues its company-wide efforts to innovate its revenue model by cementing market leadership and SK energy has a competitive advantage in the asphalt market based on its excellent products and services. A prime example is Polymer Modified Asphalt (SBS PMA), which SK energy became the focusing on operational excellence with agility and flexibility. Bolstered by our global partnerships, we will identify first domestic oil refining company to independently develop, commercialize, and patent. SK energy differentiated paths to growth and extensively refine our business model to become a leading global company in is also strengthening its marketing capabilities in the Chinese market through joint ventures involvthe energy sector. ing asphalt production, storage, and sales. Greater Focus on the Chinese Asphalt Market Petroleum Business SK energy seized the opportunity to channel its research and marketing capacities into SK Asphalt Key Business SK energy lives up to its status as Korea’s No.1 oil company by supplying both domestic and overMajor (Shanghai) Co.,Ltd., maximizing synergistic effects, and also focused on capturing the Chinese Areas seas markets with petroleum products produced at the world-class Ulsan plant, which boasts crude Achievements asphalt market. SK (Beijing) Road Science &. Tech. Co., Ltd. was scaled up and consolidated into SK oil refining capacity of 840 thousand barrels per day. To proactively respond to the rising oil price in 2015 Asphalt (Shanghai) Co.,Ltd.,. In addition, SK energy supplied asphalt tailored to local markets from and petroleum product price volatility, SK energy continually expedites and boosts flexibility throughfive local plants including Ningbo, Chongqing, Hefei. As a result, SK energy recorded the highest out the value chain. It is also revamping quality assurance programs to raise customers’ trust and export volume to China in 2015 and sustained the largest market share in China’s import asphalt provide differentiated customer services, including the EnClean bonus card, customer events such market. as ‘three thousand point privilege’, credit card affiliated gas station discounts and the Netruck business, which provides total solutions to freight truck drivers. Reinforcing Marketing Aimed at Domestic Consumers SK gas stations’ ‘3,000 Point Privilege’ marketing campaign, launched in 2012, aims to provide greater benefits for redeeming 3,000 unused OK Cashbag points. SK energy held two 3,000 Point Key Products Privilege events in May and August 2015, offering personal care products, including body wash and toothpaste, as well as building block kits of SK’s tankers, drill ships and more. The model kits reflect the preference of ‘kidults’ in their 30’s and 40’s and families with children who frequent SK Petroleum gas stations. These items were wildly popular, with 50 thousand units selling out far earlier than the Products Gas Asphalt events’ close. In order to enhance the event’s effectiveness in promoting the use of OK Cashbag Premium Gasoline Diesel LPG Superphalt May 2015 Event points amongst key clientele and solidify its prominence as SK gas stations’ signature customer EnClean Solux boasts a higher Research SK energy’s diesel is used for Since EnClean Superphalt is the product name of service event, we will continue to raise customer satisfaction by offering a wider range of privileges Octane Number (RON) than regular automobiles and possesses superb LPG goes through polymer modified asphalt (PMA) redeemable with three thousand points. gasoline products, which increases ignitionability essential for high-speed combustion in the developed by SK energy. It is an engine power, protects engines, and diesel engines, creates an appropriate form of a gas, it is innovative product that lengthens the dramatically improves ride quality. amount of stray, and maintains adequate highly flammable life span of roads. A net of polymer Improving Asset Efficiency to Enhance Corporate Values Compared to the existing EnClean viscosity and lubricity required to prevent and combustible, chains created between SBS and To sustain business operations and build a foundation for growth amid mounting uncertainties in gasoline, the premium gasoline is a abrasion of the fuel injection pump. Our allowing it to asphalt molecules absorbs stress more eco-friendly fuel with additional diesel’s distillation features also allow for undergo uniform applied on the pavement, dramatically our business environment caused by stagnant global economic growth and increasing price volatildetergent, thereby improving fuel satisfactory combustion and high thermal and complete improves viscosity and elasticity, thereby ity of oil, enhancing the profit and business structure and strengthening our core competencies is economy and reducing exhaust gas efficiency. combustion, and remarkably lengthening the life span of has high thermal August 2015 Event essential. To that end, we actively pursued sales of idle assets in 2015, and will enhance the value emission. roads. efficiency. chain’s efficiency and continue to boost corporate values by focusing on maintaining a cash flow. Regular Gasoline Kerosene Regular Asphalt SK’s state-of-the-art gasoline detergent SK Kerosene undergoes a highly SK energy is leading the development is included in EnClean gasoline, markedly sophisticated refining process making of high-quality functional asphalt based SK energy will not rest on its position as a leader in the domestic market. The company will improving its cleaning capabilities. As it suitable for supplementary indoor on its superb technology. Moreover, the a result, carbon buildup on the intake heaters and household boilers, and company is going beyond simply selling Future Plans leverage its operational capabilities, technologies, and marketing skills accumulated from valves is minimal when using EnClean therefore does not contain foreign products, to addressing any issues in the supplying petroleum products, to solidify our market leadership as a ‘regional top R&M company.’ gasoline. In addition, removal of deposits substances, demonstrates excellent field by dispatching asphalt experts with inside the engine can lead to better combustion properties, and emits little specialized training and experience. We will thus enhance competitiveness in our profit and business structure, and build upon our engine output and fuel economy, less toxic substance. global partnering approach to identify differentiated business model to ultimately evolve into a toxic exhaust fumes, improved driving dynamics, and other positive effects. ‘global top-tier R&M company’ with bright future prospects and vision. 20 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 21 01 Corporate Information | SKMS | Our Commitment | Corporate Governance | At a Glance | Business Value Chain | SK innovation & Subsidiaries SK global chemical Polymer Business The Polymer Division supplies materials used not only in cars, electric appliances and communications devices, but also for most daliy necessities including toothpaste tubes, stationery and storage containers. Having established itself as an LLDPE(1), HDPE(2), and PP(3) specialist, the division is actively developing new products to advance into the high value-added market and boost the competitiveness of our products. The division also strives to build and reinforce our market network (1) L  LDPE: Liner Low Density Polyethylene which is used to strengthen our competitiveness in the Chinese market, the largest source of in packaging and agricultural SK global chemical has spearheaded the development of the domestic chemical industry through continuous facility market demand. film, wire clothing, pipe for civil engineering and construction, investment, R&D and technological improvement. SK global chemical supplies a wide range of products ranging sheet, etc. (2) H  DPE: High Density Performance Rubber Business from raw and supplementary materials for everyday consumer goods to advanced materials for automobiles, Polyethylene which is used in The Performance Rubber Division produces EPDM, a high value-added synthetic containers, grocery packaging electronics, and communications devices. SK global chemical strives to advance its functional chemical product and film, water and sewage or rubber with an outstanding resistance to foul weather, heat, and corrosive ozone. chemical plants, vessels, pipe for high value-added product businesses to maximize future revenue and endeavors to achieve sustainable growth in civil engineering, etc. With the continued growth of the automotive and industrial rubber parts industries, (3) P  P: Polypropylene is a kind of the global market with a focus on China. plastic which is used in various we are focusing our efforts on producing high quality products and supplying them types of containers, experiment at competitive prices. We also seek to meet the expectations of our customers tools, megaphones, automobile parts, currency, etc. through continued quality assurance and communication. Olefin Business Key Business The Olefin Division produces basic oils, such as ethylene and propylene and interTargeting the Global High Performance Polyethylene Market Areas mediate derivatives, such as butadiene and butane-1. By doing so, the division Major SK global chemical established a joint venture with Saudi Arabia Basic Industries Corporation contributes to internal and external synergies by achieving vertical and horizontal Achievements (SABIC), a major global chemical company, to target the global high performance polyethylene marintegration across the chemical industry comprising petroleum, polymers, and aroket. The joint venture, ‘SABIC SK Nexlene Company (SSNC)’ held an inauguration ceremony for the in 2015 matics. Investments made in competitive production technology will lead to cost Nexlene Plant in Uljugun, Ulsan attended by distinguished guests representing both companies: competitiveness and flexibility in terms of materials. Using this technology as a Chey Tae-won, CEO of SK holdings, and Prince Saud bin Abdullah bin Thenayan Al-Saud, Chairman of stepping stone, we will pursue further globalization. Moreover, we will continuthe Board of Directors of SABIC. Korea’s Trade, Industry and Energy Minister, the Mayor of the city ally strive for sustainable and reliable growth by providing our customers with a of Ulsan and representatives from customers and partner companies totaling around 400 people dependable supply of high quality products. were in attendance. SK global chemical applied various technologies it had independently developed since 2004 to SSNC’s Ulsan Nexlene Plant. As such, it became the first petrochemical plant in Korea Aromatics Business to be constructed without foreign technology and boasts an annual high-performance polyethylene The Aromatics Division produces benzene, toluene, xylene, styrene monomer, and production capacity of 230,000 tons. SK global chemical seeks to become a global leader by utilizcyclo-hexane, which are used as raw materials for daily necessities and widely ing SSNC and the Nexlene Plant, and intends to construct additional Nexlene Plants in Saudi Arabia prevalent in the construction, electronics, and textile industries. This division has and beyond. secured the highest production capacity in the region (annual BTX capacity of 3 million tons) by expanding its scale through continuous investment. The division will continue to introduce and promote trading in order to strengthen its business competitiveness and become a leader in the global market. Performance Chemical Business The Performance Chemicals Division produces solvents used in a wide range of products from household goods to high-tech products. Starting with the development and production of de-aromatized products whose toxic ingredients have been SABIC SK Nexlene Korea Plant Inauguration Ceremony and Plant Inspection removed, the Performance Chemical Division has been independently developing and applying the necessary technologies for manufacturing various solvents and SK global chemical will promote global growth strategies centered on China, which is expected to specialty chemical products. Furthermore, the division optimizes efforts to develop Future Plans account for the lion’s share of chemical product demand as the world’s factory. Furthermore, we products tailored to customers’ needs and improve the applicability of each of our will continue to develop new technologies to satisfy the needs of our customers and the market, products based on our experience in technological support, accumulated over 10 diversify our portfolio through strategic investments, and strengthen our competitive advantage in years of operating quality service centers. the global market. To that end, we are concentrating our organizational capacities on China and identifying and promoting various growth options, while also continuing to create value with our existing businesses, actively pursuing M&A projects and expanding partnerships with global petrochemical companies to secure technological competitiveness and industry excellence. 22 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 23 01 Corporate Information | SKMS | Our Commitment | Corporate Governance | At a Glance | Business Value Chain | SK innovation & Subsidiaries SK lubricants Major First Export of SK ZIC Lubricant Brand SK lubricants accomplished the goal of becoming the first Accomplishments Korean lubricant producer to export their own brand of products. SK lubricants has signed a brand licensing agreement in 2015 with Rabigh First Lubricant Co. Ltd., a Saudi Arabian lubricant subsidiary of Globetech, in May 2015. Following this deal, the SK ZIC brand and our unique technology has been exported to Saudi Arabia, generating annual brand royalty sales profit Brand Export to Saudi Arabia SK lubricants has led the global lubricant and premium lubricant market since it first commercialized the world’s first for the next six years until 2020. Group III base oil manufacturing process in 1995. SK lubricants is capturing the overseas premium base oil market by Globetech is a pipe-coating specialty corporation whose biggest shareholder is the Khonaini Group, which possesses a petroleum network in Saudi Arabia. Its subsidiary, Rabigh First Lubricant Co. constructing new base oil factories in Europe and Asia in a proactive response to the surging demand for ecofriendly Ltd., will launch its lubricant business in the Middle East and North Africa regions as well as Saudi and fuel-efficient premium lubricant oil. We use a thorough localization strategy centered on local production Arabia based on our licensing agreement. We hope that this will serve as an opportunity to increase facilities in order to expand our market share. We will continue to pioneer change in the lubricant and base oil our brand recognition in those regions. industry and provide better value for our customers based on our agile action and investments. YUBASE Expands into the Spanish Premium Base Oil Market In September 2015, SK lubricants held the completion cerBase Oil Business emony for the ILBOC’s Cartegena base oil factory, our joint Key Business SK lubricants’ YUBASE has high viscosity index above 120, while maintaining more than 90% satuventure with Spain’s energy company, Repsol, with the presAreas rate and less than 0.03% sulfur. This specification categorizes it as Group III premium base oil. Ever ence of Chey Tae-won, CEO of SK holdings and President since we began operation to produce our first VHVI lubricant factory in 1995, YUBASE has been Antonio Brufau of Repsol. This factory has the capacity to continuously enhanced, and our high quality base oil now records sales in 50 countries, including produce 13,300 barrels per day of Group III base oil, a prethe U.S., Europe, and Japan. 50 countries including the US, Europe and Japan. mium base oil according to API categorization. Products from Factory Completion Ceremony at this factory will be sold under SK’s brand name, YUBASE. Cartegena, Spain Lubricant Oil Business This was a strategic decision based on the strong brand recProduced from our high quality base oil, our lubricant SK ZIC boasts longer usage and enhanced ognition of YUBASE, which even exceeds that of Repsol’s local brand. SK will also take the lead in preservation rate with excellent performance even in low temperatures. It has been a popular choice marketing in Europe. SK lubricants will continue to collaborate with Repsol to strengthen its market among drivers in 50 countries since it was first exported to Russia in 1995. With its excellent low dominance in the European market. temperature startability and fuel efficiency, it has gained global popularity from freezing Siberia to fuel-economy conscious areas of Southeast Asia. SK ZIC has solidified its status as the foremost SK lubricants has grown to become the leader in the international Group III lubricant market, providlubricant brand in Korea, acknowledged as the leading brand by major institutes for 18 consecutive Future ing excellent quality and stable supply to its customers. We will continue to strengthen our market years since its launch. leadership by responding to the rising demand stemming from stronger environmental regulations Plans and developing products with strong profit margins. We will also actively target emerging markets Main Products for groundbreaking growth in the lubricant end-product market, and strengthen our business structure via partnerships and M&As. Gasoline Engine Oil Engine LPG Engine Oil Base Oil Lubricant Engine Oil Passenger DieselEngine Oil Commercial DieselEngine Oil API Group III Base Oil Motorcycle Engine Oil Low Volatility Gear Oil Excellent Performance Other Products inLow Temperature Hydraulic Oil Excellent Oil Oxidation Stability Grease Highly Refined Base Oil Other Products: Engine Cleaner, Brake Oil, Antifreeze etc 24 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 25 01 Corporate Information | SKMS | Our Commitment | Corporate Governance | At a Glance | Business Value Chain | SK innovation & Subsidiaries SK incheon petrochem SK trading international Spun-off from SK energy Incheon Complex in 2013, SK incheon petrochem is responsible for supplying stable energy In 2013, SK trading international was established as an independent company after its spin-off from SK energy. to the Seoul Metropolitan Area and the Incheon International Airport. In 2014, SK incheon petrochem expanded SK trading international trades crude oil and petroleum products for SK innovation’s petroleum business-related production lines to produce condensate-based products, such as PX(1) and other high value added products, and it is subsidiaries, such as SK energy and SK incheon petrochem, and procures naphtha for SK global chemical. utilizing its advantageous geographical location in exporting its products to China, South East Asia and beyond. SK Furthermore, it is moving beyond simple trading to establishing a platform, which can directly produce, trade and incheon petrochem will continue to strive to become a global top-tier oil and petrochemical company by applying market products in the global market. rigorous process management standards and environmental management standards to achieve world-class productivity. As oil prices fluctuate drastically, sales or purchase of a particular type of oil in certain time periods (1) PX : Para Xylene Optimizing may impact the business’s economic feasibility. SK trading international maintains three foreign branches in the Americas, Europe and Singapore alongside a foreign office in Dubai to trade optimal Petroleum Business Trading crude oil and petroleum products at an appropriate price by monitoring oil prices 24 hours a day, and Key Business Based on our management philosophy centered on customer satisfaction and product quality, SK Through managing the entire process including optimal oil type selection, shipping, arrival and payment of Areas incheon petrochem produces high quality products that are safe for customers and the environment, Our Global the commodity through our global network. while tapping into new markets. The company will keep its focus on improving its production facilities, ensuring precision in the refining process, and developing advanced technologies to upgrade Network the quality of all petroleum products and produce eco-friendly products. Global Network SK Energy Americas, Inc. SK Energy Europe, Ltd. SK Energy International SK trading international Petrochemical Business (Houston) (London) Pte. Ltd. (Singapore) co. (Dubai) SK incheon petrochem has been solidifying its profit by producing and selling aromatics and solvents >O  versees the oil trading  ourcing and marketing for SK >S >P  rocures crude oil and >P  rocures crude oil and business energy’s petroleum products petroleum products consumed petroleum products consumed and high value-added chemical products, such as PX and benzene, which are produced by catalytic >D  istillate product training in in Europs domestically domestically reforming of naphtha, derived from the refining of crude oil. We will continue to produce and supthe U.S. (west coast)  uns bunkering business in >R  xports petroleum products >E  xports petroleum products >E Rotterdam produced in Korea produced in Korea ply high-quality chemical products and enhance production efficiency and technology to satisfy the >C  onducts trading and bunkering >C  onducts trade centered around business locally the Middle-Eastern market demands through strict process management, thereby improving our competitiveness in the global petrochemical market. Main Products SK trading international Petroleum Petrochem SK energy SK incheon petrochem Imports crude oil, Imports crude oil, Exports gasoline, Exports jet fuel, gasoil jet fuel, gasoil and other and other products Gasoline Kerosene Jet Fuel Diesel LPG Asphalt Aromatics petroleum products Operating in the Black Post Spin-off Major AccomplishAfter its launch following the acquisition of SK Incheon Oil in 2006, SK incheon petrochem continuSK global chemical Imports naphtha ments in 2015 ously focused on producing high value-added products and improving management. As a result, we were able to turn a profit for the first time since its spin-off from SK energy in 2013. SK Incheon Oil Based on its sophisticated risk management system, SK trading international is establishing a continuously faced challenges, such as the 2008 financial crisis, but we expanded our PX facilities from 2012 to 2014, as our long-term investment. This PX facility, which can produce up to 1.3 million Business unique trading business model that sets us apart from our global competitors. In crude oil trading tons annually, came into operation in July 2014, and has greatly contributed to achieving our 2015 Overview & hubs, we have established an independent market network and a self-sustaining trading platform, and implemented trading optimization methods by utilizing market dynamics in various ways to operating income of 49.6 billion KRW. Future Plans Incheon Complex PX Factory become a global trading company. 26 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 27 01 Corporate Information | SKMS | Our Commitment | Corporate Governance | At a Glance | Business Value Chain | SK innovation & Subsidiaries SK innovation R&D Research Oil Refinery > Developing corrosion protection technology to refine opportunity crude with high levels of calcium and acid Technology > Developing technologies to improve handling capacity by removing Fields impurities of crude oil, corrosion, fouling, catalyst response > Developing petroleum products utilizing semi-products & additive Petroleum Petroleum technology Products > Developed addictive technology (WAFI(1)) to enhance low temperature performance of diesel in winter New Asphalt > Developing premium asphalt with excellent water resistance Products > Developing blending asphalt production technology that utilizes various feed and by-products SK innovation Global Technology (SKIGT) is seeking to enhance its competitiveness by providing its customers with high quality products and services. Through open innovation in various fields and close cooperative relations Automobile > Supporting development and commercialization of diesel engine oil with dramatically improved oil preservation Lubricants with relevant internal and external partners, SK innovation is uncovering new growth engines and developing its > Developing lubricants for race cars exceptional competitive edge. Lubricants New YUBASE > Developing and obtaining approval of quality certifications from Products manufacturers for advanced base oils with high fuel efficiency, or base oils used for shock absorber oil with low viscosity Established in 1995, the SK Daeduk R&D Park houses Global Technology, the R&D and techno> Developing technology to produce benzene and xylene from heavy Global logical development arm for SK innovation and its subsidiaries, and the B&I R&D Center, which Enhancing aromatics feedstock, which previously couldn’t be processed, Petrochem Competitiveness supports battery and I/E materials business. researching commercialization towards in-house application Technology of Aromatics > Researching methods to reduce energy cost when producing PX SKIGT is comprised of the petroleum & lubricant R&D center, chemical R&D center, platform Overview technology R&D center, the technology strategy office, and R&D management support office. > Independently developed Nexlene that produces catalyst based high performance polyethylene, allowing production of low density Through technology innovation, SKIGT sharpens the competitiveness of SK innovation’s existing Polymer Nexlene elastomer and mid-density polyethylene in a single-site, secured businesses and explores future growth engines. product design optimization and performance > Successful establishment of Nexlene JV with SABIC Furthermore, SK innovation has enhanced its business competitiveness by means of its R&D on petroleum, petrochemical products and lubricant oil, thus strengthening its global leadership by >D  eveloped 1 type of chemical for semi-conductors and created line Specialty Chemical developing new business opportunities in the fields of polymer, battery, I/E materials, and other Products for for mass production Chemicals Electronics >C  ontinuing to develop chemicals for semi-conductors and display technology based development. For SK innovation’s sustainable future, we will continue to reinpanels force our existing business through technology competitiveness, while fostering the development > World’s first application and commercialization of Ni-rich cathode for of new technology to create new business opportunities. high energy density batteries Battery > R&D new material and improving in processes to reduce battery (1) WAFI: Wax Anti Settling B&I production costs R&D Pipeline Flow Improver; collectively refers to additives that > Applying recycling technology for LiBS manufacturing cost BARC combines wax anti-setting I/E Materials optimization SOC additive and middle distillate > Developed high flexural FCCL products cold flow improver Specialty PSPBO Carbon Materials Nano Tube Carbon Electronic For our petroleum business, we will improve our refining margin by advancing analytical technology Catalyst/Process Fiber Chem. Future Plans to ascertain process yield and composition forecasting, and process and product impacts, while developing technology to process and proactively address issues in refining opportunity crude. LongCarbon Transparent We will maximize technical capabilities for Group III base oils to solidify our market leadership and Distance Material Energy PI Driving EV Coating expand our product spectrum of lubricants. With particular focus on expanding the lubricant product ESS portfolio and core technologies such as blending, we will reinforce our global technology support Aramid system. Next Gen. Our petrochem sector will focus on strengthening our core competitive edge from basic chemicals ATF Battery I/E Low Dk Materials Coverlay to specialty chemicals. With technological innovations to enhance quality and production price for Premium polymers, monomers, and expand core derivatives, we will also develop and commercialize speLube Base Heat Oil Lubricant Resistant cialty chemicals used for semi-conductors and display panels to target the global market led by Low Dk Separator Polymer FCCL China. Enhanced We plan to focus on developing high performance batteries and reducing production costs in light Oil Nexlene Petroleum of the mass-market availability of electric vehicles, while also accelerating the production of core Chemicals & Recovery Petrochemical components like LiBS and FCCL to meet market demand. Premium EPDM Materials Asphalt 28 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 29 02 Business Review Market Outlook 32 Our Strategy 34 Risk Management 40 View of SK incheon petrochem 30 31 02 Business Review | Market Outlook | Our Strategy | Risk Management Market Outlook Domestic Demand in 2015 by Oil Type Category Gasoline Kerosene Diesel Intermediate Crude Aircraft Fuel LPG Asphalt (unit: MB/D) Total 2015 210 44 428 105 94 245 28 1,154 Year-on-Year 4.2% 5.2% 7.9% 15.3% 7.5% (0.3%) 9.7% 5.9% Accumulated Consumption by Oil Type (unit: 1,000 Barrel) Category Gasoline Kerosene Diesel Bunker Fuel Naphtha LPG Others Overall Despite challenging market trends, such as the collapse of the global oil price due to over-supply and the slowing 2014 73,475 15,414 144,755 31,094 396,979 89,674 70,701 822,092 of Chinese economy, SK innovation has successfully reformed its business through a global partnering strategy 2015 76,570 16,230 156,354 35,903 411,598 89,295 69,111 855,061 with international chemical corporates, such as SABIC, Repsol and SINOPEC. We have also competitively positioned Changes 4.21% 5.29% 8.01% 15.47% 3.68% -0.42% -2.25% 4.01% *based on 2015 annual report ourselves for further growth by bolstering our market leadership and share in the domestic energy market, expanding battery production lines and enhancing our North America’s E&P business. In 2015, we turned our business around, recording stellar consolidated sales of 48.3565 trillion KRW and a business profit of 1.9796 trillion KRW and creating a solid foundation to further increase corporate value. tion, pharmaceutical, and apparel industries, rendering it sensitive to business fluctuations. China’s demand, which has been burgeoning as rapidly as its economy, has fueled growth in the chemical material industry. China has become more self-sufficient, which, however, has caused competition Oil Price Trends in the market to intensify. As such, many chemical companies are expanding into other emerging E&P Business After reaching its peak at $115/barrel in June 2014, the Brent oil price continuously plummeted to markets, such as South America, South east Asia and India. hit a low of $26/barrel in January 2016. The supply of oil continues to exceed demand as the nonOECD member countries produced more oil and gas with unconventional methods and the OECD Domestic and International Competitor Trends members maintained production levels to retain their market share. In addition, political unrest in With four domestic refineries with refining and enhancement facilities producing lubricant base oils, Northern Africa and the Middle East, stemming from civil war and Islamic militant groups, are furLubricant supply exceeds demand, and the majority of these products are being exported to the Americas, ther fueling the volatility of the oil and gas industry. Business Europe and other Asian countries. As other major oil companies including Shell, ExxonMobil, BP, Chevron and Total dominate the finished lubricants markets, Korean companies face an increasingly Major Industry Trends uphill battle to expand into and compete in new markets. The North America’s oil production surge led by unconventional energy sources, including oil sand and shale gas, as well as changes in the industry have triggered the current low oil price. The Domestic and International Market Trends subdued oil price trend has negatively affected the profitability of high-cost projects, such as develDemand has varied depending on the type and quality of lubricant base oils and lubricant products. opment of deep-water oil fields, LNG and polar oil fields. Many companies are scaling down or Demand as well as market share for API Group I base oil with comparatively inferior performance is suspending their investments in these areas and focusing on profitability of their asset portfolio. slowing down, while demand for premium base oils, such as API Group II (high quality mineral oil) and API Group III (synthetic mineral oil) is growing rapidly due to environmental regulations. Petroleum Products Consumption Trend Petroleum Although the US economy gradually recovered in 2015, market conditions remained challenging Trends in Mid to Large Sized Battery Industry due to prolonged low oil prices from the oversupply and the slowdown of Chinese economy. NevBusiness Battery and The mid to large-size battery industry produces and sells large capacity lithium-ion batteries used in ertheless, demand for gasoline, diesel and jet fuel increased due to an increase in the number I/E Material electric vehicles (EVs) and Energy Storage Systems (ESS(1)). With stricter environmental regulations of registered cars and demand for air travel. Furthermore, lower oil prices drove up demands for around the world and the growing importance of energy security(2), interest in ESS which can stabiintermediate crude and heating kerosene, leading to a 5.9% accumulated increase for domestic Business lize the output of eco-friendly EVs and renewable energy sources like solar and wind is increasing, petroleum products. leading to expectations that this market is poised to expand and grow rapidly. Trends in the Basic Chemical Business Trends in the Information & Electronics Material Industry When the Chinese government implemented economic stimulus measures in 2009, it seemed that Petrochemical Our I/E material business is comprised of circuit materials including Lithium-ion Battery Separator the petrochem market condition would recover. However, detrimental factors such as financial crisis Business (LiBS) and Flexible Cooper Clad Laminate (FCCL). As the key component that splits the positive in the Euro Zone and delays in the global economic recovery have caused prolonged market volatiland negative terminals within a lithium-ion battery and provides a corridor for ion, the LiBS market ity. Production and consumption growth of unconventional low-cost feedstocks, such as shale gas (1) ESS: Energy Storage System temporarily captures mass produced is steadily growing along with the battery market. FCCL is an important material for flexible circuit and coal, is also expected to act as a major market variable. electricity to be used later when needed. board technology and its demand rises as IT devices become smaller and more high-tech. Recent (2) Energy Security: A concept oversupply has intensified competition amongst manufacturers, but the situation is forecasted to Trends in the Chemical Material Industry explaining the importance of a stable and rational supply of energy as improve as the market continues to grow. The chemical material industry provides raw materials to the automobiles, electronics, construcit is interlinked with safety and all economic activity. 32 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 33 02 Business Review | Market Outlook | Our Strategy | Risk Management Our Strategy Structural Innovation Business Expand Portfolio of Value-Added Products Nexlene (high performance polyethylene) is SK global chemical’s Structure prime high value-added product and the first chemical product in Korea to be independently developed across all processes from catalyst to end-product manufacturing. As it is stronger, more transparent and easier to process, Nexlene has numerous applications, including plastic and vinyl, toys, pipe and vehicular compounds. SK lubricants’ premium base oil, YUBASE is also one High performance polyethylene, With the global market’s stagnant growth, every industry is seeking changes to survive. This is especially true for the of our major high value-added products. SK innovation is actively Nexlene petroleum and energy industry. SK innovation is also faced with the necessity to evolve in light of the growing push scaling up production volume and also continuously conducting research to increase our lineup of high value-added products. for a transition into electric vehicles and eco-friendly energy. Facing such rapid changes, SK innovation is making utmost efforts to live up to its reputation as the leading global energy and chemical company with a strategic Targeting Unconventional Resources and Emerging Markets approach. Our E&P sector is securing necessary core technology and human resources for the development of unconventional energy sources(1) such as shale gas. As part of our effort, we are currently produc(1) Unconventional Energy Source: sources hard to ing 3,750 barrels of crude oil and gas per day using horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing at our Reach 30 Trillion KRW in Corporate Value by 2018 drill using conventional Oklahoma block. We have established a strategy to develop into a North American resource expert SK SK innovation has established the goal of recording 30 trillion KRW in corporate value by 2018. To method such as shale gas, oil sand and extra-heavy oil. based on our shale oil blocks in Oklahoma and Texas. innovation’s achieve this goal, we will accelerate our global growth by initiating fundamental changes in our business methods and structure. We will also pursue ‘growth through stability’ by securing a stable Strategic Goal Strategic Investment in Infrastructure financial structure while maintaining investments to spur growth along with our business innovaTo secure a stable business foundation, we are making strategic tions. investments in infrastructure by expanding the battery section of We have founded a Portfolio Innovation (PI) Department responsible for exploring new growth engines, our Seosan plant. Following our first expansion in July 2015, we innovations in the business portfolio, and researching synergies amongst our subsidiaries, in order to have begun a second round of expansion in March 2016. Through effectively initiate and accomplish our goals. On top of this, we appointed a Chief Tech Officer (CTO) for this, we can scale up production capacity for electric vehicle bateach subsidiary to enhance technological competitiveness in its respective industries. teries by 30% to produce 40 thousand electric vehicles annually. With this expansion, SK innovation is looking to augment its batProduction Line at the Seosan Enhanced Corporate Value tery business, targeting foreign EV battery markets. Plant Implement Optimized Management Revolutionize Our distinctive optimization capability is the most prominent factor in our strategy to innovate our structure. SK innovation is also applying big data-driven optimal operation to petroleum/chemical 2018 30 Profit products to arrive at the best solution for enhancing product quality and price competitiveness. This Global Top Trill Structure optimization is applied not only to manufacturing but also to various work processes in general manEnergy and Chemical Company agement, directly improving our profit structure and contributing to improved staff work efficiency. Improve Profit Structure by Reducing Costs 2014 8 We are improving our profit structure in the petroleum sector by diversifying sources of crude oil Trill 29th in Domestic to cut costs. In 2015, we were able to improve the refining margin by diversifying crude oil sources Market Value from Middle East crudes to include North American condensates and African crudes. We are working hard to maintain system and organization structure to respond swiftly and flexibly in a highly volatile environment in order to maximize profit as well as to secure operational excellence and structural price competitiveness across the whole value chain from production to marketing. Category 2014 Year-end 2015 Year-end Business Profit -182.8 Bill KRW 1.9796 Trill KRW Net Liability 7.8542 Trill KRW 3.5152 Trill KRW Debt Ratio 119% 84% Corporate Value (Market Value) 7.8688 Trill KRW 12.205 Trill KRW Credit Rating (S&P – Moody’s) BBB(Negative)Baa3 BBB(Stable) Baa2 34 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 35 02 Business Review | Market Outlook | Our Strategy | Risk Management mization technology, we optimally allocate crude cargoes to tanks and determine the composition Our Strategy Optimization of crude oil feed with the most economic value that fully maximizes the utilization and productivity of our facilities. 3) Petroleum Product Production and Sales Optimization SK innovation utilizes optimization technology to optimize the blending recipes used for manufacturing petroleum products. These recipes are optimized for reducing costs while ensuring product specifications and stock levels are satisfied. Furthermore, the optimization simultaneously deterSK innovation outperforms our domestic competitors by using Advanced Optimization to improve our decisionmines an export schedule for petroleum products that maximizes revenue. making. SK innovation is working to expand our Optimization activities to all areas of our operations from the Though SK innovation had always tried to make the best decision in all situations, the complexity procurement of raw materials, to production, blending, sales and general management in order to further maximize Distinctive and uncertainty of the business environment naturally limited the quality of the decisions. However, value. since 2012, we have been successfully making better decisions within various business domains Optimization with the support of leading optimization experts who are developing and utilizing the most advanced Competitiveness optimization technology with better computing power and technology. Optimization in the Petroleum Business Key 1) Crude Oil Procurement Optimization Optimization SK innovation has established a process to evaluate the intrinsic value of individual crude oils in relaSystematic Management of Big Data Activities tion to the configuration of our facilities by analyzing the composition of various batches of crude Our unique information system, which includes our crude oil database, product properties, yields and operation data, has oils and compiling productivity differences between these batches. This capability allows us to make been built using data archived from business, operations, and process over decades. We continuously update and analyze this crude oil procurement decisions that can secure the highest intrinsic value within a volatile crude information and use it in our decision-making. oil market. Mathematical Algorithms and Modeling 2) Crude Oil Input Optimization Our leading global optimization experts develop mathematical models and algorithms tailored to SK innovation’s decision-making. Roughly 50 types of crude oil transported by about 20 vessels arrive at our Ulsan Complex every month. During this process, we must make several decisions related to the assignment of the Optimization Based Decision Support > Convert real world problems into mathematical models > Appropriate abstraction and simplification is key arriving cargo to tanks, and the crude compositions to feed our units. Since the number of crudes > Three necessary elements: Business Problem Too Many Alternatives and/or is much larger than the number of available tanks, and since the performance of each unit depends (decision required) Feasibility Issues > Objective function (ex. Maximize profit) on the crude composition, there are countless alternatives for these decisions. Finding the best > Decision variables (ex. Sales volume by product) Assumptions > Constraints (ex. Quality standards) decision from the available alternatives is highly complex and difficult. Through SK innovation’s optiSimplification Optimization Modeling Solution > Core optimization technology requires some The increased complexity and difficulty in decision-making Technology combination of: > Internal research and development Theory & Algorithms > Commercial software > External leveraging / consulting 50 ~ Types of Crude Oil Interpretation Export Domestic Optimized Solution Apply to business process X > Interpret and execute results from a business Unloading Docks perspective Storage X Decision Process Innovation Heavy Oil Crude Oil Storage Tanks Crude Upgrade Various optimization and analytics-based Decision Support Tools allows SK innovation to maximize the value of its supply chain Distillation Unit Process Process Export X and further enable it to respond quickly and appropriately within a dynamic market and business environment. Storage Export Storage Unloading Crude Oil Domestic Domestic Naphta Cracking Storage Base Oil Storage Charge Tanks Process & Reformation Shipping Process X Export Shipping 5 Crude Our efforts to make better decisions based on our distinctive optimization capability enables us to Shipping Export Domestic Storage Polymer , Domestic Distillation Pursuing sustain continuous performance without large-scale investments in facilities. Moreover, we have Performance Crude Oil Purchase Lubricant oil Storage Unit (CDU) chemical Process Process Continuous been expanding the application of our optimization beyond our petroleum and chemicals businesses Monthly Decision M M-1 M-3 Crude Oil Input M-1 M … X Performance to lubricants, trading, and information & electronic materials to facilitate scientific and systematic decision-making in all of our businesses. We strive to maximize business value through optimization Daily Decision D Production D+31 through by not only strengthening our decision-making capabilities, but by also analyzing and forecasting a Hourly Decision H H+24 Optimization wide range of information based on big data management. 36 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 37 02 Business Review | Market Outlook | Our Strategy | Risk Management The 2015 partnership with Saudi Arabia’s national petrochemical company, SABIC, was a strategic Our Strategy Global Partnering move to increase global recognition of SK global chemical’s unique high-performance polyethylene brand, Nexlene. Based on SABIC’s marketing network and competitive raw materials, we aggressively target global markets while focusing on increasing Nexlene production capacity through our Ulsan Plant 1 and by establishing Plant 2 in Saudi Arabia. SK lubricants In 2008, SK lubricants launched a base oil plant joint venture with Indonesia’s national oil company, SK innovation is pivoting into the global market through global partnerships with leading international companies. Pertamina, in Dumai, as part of its first global partnering project. SK lubricants’ Group III base oil production technology and Pertamina’s ability to supply low-cost materials synergistically produce By launching joint businesses with global leaders in each industry, we are learning best business practices while also roughly 9,000 barrels of lubricants a day. securing stable foreign revenue which will advance us become a top global energy and chemicals company. In addition, a plant producing 13,300 barrels a day of base oil was jointly launched with Spain’s largest oil company, Repsol, to target the European market. Repsol provides local procurement and infrastructure while SK lubricants brings base oil production technology and a global marketing SK global chemical network, making SK lubricants one of the top 3 global base oil producers, and solidifying its leading Entering New Starting in 2006, SK global chemical has worked for seven years to build a partnership with China’s market position. Investment national petrochemical corporation, SINOPEC, and Chinese government officials, and successfully launched a joint venture company. The Wuhan plant produces around 2.5 million tons of petrochemiSK innovation Areas Through cal products annually. SK global chemical has also built production facilities in Ulsan to proactively SK innovation established the joint venture Beijing BESK Technology with Beijing Electronics Holding Global address the growing demand for high-end chemical products such as polyester through a joint venCo., Ltd. (BEHC) and Beijing Automotive Industry Holding Co., Ltd. (BAIC) to target the Chinese EV Partnering ture with Japan’s JX Nippon Oil & Energy. market, which is quickly growing into the world’s largest market. Through the EV Battery Pack plant in Beijing, BESK has supplied BAIC EV models ES210 and EV200 EV with EV batteries starting the second half of 2014. We continue to work to become China’s top EV battery producer through BESK. SK global chemical x SINOPEC, China’s SK lubricants x Pertamina, National Petrochemical Corporation Indonesia’s National Oil Company > Joint-venture company : Sinopec-SK (Wuhan)Petrochemical > Joint-venture company : PatraSK Co.,Ltd. > Completed : 2008, currently operating commercially >C  ompleted : 2014, currently operating commercially > Investment : Approximately 250 billion KRW > Investment : Approximately 3.3 trillion KRW > Production Capacity : Approximately 9,000 barrels/ >P  roduction Capacity : Approximately 2.5 million tons/year of day of base oil petrochemical products > Features : SK innovation’s first global partnering project > Features : Largest joint petrochemical plant project in the history of Chinese-Korean ties SK global chemical x JX Nippon Oil CHINA KOREA SK lubricants x Repsol, Spain’s #1 &Energy, Japan’s #1 Energy Corporation CHINA Beijing Energy Corporation > Joint-venture company : Ulsan Aromatics Co., Ltd. (UAC) Wuhan > Joint-venture company : Iberian Lube Base Oils > Completed: 2014, currently operating commercially SPAIN Company (ILBOC) > Investment : Approximately 940 billion KRW > Completed : 2014, in operation > Production Capacity : Approximately 1.6 million tons/year of > Investment : Approximately 470 billion KRW petrochemical products > Production Capacity : 13,300 barrels/day of base oil > Features : Strategic partnership with Japan’s largest energy > Features : Partnership expanded into #1 Group III lube corporation base oil producer SK global chemical x SABIC (Saudi SINGAPORE SK innovation x Beijing Electronics x Arabia), World’s #2 Chemical Corporation > Joint-venture company : SABIC SK Nexlene Company Pte. Ltd INDONESIA Beijing Automotive Industry (SSNC) > Joint-venture company : Beijing BESK Technology > Completed : 2014, currently operating commercially > Completed : 2014, currently operating commercially > Investment : Approximately 710 billion KRW > Features : Strategic entry point into China’s EV market > Production Capacity : 230 thousand tons/annual of high*Production plant is located in Ulsan. performance polyethylene products > Features : First case of a global joint venture based on SK’s original technology 38 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 39 02 Business Review | Market Outlook | Our Strategy | Risk Management As SK innovation and its subsidiaries’ businesses are closely interrelated, key risks are resolved by Risk Management the Executive Committee meetings (twice monthly) which is attended by SK innovation and its 5 subsidiaries and reported to the Board of Directors as needed. Analysis and Monitoring Risk SK innovation performs analysis and monitoring tailored to different risks. As the raw material for Management the most of our products is crude oil, oil price and foreign exchange fluctuation risks, which have an immediate impact on the business performance, are managed at the level of SK innovation and Activities As the global business environment continues to grow in uncertainty and the focus on corporate stewardship at the subsidiary level with various economic indicators used to analyze short-term directions and mid to long-term trends. The risk appetite is set and risks are managed based on this analysis. For increases, corporations must manage and address more diverse risks. At SK innovation, we not only expand operational risks, we continuously monitor relevant policy and regulatory trends, monitor feedback investment and accelerate entry into global markets to strengthen competitiveness in our existing energy business from key stakeholders on a daily basis and share results in newsletters and the intranet in order to while also developing new, high-value products and new growth engines such as batteries, we systematically raise employee awareness and promote voluntary preventative measures. manage various risks through specialized teams and Risk Management Committees to ensure the company’s sustainable growth. Identifying and Responding to Mid to Long-term Risk The global energy industry faces multitude of risks arising from rapid environmental and social changes. Investors are increasingly demanding climate risk response plans from conventional oil and Risk Categories gas producers and refiners. In addition, society’s increased interest in both renewable energy and Risk SK innovation manages risk systematically by categorizing risks into three groups: financial, busiother types of clean energy and technological advancements may have a significant impact on the future profit models of the energy industry. SK innovation regularly analyzes these environmental Management ness and operational risk. Key financial risks are oil prices, foreign exchange, tax, and credit risks. Business risks are those that may impact business performance, revenue generation, and new and social changes in order to develop and execute effective measures to respond to the long term System risks that impact our business. investment choices, including changes in the external business environment such as oil prices, foreign exchange, national and regional conditions, policies, regulations, and refining margins. Key operation risks include ethics, compliance, personnel, safety, environment, information security, community relations, and are managed uniformly across SK innovation and its subsidiaries. Climate Change Batteries and Information & Electronics SK innovation analyzes the impact of climate change from various angles and with a longMaterials (Page: 18) Risk Reporting and Governance term outlook. Based on these results, measures are divided into business and operation Business risks are managed by the relevant divisions of SK innovation and its subsidiaries. Issues aspects. From the business aspect, we proactively identify trends in clean, low carbon energy, requiring executive decisions are discussed at Risk Management Committees comprised of the SHE Activities which is closely linked to climate change, and are expanding technological R&D and CEOs of the subsidiaries and relevant management personnel. investment in EV batteries. (Page: 48) The responsible departments in SK innovation comprehensively manage operational risks, including subIn the operation aspects, we created a devoted Climate Change Team to actively sidiaries’ risks, which are reported to the monthly executive meetings based on the nature of such risks. manage GHG emissions for each of our plants and continuously reduce GHG emissions throughout our processes by investing in our facilities in order to combat climate change. R&D (Page: 28) Risk Governance Shifting the Energy Paradigm The introduction of new and renewable energy like shale gas, solar, and wind energy Executive Meeting Board of Directors has led to a dramatic shift in the existing energy paradigm. In order to turn this into Structural innovation an opportunity for our sustainable growth, SK innovation will simultaneously work to (Page: 34) strengthen our competitiveness in business competencies in existing petrochemicals Various Risk Management Committees while also setting mid to long-term plans to flexibly adapt to the paradigm shift. We will continue to transition our business portfolio from traditional to non-traditional resources Global Relevant departments in SK innovation and subsidiaries and focus on R&D and investment for new business. Partnering (Page: 38) Sourcing Crude Oil Financial Risk Business Risk Operational Risk As international tensions and political complexity surrounding fossil fuel resources Oil Exploration & Oil Prices Ethics increase, being dependent on crude oil from a particular region may lead to potential Production difficulties in procuring a stable supply of crude oil. Risk Category Compliance (Page: 16) Foreign Exchange SK innovation has applied the concept of Optimization to the refining process and Personnel we seek to diversify our oil supplies in a manner optimized to produce our petroleum Nat’l & regional conditions Safety Tax products by identifying the different regional characteristics of crude oil. We have Environment Optimization Policy & regulations diversified our import sources globally and currently source our oil from Asia, America, (Page: 36) Credit Information Security Europe and Africa in addition to our main source in the Middle East. Competitor trends Corporate Relations (CR) 40 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 41 03 Sustainability Review Ethical Management 44 SHE 48 Talent Management 54 Mutual Growth 58 Local Communities 62 Safety Check in Ulsan Complex 42 43 03 Sustainability Review | Ethical Management | SHE | Talent Management | Mutual Growth | Local Communities Ethical Management Ethical Ethics Training for Employees Every year, SK innovation develops and implements plans for ethics training. In 2015, 512 hours of Management ethics training was provided for new employees and those being promoted. Through ethics training, we intend to solidify our ethical corporate culture by fostering a common understanding among Action employees of the company’s efforts and commitment toward ethical management and strengthen Programs their dedication to ethical practices. In addition, we have developed and shared scenarios for the different topics and core issues related to ethical management through the company-wide internal broadcast system in an effort to expand ethical management for employees. SK innovation builds trust-based relations with its stakeholders to pursue more sustainable growth and development. To help achieve this, we approach management not merely as a measure against unethical behavior, but as the standard of corporate ethics to follow in daily management practices. SK innovation also has an ethical corporate culture based on the SKMS, and pursues transparent and efficient management through fair competition, Employees Trained 512people Hours of Training 512hours ensuring the sustainable growth of our company and the national economy as a whole. In order to gain our stakeholders’ trust, we must pursue efficient decision-making and management SK innovation practices ethical management based on mutual The practices suitable to our hyper-competitive business environment, while simultaneously upholding Sharing trust with its suppliers. When registering as a supplier on our Importance order in the market and maintaining our integrity through transparent and fair practices. Therefore, Ethical procurement portal, each supplier must sign the ‘Fair Trade ethical management is not a simple measure or temporary tool to prevent individual employee’s of Ethical Agreement’ and if a supplier’s unlawful or corrupt activity is unethical behavior, but a necessary element for sustainable growth to be internalized in our manageManagement Management detected, they are subject to strict sanctions as per SK innoment practices and embedded in our corporate culture. with Suppliers vation’s bylaws. In addition, we have been implementing the campaign to not give or receive holiday gifts with our suppliers, franchises, customer and other external stakeholders since Based on the SKMS, we have enacted the Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Guidelines specify2011. If it is difficult to return a gift to the sender, employees SK ing the appropriate actions and principles that employees should comply with. All management and must report the details of such a gift to the Ethics department. innovation’s employees of SK innovation, all its subsidiaries and its domestic and overseas plants are obligated SK innovation collects these gift items and donates them to our to comply with the Code of Ethics, and we also request all suppliers to recognize and comply with Ethical internal social contribution team to be sold at our annual charity SK innovation’s Code of Ethics. Management bazaar. Any perishables are donated to local child welfare or In addition, we operate an Ethics Consultation Center and online reporting channels to receive and community centers. Campaign to Eradicate Holiday Gift process reports for ethics-related issues, with rewards given to the informants. To prevent retaliaExchange tion against the informants, we strictly protect the identities of the informants and the content of the reports. In 2015, 101 reports and consultations were processed. Of these, 83% were unrelated consultations or client grievances that were transferred to the relevant departments. A total of one case of employee misconduct was discovered from the reports, against which appropriate measures were taken. Consultations provided through the Ethics Counseling Office and Ethical Management website Consultations 103 101 60 Cases Cases Customer grievances 81 23 Cases Reports filed 2013 2014 2015 18 44 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 45 03 Sustainability Review | Ethical Management | SHE | Talent Management | Mutual Growth | Local Communities SK innovation has made efforts to prevent the possibility of non-compliance with fair trade regulaIn addition to the periodic evaluations of our major business divisions, we have often provided Compliance tions across its business activities and to promote the establishment of a sound business environconsulting on fair trade issues and established the Fair Trade Coordinator policy for each business Program ment. As part of these efforts, we have operated the Compliance Program (CP) since 1996, based division to create a communication channel for fair trade related issues with the working level staff. on which we have conducted evaluation of and implemented training on fair transactions for all businesses and employees of SK innovation and its subsidiaries. 2015 SK Incheon Total SK global petrochem/ SK innovation SK energy SK lubricants (overlaps Fair Trade chemical SK trading excluded) international Consulting Fair Trade Compliance Program (CP) Completion > Adopted Fair Trade Compliance Declaration and Fair Numbers 96 96 33 10 14 238 CEO’s commitment to the Trade Compliance Standards Compliance Program > CEO’s declaration of company policies for fair trade compliance > Head of Sustainability Management Division (SKI), Head Furthermore, we have continued to reinforce our compliance system in various aspects. We have Appointment of of CR Strategic Office (SKE), Head of Planning Office compliance officers enacted the ‘Guidelines for Interacting with Competitors’ to strengthen the cartel risk manage(SKGC), Head of Management Support Office (SKL) ment and established an internal filing process. We have also distributed the ‘Fair Trade Compliance Publication and Letter’, and ‘Fair Trade News Brief’ regularly to raise awareness, held the ‘Fair Trade Seminar’ on a > Published compliance handbooks distribution of monthly basis and provided external training to enhance the expertise of our fair trade compliance > Published the fair trade compliance guidelines compliance handbooks staff. The 7 Steps of > Held fair trade seminars for employees SK Innovation’s Compliance training > Implemented fair trade experts training and provided Responding to Changes in the Fair Trade Environment Compliance specialized programs for each business area Program (CP) In 2015, we established a monitoring process and carried out preliminary inspections of transactions > Established the Fair Trade Compliance Committee and in accordance with an amendment to the Enforcement Decree on ‘Prohibition of providing unfair Internal monitoring enacted the Compliance Management Regulations benefits to a specially related party’ (The Monopoly Regulation and Fair Trade Act, Article 23-2). In system > Operated organization responsible for compliance > Monitored compliance practices addition, in response to the growing efforts of the Fair Trade Commission to monitor unfair practices by conglomerates, we conducted inspections and training regarding unfair practices for our procureDisciplinary action on any > Operated and implemented disciplinary measures for ment and administrative departments during the first half of this year, and for the Ulsan Complex violations of related employees in violation of the Fair Trade Act regulations and SK incheon petrochem during the second half. We plan to target our efforts on enhancing our fair trade compliance levels across all our subsidiaries in order to address both internal and external Documentation & > Systematic management of documentation related to changes related to fair trade compliance. database operation CP activities SK innovation continuously monitors both domestic and foreign regulatory trends and updates our Future Plans Code of Ethics and guidelines accordingly. As the demand for ethical management grows from our Strengthening Awareness of Fair Trade Compliance and Preemptive Risk internal and external stakeholders alike, we plan to implement various activities to help our manageCompliance Evaluation ment and employees better understand the value of ethical management and put it into practice. Program Key In 2015, we held the seminar titled ‘Understanding the Need for and Process of Merger Filing’ for We will establish a process to systematically implement the Compliance Program and focus on all employees of SK innovation and its subsidiaries, and conducted comprehensive training and monitoring and managing key issues of interest to the Fair Trade Commission. Outputs evaluation on fair trade issues, including cartel, abuse of dominant market status, and unfair trade practices across major business divisions. 2015 Fair Trade Evaluation and Training Target / Subject Training and evaluation on subcontract-related Jun SKI Procurement Office fair trade risk Structural and behavioral risk level Jun –Jul SKE Retail Business Division assessment on overall SKE Retail business 2015 Fair Trade 5 teams within SKGC Polymer Assessment of cartel risk Sept Business Division Training and Evaluation Disclosure training for SKI subsidiaries Sept – Oct SKI Finance Division and Record subsidiaries Training and Q&A session on unfair business Oct Supplier liaison at SKIPC practices Nov Supplier liaison at Ulsan Complex Assessment and training on risks related Nov SKGC Shanghai Branch to China’s anti-trust law 46 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 47 03 Sustainability Review | Ethical Management | SHE | Talent Management | Mutual Growth | Local Communities SHE Toxic Chemicals SK innovation operates a structured and comprehensive chemical management system to protect its stakeholders’ health and safety and safeguard the environment from any harm across the Control entire life cycle of chemical usage from import to production, transportation and sales. Importing Chemicals from External Sources SK innovation’s goal of becoming a trusted company that grows together with society by achieving zero-accidents Step Anytime SK innovation purchases new chemicals, a stringent examination process to accurately and pursuing environment-friendly management is at the heart of its SHE management. To this end, we have set assess the level of hazard or toxicity must be conducted and conditions for safe storage and use 1 standards and procedures that go beyond legal standards, and develop a management system and corporate culture must be assessed prior to import. that enables compliance by every employee. We strive to be a role model for the industry by sharing these results with Hazard First, the Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) is studied to confirm basic hazard and toxicity data. Assessment all stakeholders. · Based on this data, a hazard assessment is conducted to evaluate the risk to our stakeholders, our Confirm and suppliers’ employees, our local communities and our production facilities, and a decision is made improve safety on whether to import the relevant chemicals. If purchasing the chemicals under current conditions Neglecting Safety, Health, and Environment (SHE) management can lead to major accidents and is deemed potentially hazardous, necessary technical and managerial actions are implemented to The cause significant damage to business operations. We recognize that effective SHE management Compliance remove the risk and to secure conditions for safe usage of such chemicals. is an essential factor for achieving sustainability. As many governments around the world have In addition, all chemicals are registered in the internal chemical management system linked to the Importance strengthened SHE related regulations, non-compliance can lead to disadvantages such as sanctions company's procurement system, where data on the chemical’s regulatory classification and relevant of SHE on business activities for offending companies. Therefore, companies must fulfill their social responpermits can be accessed. This system ensures that key factors for legal compliance related to the Management sibilities and develop and implement standards relating to SHE issues above basic legal standards chemicals are not overlooked, and utilized and managed in a timely manner. and disclose the results in a transparent manner in order to gain the trust of stakeholders. SK innovation applies the concept of Creating Shared Value (CSV) as the foundation of its SHE SHE management to gain the trust of the society and promote mutual growth, moving beyond traditional Step Using Chemical Materials in the Production of New Chemical Products notions of corporate stewardship that focuses on simply minimizing accidents and pollutants. With 2 In order to prevent chemical leakage, most of SK innovation’s facilities adopt a sealed design. We Management this principle, SK innovation aims to establish and operate SHE management with global competioperate the Leak Detection And Repair (LDAR)(1) system to prevent even minor leaks that may occur System Process/Facility tiveness in order to achieve the status of a leading global company and become a role model for Safety in vulnerable areas such as the links between different equipment. Management the industry. All chemicals used and manufactured in SK innovation are managed pursuant to the Material Safety In order to attain this goal, SK innovation analyzed the key factors in safety management of leading MSDS Data Sheet (MSDS), which details toxicity, associated risks and emergency safety procedures. The Compilation/ global companies and re-established 13 management elements that included these key aspects. Training MSDSs are displayed on site for employees and contractors to fully understand the MSDS. To execute these elements, we improved our operation system, which was applied to company Furthermore, we have established a chemical materials inventory that covers the type and quantity Chemical policies and procedures. In addition, under the leadership of the CEO, we launched programs to Materials imported and used or newly manufactured in the company, along with the properties of each chemistrengthen execution and conducted regular audits to identify any required action, thereby establishInventory cal in order to systematically manage chemical material data. ing the 「Plan-Do-Check-Action」 cycle. SHE Management System Framework Step Transporting Chemicals Off-site or Selling to Customers 3 Drive Occupational Implementation Chemicals produced in the manufacturing process or products that contain chemicals must comply Operations Environment Safety and Health with the domestic laws such as the 「Act on the Registration and Evaluation, etc. of Chemical Suband Reliability Stewardship Examine / conManagement firm regulatory stances」. They must also comply with the Registration, Evaluation and Authorization of Chemicals standards Chemicals SHE Incident Emergency (REACH) policy and all relevant international conventions if they are to be exported. SK innovation has SHE Management Investigation Management Provide MSDS established a process to ensure all chemical products manufactured are in compliance with these Leadership SHE and SHE Capability Audit standards and all necessary permits have been obtained prior to the transportation or sale. Accountability Management of Contractor SHE Development Change Management In addition, we supply the MSDS directly to the customer and our stakeholders can easily access this and Training information online through the e-MSDS system. SHE SHE Legal Stakeholder Compliance Communication Improvement Feed back (1) LDAR System: Identifies points in equipment that are prone to leaks, regularly measures whether leaks have occurred, and enacts immediate repairs should a leak be detected in order to prevent chemical related accidents. 48 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 49 03 Sustainability Review | Ethical Management | SHE | Talent Management | Mutual Growth | Local Communities Reducing GHG Emissions from Energy Use Establishing a World-class Emergency Response System Climate SK innovation and its subsidiaries have managed GHG emissions and energy consumption in accorEmergency Due to the number of large-scale accidents that have occurred recently both in and outside Korea, Change dance with the government’s Guideline for the Greenhouse Gas Target Management System after Response demands for companies to establish emergency response systems are increasing. As such, SK being designated as a controlled entity subject to the system. In 2007, it became the first company innovation has enhanced its emergency response system by benchmarking best practices and tarResponse Management in Korea to operate an in-house emissions trading scheme. Based on this experience, we have set geting on three key areas: improving on-site execution capacity, strengthening management of up an implementation system focusing on the Korea Emissions Trading Scheme (ETS) launched in large-scale emergencies, and strengthening emergency response capacity. 2015 and established a unique ETS operations manual to comply with the regulations and improve our emissions intensity in relation to energy use. Improving On-site Execution Capacity Emergency Response Principles In order to promote on-site emergency response, we have clearly set our priorities to protect life and environment before our assets and corporate image. All authority related to on-site emergency Energy Consumption, GHG Emissions and GHG Intensity (1) 1st Protecting Life response activities is granted to the highest decision-maker for each facility and we have enhanced 4.89 Protecting the responsiveness by establishing separate protocols for internal and external reporting procedures. In 2nd Environment addition, we have improved the emergency response classification system, stipulated the operation 4.66 4.56 of the Combined Crisis Management Committee, and took into considerations of the impact on Protecting Assets and 3rd Corporate Image corporate image as well as the possibility of higher emergency in addition to the existing criteria for 199,521 207,964 emergencies’ classification. 183,873 12,500 13,021 Strengthening Management of Large-scale Emergencies 11,828 We have re-established specific emergency response roles and responsibilities between our headquarters and sites to enable rapid response and minimize damage from on-site accidents. Headquarters attempts to support on-site emergency response and assure companywide sustainability. In (1) G  HG intensity 2013 2014 2015 addition, we have established the Guidelines for Operation of the Emergency Response Committee calculation excludes Energy Consumption (Unit: TJ) GHG Emissions (Unit : thousand tCO2eq) GHG Intensity (Unit : thousand tCO2eq/TJ) to enhance our rapid response capacity for large-scale emergencies. Moreover, we have adopted a process emissions standard reporting template for emergency response plans which allows for accurate and efficient written communications related to large-scale emergencies. Establishment and operation of GHG·Energy Management System In order to systematically manage data such as energy Adopting the Operational Rule for Emergency Response Meetings consumption and GHG emissions related to production, SK innovation launched the GHG & Emission Strengthening execution Management System (GEMS) which is linked to the 2015 Emergency Operation Information System (OIS). The GEMS gathResponse Drill 1. Meetings to set up 4. Meetings to approve ers all the necessary data automatically on a daily response goals plans and give instructions basis to calculate GHG emissions from the OIS, allowPlanning ing us to check GHG emissions levels, the probability Cycling GEMS to meet annual targets and the appropriate measures Operational to take if necessary. Rule 2. Meetings to establish 3. Meetings to set up strategies implementation plans Reducing Indirect Emissions In addition to reducing production-related emissions, SK innovation is adopting various measures to reduce GHG emissions outside its Joint Emergency Response production lines. For instance, we have adopted electric vehicles and Drill (Ulsan Complex, Seosan Strengthening Emergency Response Capacity installed charging stations for our business use as well as an ice Battery Plant, and others) We have clarified emergency drill components and frequency, and have made the Emergency Drill thermal storage cooling system at our headquarters. In addition, we Corporate EV Report mandatory as part of our efforts to strengthen emergency response training. We regularly have participated in community energy systems by utilizing inactive evaluate and improve the emergency response system and frequently assess organizational and offsite facilities to provide adjacent businesses with a cost-effective personnel changes to enhance management capacity. Furthermore, we hold repeated and periodic and stable supply of steam. drills so all of our employees are able to internalize emergency response procedures, allowing them to respond instinctively in the face of an actual emergency. Joint emergency drills to respond to marine oil spills 50 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 51 03 Sustainability Review | Ethical Management | SHE | Talent Management | Mutual Growth | Local Communities Air Pollutant Control Waste Control SK innovation has adopted TMS at key pollutant emitting facilities to constantly monitor emissions Our waste management system guides waste management, with waste either incinerated or sent and minimize air pollution. In addition, we operate odor prevention facilities to maintain pleasant air to a landfill by a verified and specialized waste management company. Among designated waste, quality and operate a VOC (Voice of Customers) channel for reports on environmental issues related waste oil is sent to reused fuel plant to be turned into reused fuel. Metals are extracted from waste to our facilities. Details for each plant are available on page 70. containing metals and turned into a resource to minimize waste generation. Please refer to page 72 for details on waste production by plant. Air Pollutant Emissions (Based on SK energy, SK global chemical, SK Incheon petrochem) (Unit: Ton) Volume of Waste (Based on SK innovation, SK energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants, SK incheon petrochem) (Unit: Ton) Designated waste General waste SOx NOx Dust 62,830 59,361 8,907 53,824 8,010 8,287 226 44,335 202 41,066 195 38,825 3,742 3,910 3,598 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Safety and Health Management at Worksites Water Pollutant Control We work to prevent on-site accidents and provide a healthy workplace. SK innovation has adopted SK innovation operates both a remote water quality monitoring system and a Membrane Bio Reactor the Process Safety Management (PSM) program made by the Ministry of Employment and Labor’s (MBR), a high-efficiency biological wastewater treatment system. Additionally, ‘Sour Water’ which and implemented regular monitoring and safety inspections to manage safety throughout all procontains corrosives, is treated and reused as desalted feed water to minimize wastewater generaduction processes. We also provide various facilities and programs to promote employees’ healthy tion. We reuse some treated wastewater for fire extinguishing or landscaping and continually manlifestyle. By continuing to offer diverse safety training, we solidify employees’ SHE capacity and a age discharge to maintain pollutant concentrations to 10 – 40% below regulatory requirements. In culture of workplace safety. Through the Workplace Health Center in Ulsan Complex, on-site clinics, particular, we have installed Wet Air Oxidation (WAO) facilities, an original technology we developed physical therapy room, fitness assessment & diagnosis center, health classes, and health manageto treat toxic nitrogenous organic pollutants. We enhanced separate operation of high concentration ment area in the R&D Center, we promote the health of our employees and their families. wastewater created during production to manage ecotoxicity in wastewater as of January 2011. Safety and Health Indicators UCL (Unplanned Capacity Loss)(1) LTI (Lost Time Incident rate)(2) Wastewater Treatment (Unit: %) (Unit: n/200 thousands working hours) Worksite Wastewater Treatment Facility Treatment method Destination 0.615 Ulsan Complex Wastewater Biological & Advanced Public bodies of water treatment plant treatment (East Sea) (1) Time lost due to SK energy accidents as a (Ulsan) No.2 FCC Wastewater treatYongyeon Wastewater percentage of the Physiochemical 0.208 0.161 ment plant Treatment Plant annual planned hours of operation 0.116 0.111 PE/PP Wastewater treatment Biological & Advanced Yongam Wastewater 0.065 (2) P ercentage of injuries SK global plant treatment Treatment Plant for every 100 persons 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 chemical EPDM Wastewater treatYongam Wastewater working 1 year (Ulsan) Biological (2,000 hrs) ment plant Treatment Plant SK incheon SK incheon petrochem WasteBiological & Advanced Gajwa Wastewater petrochem (Incheon) water treatment plant treatment Treatment Plant To achieve our vision of ‘top global energy and chemical company’ and secure the commensurate Future Plans SHE competitiveness, SK innovation will enhance SHE execution capacity at each site and minimize SHE risks. We will perform regular SHE audits and provide training to reinforce employees’ SHE awareness and implementation abilities, and also establish SHE management systems for our suppliers. Moreover, we continually analyze SHE regulations and enhance the hazard assessment systems to minimize SHE risks, and strengthen emergency response capabilities to prevent accidents. We will also actively promote stakeholder engagement and cooperation to enhance SHE capacity. 52 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 53 03 Sustainability Review | Ethical Management | SHE | Talent Management | Mutual Growth | Local Communities Talent Management Key Activities Talent Development We pursued SUPEX with human-oriented management and implemented a proactive talent develto Promote opment program based on leadership, next-generation leaders, employee competency, and SK Values built on our ‘Winning Culture’. In addition, we operated a rational and fair evaluation and Corporate compensation program to provide motivation to individuals while maximizing business performance. Culture SK innovation Talent Management System SK innovation strives to create a healthy corporate culture that promotes solidarity amongst our members and Next SK contributes to the company's development in order to maximize loyalty and workplace efficiency. Moreover, we Employee Leadership generation Competency Values leader foster a global perspective in our employees through fair and rational talent management policies while providing a pleasant working environment and various employee welfare programs conducive to self-development and stable lifestyles. Development System Creating and sharing a healthy corporate culture that fosters pride amongst employees and allows Proactive development Employee Disseminate The them to live up to their potential is crucial for the long-term development of a firm. As such, global Supporting leaders of next-generation competency and firms have worked to strengthen solidarity, establish and promote a corporate culture that will conleaders building spread values Importance tribute to the organization’s development, and operate various support and training programs neces> Diagnostics·feedback > Early identification and > Provide training based on > Provide regular·repeated of Corporate based on the 'best fit development of talent the competency needs for training for all employees sary to obtain these goals. Moreover, they make efforts to create effective communications that leadership' for each with future growth each job function to internalize core values Culture connect all members from top executives to employees to down. organization potential > Provide on and offline > Implement programs to > Provide leadership > Provide proactive and training to support promote implementation training to help perform systematic training for self-development of the SKMS and foster leadership functions future leaders a caring, professional A strong corporate culture is necessary to strengthen quick decision-making for more effective exeand provide customized mindset coaching to support SK cution capacities in the face of heightened uncertainties in the external environment. Our employdevelopment ees’ professionalism, based on world-class expertise in their subject matter and responsibility to innovation’s see their tasks through, is the foundation of our aim to cultivate a respectful and considerate ‘Caring Corporate Professional,’ the cornerstone of our ‘Winning Culture.’ Culture Based on the principle of the ‘Caring Professional,’ SK innovation was able to overcome crisis in Performance Evaluation 2015 and turn them into opportunities with the fervent brainstorming and bold actions of our employees. In this process, Subject Evaluation Criteria > Regular evaluation of comWinning Culture petencies, qualifications, we shared goals from the CEO and executives to manageperformance, etc., based on SK ment and staff, and operated various channels of communiValues fair standards > Utilize as index for promocation such as the SUPEX Workshop, Employees Workshop tions, transfers, training, and Can-Meeting for business units to harness and focus our Shared goals compensation, etc. CompePerforcapabilities. Open vertical All permanent employees tency mance > Ban discrimination based on communication gender, age, education, etc. Employees base their actions on proactive decision-making, Bold policy and rather than orders and control. To cement this culture, we process innovation have implemented bold innovations to remove restraints on Compensation employees’ creativity and processes and policies that hinder timely execution. Merit-based salary and > Fair and rational compenCompensation Standards incentive policy sation based on holistic Eliminating the dress code and the customary reporting techProfessional Caring assessment of individual nicalities, and moving away from documentation policies that Key performance evaluations Economic Performance favored format over content are also innovations we have > Leading innovation > Self-control valueadded Indicators and the company's short (KPI) and long-term sustainability implemented. SK innovation will continue to strengthen com> Differentiated > Mature attitude & competitiveness behavior goals munication while creating an environment that our employ> Winning Spirit > Respect and > Higher compensation given consideration ees can be proud of to create a stronger ‘Winning Culture.’ Comprehensive to employees with excellent Evaluation abilities and performance > Prohibit discrimination based on gender, age, educational background and other factors 54 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 55 03 Sustainability Review | Ethical Management | SHE | Talent Management | Mutual Growth | Local Communities Expanding Communication with Employees Work-life Balance In order to promote and spread the Winning Culture in 2015, the communication organization was By eradicating inefficient business customs and increasing workplace efficiency, we promote a consolidated into the SKMS office and we operated various channels including iCON, C-Talk, and the healthy work-life balance. We have minimized unnecessary meetings and streamlined reporting proManagement Briefing Session. cedures, while also providing employees with flexible working hour options to meet individual needs and actively promote a ‘smart-work system.’ SK innovation prides itself on creating an atmosphere that allows employees to enjoy free time with their families and these efforts have led to achieveCommunication Channels ments like attaining ‘Best Family Friendly Management’ certification. Online bulletin board enabling free communication of creative ideas, tong tong questions and other topics between employees Enhancing Employee Welfare and Benefits Online A multi-directional communication channel that utilizes internal broadWe have increased employee loyalty and improved concentration levels in the workplace by helping gbs casts to simultaneously share information on business performance, our employees maintain a healthy, stable lifestyle. As part of these efforts, SK innovation provides key issues, and the company’s key messages with all employees regular health check-ups, subsidizes medical costs, provides home and car loans, and operates a With roughly 200 participants, important issues facing the company retirement fund program to support employees in their retirement. In addition, we provide financial iCON are shared between leadership and employees. iCON members also act as representatives for employees on matters of importance to assistance for life events such as weddings and funerals, support cultural and leisure activities by them while also putting forth ideas that drive change providing rooms at resorts and vacation condominiums and operate a rewards system for longShares and discusses action items for implementing change as a tenured employees to boost loyalty. Role-specific Workshop venue for recommendations Management A joint committee comprised of company and employee representaExpanding Support for Working Mothers Briefing Session tives, acting as the official internal communication channel In consideration of female employees whose careers could be interrupted due to childcare responsiOffline Leader’s Forum Management seminars conducted by in-house and external experts for bilities, we have adopted a childcare policy that automatically transitions female employees’ materexecutives and team leader level employees nity leave to a yearlong childcare leave at the end of the former. In addition, we operate the SK Happy An official communication channel between the company and employChildcare Center and actively help female employees returning from childcare leave in readjusting Management Council ees to the workplace environment in order to promote an environment that helps all employees care for Conducting 1:1 coaching between leaders and team members in order their children. C-Talk to support team members’ development A counseling coaching center that provides support for employees’ Harmonia mental health and self-development. In addition to the in-house professional counselor, 10 external experts coach employees and their famiAs we pursue our vision of becoming a global leader in the energy and chemical industry, SK innovalies in areas such as life, career, work, and family tion endeavors to increase our corporate value by transforming our mindset and behavior in order Future Plans SK innovation actively collates work-related employee grievances for all of our employees to become successful professionals. With our slogan, ‘Caring Professional,’ which are then reflected in management activities. The committee we will innovate not only our corporate culture but our soft power by striving to provide a working Grievances Committee is comprised of representatives recommended by the CEO and the labor union, which assist with improving the working environment and environment where all employees can work with professionalism in an environment that is competiworking conditions verbally or via mail, phone, e-mail and various other tive yet respectful and considerate. In order to accomplish this, we will take a comprehensive and channels systematic look at our policies and processes, pursue a new, diverse corporate culture built on SK innovation’s common standards but also embraces our subsidiaries’ and business units’ uniqueness, actively incorporating employee feedback and managing change so that a real, meaningful transformation may take place. Integrated Communications Harmonia: Role-specific Workshop Channel ‘iCON’ Counseling and Coaching Center (Management) 56 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 57 03 Sustainability Review | Ethical Management | SHE | Talent Management | Mutual Growth | Local Communities Mutual Growth Key Supply Assessing Supplier Sustainability at the Contracting Stage SK innovation considers suppliers’ sustainability from the contracting stage. For construction and Chain service contracts over a certain threshold, we request for self-assessment of the potential supplier’s labor standards, minimum wage and gender equality regulatory compliance, work-life balance, Sustainability expansion of worker participation and cooperation, and non-regular worker protection. Based on the Management results, we confirm and factor the company’s regulation compliance and human rights protection Activities into selection. Moreover, we include environmental regulation (Act on Liability for Environmental Damage and Relief thereof, Act on Registration, Evaluation of Chemicals, etc.) compliance and risk SK innovation works to enhance both our suppliers’ financial stability and build capacity while also implementing management during the procurement process to ensure our suppliers’ compliance with their envivarious activities to minimize our adverse environmental and social impacts. In particular, we provide support to ronmental responsibilities. suppliers’ management and employees to raise awareness on safety and environmental issues not limited to their Facilitating Suppliers’ Sustainability Management Improvements work with SK innovation, but that can be applied in all aspects of their business. Contractors for production, storage, and R&D contracts over a certain value are required to submit a SHE (Safety, Health, and Environment) Plan covering the entire contract period. In addition, a contractor must establish standards to comply with SK innovation’s ethical management, and sanctions Leading global companies in sustainable business management have continuously worked to are imposed should breaches be discovered. SK innovation maintains efforts to secure contracThe improve the environment, safety, human rights, and other aspects of their supply. Calls for corporate tors’ and suppliers’ corporate responsibility. Further, SHE criteria has been added to regular supplier responsibility for supply chain sustainability have gained industry-wide attention, as supply chain Importance of evaluation for on-going monitoring and improvements. responsibility has become a critical issue affecting companies' business in terms of environmental Supply Chain and social risks. We also continuously invest and provide support to strengthen suppliers’ social responsibility. In Sustainability early 2015, SK innovation signed MOUs with the Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency and In Korea, the 「Act on the Promotion of Collaborative Cooperation between Large Enterprises and 40 key suppliers to build safety and health management systems for its partners based on standards and Mutual Small-Medium Enterprises」 came into effect in 2008, spurring key Korean conglomerates to recogand process tailored to each business. Furthermore, all participating suppliers obtained the korean Growth nize the importance of 'mutual growth' and a wide-range of support for their suppliers. Recently, health and safety certifications, KOSHA 18001 and OHSAS 18001. As a result, suppliers implement more cases are witnessed where support for SME (Small-Medium Enterprise) capacity building has SHE management and cemented their partnership with SK innovation to foster a safer workplace gone beyond regulatory compliance to form true partnerships with suppliers. together. We also signed the ‘MOU to prevent industrial accidents with suppliers’ and supported the suppliSK innovation’s Procurement Planning Team oversees the development of company-wide procureers’ hazard assessment and safety training. We also distributed our own ‘Operational Safety Guide’ SK ment strategies and related operations for SK innovation and its subsidiaries, while specific procureto our subsidiaries' suppliers and companies in the Ulsan Petrochemical Complex to raise their ment activities and Supplier Relationship management is under the purview of the Seoul HQ, Ulsan innovation’s safety awareness. Complex, SK incheon petrochem and Daedeok R&D Park. Suppliers’ safety and environment related Supply Chain issues are supported by each plant with help from the SHE division. We also provide management, Management Management and Training Support technology, and financing support in addition to our support for training and capacity building to purKey Mutual SK innovation provides suppliers' management and employees with various training programs. SK System sue mutual growth with our suppliers. In particular, SK global chemical communicates closely with Growth innovation supports the training cost and provide programs tailored for each job function. We also suppliers through the Mutual Growth Secretariat and was graded as Outstanding in 2014 and 2015 hosted a job fair in Ulsan to help small to medium regional suppliers recruit top talent. The job fair, by the Korean Commission for Corporate Partnership’s Corporate Partnership Index. Activities which is on its third successful run, not only promotes our suppliers, but provides local youths with various support activities such as aptitude tests, resume photos and have been appreciated by both As of December 2015, SK innovation purchased materials amounting to 743.6 billion KRW in total, of our suppliers and job-seekers. SK which roughly 50% was purchased from domestic suppliers. innovation’s SK innovation supplier training and education programs materials Purchasing over 3 years (unit: hundred million KRW) Classification Target Contents supply chain Overseas E  ducation on business management, economy, organizational and 2013 9,767 change management, domestic and foreign market conditions, Domestic Ulsan CEO Seminar CEO current events, etc. MBA job training Mid-level managers Education on planning, accounting, finance, marketing, HR, etc. 2014 7,446  ducation on marketing, leadership, HR, accounting, IT, CS, OA, E E-learning course Working-level employee etc. Education on process, equipment, inspections of materials, corro2015 On-line technology education Working-level employee 7,436 sion, equipment, statistical process management, etc. E  ducation on market conditions and forecasts of crude oil, naphTechnology seminar Working-level employee tha and chemicals, introduction of new products and technologies, etc. 58 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 59 03 Sustainability Review | Ethical Management | SHE | Talent Management | Mutual Growth | Local Communities Technology Support Strengthening Communication with Suppliers SK global chemical supports suppliers in developing domestic equipment, joint patent registration, We are advancing our partnerships by continuously comjoint entry into global markets and other activities based on joint technology development. In parmunicating with our suppliers and resolving their difficulticular, by jointly developing and registering patents with our suppliers, we have been able to achieve ties. We regularly host the Mutual Growth CEO Seminar localization of products and secure cost competitiveness, while our suppliers have been able to to share management innovation with our suppliers. We secure new revenue sources by selling new products to companies including SK innovation, resultalso host an annual Supplier CEO Meeting to discuss ing in a meaningful example of mutual growth. quality improvement and SHE management methods. We also provide monthly safety and health inspections and training to equipment suppliers, operate a council to 2015 Supplier Technology Support Case share accident case studies, and hold regular meetings 2015 SK Mutual Growth CEO Seminar Most petrochemical facilities were built based on forwith equipment, inspection, machinery and logistics parteign designs imported after the 1970s and localization ners to discuss plans to improve and expand SHE management capacity and work. was difficult as any damage to a key component could impact the entire production line. As such, SK innovaSK innovation will continue to assist our suppliers to become sustainable corporations by providing tion collaborated with one of its suppliers to increase Future Plans support for technology, finance, HR and other wide-ranging management practices. In addition, we the use of domestic technology in key processes. will not only look at the company’s production capacity or financial status in selecting our suppliers We supported Daeheung ENT, a safety valve and and partners, but also comprehensively evaluate their employees’ safety and health, and local enviindustrial valve supplier in developing the ‘safety valve ronmental impact. To achieve this, we will always maintain open channels of communication with performance test system’ technology, for which we our suppliers’ management. secured a patent which was successfully registered in December 2015. Furthermore, we helped generate revenue for Daeheung ENT by awarding the company 13 contracts in one year, including contracts for the patented technology. We continue to lead import-substitution not only for our company but for the domestic petrochemical industry while also working to identify new collaborations with our suppliers. Financial Support SK innovation provides suppliers with financial support through various mechanisms. Direct loans are available for suppliers in need. Indirect support is also available in the form of a credit guarantee through the Mutual Growth Guarantee Agreement, network loans and other financial programs. In 2015, SK innovation and SK global chemical contributed 12 billion won and 22 billion won, respectively, to set up and operate the Shared Growth Fund to provide emergency financial support to suppliers. 2015 Mutual Growth Fund 34 billion KRW (SK innovation 12 billion KRW, SK global chemical 22 billion KRW) 60 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 61 03 Sustainability Review | Ethical Management | SHE | Talent Management | Mutual Growth | Local Communities Local Communities Creating Identifying and Supporting Social Enterprises Since 2013, SK innovation has worked together with the Community Chest of Korea on the IdentiValue fication and Support for Social Enterprises Program in order to create jobs in underprivileged communities. Since 2015, the beneficiaries of its support, who were primarily elderly citizens, were for Local expanded to include disabled persons, woman from multicultural homes, and North Korean refuCommunities gees. In April 2015, 118 organizations nationwide, including social co-ops, NGOs and preparatory through Social social enterprises, participated in a heated competition over three months and five business models Enterprises were selected as sustainable solutions to provide job opportunities to underprivileged groups. SK innovation has provided a new paradigm of social contribution activities, which goes beyond providing a simple While SK innovation plans to support a total 500 million KRW over one year to proposed business form of donation to resolve social issues and empower the independent growth of local communities. In this regard, projects, it plans to also provide customized consultations to such projects in collaboration with the Community Chest of korea and social enterprise support entities, as well as expert groups. we provide support to social enterprises throughout their entire process of planning, establishment, and operations. In addition, we contribute to local community development by setting up a sustainable business model that creates 2015 Identification and Support for Social Enterprises Program jobs for underprivileged groups. In particular, we are leading an initiative to generate greater value for communities Company Name Business Model by identifying social enterprises, supporting projects for social enterprises and the social enterprise marketplace. The Center to Support 1 Self-Reliance for Disabled Open a café to create jobs and secure Youths in Gyeongbuk self-reliance for disabled youths, provide barista training Taehwa Sunrising 2 Clubhouse Global perceptions of a company's social responsibility have drastically changed leading to a transiEmploy women of multi-cultural families The tion from donation-based to participation-oriented paradigm of corporate social contribution activi3 Farm Community Laboratory to setup a baking workshop and learn baking skills Importance ties. As such, corporations are moving away from simple volunteering work, towards activities that Dobong Senior Laundromat that hires seniors to do can resolve fundamental social issues. SK innovation is committed to becoming a company that 4 of Social Club laundry from nursing homes etc. enhances the value of life through its social contribution activities, and plans to carry out sustainable Hire North Korean refugees to reuse Contribution social contribution activities that ultimately bring happiness to all members of the society. 5 PPL leather seats from disused cars to make fashion items We strive to recognize and address local social needs through activities that engage our stakeholders and focus on social enterprise-related projects. Since July 2004, our company-wide employee SK Contributing to the Community with Sports: Jeju Special Self-Governing volunteer program has been actively working to make our society a happier place through participainnovation’s Province Youth Soccer Council tory activities such as providing assistance in welfare institutions and performing environmental SK energy runs the Jeju-based professional soccer team. Jeju’s relatively large adult sports club Social clean-up. population and numerous grass-covered sports fields in the elementary, middle and high schools Contribution led us to design a social contribution activity around youth soccer, combining expertise from soccer Activities related organizations, corporations and groups. SK innovation Social Contribution Directions In 2014, the ‘Jeju Special Self-Governing Province Youth Soccer Council’ was launched as a voluntary group and was designated as a preparatory social enterprise in 2016. The Council provides regular youth soccer tournaments and camps, soccer lessons for vulnerable social groups, talent cultivation programs, and trainer site-visits. SK energy will continue to provide support through mid-to longPursue true social contribution activities for happier Korea term growth consultations, and identify new projects. Jeju Special Self-Governing Province Youth Soccer Council Development Roadmap 2014 2015 2016 2017 Established Established as Nonprofit Designated as preparatory social enterPursue certification Think continually and voluntary organization prise (March 2016) as social enterprise Preference for association convey sincerity on Aim to develop a social social issues such as the contribution model that social contribution > Site-visits to leading soccer > 2nd Annual Youth Soccer Winter Camp > Host the National activities that combine nations for youth soccer > Hosted the 2nd Jeju UTD Cup Youth Soccer Youth Soccer Associaenvironment, an aging continuously creates social instructors Tournament tion’s I-League population and mutual value participation > 1st Annual Youth Soccer Win> Pursued sports voucher program for obese > Host youth soccer growth ter Camp children tournaments and > Established as Nonprofit > Founded Youth FCs at the eup-myeon level camps Organization > Expanded free soccer lessons for vulnerable > Link with open-door > Provide free soccer lessons youths policy for school for vulnerable youths > Held lessons for the Korea Football Associasports facilities > Hosted the 1st Jeju UTD Cup tion's C,D level leader > Expand soccer classYouth Soccer Tournament > Site-visits to developed soccer nations for room for neglected > Founded Hallim-eup/ Aewolyouth soccer instructors and vulnerable comeup Youth FC > Developed Youth Soccer training Program munities 62 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 63 03 Sustainability Review | Ethical Management | SHE | Talent Management | Mutual Growth | Local Communities Social Enterprise Operation at Peru Branch Community-based Activities Our Peru branch is effectively contributing to the com1) Ulsan Complex Contributing to the community through the Ulsan Grand Park munity through the NGO SK-Prosynergy. Yachaiwasi(1), an and Ulsan Plant agriculture technology center built by us to promote rural Since SK innovation developed and donated the Ulsan Grand Park to the City of Ulsan in 2006, we development. Yachaiwasi provides the local community have operated various programs to contribute to the community. In 2015, we held the 9th Annual with farming and livestock training, appropriate technoloRose Festival in the Park’s Rose Garden. Nearly 210 thousand visitors came to enjoy the festival gies, microfinance, seeds and other benefits, while creatthemed ‘Ulsan, the dignified warm city of roses.’ In addition, 2,871 Ulsan residents came to the ing shared profits from the cooperative sale of agricultural Crafts Cabin to enjoy freestyle woodworking, woodworking in English, a program for local middle products. and high school students to make gifts for the less fortunate, and other activities. In 2015, nearly 800 farming families completed training Opening of 2nd Yachaiwasi At the SK square, employees of the Ulsan Complex and around 100 of their family members came at Yachaiwasi and expanded their sales networks while together to work with 11 community organizations including the Ulsan Metropolitan Women’s Cenattracting over 2,400 new customers. An education platform, My School, is also available via webter, and around 200 volunteers from the community to make kimchi for 1,200 marginalized families site, providing teaching and learning materials online for teachers, students and parents. In 2015, and 50 social welfare centers. 59 schools across 14 regions are registered on My School and 30 schools among them completed (1) Y  achaiwasi : Yachay (Teaching) + Wasi (Place), the program. In order to solidify the sustainable model, we plan to begin construction of the third Yachaiwasi in 2016. Environment Key Social 1) Energy education for children and teens Contribution In July 2015, SK energy signed an MOU on educational cooperation with the Korea Energy Agency Ulsan Grand Park Rose Festival Making Kimchi Event for the Underprivileged (KEA) and operated an educational program on careers in the energy industry where children and Activities teens could experience a career in energy and learn innovative problem solving skills to tackle energy and climate change issues. 2) SK incheon petrochem Continuous Community Activities This program for elementary, middle and high school students was jointly operated by the MinisThrough various mutual benefit projects, SK incheon petrochem continues to grow happily with the try of Education, and the Korea Foundation for the Advancement of Science and Creativity at four local community. Starting from November 2015, we have been implementing the ‘Become Regulars energy experience centers (Yongin, Daejeon, Gwangju, Daegu) and SK facilities in Ulsan, Incheon, Campaign’ to support local businesses and strengthen interaction and ties between our employees and Daejeon. The students attended special lectures by experts and designed their own energy and local merchants. By voluntarily dining at local restaurants for lunch and dinner and also purchasfacilities and characters. In particular, the lectures were provided by SK energy employees as talent ing goods from local stores, we have contributed to strengthening the local businesses and created donation. Visual aids that featured conservation content developed by SK energy were provided, as a channel to interact with the local merchants. well as mobile classrooms. Students were encouraged to develop interest in the energy industry In addition, the SK Local Community Cooperation Committee launched the ‘Traditional Market Tour’ via site visits. campaign in September 2015 not only to revitalize the stagnant local market, but also to donate goods purchased through the campaign to local senior citizens centers, afterschool learning centers and other welfare centers to strengthen traditional markets. Energy Class by Experts Energy Tomorrow MOU Signing Become Regulars Campaign Traditional Market Tour 2) Carbon Credits Donations SK energy and other major conglomerates in Korea gathered at the Pyeongchang Olympic Committee office in Seoul in December 2015 to donate 75,321 tons of carbon credits under the UNFCCC 3) SK incheon petrochem Plant Tour program for local elementary and middle CDM to contribute to the vision of a low-carbon 2018 Pyeongchang Winter Olympics and Paralympic school students Games. The credits were equivalent to roughly 60 1MW wind turbines’ (operating at 30% efficiency) SK incheon petrochem operates a career experience event for local elementary and middle school annual generation and 5% of the Pyeongchang Winter Olympics' total GHG emissions of 1.56 milstudents. Since 2008, approximately 2,000 elementary school students have participated in the lion tons. The credits donated are expected to offset some of the emissions from event preparation ‘energy class for children’ comprised of an education program to promote energy conservation and a and operations. plant tour. Middle school students have visited the company and learned about the energy business to explore their career paths through the ‘career experience class’ which recorded around 1,500 participants in 2015. 64 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 65 03 Sustainability Review | Ethical Management | SHE | Talent Management | Mutual Growth | Local Communities Employee Participation 1) Village Enhancement Project SK innovation’s volunteer program implemented the Village Enhancement Project over the course of one year in the underprivileged neighborhoods near our workplaces in Seoul, Incheon, Ulsan and Daejeon in order to improve the living conditions in the community. Conducted as a relay of employee volunteers, we repaired roofs, flooring and made various other home improvements. We also built waste and recycling receptacles and painted murals to beautify the neighborhoods. A total of 220 volunteers participated in improving 58 homes and 10 neighborhoods’ environments and the satisfaction rate for the volunteers was high as well. 2) One Sponsorship Account per Person SK innovation has continuously supported the One Sponsorship Account per Person program to 04 help make voluntary donations easier. SK innovation, SK energy, SK global chemical, and SK lubricants have encouraged employee participation in the program. We will continue to expand participation in 2016 and plan to select areas of support that would make the best use of the donations. Livelihood support Medical 72.6 million KRW 70.5 million KRW > Heating materials provided for senior > Transplant and rehabilitation fee supcitizens living alone port for pediatric cancer patients > Birthday parties for households with > Support Alzheimer’s prevention handicapped adults program One Sponsorship Appendix > Living condition improvements for > Provision of prosthetics for teenage the underprivileged Account per Person(1) amputees > Support for disabled persons Achievements 1,663 Shared Growth with participants local communities Emergency relief 4.8 million KRW 179.3 11.9 million KRW million KRW Financial Statement 68 raised >S  ponsoring local welfare centers > Emergency aid kit donations to areas hit by the Ebola virus near workplace Sustainability Performance 69 Auditors' Report 74 Vocational training Women Assurance Statement 75 (1) SK incheon 9.5 million KRW 10 million KRW petrochem operates GRI G4 Index 77 their own sponsorship > Training support for disabled baristas >S  upport for single-mother houseprogram (404 > Support for mock-launch of youth holds Membership Status 80 participants/ 36.9 million KRW raised) social ventures We will continue to create value that can make meaningful contributions to local communities Future Plans through the work of social enterprises. SK innovation keeps track of and manages the performance of the social enterprises and preparatory social enterprises. Through our participation, we will continue to support and strive to help them develop unique social enterprise models that can maximize the effect of social value creation and help them grow into independent enterprises. In addition, we will continue to actively pursue participatory social contribution activities led by our SK Angels (1004) Volunteer Group with 5,740 total members as of 2015 to further raise awareness on the importance of social contribution. Moreover, we will continue to expand the activities’ networks to provide participants of our rural development and education support project in Peru. 66 SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 67 04 Appendix | Financial Statements | Sustainable Performance | Auditors’ Report | Assurance Statement | GRI G4 Index | Membership Status Financial Statement Sustainable Performance SK innovation provides a summary of our consolidated financial statement to assist in stakeholders’ understanding of our financial structure and business performance. The below is taken from the 2015 Annual Economic Performance Report. Please refer to the full annotated financial statement available on the Financial Supervisory Service’s electronic disclosure system (http://dart.fss.or.kr/) for more details Sales and Operating Income by Business Segment (Unit:100 million KRW) Field 2013 2014 2015 Field 2013 2014 2015 Condensed Sales 660,392 658,607 483,563 Sales Percent of Sales Sales Percent of Sales Sales Percent of Sales Income Cost of goods sold 627,196 642,444 441,968 Petroleum 498,968 75.6% 490,563 74.5% 352,997 73.0% Statement Gross margin 33,196 16,163 41,595 Sales Chemical 121,120 18.3% 126,352 19.2% 92,880 19.2% (Unit: 100 million KRW) SG&A expenses 18,610 17,991 21,799 Lubricant 27,861 4.2% 29,818 4.5% 26,188 5.4% Operating income 14,586 (1,828) 19,796 Petroleum development, etc 12,443 1.9% 11,874 1.8% 11,499 2.4% Financial income 16,378 26,166 22,505 Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating Operating Finance costs 18,630 29,656 25,706 Income Income Ratio Income Income Ratio Income Income Ratio Gains or losses from equity method 677 1,308 2,570 Petroleum 597 0.1% -9,990 -2.0% 12,991 3.7% Non-operating income 1,273 864 2,259 Operating Chemical 8,670 7.2% 3,592 2.8% 4,310 4.6% Income Lubricant 1,554 5.6% 2,899 9.7% 2,947 11.3% Non-operating expenses 2,370 1,220 4,884 Income before income taxes 11,914 (4,367) 16,541 Petroleum development, etc 3,767 30.3% 1,672 14.1% -451 -3.9% Continuing operations income before income taxes 3,498 (36) 6,566 Continuing operations net income (loss) 8,416 (4,331) 9,975 Discontinued operations net income (629) (1,041) (1,299) Distribution of Economic Value (Unit:100 million KRW) Net income (loss) 7,787 (5,372) 8,677 Field Recipient Expenditure/ Investment 2013 2014 2015 Other comprehensive income 556 887 861 Corporation R&D (1) 1,513 1,384 1,654 Total comprehensive income 8,343 (4,485) 9,538 Economy Acquisition of tangible assets (2) 27,146 16,417 4,609 Investors Total cash dividend 2,983 4,474 Environment Environmental Investment 501 596 200 (5) Field 2013 2014 2015 Employees Salaries (3) 9,071 8,969 11,653 Condensed Current assets 169,974 148,884 128,422 Society Suppliers Purchase of suppliers’ products 9,769 7,446 7,436 Statement Non-current assets 182,914 202,129 185,177 Community Social contribution investments 422 306 84 of Financial Total assets 352,889 351,013 313,598 Government Corporate tax (4) 3,866 4,494 4,072 Position Current liabilities 116,653 114,034 74,940 (1) Based on 2015 Annual Report (2) Based on each year’s consolidated audit report, note 10-(2) refers to items in book value of tangible assets labeled ‘acquired’  Non-current liabilities 67,083 76,369 68,195 (3) Based on each year’s consolidated audit report, note 23, item under cost by category labeled ‘employee wages’ (4) Based on 2015 Annual Report’s consolidated cash flow table in consolidated financial statement (Unit: 100 million KRW) Total liabilities 183,736 190,403 143,135 (5) Many large-scale projects to reduce environmental impact were concluded in 2014, leading to a lower investment rate in 2015 Capital attributed to owners of the parent company 158,395 150,003 158,897 Capital 4,686 4,686 4,686 Other paid-in capital 57,570 57,570 57,481 Consolidated retained earnings 95,353 86,360 94,496 Other capital 786 1,387 2,234 Non-controlling interests 10,758 10,607 11,566 Total shareholders’ equity 169,153 160,611 170,463 68 SK Innovation Sustainability Report 2015 69 04 Appendix | Financial Statements | Sustainable Performance | Auditors’ Report | Assurance Statement | GRI G4 Index | Membership Status SHE Field 2013(1) 2014 2015 Source Applicable Worksites 2013 2014 2015 Energy Direct energy Fuel 135,389 137,466 142,569 Total Water Nakdong River SK energy, SK global chemical, SK lubricants 36,357,633 40,031,726 38,299,789 Consumption Energy Consumption Electricity 31,477 37,116 39,528 Withdrawal by Han River SK incheon petrochem 3,015,131 3,710,574 3,837,553 Indirect energy (Unit: TJ) Steam 17,007 24,939 25,867 Source Geum River SK innovation (Seosan, Jeungpyeong, Daedeok) (1) 1,086,429 517,701 (1) Data for SK innovation not previously reported are included, thus figures differ from previous reports. (Unit: Ton) (1) Calculated since 2014 Field 2013 2014 2015 Treatment Water Legal Company Standard Emissions Concentration Worksite GHG Emissions Wastewater Facility Quality Limit (Emissions ratio to legal limit) (Emissions ratio to company standard) Direct emissions 9,109 10,032 10,539 Pollutant 2013 2014 2015 (4) (Unit: GHG emissions-Thousand GHG emissions Indirect emissions 2,719 2,468 2,482 Concentration COD(1) 40 20(50%) 8.1(41%) 9.3(47%) 9.3(47%) CO2eq, GHG emissions intensityTotal 11,828 12,500 13,021 CO2eq/billion KRW) (Unit: ppm) Ulsan CLX SS (2) 10 8(80%) 4.4(55%) 3.1(39%) 1.5(19%) GHG emissions intensity (1) 4.89 4.66 4.56 Oil(3) 5 1(20%) 0.3(30%) 0.3(30%) 0.3(30%) (1) Amount of GHG emissions from generating 1TJ of energy from fuel, electricity, or steam (GHG emissions÷ energy consumption) SK energy Process emissions not included in intensity calculations COD 90 70(78%) 14.9(22%) 20(29%) 15.5(23%) No.2FCC SS 80 60(75%) 32.5(55%) 25(42%) 25(42%) Oil 5 3.7(74%) 1.3(36%) 1.4(38%) 2.5(68%) Field 2013 2014 2015 (2) COD 90 70(78%) 8.4(12%) 6.9(10%) 10.1(15%) Air Pollutant SOx 3,598 3,742 3,910 PE/PP SS 80 60(75%) 16(27%) 16.2(27%) 12.7(22%) Emissions NOx 8,010 8,907 8,287 Oil 5 3.7(74%) 0.3(9%) 0.4(11%) 0.6(17%) SK global Volume (1) Dust 226 195 202 chemical COD 90 70(78%) 25(36%) 15.4(22%) 32.6(47%) (1) Based on SK energy (Ulsan), SK global chemical (Ulsan), SK incheon petrochem (Incheon) EPDM SS 80 60(75%) 14(24%) 9.7(17%) 14.4(24%) (Unit: Ton) (2) SK innovation has recorded air pollutant emissions from the Jeungpyeong Plant (I/E materials) since 2015 but data is not reflected in this table Oil 5 3.7(74%) 0.1(3%) 0.2(6%) 0.5(14%) SK innovation Jeungpyeong Plant (I/E materials) air pollutant emissions volume SOX: n/a / NOX: none detected / Dust: 1 ton COD 90 40(44%) 14.6(37%) 10.9(28%) 11.8(30%) SK incheon Incheon SS 80 30(38%) 5.9(20%) 5.9(20%) 6.7(23%) petrochem Oil 5 3(60%) 0.46(16%) 0.47(16%) 0.3(10%) Worksite Legal Company Standard Emissions Concentration (1) COD: Chemical Oxygen Demand, the amount of oxygen required by organisms to oxidize pollutants Air Pollutant Limit (Emissions ratio to legal limit) (Comparison with in-house standards) (2) SS: Suspended Solids, solids materials that float on the water surface or is dispersed in murky waters (3) Oil: the oil that present in wastewater that is produced as a result of petroleum and gas decomposition Emissions 2013 2014 2015(1) (4) SK innovation global technology (Daedeok) has recorded wastewater pollutant concentration since 2015 but data is not reflected in this table Concentrations SOx 180 170(94%) 29(17%) 35(20%) 75(44%) SK innovation global technology (Daedeok) pollutant concentration COD: 15pp. / SS: 8 ppm SK energy Ulsan NOx 200 180(90%) 79(43%) 90(50%) 114(63%) (Unit: SOx-ppm, NOx-ppm, Dust-mg/m2) Dust 50 40(80%) 4.7(11%) 4.1(10%) 4.7(11%) SOx 180 160(88%) 15(9%) 13(8%) 36(22%) SK global chemical Ulsan NOx 150 130(86%) 92(70%) 99(76%) 108(83%) Dust 30 20(66%) 4.3(21%) 3.9(19%) 4.9(24%) SOx 180 160(88%) 15.1(9%) 7.3(4%) 11.4(7%) SK incheon petrochem Incheon NOx 250 235(94%) 69(29%) 42(17%) 37(15%) Dust 30 25(83%) 4.5(18%) 1.9(7%) 3.5(14%) (1) SK innovation has recorded air pollutant emissions concentration from the Jeungpyeong Plant (I/E materials) since 2015 but data is not reflected in this table SK innovation Jeungpyeong Plant (I/E materials) air pollutant emissions volume SOX: n/a / NOX: none detected / Dust: 2.2mg/m2 70 SK Innovation Sustainability Report 2015 71 04 Appendix | Financial Statements | Sustainable Performance | Auditors’ Report | Assurance Statement | GRI G4 Index | Membership Status Society Type Worksite 2013 2014 2015 No. persons (Ratio) Waste Discharge SK innovation (Seosan, Daedeok, Jeungpyeong) (3) 9,395 11,376 10,997 Employee Status Category 2013 2014 2015 by Type SK energy (Ulsan) 20,389 17,799 20,430 by Category (1) Total 6,350 (100%) 6,338 (100%) 5,820 (100%) Designated  Regular 6,240 (98.3%) 6,231 (98.3%) 5,744 (98.7%) SK global chemical (Ulsan) 5,438 9,291 8,777 Employment type (Unit: Ton) Waste (1) (Unit: Persons) Temporary contract 110 (1.7%) 107 (1.7%) 76 (1.3%) SK lubricants (Ulsan) 235 151 901 Male 5,656 (89.1%) 5,623 (88.7%) 5,171 (88.8%) SK Incheon petrochem (Incheon) 3,368 2,449 3,230 Gender Female 694 (10.9%) 715 (11.3%) 649 (11.2%) Total 38,825 41,066 44,335 Under 30 510 (8%) 734 (11.6%) 589 (10.1%) SK innovation (Seosan, Daedeok, Jeungpyeong) (4) 1,784 2,324 2,501 Age 30 to 50 years of age 4,075 (64.2%) 4,263 (67.3%) 3,826 (65.7%) SK energy (Ulsan) 42,363 45,889 37,846 50 years or more 1,765 (27.8%) 1,341 (21.2%) 1,405 (24.1%) General Minorities Disabled 87 (1.4%) 130 (2.1%) 94(1.6%) SK global chemical (Ulsan) 11,873 10,700 11,220 Waste (2) (1) Excludes executives and advisors SK lubricants (Ulsan) 591 2,356 399 SK Incheon petrochem (Incheon) 2,750 1,561 1,858 Total 59,361 62,830 53,824 Category 2013 2014 2015 Total waste discharged 98,186 103,896 98,159 (1) Designated waste : Waste occurring from a facility that is defined by the law as a “factory” that may potentially be harmful or toxic Childcare leave No. of employees who Male 1 2 4 used childcare leave Female to the environment or people and rate of 58 61 65 (2) General waste: Waste occurring from a facility that is neither designated waste or construction waste Male return No. of employees returning from childcare leave 1 (3) Seosan (Battery) 2013: 0 ton / 2014: 0 ton / 2015: 176tons Jeungpyeong (IE materials): 2013: 8,963 tons / 2014: 10,968 tons / 2015: 10,501 tons who worked at least 12 months following return Female 41 25 39 Daedeok (GT) 2013: 432 tons / 2014: 418 tons / 2015: 320 tons (4) Seosan (Battery) 2013: 86 tons / 2014: 194 tons / 2015: 441 tons Jeungpyeong (IE materials): 2013: 1,198 tons / 2014: 1,753 tons / 2015: 1,790 tons Daedeok (GT) 2013: 500 tons / 2014: 377 tons / 2015: 269 tons Category 2013 2014 2015 Total Suppliers Number of suppliers 5,312 Purchases 9,769 7,446 7,436 Method 2013 2014 2015 (Unit: Number of suppliers number of companies, Local (1) suppliers’ purchases (amount) 5,131 3,710 3,767 Discharge In-house treatment (landfill) 18 299 0 Purchases 100 million KRW) Local (1) suppliers’ purchases (percentage) 53% 50% 51% Volume by Outsourced volume (Recycled) 51,199 63,308 65,265 (1) Refers to Republic of Korea Treatment Outsourced volume (incinerator / landfill) 46,969 40,291 32,894 Method (1) Waste recycle rate (2) 52.1% 60.9% 66.5% (Unit: Ton) (1) Waste volume figures for 2013 and 2014 include data not reported in previously, thus volume figures differ from previous reports. Category 2013 2014 2015 (2) Outsourced volume (Recycled) ÷ Total waste discharge volume X 100 Mutual SK innovation 200 270 120 Mutual Growth Fund Growth Fund Contribution SK global chemical 120 220 220 Contribution Total 320 490 340 Category 2013 2014 2015 (Unit: 100 million KRW) Lost time Employees 0.113 0.103 0.078 Incident Rates Suppliers 0.117 0.194 0.142 (LTI) Total 0.116 0.161 0.111 Company No. of Activities Hours Number of volunteer teams Participants 2015 Employee SK innovation 107 3,118 16 847 (Unit: n/200 thousands working hours) Volunteer SK energy 1,087 16,951 33 4,738 Program Status SK global chemical 249 3,546 5 1,173 SK lubricants 44 786 2 228 SK incheon petrochem 197 5,609.5 8 1,564 SK trading international 3 130 1 34 Total 1,687 30,140.5 65 8,584 72 SK Innovation Sustainability Report 2015 73 04 Appendix | Financial Statements | Sustainable Performance | Auditors’ Report | Assurance Statement | GRI G4 Index | Membership Status INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors of SK innovation Co., Ltd. Introduction SK innovation Co., Ltd(hereinafter referred to as “SK innovation”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd.(hereinafter referred to as “DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of the SK innovation Sustainability Report 2015 Report on the Financial Statements (the “Report”). The directors of SK innovation have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of SK Innovation Co., Ltd. (the “Company”) and its subsidiaries, in performing the assurance work is to the management of SK innovation in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurwhich comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and the related ance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have consolidated statements of comprehensive income, changes in stockholders’ equity and cash flows for the years then ended, all been provided in good faith. expressed in Korean won, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Scope of assurance Management’s Responsibility for the Consolidated Financial statements The scope of assurance included a review of sustainability activities and performance data over the reporting period 1st January to Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these consolidated financial statements in accordance with 31st December 2015. This included: Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”) and for such internal control as management determines is necessary > Evaluation of the principles for defining the sustainability report content in the Global Reporting Initiative(GRI) Sustainability Reportto enable the preparation of the consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or ing Guidelines 4.0 error. > Verification of disclosures to check the Report is prepared ‘In accordance’ with the GRI Guidelines G4(Core option)(Verification on aggregated level of data and activities that refers to the period between January and December in 2015) Auditors’ Responsibility > Evaluation of the process for determining material aspects for reporting and the management approach to material issues and the Our responsibility is to express an audit opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our process for generating, gathering and managing the quantitative and qualitative data in the Report. audits in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing (“KSAs”). Those standards require that we comply with ethical requirements and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free from Basis of our opinion material misstatement. We performed our work using DNV GL's assurance methodology VeriSustainTM , which is based on our professional experience, interAn audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The national assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000(ISAE 3000). We applied the limited procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgment, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial level of assurance. The audit was carried out in July and August 2016. The site visits were made to SK innovation Head office in Seoul statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the and Ulsan complex in Korea. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the cir> challenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data cumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes management system, information flow and controls; evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as > interviewed representatives from the various departments; well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. > conducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting system and We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our audit opinion. associated reporting systems as they relate to selected content and performance data; > reviewed the outcomes of stakeholder consultation report and the materiality assessment report. Opinion In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the SK Innovation Limitations Co., Ltd. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, and their financial performance and their cash flows for The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of SK innovation’ associated compathe years then ended, in accordance with K-IFRS. nies, subsidiaries, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties except for SK innovation, 5 major Subsidiaries and SKIGT(R&D center in Daedeok) mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic 10, Gukjegeumyung-ro,Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul Deloitte Anjin LLC performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and March 3, 2016 the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service(http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as SK innovation’s website (http://www.skinnovation.com). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in This report is effective as of March 3, 2016, the auditors’ report date. Certain subsequent events or the organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data circumstances may have occurred between the auditors’ report date and the time the auditors’ report is read. Such events or circumstances could significantly affect the financial statements and may result in modifications to the auditors’ report. at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person 74 SK Innovation Sustainability Report 2015 75 04 Appendix | Financial Statements | Sustainable Performance | Auditors’ Report | Assurance Statement | GRI G4 Index | Membership Status or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. GRI G4 Index Opinion and Observation General Standard Disclosure On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly describe the adherence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI G4 nor is prepared ‘in accordance’ with GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4, Core option. The verification team has observed that there is general awareness of sustainability context across all different levels of the organization. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the following Principles are made below; Stakeholder Inclusiveness This report adopts the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines ‘Core Option’. Based on this, the SK innovation has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Shareholders, Employees, Suppliers, Local Communities following index is provided to indicate the status of general standard disclosure required for for GRI G4 Core and Customers. SK innovation engages with the stakeholders at the company and business unit levels through various channels. SK Option. innovation organized stakeholders survey to listen to their interests and expectations on the sustainability issues. The report presents Number Disclosure Page key issues of respective stakeholders which were considered during evaluating the materiality assessment process. Strategy and Analysis G4-1  tatement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization S 5, 9 It is recommended to document the stakeholder engagement process and its outcomes for reliability and improvement of reporting, Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization 12 G4-4 The primary brands, products, and services 12 G4-5 The location of the organization’s headquarters 12 Sustainability Context G4-6 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries with either The report covers the sustainability context of economic, environmental and social aspects by addressing the background and impormajor operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report 12 tance of key issues. G4-7 The nature of ownership and legal form 12 G4-8 The markets served(including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers 12 and beneficiaries) Materiality G4-9 Scale of the reporting organization 12 SK innovation has conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the 2015 Report and presents the result in the Report. The relG4-10 The total workforce by employment type, gender, employment contract and region 12 G4-11 The percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 50.7% evant issues were formed from the internal and external sources such as various global standards, the media and industry peer group G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain 73 reports. The issues are prioritized based on the opinion of internal and external experts and stakeholders survey result. The audit team G4-13 Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, No significant has reviewed and confirmed that the main issues selected through the materiality assessment process included in the report. structure, ownership, or its supply changes It is recommended to document the materiality assessment process and its outcomes for reliability and improvement of reporting, G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization 40, 41 G4-15 List externally developed economic, environmental, and social charters, principles, or other 9 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or endorses Completeness G4-16 List memberships in associations(such as industry associations) and national or international 80 advocacy organizations SK innovation has reported the organizational performance on key issues of sustainability taking into account the economic, environIdentified Material G4-17 List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or 12, 38, 39 mental and social impacts. The audit team has not found material omissions or errors in the Report when it comes to reporting boundAspects equivalent documents ary and material aspects. and Boundaries G4-18 The process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries Cover G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content 2 G4-20 For each material Aspect, report Aspect Boundary within the organization 78 Accuracy and Reliability G4-21 For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization 78 Any errors and misstatements identified during the engagement were corrected prior to the Report being published. Data and informaG4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the Marked reasons for such restatements when occurred tion contained in the report has been described in an accurate and reliable way on the basis of sample checked and the information G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Marked provided by SK innovation. Boundaries when occurred Although, different ranges of reporting are applied to some indicators depending on the circumstances of companies and sites, it is Stakeholder G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization 2 desirable to apply the same range of reporting for meaningful and comparable information for the key indicators. Engagement G4-25 The basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage 2 G4-26 Organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement 2 by type and by stakeholder group Competence and Independence G4-27 Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how 2 the organization has responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting DNV GL Business Assurance is part of DNV GL Group and a global provider of certification, verification, assessment and training serReport Profile G4-28 Reporting period(such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided Cover vices, helping customers to build sustainable business performance. Our environmental and social assurance specialists are present G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 1 in over 100 countries. The assurance work was performed by independent team which meets DNV GL’s competence requirements. G4-30 Reporting cycle 1 DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of any statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 1 G4-32 The ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen 77~79 G4-33 The organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance 75, 76 for the report 5 Aug 2016 Governance G4-34 The governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest Seoul, Korea governance body 10 In Kyoon Ahn Country Representative Ethics and Integrity G4-56 The organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as DNV GL Business Assurance Korea Ltd. codes of conduct and codes of ethics 8 76 SK Innovation Sustainability Report 2015 77 04 Appendix | Financial Statements | Sustainable Performance | Auditors’ Report | Assurance Statement | GRI G4 Index | Membership Status GRI G4 Index GRI G4 Index Specific Standard Disclosures : Material Topic Specific Standard Disclosure : Other issues This report discloses the content decision including materiality test by which we selected the 10 aspects to In order to better support our stakeholders’ decision-making process, SK innovation has disclosed report in accordance with the GRI G4 Guidelines, provides Disclosure on Management Approach for each sustainability issues additional to the 10 material aspects as they demonstrate our efforts and dedication to aspect and includes at least one standard disclosure. Based on this, the following index is provided to effectively managing sustainability issues. the following index is provided to indicate where each standard indicate where each aspect is reported and the aspect boundary for the 10 material topics. disclosure is reported and the aspect boundary for the 10 material issues. Aspect Number Disclosure Page Aspect Number Disclosure Page Economic Aspect Boundary Shareholders, Employees, Clients Indirect Economic Impacts G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 62~66 Performance DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 32~41 Energy G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 70 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 69 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 50 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due 41 Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 71 to climate change Procurement Aspect Boundary Employees, Suppliers, Local Community Emissions G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 1) 70 Practices DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 58~61 G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (scope 2) 70 G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 58 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions intensity 70 Overall Aspect Boundary Shareholders, Employees, Clients, Suppliers, Local Community G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 70 Environment DMA General management approach disclosed 48~53 G4-EN21 NOx, SOx, and other significant air emissions 70 G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type 69 Effluents and Waste G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 71 Employment Aspect Boundary Employees, Suppliers, Local Community G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 72 DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 54~57 Environment Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions No significant fines G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or 56 Compliance G4-EN29 for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations or sanctions part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 73 Occupational Aspect Boundary Shareholders, Employees, Clients, Suppliers Health and DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 48~53 Safety G4-LA6 Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, 53, 72 and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by gender AntiAspect Boundary Shareholders, Employees, Suppliers corruption DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 44~47 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 45 AntiAspect Boundary Shareholders, Employees, Suppliers Competitive DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 44~47 Behavior G4-SO7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly 46, 47 practices and their outcomes Compliance Aspect Boundary Shareholders, Employees, Suppliers DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 44~47 G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for No significant non-compliance with laws and regulations fines or sanctions Supplier Aspect Boundary Suppliers, Local Community Assessments for DMA Disclosure on Management Approach 58~61 Impact on G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society Society *Suppliers performing fulfilling construction contracts over a certain size are required to submit a self-evaluation 78 covering the Labor Standards Act and Minimum Wage Act compliance, gender equality, work-life balance, labor participation and cooperation promotion, Nonstandard Worker Protection law compliance, and other practices. 78 SK Innovation Sustainability Report 2015 79 04 Appendix | Financial Statements | Sustainable Performance | Auditors’ Report | Assurance Statement | GRI G4 Index | Membership Status Membership Status SK innovation mobilizes its internal capabilities to create economic, environmental, and social value. Furthermore, the company makes the best use of its external capabilities to create greater synergy. SK innovation actively engages with the key associations associations in each field and cooperates with various stakeholders to the end. WEC (World Energy Council) Korean Member Committee Economy Korea Employers Federation Korea Petroleum Association Korean Fair Competition Federation Chamber of commerce and industry Korea Industrial Technology Association Davos Forum Korea Oil Association World Petroleum Council (WPC) Korean Member Committee Korea Energy Foundation The Association of Energy Future Forum Korea Lubricating Oil Industries Association The Federation of Korean Industries The Korea Oil Station Association Business Institute for Sustainable Development The Korean Institute of Chemical Engineers The History of SK innovation’s Sustainability Report Korea Business Council for Sustainable Development Energy &Mineral Resources Development Association of Korea 2010’s Korea Petrochemical Industry Association Korea Chemical Industry Council The Association of Energy Future Forum Mae Kyung Safety & Environment Institute SHE Environment Korea Chemicals Management Association 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 Korean Institute of Hazardous Materials Korea Environmental Policy and Administration Society The Korean Society for Marine Environment and Energy 2000’s Korea Environmental Preservation Association Korea Fire Safety Association SHE Safety UN Global Compact Society 2009 2008 2007 2006 2005 80 SK Innovation Sustainability Report 2015
