Communication in Progress 2016 United Nations Global Compact content Our History 6 Mission/Vision/Values 8 Portfolio 10 Clients 12 A better world 14 Human Rights 16 Labor Rights 38 Environment 46 Anti-corruption 58 All mankind is going through a period of great challenges; this is a time in which all country sectors in different countries must take coordinated actions to guarantee the respect for Human Rights, poverty reduction, equity, and environment sustainability. The United Nations Global Compact represents the fundamental pillars we base our work on. They are the perfect complement to the Objectives of Sustainable Development to be the universal language of corporate social responsibility. We, as companies, have the ability to generate welfare and development. In terms of generation of work, cbc reaches 150,000 people including direct and indirect jobs. We jointly work with our 650,000 clients toward their growth on the basis of shared value; most of them are small and mediumsized entrepreneurs. This is complemented by important fiscal contributions in each one of the countries we operate in and by the corporate responsibility programs directed to sustainability. These contributions are also focused on working with international and national bodies as an active contribution to the full developments of communities. Therefore, in 2016, we continue strengthening the relations with our strategic partners and the alliances with international bodies such as the United Nations Fund for Population Activities, The Nature Conservancy, The Young Americas Business Trust of the Organization of the American States OAS, and with important non-governmental Organizations. Thanks to these alliances, the Food Safety, Health, Education and Environmental programs have had a bigger impact and scope. This Communication in Progress is an opportunity for us at cbc to renew our commitment of respecting the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact and to develop our operations and programs guided by the Objectives of Sustainable Development. We see the future with hope and optimism mainly because we are sharing our experiences and best practices through our integration to the local networks of the Global Compact. Carlos Enrique Mata Executive President cbc In 2016, Livsmart signs a Joint Venture Agreement with In 2011, we broadened CITRIC in Argentina. In 2009, we acquired the Livsmart portfolio the Livsmart facility. distribution to the In the same year, cbc In 2003, the strategic United States and In 2012, the expansion establishes a business alliance with Ambev In the same year, Mexico. to South America beunit focused on the was started for the we expanded our gan reaching Ecuador In 2013, we reached In 2015, our operations creation of products development of the operations to Puerto cbc is appointed as in alliance with the Colombia through began in Peru in and brands through Beer market in Central Rico, Jamaica and the best bottler of the Tesalia and Tropical Livsmart in strategic strategic alliance with innovation and the America. Trinidad and Tobago. world. Groups. alliance with Colombina. Ambev. Beliv functionality. 1885 1942 1990 1996 1998 2003 2009 2011 2012 2013 2015 2016 The Company is founded In 1942, PepsiCo appoints CabCorp is recognized for In 1996, our expansion PepsiCo appoints cbc as in Guatemala in 1985. us as Bottler and we the first time as the best started in Central anchor bottler for Central become the oldest Latin-American Bottler of America; our operations America. Perú Bottler outside the the year. This award was began in Honduras, United States. also received in 1993, Nicaragua and El 2000, 2002, 2009 and Salvador. 2011. More than 130 years ago, Enrique Castillo Córdova, a young entrepreneur, founded a beverage company together with other relatives. His dream was to offer the consumers a varied portfolio with the highest quality in order to expand the operations to other countries and thus contribute to the full development of the company’s employees, relatives and the society as a whole. Due to its operational excellence, cbc is selected as a PepsiCo bottler in 1942 consolidating their relationship with time. Today, we feel proud to be the anchor bottler in Central America and the Caribbean and to have also started operations in South America. Following our founders’vision, we have expanded the portfolio with important brands of our own and we have also incorporated a Beliv business unit specialized in juice, nectars, yogurt and other nutritional and functional drinks. Furthermore, we have a strategic alliance with Ambev from the ABInBev group for the beer portfolio development in the Central-American countries. Today, we keep on working with the same passion, principles and values. The dream goes on. 6 values mission that guide our actions We are competitive people who create solid We dream big relationships with our clients and consumers we believe everything is possible through the best value proposals. We are owners vision To be the best beverage company in the Americas < we act with commitment We are excellent people by creating sustainable value, offering the we stand out in what we do consumers the best experience with our brands and contributing to a better world. We have Sustainable Management we always do the right thing We have Integrity we build the future We are passionate about what we do we enjoy working with all our heart 8 Thanks to the strategic alliance with Ambev from the ABInBev group, cbc offers to its Central American clients and consumers a wide portfolio of renown national and global brands that allows them to successfully cover different segments. Portfolio We have the biggest portfolio in the region. We offer our clients and consumers a drink for all and each one of the occasions and for their different lifestyles. cbc has a business unit focused on the creation of products and brands through innovation and functionality. Beliv offers the consumers balanced and nutritious food options that are part of the cbc’s portfolio. Beliv emerges in 2016 by joining Livsmart and PepsiCo offers the beverage portfolio with greater cbc’s brands; it becomes stronger through diversity worldwide. It also has important global innovation and new proposals that align with brands that cbc provides to its more than 650,000 the new consumption trends. clients in Central America, the Caribbean and South America. 10 clients cbc’s clients’ profile is broad and ranges from the small neighborhood store to the top restaurants and self-service stores. We visit more than 650,000 clients at least twice a week to offer them the best service providing them with the best world drinks for their clients and consumers’ satisfaction. The segmentation, the information systems and the “we are owners” culture of our employees allow us to bring our clients the best value proposals for the successful development of their businesses. 12 For the community we support the ongoing betterment of the communities where we operate. For the people we contribute to make the we contribute difference in others’ lives with a positive impact to a better world For the planet we establish alliances with the communities and local governments in order to promote a proper environment management. For the water We use all the resources efficiently, especially, water. We create strategies for the water use reduction and for the preservation of the water recharge basins 14 Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of the internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2 human Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in the human rights abuses. rights 16 cbc respects and promotes the respect for human rights During 2016, cbc established strategic alliances and started programs directed to fully live and respect the human rights in the communities of the countries it operates in. These programs are shared now with the different groups of interest through this Communication in Progress. 18 food and nutritional safety Chronic Malnutrition Reduction traditions and the production of organic fertilizers which is used by 70% of the participants. 112 members cbc continues promoting the Food and Nutritional chose the development of livestock production and Safety program in the Municipality of Santa Apolonia they were trained by Asociación Tenamaste (Wisdom in the Department of Chimaltenango in Guatemala. In Stones) from San Lucas Tolimán, Sololá. This took place 2016, cbc mainly focused on the development of family in the program of best practices exchange among gardens to enable the food intake and the productive female leaders of different departments of the country. activities development. 1000 female leaders have 32 members were trained by Asociación FUDI participated in this program impacting approximately UTZ SAMAJ for the vegetable production and 5,000 people including them and their families. commercialization as well as for other productive activities. The training sessions’ content includes the Onethousand-day window actions especially promoting Furthermore, 112 women began to develop the egg maternal lactation, prenatal assistance, micronutrients and pork production activities to be commercialized access, hygiene and infant vaccination. Moreover, it which allowed operations in four micro-farms. Thanks to also includes the open fires eradication through grants these productive activities, over 40 members regularly to obtain gas and improved stoves as well as water attend the municipal market to commercialize their access through eco filters. This program is carried out products whilst the rest do this from their homes or though the strategic alliance with Asociación Puente. taking the products directly to the buyers. According to the pertinent records, in 2016, 88% of the participants have implemented family gardens and In 2016, the savings and credit program started and 64% out of these have seeds banks to guarantee the it will be reinforced in 2017 through the ongoing garden’s sustainability. development of the productive activities in order to consolidate a regular income mechanism for the The participants attended 21 agricultural training members and their families. The reduction of the sessions during the year; these training sessions chronical malnutrition indicators will be assessed by covered contents such as basic grains, nutritious and specialized technicians in 2017. medicinal plants farming according to the ancient 20 food safety program in Peru Pilot program for the anemia reduction.’ Anemia is an important health problem in Peru as it affects 4 out of every 10 children under the age of 3. Therefore, cbc Peru has decided to support the program promoted by Fondo de las Américas abiding by the Ministry of Health guidelines and through a pilot program in the center of the Cieneguillo in the Sullana province. This program is carried out by Prisma, a longestablished non-governmental organization that promotes sustainable development and which is part of the cooperation agreement. Our main objective is to contribute to the reduction of anemia by 50% in children under the age of 3 in this community through innovative actions that improve the availability and the consumption of iron-and-micronutrients rich foods as well as the maternal lactation promotion. The Cooperation Agreement was signed in 2016. 22 agreement with UNFPA Contribution to the reduction In addition, the Computer Lab at the of maternal mortality Medical Emergency Center in Tecpán was opened as well as the Computer In 2015, cbc signed an Agreement Lab at the Health Center in Santa with the United Nations Fund for Apolonia within the teenagers’ integral Population Activities –UNFPA in order assistance framework supporting the to reinforce the health service capacity friendly spaces with interactive centers. in the department of Chimaltenango, Guatemala. Verónica Simán, UNFPA representative states, “An alliance between the This agreement restates the joint International Cooperation and the commitment to strengthen the private sector is essential to solve health services capacity by providing the health problems that affect the them with equipment that allows country. The Cooperation Agreement them to offer a quality maternal and with cbc is one of the first agreements neonatal assistance in a timely manner signed with the private sector and we contributing to the implementation are sure that it will be beneficial for the of actions of the One-thousand-day strengthening of the health system of window. the Department of Chimaltenango.” Achievements in 2016 It is expected to provide medical As part of this commitment, cbc equipment to the main health centers and UNFPA provided the general in Chimaltenango next year and to management of the Heath Area identify other cooperation areas to with computer equipment for data strengthen the management ability of collection, strengthening of information the Ministry of Public Health and Social and surveillance in order to contribute Assistance. to the maternal mortality reduction and to offer a comprehensive health service. 24 operación sonrisa The dream is that no child suffers from cleft lip or palate cbc together with other important companies continues to support the different activities of Operación Sonrisa in Guatemala, Honduras and Nicaragua. This is an entity that contributes to provide surgeries and treatments at no cost for children who suffer from cleft lip and palate. During 2016, more than 200 cases were successfully assisted by more than 10% of the local personnel who have been trained to develop abilities locally to provide permanent assistance. This year, cbc Peru has announced its incorporation to the Operación Sonrisa chapters in Peru. Besides surgeries and medical treatment follow up, counselling is provided in all the countries for a better physical and emotional development, especially the children’s. cbc volunteers participate in each chapter. 26 childhood rights Crusade against child violence According to UNICEF, 51% of children between the age of 6 and 11 in Ecuador claims to have suffered abuse; 7 out of every 10 Ecuadorian children claim to be a victim of physical or sexual abuse and neglect. Machachi is the pilot city for this comprehensive plan which seeks to raise awareness in parents, teachers, neighbors, and in all the citizens in general about the necessity of preventing this problem. Therefore, Tesalia cbc initiated a pilot program together with Fundación Azulado and the Ministry of Education in order to contribute to the actions in favor of this cause. This includes ongoing programs so that the children develop self-protection mechanisms, increase their self-esteem and assertiveness. This plan is directed to girls and boys who are in any grade from first to seventh in the local education centers. This program also includes activities oriented to raise awareness and encourage the participants to develop positive selfimage and self-protection behaviors. During the school year 2016, the schools Luis Felipe Borja, Isabel Yánez, Luz de América, José Mejía Lequerica, Alfredo Escudero, América and España were included in the program reaching 5,000 children and their families. This program will continue in 2017. 28 safe drinking water Supporting the affected people due to the Earthquake in Ecuador Due to the tragedy lived in Ecuador in April, Tesalia cbc took urgent measures in its main production plants prioritizing the safe drinking water supply to the provinces affected by the earthquake such as Manabí, Esmeraldas, Santo Domingo de Tsáchilas, Guayas, Santa Elena, Los Ríos, Pinchicha, Imbabura and Tungurahua. The affected people were provided with 2,160,000 liters of water on a weekly basis; the delivery was coordinated by the government authorities who were in charge of assisting this emergency as well as by the company’s volunteer brigade who regularly assisted the most affected areas. The interinstitutional support, communication and coordination mechanisms were reinforced for the emergency assistance. 30 safe drinking water in Honduras cbc Honduras concluded the first stage of the safe drinking water supply as part of the agreement signed with the Secretary’s Office of Education. Water filters were installed in the schools of the communities where there is no safe drinking water access yet. This was carried out by majors, school principals and students. With this, safe drinking water was provided to 20,000 people. The project also included training and programs to raise awareness about the water use. The Cooperation Agreement with the Secretary’s Office of Education also includes a second stage of environment education to support the reduction of vulnerability of the country before the climate change. 32 Enrique Castillo Monge school Quality education is every boy’s and girl’s right which allows them to have better opportunities cbc together with its brand PEPSI and the Guatemorfosis movement joins Ricardo Arjona and the Adentro Foundation for the opening of the School Enrique Castillo Monge which operates under the Foundation’s system. This system strengthens and promotes the students’, teachers’ and parents’ participation and fosters welfare, health, environment and cultural revitalization community projects. It also combines high quality academic education, innovation and technology throughout art dissemination and development; these last two, as key elements for the individual’s and society’s growth. These values also include sports as a welfare, health and discipline source. The School is located in the Village El Porvenir between the departments of Sacatepéquez and Escuintla. It started operations in January of 2016 welcoming 200 children in the elementary and pre-school levels. The School is also an open space for the comprehensive development of the communities as it works as an education center for the teachers of that area and it provides counselling and information to the parents on how to contribute to their children’s learning process and full development. 34 GuateFuturo/HonduFuturo: shaping talent in order to renew leadership The GuateFuturo and HonduFuturo Foundations endorse Today, both programs are known due to the fact that they Guatemalan and Honduran talents who are willing to go out promote, guide and finance professionals who want to in the world, enrich themselves in the academic and personal pursue their masters and doctoral studies supported by one areas in the best universities of the world in order to come of their main programs such as Crédito-beca –PCB (creditback and work toward their countries’ development. scholarship.) According to UNESCO data up to 2014, in Guatemala out Guatemalan professionals who excel academically, students v of the population universe of 6, 75 millions of inhabitants involved in extracurricular activities and citizens who over the age of 25 years, only 21,625 inhabitants (0,32%) actively participate in their communities can opt to receive completed their masters studies and 2,073 inhabitants the GuateFuture scholarship. GuateFuturo supports them (0,04%) completed their doctoral studies. This reality and the before, during and after their studies by providing them need to prompt changes in Guatemala motivated cbc and with academic counselling, employment mediation and by a group of Guatemalan companies to look for successful boosting their leadership. development role models around the world. This is how v they came across Colfuturo in Colombia which is now the A total of 248 Guatemalan professionals in eight generations base of GuateFuturo. have been benefited by the Crédito-beca Program in Guatemala between 2008 and 2016. GuateFuturo is present In Guatemala, the program sent the first generation of in more than 120 universities worldwide in the 5 continents. professionals to pursue their masters and doctoral studies So far, HonduFuturo, after three invitations, has supported 49 in the best universities of the world in 2008. HonduFuturo Honduran professionals who are currently studying in North v emerged in 2013. America, Europe and Asia. 36 Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and labor compulsory labor. Principle 5 rights The effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination. 38 cbc respects and promotes the respect for the labor rights, for the right of collective bargaining and repudiates child labor. In 2016, cbc implemented the following programs which are now shared with all the groups of interest through this Communication in Progress. 40 productive reactivation Plan for the recovery of micro entrepreneurs affected by the earthquake in Ecuador After the earthquake on April 16, Tesalia cbc invested two million one thousand dollars in order to reactivate the micro entrepreneurs economy and commerce whose businesses are located in the affected areas such as Esmeraldas, Manabí, San Domingo de los Tsáchilas, Guayas, Santa Elena and Los Ríos. This investment was destined for working capital, microcredits, cooling equipment, product and training. Over 1,500 storekeepers had the opportunity to strengthen their capacity in terms of dealers’ rights, commercial relations, cooling equipment use, traditional and new Tesalia cbc products, among others. They were able to also find new opportunities to restart their productive activity. 42 people are priority This is the reason why we focus on maintaining safe working environments and our employees’ satisfaction cbc sfocuses on its employees’training and development. There are no limits for professional development, growth and the career plan which is based on meritocracy. Furthermore, cbc focuses on making the work conditions safe to provide the best work environment. In order to guarantee these conditions, every year, an engagement study is carried out. In this study, each employee expresses his or her opinions about aspects such as belonging pride, cooperation among the different areas, communication with the immediate leader, communication overall, results and goals. The assessment is performed in all the HayGroup countries following the highest international standards. The results are used for the development of action plans that allow us work on the areas of opportunity and on the consolidation of strengths. 44 Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater Environment environmental responsibility. Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 46 cbc upholds a preventive approach to favor the environment. It also promotes the initiatives that foster greater environmental responsibility and promotes the development of environmentallyfriendly technologies. In 2016, cbc developed the following programs which are now shared with all the groups of interest through this Communication in Progress. 48 recycling All the cbc’s products containers are 100% The program includes the bins for classification and the recyclable and they can be turned into new transportation of the recyclable materials to the recycling raw material to make new containers and plants. other products. During the program, the children have access to information about environment care through special cbc continues with the Community Recycling Program billboards in their study centers; the activity ¿Jugamos? through which training is provided to the communities by (Shall we play?) is also carried out. In this activity, the children means of associations and cooperatives. We encourage have the opportunity to create ludic objects drawn from and support the creation of micro enterprises directed recycled materials such as PET bottles, cardboard, among to the commercialization and recovery of recyclable others. As a ReciclArte closing event, all the children from materials especially the post-consumption containers, the participant schools in the program are invited to be cans and disposable glass. part of the drawing contest. This year, as the first contest, the topic was “The Environment.” In addition to the Cooperation Agreements in Guatemala, El Salvador, Nicaragua and Jamaica which promote the On the other hand, the project Recycling Partners of approach between communities and companies focused Jamaica is a group from the public and private sectors on recycling different solid waste types so they can which cbc is also part of. It was established two years ago establish commercialization chains and the promotion of to raise and support national awareness about the need a recycling culture, the ReciClarte Program started in Peru to recycle. This project has been moving forward with in 2016. This program was performed for the first time in the provision of the proper bins to store and manage the several schools in Lima. recyclable material since its origin. The pilot plan prompted by cbc Peru started in 10 schools The material is taken to the collection centers and later impacting more than 2,000 children who are trained taken to the recycling centers. about the importance of reducing, reusing and recycling. 50 alliance together for the sustainable development Protection of the water recharge areas In 2016, PepsiCo and cbc presented the Sustainable Development Alliance which represents the renewal of their commitment to continue strengthening the environment actions in key areas of their operations promoting the environment protection in Guatemala and Central America. Both companies work together to optimize the water use continuously improving efficiency by incorporating innovative processes and new technologies. They always seek to reduce to the minimal consumption the water use in their operations, and they also actively participate in initiatives directed to the water recharge areas protection. This year, the alliance with The Nature Conservancy was announced. This alliance was made to take actions in the wooded areas conservation, reforestation, and for the improvement in the water resources management abilities in the metropolitan area of the Department of Guatemala. In Ecuador, cbc will continue to actively participate in Quito’s Water Fund by carrying out different activities to protect the water recharge areas especially the one in Machachi in the Province of Pichincha. This year, cbc also joined Guayaquil’s Water Fund. Juan Carlos Godoy, The Nature Conservancy relations associate, Alvaro Castillo cbc Director, Roberto Olea, PepsiCo Beverages, LABN region, General Manager, María Eugenia de Tucubal, AMUPAVI President, Álvaro Ruíz, CentraIRSE President. 52 aprendizaje verde Virtual Community of Environment Education Achievements in 2016: In Guatemala, the program has been delivered to Aprendizaje Verde is a virtual education community teachers in the departments of Sololá, Sacatepéquez with the objective of conveying the environment and Chimaltenango; in El Salvador, it has been shared knowledge and culture to the infant populations of through the Cooperation Agreement signed last year Latin America. The initiative was created by Tecnológico with the Salvadorian Association for the Environment de Monterrey supported by PepsiCo, the Foundation Conservation. Televisa, The Young Americas Business Trust, and the Organization of the American States (OAS), and with In Honduras, the program began in 94 educational cbc’s support, it has reached the teachers and children centers thanks to the leading initiative Empresarios living in the countries where it operates. por la Educación (Entrepreneurs for Education),driven by the Ministry of Education, in which cbc actively The program is for elementary and pre-school level participates. This program is also an additional tool to students and its main topics are: vulnerability before the the Environment and Reduction of Disasters Program climate change, water care and recycling. The program that is part of the academic curriculum. also includes teachers’ training provided by professors Together with the Seed for the Progress Foundation, of the Tecnológico de Monterrey. Afterwards, each we started the program this year in Nicaragua training teacher registers and creates a profile that grants each 250 teachers. one of them access to interactive tools focused on the environment such as homework, games, videos and cbc has an alliance with other entities such as the projects that facilitate their educational work. Sergio Paiz Andrade Foundation to provide computer equipment to the schools that do not have any This program can be developed in either areas with and computer access in order to not only enable the without internet access as it has an offline platform. environment education but also technology access. This platform provides the teachers with material to It is vital for cbc to contribute to the comprehensive print and computer programs that can be installed education of the students. Technology allows them in their own computers without accessing the web. to take on challenges of a competitive world and Currently, over 30, 000 children have been benefited the environment education aids in the communities in Central America (Guatemala, Nicaragua, El Salvador sustainable development. and Honduras) by Aprendizaje Verde. 54 Eco Challenge An opportunity for young entrepreneurs who Results of the period 2015-2016: propose solutions to environment problems 550 teams participated in the edition 7.0 of EcoChallenge. The winner of the last CentralAmerican The Eco-Challenge is the environment category in edition was a Salvadorian team who developed the the Talent and Innovation Competition of the Americas program Reciklos. This program was created by Caleb (TIC Americas). This competition takes place every year Padilla, Ernesto Fuentes, David Fuentes and Rodrigo in alliance with PepsiCo, The Young Americas Business Sánchez who live in Santa Ana City on the west of El Trust and the Organization of the American States Salvador. (OAS.) Eco-Challenge rewards young entrepreneurs who propose innovative ideas to solve environment The invitation to participate was made on September problems. cbc joined this initiative in 2013 as a sponsor 2015 and the award ceremony was performed in an of the category that rewards the best Central America event before the General Assembly of the Organization project. cbc also promotes the participation of young of the American States OAS which was carried out in people of the Caribbean and South America countries June 2016 in Dominican Republic in presence of the where it operates. General Secretary Luis Almagro. This initiative is directed to young people with ideas, In September this year, cbc in alliance with PepsiCo, solutions or innovative businesses between the ages OAS and YABT launched Eco-Challenge 8.0. This time, of 18 and 34 years old. The winners receive seed money cbc and YABT announced an especial award to the to execute their projects as well as consultancy for best project in Ecuador which will receive seed money their development and access to a wide knowledge and counselling for the development of the best idea exchange network. with the objective of making it a sustainable business. The idea of recognizing and awarding the best project Luis Viguria, executive director of the Young Americas of the countries where cbc operates will be expanded Business Trust (YABT) – entity attached to the OAS – in the next couple of years. considers that this competition has become relevant in the region due to the fact that governments and the By the end of 2016, the edition 8.0 already surpasses private sector but most importantly the young people the number of registrants in the edition 7.0 with have seen a great opportunity in it. He also considers a total of 751 participants. This brings forward the that through Eco-Challenge young people from entrepreneurial spirt of the young people of the States Central America and from the 34 states members of members of the OAS. the OAS are connected. It is a platform of cooperation, interaction and exchange of best practices. 56 Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. anti-corruption 58 cbc works against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. In 2016, cbc developed the following actions which are now shared with all the groups of interest through this Communication in Progress. 60 ethical line In the year 2016, cbc implemented an external service The Code of Ethics has been made public and it is called ethical line in order to offer its employees, clients, on cbc’s website www.cbc.co which also works as a vendors and stakeholders in general a confidential and channel to file complaints as well as the e-mail address safe channel of communication. Its main objective is eticacbc@etictel.com to enable a communication channel so that they can file complaints about unusual activities and actions, A training process was carried out to ensure that all inappropriate behaviors and possible violations to the of the employees fully grasped the new complaint Code of Ethics of the company. communication system and other changes as they are essential to better understand the Code of Ethics. The complaints can be filed by calling on the phone, via e-mail or on the web site. When the complaint Furthermore, cbc invited over three thousand of its is received, the members of the Ethics Committee vendors to be part of the training sessions process in analyze each case and take the corresponding actions. order to adhere them to the principles and values that The person who files the complaint can follow up with the Code of Ethics conveys under the commitment to it accessing the follow up system to rest assured that comply with them as well as with other regulations. the complaint has been taken care of and actions have been taken, too; customer service satisfaction is also guaranteed this way. 62 The beverage company of the Americas www.cbc.co
