Symsoft CSR Communication of Progress Period 2014-07-01 to 2015-06-30 Contents 1. Introduction 4 1.1 Managing Director’s statement of continued support for 4 the UN Global Compact and its ten principles 2. Labor Practices 5 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals 5 2.2 Implementation 5 2.3 Measurment of outcomes 6 3. Human Rights 7 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals 7 3.2 Implementation 7 3.3 Measurement of outcomes 8 4. Environment 8 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals 9 4.2 Implementation 10 4.3 Measurements of outcome 10 5. Fair Business Practices and Anti-Corruption 11 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals 11 5.2 Implementation 11 5.3 Measurement of outcomes 12 6. Sustainable Procurement 13 6.1 Assessment, policy and goals 13 6.2 Implementation 14 6.3 Measurement of outcomes 14 1. Introduction During the fiscal year 2014/2015 Symsoft has worked actively on Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) questions. Symsoft strives to develop the business with maintained sustainability and is committed to continuously work on environmental questions to make as small environmental footprint as possible. Symsoft believes that having excellent working conditions increases productivity and that it is important that our business conduct – as well as that of our partners and our suppliers – hold high standards and is always fair. Symsoft shall have a sustainable and “green” growth. At the Symsoft shall have beginning of the fiscal year Symsoft started to prepare for a thorough CSR assessment by EcoVadis. The work involved a sustainable and staff from several departments, Human Resources, Customer “green” growth Services, Sales, IT and Common Functions as well as from the Management team. Policies were enhanced and we started to work on KPI’s to be measured and followed up in the future. CSR is tightly incorporated in the daily work at Symsoft, we believe that we have – and will continue to have – good processes in place covering the areas of: • Environment • Labor practices • Human Rights • Fair Business practices • Supplier management. 1.1 Continued support for the UN Global Compact and its ten principles I am pleased to confirm that Symsoft supports the ten principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to advance those principles within our sphere of influence. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company. Likewise we seek to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Symsoft will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for participation in the UN Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company’s efforts to implement the ten principles. We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore commit to report on progress within one year of joining the UN Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. This includes: • A statement signed by the chief executive expressing continued support for the UN Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the Global Compact. • A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken (or plans to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labor, environment, anti-corruption). • A measurement of outcomes (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Johan Rosendahl Managing Director 2. Labor Practices 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft supports the ILO Core Conventions and will not do business with any organisation that uses forced, compulsory or child labor. All Symsoft employees are issued with a contract of employment which clearly states their terms, conditions and base compensation. All newly employed staff is presented with the Employee Handbook which includes information on standard terms and conditions of employment, company benefits, and compensation for overtime work, flexible working hours, company rules, grievance and disciplinary procedures. The Employee Handbook is available at all times on the company intranet. Symsoft complies with all relevant health and safety legislation and provides relevant training to employees and other staff. Risk assessments are conducted and followed up regularly. Consultants are issued with contracts stating terms, conditions and requirements of their assignment, and work under the same health and safety regulations as regular Symsoft employees. All Symsoft employees and other staff have the right to form and/or join labor unions and to bargain collectively, provided that this right is not in conflict with any local laws. 2.2 Implementation Symsoft has a range of Human Resources Policies which support best practice in terms of labor and employment, including Symsoft Code of Conduct, Symsoft Anti-Harassment Policy, Symsoft Employee Health and Safety Policy, Symsoft Workplace Violence Prevention and Symsoft Equal Employment Opportunity Policy. 2.2 Implementation cont. All Symsoft employees have regular performance and development talks with their manager, where objectives and expectations are set and followed up and individual development plans are created. For major organizational changes union representatives are consulted, unless in conflict with local laws. An employee satisfaction survey is conducted annually, where all staff can rate and comment on work environment, learning and development opportunities, management, business direction, internal communication and teamwork as well as social factors at the workplace. Symsoft has an Employee Health and Safety Policy. Health, safety and work environment are handled in a work environment committee with employee representatives. The committee has biannual meetings and works systematically to sustain a good work environment on Symsoft locations. Risk assessments are conducted at least annually, and overtime work and sick leave are monitored continuously. Minutes from committee meetings are made available for all employees on the company intranet. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes CO2 All employees have had performance and development talks with their manager. Individual development plans have been created, and training emissions requirements have been met provided that they are in line with the caused by company policy. travelling: -10% The result of the annual employee satisfaction survey has improved, from Achieved 3,09 on a scale of 1-4 in 2014 to 3,12 in the spring of 2015. Action plans have been created to aim for an even better result for 2016. Gold Level in EcoVadis CSR Overtime work and sick leave have decreased during the fiscal year, and no assessment employee was on long-term sick leave. Employee satisfaction +1% in 2015 During the fiscal year the company headquarters were partly remodeled to further improve the work environment. 0 investigations Symsoft has not been involved in any investigations, legal cases or other relevant or legal cases events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labor principles. Symsoft has not been subject to any health and safety statutory notices or prosecutions in the last year. 3. Human Rights 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft actively supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. We are convinced that our values, the way we treat our employees and counterparts and the way we act in the line of business will have a positive influence on other stakeholders and counterparts when it comes to human rights. Symsoft has policies for Anti-Harassment, Equal Employment Opportunity and Workplace Violence Prevention and is committed to ensuring that all employees are treated fairly and with respect. Symsoft will not tolerate victimization, bullying or harassment in the workplace. 3.2 Implementation All Symsoft policies are easily available on the intranet for all Symsoft staff. All new employees are required to read through the policies and confirm their compliance. As we expand our operations internationally, we make efforts to ensure that countries we are trading in comply with the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Symsoft has a range of Human Resources policies which reflect our pro-active stance on human rights including Symsoft Code of Conduct, Symsoft Anti-harassment Policy, Symsoft Employee Health and Safety Policy, Symsoft Workplace Violence Prevention and Symsoft Equal Employment Opportunity Policy. 3.3 Measurement of outcomes In the past year Symsoft has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights. Symsoft’s system makes it possible to communicate without travelling or sending paper documents. Thanks to our systems, people can communicate via SMS, MMS or email, instead of sending letters, pictures or documents via postal services. Symsoft systems make it possible to have conversations between parties in different 4. cities or countries without having to travel. In this Environment way Symsoft helps others to reduce their negative impact on the environment. 4.1 Assessment, Policies and goals Symsoft’s products and services makes it possible to communicate without travelling or sending paper documents. Thanks to our solutions, people can communicate via SMS, MMS or email, instead of sending letters, pictures or documents via postal services. Symsoft systems make it possible to have conversations between parties in different cities or countries without having to travel. In this way Symsoft helps others to reduce their negative impact on the environment. 4.1 Assessment, policies and goals cont. Symsoft is compliant with UN Global Compact: Principle 7: “Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental changes”; Principle 8: “Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility”; and Principle 9: “Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies” Symsoft complies with applicable local environmental laws and internationally recognized standards. Symsoft Code of Conduct also covers all CSR areas, including Environment and Sustainability. Symsofts has a first release of an Environmental Management System. One part of this is that KPI’s have been identified based on what is estimated to cause the greatest environmental impact by our company. Symsoft is measuring and following up on those KPI’s and consider this an important part of the company’s journey of continuous improvement work. 4.2 Implementation Symsoft Code of Conduct is easily available on the intranet for all Symsoft staff. A procedure has been implemented where all staff are required to read through Symsoft Code of Conduct. During this period we have tightened the process and requested all staff to sign on that they have read and understood and agreed to follow our Policies. Symsoft Management Team, headed by Managing Director, is ultimately responsible to see to it that Symsoft Code of Conduct is followed in all parts including Environment and Sustainability. Symsoft strives to minimize its environmental impact and to ensure that finite resources are used responsibly and carefully. Symsoft promotes operational practices that reduce any environmental burden associated with our activities. Symsoft continuously improves and seeks innovative environmental friendly solutions in products and services If possible we meet over phone or over internet-based Medias rather than travel. When travelling is needed we choose train if possible. 4.2 Implementation cont. Symsoft measures its energy consumption and monitors it. Symsoft has taken actions to keep it down, and will continue to work on this. Among other things our office is fitted with various innovative power-saving features. Symsoft has water-saving features installed. Symsoft has recycling system in place for paper, cardboard, aluminum, batteries and glass. Discarded electronic equipment is sent to licensed recycling stations. Symsoft considers sustainability and environment when selecting suppliers and has accordingly chosen to rent office space from a very environmentally conscious company, Vasakronan. Vasakronan prioritizes environment and climate effort highly. They are a carbon neutral company and also Sweden’s first property company to offer green leases and green offices. Vasakronan works according to the ten principals outlined in the UN Global Compact, and has the following environmental certificates: BREEAM, Green Building, ISO 14001, LEED, Miljöbyggnad. 4.3 Measurement of outcomes Symsoft has during the year enhanced our company policies as well as our code of conduct documents, and we have also implemented a first release of an Environmental Management System. We have also had our policies and code of conduct documents and related reports reviewed by EcoVadis as part of the Corporate Social Responsibility assessment of Symsoft, where we reached Gold level in their CSR rating. Measurements over the years show that transportation cost goes up and down, much depending on factors that the company cannot control itself. For instance even if Symsoft always strives to convince our customers to handle procurement of hardware themselves and to purchase it locally, sometimes Symsoft has to help out with this in order to fulfill customer needs of assistance/support. During 2012/2013 Symsoft had rather high transportation cost. The fiscal year after it went down quite a bit. During 2014/2015 there was an increase in transportations again despite the efforts to reduce it. Symsoft is determined to keep on monitoring this and working on it in order to reduce CO2 emissions. Travelling cost in total has gone up compared to last period as a result of our growing and global business, however when measuring kg CO2 emissions per employee, it has been reduced by 10% compared to previous period. In the global business we are, we will always need to travel. We need to meet our customers regularly and we need to market our products. Travelling, transportation and CO2 emissions are considered to be where our business has the greatest environmental impact. So Symsoft finds it important to continue working on this area, searching for new ways to reduce the footprint and to keep measuring meaningful KPI’s that actually can make a difference in the long run. During the period Symsoft has evaluating to invest in a video conference system as one way to reduce travelling. To minimize environmental impact, Symsoft encourages staff to choose train whenever possible rather than going by air, and to choose economy class, enabling more travelers in the same airplane, rather than choosing business class when going by air. Symsoft has worked on trying to find a way to roughly estimate water consumption using data gathered by the landlord Vasakronan and an advanced formula. Water consumption is not where Symsoft makes the largest environmental footprint why other areas are more prioritized. A similar exercise was done to estimate how much garbage of different kinds Symsoft produces, out of the total amount Vasakronan handles per year for the entire building. The figures used were taken from Vasakronan and estimates were made to see what part of the total could for the entire building could be caused by Symsoft. The effort needed to measure this in another more exact ways is deemed to be far too costly and time consuming, so for now Symsoft will stick to this method. For the type of business Symsoft is in delivering software and managed services, environmental impact is not very large when it comes to water consumption or garbage handling. The recycling we have in place further reduces the impact. 5. Fair Business Pratices & Anti-Corruption 5.1 Assessment, policy and goals Symsoft is compliant with UN Global Compact Principle 10; “Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery” Symsoft supports the UN Convention against corruption. Symsoft Code of Conduct clearly describes what could be considered bribery in terms of business operation. The policy also covers gifts, hospitality, extortion and money laundering. Symsoft’s goal is to continue to have no cases with unfair business practices, bribery or corruption. 5.2 Implementation Symsoft Code of Conduct is easily available on the intranet for all Symsoft staff. All new employees are required to read through Symsoft Code of Conduct. A training program for all relevant staff groups is planned. Symsoft Management Team, headed by MD, is ultimately responsible to see to it that Symsoft Code of Conduct is followed. 5. 2 Implementation cont. At Christmas time Symsoft has chosen to give a contribution to the charity organization “Hand in Hand”, instead of sending suppliers, customers, business partners or others gifts. “Hand in Hand” reduces poverty through job creation via social mobilization, business training, access to credit and linking entrepreneurs to markets. This is realized by supporting female entrepreneurs. Most of our Suppliers and Customers do the same as we do; they give contributions to charity organizations rather than sending gifts to their business associates. Any gifts from Suppliers or Customers, typically its smaller things like chocolates for Christmas or candies for Easter Holidays, are put on the coffee pictures courtsey of table for the staff to share. Symsoft has a separate Procurement Policy as well as a Procurement Process. When selecting suppliers, Symsoft has a Supplier Code of Conduct, which we expect our suppliers to comply with. See section about Sustainable Procurement for details. 5.3 Measurement of outcomes Symsoft accounts are subject of yearly external audit. This is used as one of the methods of finding any suspicious business transactions. Symsoft has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to corruption, extortion, money laundry or bribery. 6. Sustainable Procurement 6.1 Assessment, policies and goals Symsoft is compliant with UN Global Compact 10 Principles. We expect our suppliers to run their business according to equivalent principles; this is described in Symsoft Supplier Code of Conduct. Symsoft has made, and will continue to make, proper provision for the Health, Safety and Welfare of employees at work and of others who may be affected by Symsoft’s activities. Symsoft cares for the environment and is committed to good environmental practices. Symsoft strives towards achieving high standards of business conduct and we expect the same commitment from those with whom we do business. Symsoft mainly delivers Software, however sometimes we also deliver Hardware components needed for the Software. The Hardware deliveries stand for a larger part of the indirect environmental impact from our business. A majority of all non-software goods delivered by Symsoft are procured from external manufacturers. Thus, Symsoft Suppliers indirectly effect the social, financial and environmental impact Symsoft has where we conduct business. When procuring goods and services in a sustainable way, keeping high standards and requiring the same from our suppliers, we believe Symsoft’s actions can influence the social, financial and environmental impact of our suppliers. To conduct our business, Symsoft procure goods and services both in the technology sector for IT infrastructure – primarily for re-distribution to customers – and from other sectors, such as facilities, office disposables, refreshments, etc. Our goal is to continuously work on this, to evaluate new suppliers against “Symsoft Supplier Code of Conduct”, to follow up regularly on existing suppliers, in order to make sure that our main suppliers’ lives up to our standards and expectations. 6.2 Implementation Symsofts Procurement Policy and Symsoft Procurement Process are used when selecting suppliers and subcontractors, no matter what type of product or service we are purchasing (it might be anything from call centers, data centers to IT equipment or other things for internal use or to be delivered to Symsoft customers). We are assessing our suppliers against Symsoft Code of Conduct in order to make sure that they are measuring up to our standards when it comes to Corporate Social Responsibility. 6.3 Measurement of outcomes To address this area Symsoft has reviewed where our main suppliers stand when it comes to Corporate Social Responsibility questions. Furthermore we have developed a separate policy for this area, Symsoft Supplier Code of Conduct and updated our Procurement Policy and our Procurement Process accordingly. The assessed suppliers follow UN Global Compacts 10 principles or equivalent. In addition our main suppliers are ISO 14001 certified. All major technology suppliers that have a direct contractual relationship with Symsoft adhere to the Electronic Industry Citizenship Coalition (EICC) Code of Conduct or equivalent.
