CONNECTED The John Keells story has been telling itself for over 145 years; a complex narrative of partnership, innovation, enterprise and endurance. A balance between corporate prudence, entrepreneurship and the satisfaction of societal needs has underlined, and is reﬂected in, our business model, resulting in our present dominance in several of the nation’s valuable industry sectors. Today we are benchmarked by many, as one of Sri Lanka’s most respected diversiﬁed companies with interests in shipping and logistics, consumer foods, hospitality, property development, retail, ﬁnancial services, information technology and the manufacture and brokering of tea. We have a pool of exceptionally talented employees who bring a variety of skills, experience and innovative ideas to the work we do each day. The John Keells team includes over twelve thousand people, from diverse backgrounds. Recent investments, by our Group, in long-term projects are expected to signiﬁcantly multiply the direct and indirect employment generated. Yet through all of this runs the single thread of John Keells’ intent; to create and share value by building sustainable businesses of excellence, integrity and worth. Diverse networks and synergies have evolved between John Keells and its many local and global partners, linking businesses, consumers, individuals, families and communities and the thousands of people whose lives we touch every day. We believe that their success is ours. Our society centric projects and initiatives have empowered, and enriched, the lives of individuals and communities in villages and cities across the island. Ours is an open-systems organisation constantly aligning itself to the environment we operate in and striving to satisfy our aspiration “To empower the nation for tomorrow”. Simply stated, it is a continuous effort to investing in selfsufficiency and prosperity in every transaction, across our entire chain of value. Our consistent ﬁnancial performance and manifest ability to generate sustainable long-term value facilitate the endurance of these relationships, bringing together the John Keells Group and the many stakeholders we serve; all seamlessly CONNECTED to drive the engine of value that is your Company today. John Keells Holdings PLC Contents 106 Group Highlights 4 Introduction to the Report TRANSPORTATION 6 Our Business Model 8 Organisational Structure 9 Year at a Glance 10 Performance Highlights 12 Chairman’s Message 114 Governance LEISURE 18 Board of Directors 20 Group Executive Committee 21 Group Operating Committee 23 Corporate Governance Commentary 126 Management Discussion and Analysis PROPERTY Group Consolidated Review 51 The Economy 54 Capital Management Review Financial and Manufactured Capital Natural Capital 134 Human Capital Social and Relationship Capital Intellectual Capital CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL 73 Outlook 75 Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management 81 Materiality and Stakeholder Relationships 90 Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls 144 95 Share and Warrant Information Industry Group Review FINANCIAL SERVICES 106 Transportation 114 Leisure 126 Property 134 Consumer Foods and Retail 144 Financial Services 150 150 Information Technology 156 Other including Plantation Services INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY 156 OTHER INCLUDING PLANTATION SERVICES 2 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Financial Statements 165 Annual Report of the Board of Directors About Us 170 The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 171 Independent Auditors’ Report John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) is one 172 Income Statement of the largest listed companies on the 173 Statement of Comprehensive Income Colombo Stock Exchange, with business 174 Statement of Financial Position interests primarily in Transportation, 175 Statement of Cash Flows Leisure, Property, Consumer Foods and 176 Statement of Changes in Equity Retail and Financial Services among 181 Notes to the Financial Statements others. Started in the early 1870s as a produce and exchange broking business by Supplementary Information two Englishmen, Edwin and George John, the Group has been known to constantly 260 Economic Value Statement re-align, re-position and re-invent itself in 262 History of the John Keells Group pursuing growth sectors of the time. 264 Decade at a Glance 266 Indicative US Dollar Financial Statements JKH was incorporated as a public limited 268 Sri Lankan Economy liability company in 1979 and obtained a 270 Group Real Estate Portfolio listing on the Colombo Stock Exchange 272 Memberships Maintained by the Industry Groups in 1986. Having issued Global Depository 275 Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting Receipts (GDRs) which were listed on the 278 Group Directory Luxembourg Stock Exchange, JKH became 285 GRI G4 Content Index the ﬁrst Sri Lankan company to be listed 291 Corporate Social Responsibility overseas. 294 Glossary of Financial Terms 295 Notice of Meeting The Group’s investment philosophy is 296 Corporate Information based on a positive outlook, bold approach, 297 Proxy Form commitment to delivery and ﬂexibility to change. JKH is also committed to maintaining integrity, ethical dealings, sustainable development and greater social responsibility in a multi-stakeholder context. JKH is a full member of the World 12 Chairman’s Message Economic Forum and a member of the UN Global Compact. The Holding Company of the Group John 54 Capital Management Review Keells Holdings PLC is based at 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2 and has offices and businesses located across Sri Lanka, India and the 75 Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management Maldives. 90 Risks, Controls Opportunities and Internal 95 Share and Warrant Information 295 Notice of Meeting www.keells.com 3 G4-17, G4-23 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Introduction to the Report We are pleased to present our ﬁrst Integrated Report in accordance with the Integrated STANDARDS AND PRINCIPLES Reporting Framework of the International Reporting Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). š ,QWHJUDWHG 5HSRUWLQJ )UDPHZRUN RI WKH ,QWHUQDWLRQDO ,QWHJUDWHG 5HSRUWLQJ &RXQFLO (IIRC) This Report reﬂects on: Governance, Risk Management and Operations š 7KH YDOXH FUHDWLRQ PRGHO RI WKH *URXS š /DZVDQGUHJXODWLRQVRIWKH&RPSDQLHV$FW1RRI combining the different forms of Capital š /LVWLQJ5XOHVRIWKH&RORPER6WRFN([FKDQJH &6( DQGVXEVHTXHQWUHYLVLRQVWRGDWH in the short, medium and long term š &RGHRI%HVW3UDFWLFHVRQ&RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFHMRLQWO\DGYRFDWHGE\WKH6HFXULWLHVDQG š *RYHUQDQFH ULVN PDQDJHPHQW DQG Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of sustainability frameworks entrenched Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) within the John Keells Group š 8.&RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFH&RGH IRUPHUO\NQRZQDVWKH&RPELQHG&RGHRI š )LQDQFLDO RSHUDWLRQDO HQYLURQPHQWDO and social review and results of the Financial Reporting Group š 6UL/DQND$FFRXQWLQJ6WDQGDUGV 6/)56/.$6 LVVXHGE\WKH,QVWLWXWHRI&KDUWHUHG Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) In keeping this Report concise and pertinent to the year under review, whilst being Sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility Reporting comprehensive and detailed, we have ensured š ŗ,QDFFRUGDQFH&RUHRI*OREDO5HSRUWLQJ,QLWLDWLYH *5, *5,6XVWDLQDELOLW\5HSRUWLQJ that the commentaries in certain sections are Guidelines limited to a helicopter view of the events and š ,)&6XVWDLQDELOLW\)UDPHZRUN3HUIRUPDQFH6WDQGDUG progress within the year, whilst the Group’s š 8QLWHG1DWLRQV6XVWDLQDEOH'HYHORSPHQW*RDOV standard policies, operating guidelines and š 8QLWHG1DWLRQV*OREDO&RPSDFW$GYDQFHG3ULQFLSOHV management approaches are available on the corporate website. SCOPE AND BOUNDARY The John Keells Annual Report 2015/16 is a in the Group Directory 2015/16. In expanding “principles reﬂection of the Group’s integrated approach its sustainability scope, going forward, the of management (during the period from 1 Group will also seek to report on companies The seven guiding April 2015 to 31 March 2016) and strives to over which it does not exercise signiﬁcant management control, where relevant. in integrated deliver a balanced and relevant report that will bring clarity and detail to the complex reporting; strategic focus task of reporting a year of diverse business ADOPTION OF THE INTEGRATED and future orientation, operations across multiple sectors. Material REPORTING GUIDELINES events post this reporting period, up to the connectivity of information, sign off date by the Board of Directors on 25 Towards our continuous stride in achieving stakeholder relationships, May 2016, have been included in this Report, a more cohesive and efficient approach to ensuring a more relevant and up to date corporate reporting, the Group voluntarily materiality, conciseness, Report. adopted the Integrated Reporting Framework reliability and completeness, of the IIRC. Given the complex task of reporting All Group subsidiary and associate companies an year of operations of a conglomerate, the consistency and were considered in capturing its ﬁnancial Group has strived to deliver a comprehensive, comparability; have been performance. For the purpose of reporting balanced and relevant report, while adhering its sustainability performance, the Group to the recommendations of the IIRC. given due consideration has considered the companies in its sphere when preparing and of inﬂuence which are the legal entities for which the Group remains accountable and has direct control. The companies not included The seven guiding principles in integrated reporting; strategic focus and future orientation, connectivity of information, presenting this Report. ” for reporting on sustainability performance stakeholder relationships, materiality, are companies in which the Group does not conciseness, reliability and completeness, exercise signiﬁcant management control, consistency and comparability; have been non-operational companies, investment given due consideration when preparing and companies and companies owning only presenting this Report. land. Such companies have been clearly identiﬁed in the reporting boundary speciﬁed 4 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information DETERMINING MATERIALITY Materiality analysis is a key process that enables the Group to deﬁne key triple bottom HIGH IMPORTANCE TO EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS line issues that are of greatest signiﬁcance to our businesses and stakeholders, both internal and external, in the short, medium and long term. Our focus on materiality, through Included in this Report and/or emphasis on 26 material aspects recognised Company website by both internal and external stakeholders, is vital as we drive performance, improve our sustainability framework and institutionalise the Group’s corporate governance philosophy at all levels. Minimal reporting/ Not reported The Group conducts an independent external stakeholder engagement every three to four years in ascertaining aspects material LOW to its signiﬁcant stakeholders. In addition, materiality is also assessed internally in IMPORTANCE TO INTERNAL STAKEHOLDERS ascertaining the aspects material to the Group and to ﬁne-tune and streamline its strategy and processes to manage these material issues. The outcome of these studies is prioritised INFORMATION VERIFICATION using a materiality matrix, representing The information contained in this Report has been reviewed, as applicable, by: the level of signiﬁcance to the Group and its external stakeholders, and is then disclosed š 7KH%RDUGRI'LUHFWRUV as per the clearly deﬁned aspects under the š 7KH*URXS([HFXWLYH&RPPLWWHH GRI G4 guidelines, as further described in the Material Aspects section of this report. š $XGLW&RPPLWWHHRIWKH&RPSDQ\ š $QLQGHSHQGHQWDXGLWRUFRQıUPLQJWKHDFFXUDF\RIWKHDQQXDOıQDQFLDOVWDWHPHQWV While the matrix, as illustrated, indicates š $QLQGHSHQGHQWDVVXUDQFHHQJDJHPHQWIRUWKHQRQıQDQFLDOLQIRUPDWLRQSUHSDUHGLQ the prioritisation of these material aspects, DFFRUGDQFH&RUHEDVHGRQ*5,**XLGHOLQHV the Group continues to assess its internal and external materiality and disclose the performance of such aspects. Its reporting scope will be expanded as and when an aspect becomes material to the Group and its stakeholders. DISCLAIMER FOR THE PUBLICATION OF As you ﬂip through the pages of this Report, FORECAST DATA we trust you will ﬁnd a relevant, transparent and noteworthy value proposition entrenched The Report contains information about within the John Keells Group that strives the plans and strategies of the Group for to achieve the highest form of stakeholder the medium and long term and represent satisfaction. the group view of the management. The plans are forward-looking in nature and their feasibility depends on a number of economic, political and legal factors which are outside the inﬂuence of the Group and Company such as global and domestic ﬁnancial, economic and political situations, the situation of key markets, changes in tax, customs and environmental legislation and Contact with Stakeholders so forth. Given this, the actual performance of Preparation of this Report took place in cooperation with stakeholders in order to improve indicators in future years may differ from the transparency, accountability and the process in which materiality of disclosed information forward-looking statements published in this is viewed. Feedback is gathered through questionnaires, a dedicated mail-box, one-on-one Report. The reader is advised to seek expert meetings and stakeholder engagement fora. professional advice in all such respects. 5 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Our Business Model Vision: Building businesses that are leaders in the region INPUTS Capital deployed to create value Financial and Natural Capital Human Capital Social and Intellectual Capital Manufactured Capital Relationship Capital š'HEWDQGHTXLW\ š (QHUJ\ š'LYHUVLW\ š6WDNHKROGHU š%UDQGVWHZDUGVKLS š&DVKĲRZIURP š :DWHU š([SHULHQFH engagement š7HFKQRORJLFDOH[SHUWLVH operations š 2WKHUQDWXUDOUHVRXUFHV š5HODWLRQVKLSEXLOGLQJ š5HVHDUFKDQG š)L[HGDVVHWEDVH development | Sustainability Fr an ce am ew v ern or Go k | IT Hu | m Strategy, ste Resource Financial and ma Stakeholder returns and engagement Non-Financial t Sy Allocation nR Performance and Portfolio during the year eso isk Managemen Management Value creation process urce Our business activities: Transportation, Management Leisure, Property, Consumer Foods and Retail, Financial Services, Information Technology, and Other including Plantation Services ise R pr | C ter Business Risks and En Outlook Opportunities orp lity ibi o | ra ns t e po e Co nc So s rp na or ve c ia l Re ate r lRcia Go Gov espSo ibility | Corporate ernan onsate ce | C o r p o r OUTPUT Capital transformed Financial and Natural Capital Human Capital Social and Intellectual Capital Manufactured Capital Relationship Capital š6KDUHKROGHUUHWXUQV š5HGXFWLRQRIFDUERQ š6WDĳPRWLYDWLRQ š&RPPXQLW\VNLOO š,QWHOOHFWXDOSURSHUW\ and dividends and water footprint š7DOHQWHGHĴFLHQW development š3DWHQWV š3D\PHQWVWRRWKHU š5HGXFHGXWLOLW\ workforce š:HOOLQIRUPHGDQG š&RS\ULJKWV stakeholders consumption š-REVDWLVIDFWLRQ sound investment š6KDUHSULFH š(ĴFLHQWGLVSRVDORI š&DUHHUSURJUHVVLRQ decisions appreciation effluents and waste š6DIHDQGHTXLWDEOH š%HWWHUVXSSOLHU environment distributor and stakeholder relations Values: Caring, Excellence, Trust, Innovation, Integrity 6 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Inputs Activities Outputs Outcomes Financial and Manufactured Capital š Shareholder funds š Effective and responsible š Shareholder returns š Financial stability š Financial Capital: The pool of funds that and debt investment of shareholder and dividends š Financial growth is available for use in the production of š Cash ﬂow from funds š Payments to other š Creation of wealth goods or the provision of services operations š Business development stakeholders š Manufactured Capital: Manufactured š Land bank activities š Share price SK\VLFDOREMHFWVWKDWDUHDYDLODEOHWRWKH š Cost reduction initiatives appreciation š Machinery and Group for use in the production of goods equipment and/or the provision of services Natural Capital š Energy š Adoption of Global Goals š Disposal of all effluent š Sustainable All renewable and non-renewable š Water š Environment impact and waste efficiently natural resource environmental stocks that provide goods assessments and š Reduction of carbon utilisation š Other natural and services of the Group mitigation of impact footprint š Bio-diversity resources š Rollout of carbon footprint š Reduced utility preservation reduction initiatives consumption through š Adoption of water and better monitoring waste management processes Human Capital š Employee diversity š Channelling of employee š Staff motivation š Alignment of The employees’ competencies, capabilities š Experience skills and expertise for š Talented and efficient workforce with and experience, including their ability to business growth workforce company vision understand, develop and implement the š Training and development š Proﬁtable š Job satisfaction Group’s strategy. This encompasses their of employee cadre businesses motivation for improving processes, goods š Career progression š Performance management through improved and services, and their ability to lead, š Safe and equitable productivity and and appraisals manage and collaborate environment efficiency š Employee survey initiatives š Structured career development programmes Social and Relationship Capital š Occupational š Investment in community š Community skill š Brand visibility The institutions and relationships health and safety and livelihood development and reputation established within and between each initiative development š Well informed and š Strengthened community, group of stakeholders and š Dedicated CSR š Regular dialogue with sound investment supply chain other networks to enhance individual team within the investors, analysts and decisions and collective well-being. Social and Group other stakeholders š Better supplier/ Relationship Capital includes key š Community š Social impact distributor and relationships, and the trust and loyalty that development assessments stakeholder relations the Group has developed and strives to build and protect with customers, suppliers š Investor relations š Identiﬁcation of key and business partners and stakeholder stakeholders and material management aspects in relation to them š Awareness creation and engagement of suppliers through the Supplier Management Framework Intellectual Capital š Brand stewardship š Development of intangible š Intellectual property š Evolving Intangibles that provide competitive š Research and infrastructure, processes š Patents businesses to suit advantage, including: development and procedures to improve the ever changing, š Copyrights š Intellectual property, such as patents, efficiency dynamic š Technological copyrights, software systems, š New product development consumer expertise procedures and protocols š Innovation š Better prepared š The intangibles that are associated with businesses to the brand and reputation that the Group face disruptive has developed over time business models 7 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Organisational Structure INDUSTRY GROUPS, SECTORS AND PRIMARY BRANDS Transportation Ports and Shipping Transportation Leisure City Hotels Resorts Destination Management Hotel Management Property Property Development Real Estate Consumer Foods and Retail Consumer Foods Retail Financial Services Insurance Banking and Leasing Stock Broking Information Technology Information Technology Office Automation IT Enabled Services Other including Plantation Services Other Plantation Services Centre Functions Corporate Communications Corporate Finance and Strategy Group Business Process Review and Insurance Group Finance Group Human Resources Group Tax Group Treasury John Keells Research Legal and Secretarial New Business Development Strategic Group Information Technology Sustainability, Enterprise Risk Management and Group Initiatives John Keells Foundation 8 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Year at a Glance 2015/16 May 2015 -.+DFTXLUHGDFRQWUROOLQJVWDNHLQ5DMDZHOOD JKH paid a special dividend of Rs.3.50 per Holdings Limited (RHL) for a total investment share on account of the cash inﬂow to JKH John Keells Research partnered with commitment of Rs.1.04 billion. from the UA share repurchase. the University of Maine, USA to develop reinforcing ﬁbres using agricultural waste. SAGT was ranked number one in South Asia December 2015 and number four in the World for Terminal ŗWK6HQVHŘRQ*UHJRU\ŖV5RDGWKHKLJK productivity by the Journal of Commerce, end niche residential development, was USA. completed. June 2015 JKH announced a subdivision of shares, whereby 7 of its existing shares were October 2015 subdivided into 8 shares. The refurbishment of Cinnamon Lakeside was completed. Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited, concluded the required debt ﬁnancing for the ŗ&LQQDPRQ/LIHŘSURMHFW JKH was awarded the Silver award in the 2YHUDOO([FHOOHQFHLQ$QQXDO)LQDQFLDO 5HSRUWLQJFDWHJRU\DWWKHVW$QQXDO Report Awards Ceremony organised by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. January 2016 The 50th Keells Super outlet was opened in November 2015 Kohuwala. JKH concluded the conversion of 50.3 million August 2015 2015 Warrants in to ordinary shares and received Rs.7.97 billion. JKH was ranked ﬁrst in the LMD Magazine’s ŗ0RVW5HVSHFWHG(QWLWLHVLQ6UL/DQNDŘVXUYH\ JKH topped the Business Today Magazine’s for the tenth time since the inception of the list of Sri Lanka’s top 25 companies for survey in 2005. 2014/15. September 2015 Union Assurance PLC (UA) successfully concluded a share repurchase (10 shares for every 32 shares held) which resulted in a cash inﬂow of Rs.4.14 billion to JKH. Financial Achievements and Goals Achievement Indicator (%) Goal 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 EBIT growth >20 5.0 16.3 (1.2) EPS growth (fully diluted) >20 (2.5) 15.7 71.2 Cash EPS growth (fully diluted) >20 7.8 13.9 100.9 Long term return on capital employed (ROCE) 15 11.1 11.5 11.7 Long term return on equity (ROE) 18 9.6 11 11 Net debt (cash) to equity 50 (30.8) (28.8) (23.2) 9 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Performance Highlights FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS THREE YEAR PERFORMANCE 2013/14 Year ended 31 March 2015/16 2014/15 (%) Restated Earnings Highlights and Ratios Group revenue consolidated Rs.million 93,282 91,852 2 86,706 Group revenue including equity accounted investees Rs.million 100,419 98,090 2 97,152 Group proﬁt before interest and tax (EBIT) Rs.million 20,192 19,226 5 16,537 1 Group proﬁt before tax Rs.million 19,198 18,557 3 15,320 Group proﬁt after tax1 Rs.million 15,792 15,746 0 12,958 Group proﬁt attributable to equity holders Rs.million 14,070 14,348 (2) 11,722 Dividends2 Rs.million 8,038 3,476 131 3,267 Diluted earnings per share Rs. 12.09 12.41 (3) 12.33 Cash earnings per share Rs. 16.14 14.96 8 15.11 Interest cover No. of times 20.3 28.8 (30) 13.6 Return on equity (ROE) % 9.6 11.0 (13) 11.0 Pre-tax return on capital employed (ROCE) % 11.1 11.5 (3) 11.7 Balance Sheet Highlights and Ratios Total assets Rs.million 240,975 218,086 10 201,581 Total debt Rs.million 20,750 23,934 (13) 26,139 Net debt (cash)3 Rs.million (51,849) (43,224) 20 (31,182) Total shareholders’ funds Rs.million 154,982 137,798 12 122,897 No. of shares in issue Millions 1,189 997 19 990 4 Net assets per share Rs. 130.30 115.85 12 103.33 Debt/equity % 12.3 15.9 (23) 19.5 3 Net debt (cash)/equity % (30.8) (28.8) 7 (23.2) Debt/total assets % 8.6 11.0 (22) 13.0 Market/Shareholder Information Market price of share as at 31 March (actual) Rs. 148.00 199.40 (26) 227.00 Market price of share as at 31 March (diluted) Rs. 148.00 174.48 (15) 227.00 Market capitalisation Rs.million 176,032 198,899 (11) 244,796 Enterprise value3 Rs.million 124,182 155,675 (20) 193,614 Total shareholder return5 % (12.2) (12.0) (2) (0.4) Price earnings ratio (PER) (diluted) No. of times 12.2 14.1 (13) 18.4 Dividend payout % 46.7 33.5 39 44.2 Dividend per share Rs. 7.00 3.50 100 3.50 Dividend yield % 4.73 2.01 135 1.54 1 As per accounting standards, 2014/15 proﬁts have been reclassiﬁed to reﬂect associate proﬁts being net of tax as opposed to 2013/14 being gross of tax 2 Cash dividends paid during the year 3 Customer advances in the Property Development sector and cash and cash equivalents relating to the UA life fund have been excluded 4 Net assets per share has been calculated, for all periods, based on the number of shares in issue as at 31 March 2016 5 Includes the proportionate impact arising from the ownership of the 2015 and 2016 Warrants 10 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information NON FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS THREE YEAR PERFORMANCE Indicator 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 FINANCIAL CAPITAL EC1 Economic value retained (Rs.million) 9,873 14,589 12,985 NATURAL CAPITAL EN3 Direct energy consumption (GJ) 325,785 353,328 384,115 Direct energy (GJ) per Rs.million of revenue 3.44 3.86 4.44 Indirect energy consumption (GJ) 330,525 311,263 296,747 Indirect energy (GJ) per Rs.million of revenue 3.49 3.40 3.43 EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions scope 1 (MT) 15,699 16,332 17,892 EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions scope 2 (MT) 62,579 58,933 56,184 Total carbon footprint (MT) 78,278 75,264 74,076 Total carbon footprint (MT) per Rs.million of revenue 0.83 0.82 0.86 EN8 Water withdrawal (m3) 1,904,911 1,803,061 1,734,403 Water withdrawal (m3) per Rs.million of revenue 20.10 19.87 19.60 EN22 Water discharge (m3) 1,439,267 1,390,650 1,336,363 EN23 Waste generated (MT) 8,251 7,803 7,971 Waste recycled/re-used by Group companies and through third party contractors (%) 43 43 41 EN29 Signiﬁcant environmental ﬁnes1 Nil Nil Nil HUMAN CAPITAL Total workforce (employees and contractors’ staff) 19,522 18,981 19,771 EC3 Employee beneﬁt liability as of 31 March (Rs.million) 1,650 1,495 1,326 LA1 Attrition of new hires (as a percentage of total new hires) 10 16 18 LA6 1XPEHURILQMXULHVDQGGLVHDVHV2 217 199 231 ,QMXU\UDWH QXPEHURILQMXULHVSHUHPSOR\HHV 1.15 1.05 1.15 Lost day rate (lost days as a percentage of total person days) 0.05 0.05 0.04 Number of people educated on serious diseases 21,384 16,323 30,027 LA9 Average hours of training per employee 35 40 47 LA11 No. of employees receiving performance reviews (%) 100 100 100 HR5 Incidences of child labour (below age 16) Nil Nil Nil Incidences of young workers (aged 16-18)3 Nil Nil Nil HR6 Incidents of forced labour during the year Nil Nil Nil SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL EC7 &RPPXQLW\VHUYLFHVDQGLQIUDVWUXFWXUHSURMHFWV 5VPLOOLRQ 105 58 59 EC9 Proportion of purchases from suppliers within Sri Lanka (%) 81 81 77 SO1 Community engagement (no. of persons impacted) 855,364 4 59,278 35,856 Sustainability integration awareness (number of business partners) 80 80 70 Business partners screened for labour, environment and human rights 100 90 64 PR3 Proportion of labels carrying ingredients used (%) 81 80 81 Proportion of labels carrying information on disposal (%) 76 60 61 Proportion of labels carrying sourcing of components (%) 1 1 1 PR6 Voluntary standards relating to advertising Group policy based on ICC Code PR9 Signiﬁcant ﬁnes for product/service issues1 Nil Nil Nil SO2 Proportion of businesses analysed for risk of corruption (%) 100 100 100 SO8 Signiﬁcant ﬁnes for violation of laws/regulations1 Nil Nil Nil 1 Signiﬁcant ﬁnes are deﬁned as ﬁnes over Rs.1 million 2 Figures include the sales agents of Union Assurance PLC, who are not employees 3 Young workers are employed under the guidelines of the Employers’ Federation of Ceylon 4 This excludes people impacted indirectly and includes the commuters using the Slave Island Railway Station 11 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Chairman’s Message Our Report focusses on the Group’s value creation process... I am pleased to present the Summarised in the ensuing section are the key ﬁnancial highlights of our operating performance during the year under review. integrated Annual Report and the Financial Statements for š *URXSUHYHQXHLQFUHDVHGE\SHUFHQWWR5VELOOLRQ the ﬁnancial year ended 31 š *URXSSURıWEHIRUHWD[LQFUHDVHGE\SHUFHQWWR5VELOOLRQ5HFXUULQJSURıWEHIRUHWD[ March 2016. increased by 10 per cent to Rs.18.94 billion. This year’s Report has been prepared in š 3URıWDWWULEXWDEOHWRHTXLW\KROGHUVRIWKHSDUHQWGHFUHDVHGE\SHUFHQWWR5VELOOLRQ conformance with the Integrated Reporting Recurring proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the parent increased by 5 per cent to Rs.13.85 Framework of the International Integrated billion. Reporting Council which focusses on the š 7KH &RPSDQ\ 3%7 LQFUHDVHG E\  SHU FHQW WR 5V ELOOLRQ 7KH LQFUHDVH ZDV PDLQO\ reporting of the Group’s value creation on account of the capital gain of Rs.3.10 billion arising from the share repurchase of Union process. I trust our Report will provide Assurance PLC. you with an in-depth understanding of this process and how it connects with the š 1HWFDVKĲRZIURPRSHUDWLQJDFWLYLWLHVZDV5VELOOLRQ stakeholder centric strategies and actions š 5HWXUQ RQ FDSLWDO HPSOR\HG 52&(  GHFUHDVHG WR  SHU FHQW IURP  SHU FHQW LQ WKH which are founded on the principles of previous year. compliance, conformance, good governance, ethical conduct and sustainable development. š 5HWXUQRQHTXLW\ 52( GHFUHDVHGWRSHUFHQWIURPLQWKHSUHYLRXV\HDU š 'HEWWRHTXLW\UDWLRGHFUHDVHGWRSHUFHQWFRPSDUHGWRSHUFHQWLQWKHSUHYLRXV Group revenue increased marginally by 2 per ﬁnancial year. cent to Rs.93.28 billion. Revenue growth was impacted by the substantial decrease in oil š 'LOXWHGHDUQLQJVSHUVKDUHGHFUHDVHGE\SHUFHQWWR5V prices affecting revenues in the Bunkering š &DVKHDUQLQJVSHUVKDUHLQFUHDVHGE\SHUFHQWWR5V business and the divestment of the General Insurance business in 2014/15. š 7KHWRWDOVKDUHKROGHUUHWXUQ 765 LQZDVDQHJDWLYHSHUFHQW š 7KHFDUERQIRRWSULQWSHURQHPLOOLRQUXSHHVRIUHYHQXHLQFUHDVHGPDUJLQDOO\E\SHUFHQWWR The Group PBT at Rs.19.20 billion was a 3 per 0.83 metric tons. cent increase over the PBT of Rs.18.56 billion recorded in the previous year. The Group recurring proﬁt before tax (PBT) of Rs.18.94 billion for the ﬁnancial year ended 31 March 2016 was an increase of 10 per cent over the As was highlighted last year, the investment pronouncements of the Government recurring 2014/2015 PBT of Rs.17.29 billion, LQ WKH ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ SURMHFW DQG WKH signalled its desire to encourage publicwhich excludes the impacts of fair value gains regular revaluation of assets under Fair private partnerships and exit investments on investment property and the capital gain Value Accounting principles have short to in non-core public owned interests and, this, on the disposal of Union Assurance General medium term implications on our ROCE and we believe would give rise to opportunities Limited. Although the proﬁt attributable to ROE ratios. This is discussed in detail in the for the Group, given our strong balance equity holders of the parent at Rs.14.07 billion Group Consolidated Review section of this sheet. From a portfolio and diversiﬁcation was a decrease of 2 per cent over the Rs.14.35 5HSRUW 7KH 52&( DQG WKH 52( DGMXVWHG perspective, the investments in our Consumer billion in the previous year, the recurring proﬁt for these impacts and other unusual nonFoods and Retail businesses have borne fruit, attributable to equity holders of the parent at operating incomes, are 14.3 per cent and contributing towards a diverse stream of cash Rs.13.85 billion, this year, represented an 11.8 per cent respectively. We are conﬁdent ﬂows and a more balanced portfolio, where an increase of 5 per cent over the Rs.13.14 billion that investments which we are making today increasingly higher proportion of proﬁts are recorded in the previous year. in pursuing a sustainable long term future generated from businesses with signiﬁcant will result in improved returns on our capital long term growth potential. The Group is employed in the medium to long term. currently evaluating signiﬁcant investment Rs.18.94 Bn Despite the challenging operating opportunities across its industry groups, some of which are more fully described in the environment in the year under review, Industry Group Review section of this Report. the underlying business performance was satisfactory. The economic policy Group recurring PBT A growth of 10 per cent 12 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information The Annual Report contains discussions on the macroeconomic factors and their impact on our businesses as well as a detailed discussion and analysis of each of “diversiﬁcation From a portfolio and perspective, the Rs.4.37 Bn the industry groups. As such, I will focus on a investments in our Consumer Leisure high level summation of the performance of Foods and Retail businesses Proﬁt After Tax each industry group during the ﬁnancial year 2015/16. have borne fruit, contributing Despite the increase in competition within Transportation Industry Group towards a diverse stream the sector, Sri Lankan Resorts recorded an of cash ﬂows and a more overall improvement in occupancies. The The Transportation industry group reported increase is mainly on account of the strategies balanced portfolio, where an revenues, including the share of revenues such as increasing web sales, enhancing the from the associate companies, of Rs.16.83 increasingly higher proportion destination management company base billion and a PAT of Rs.2.45 billion, contributing of proﬁts are generated from and customising the product offering to the 16 per cent each to Group revenue and PAT Chinese market, which were implemented respectively. Although South Asia Gateway businesses with signiﬁcant during the year. During the year under review, Terminals (SAGT) recorded a decline in volumes, as expected, due to continuous deployment of larger, more cost effective long term growth potential. ” the combined impact of economic and political volatility in Russia and the Ukraine, and the uncertain political landscape that vessels requiring a deep draft, overall volumes prevailed in the Maldives towards the latter Leisure Industry Group in the Port of Colombo continued to grow with part of 2015, curtailed the year-on-year the additional capacity being absorbed rapidly growth in tourist arrivals to both Sri Lanka The Leisure industry group reported revenues, with a total capacity utilisation close to 70 per and the Maldives. The tourist arrivals to the including share of revenues from associated cent. Whilst this will result in future growth for Maldives grew by a marginal 2 per cent. companies, of Rs.24.31 billion and a PAT of SAGT, it also necessitates early development Whilst the depressed growth in arrivals and Rs.4.37 billion, contributing 23 per cent and 28 of the East Container Terminal, which is the increased prominence of the informal per cent to Group revenue and PAT respectively. potentially a growth opportunity for our Ports sector resulted in a decline in occupancies, The industry group continued to maintain its business. You will be pleased to note that in the formal sector, overall, compared to position as the largest contributor to Group PAT. SAGT was ranked number one in South Asia the previous year, occupancies at our hotels During the calendar year 2015, arrivals to Sri and number four in the World for Terminal in the Maldives remained above the industry Lanka reached 1,798,380, representing a yearproductivity by the Journal of Commerce, average. The performance of the Destination on-year growth of 18 per cent. Augmented USA, in September 2015. Whilst Lanka Marine Management sector was above expectations by focussed destination marketing initiatives, Services (LMS) maintained its position as due to the strategies, undertaken during the and improved ﬂight connectivity, China and the market leader, the performance of the year, in a few select markets. India recorded a 68 per cent and 30 per cent Bunkering business was negatively impacted increase in arrivals, respectively, in 2015. by the signiﬁcant decline in oil prices which Property Industry Group Arrivals from other regions also demonstrated impacted revenue, and, to an extent, margins. encouraging growth. LMS also built on its procurement strategy The Property industry group reported and supplier relationships towards improving revenues of Rs.4.34 billion and a PAT of Rs.1.59 In the year under review, Cinnamon Lakeside both its operational efficiency and proﬁtability. billion, contributing 4 per cent and 10 per was partially closed for refurbishment In the year under review, DHL Keells improved cent to Group revenue and PAT respectively. and this impacted the City Hotel sector its market leadership position. Cinnamon Air During the year under review, all 475 units performance. The new product has been performed in line with expectations with the RI WKH ŗ2Q7KUHHŘ UHVLGHQWLDO GHYHORSPHQW well accepted and this was conﬁrmed by a airline gradually establishing its brand, and SURMHFWZHUHKDQGHGRYHUWRWKHEX\HUV7KH substantial occupancy increase in the fourth presence, in the market. John Keells Logistics FRQVWUXFWLRQRIŗWK6HQVHŘRQ*UHJRU\ŖV5RDG quarter. The increased room inventory arising increased its total warehouse footprint under was completed during the second quarter of out of entrants into the 3-4 star segments management with the facility in Seeduwa the year under review, with 95 per cent of the of the market, and the resultant competitive becoming fully utilised during the year. apartments being sold as at 31 March 2016. pricing, exerted pressure on the sector’s In September 2015, the Group increased its average room rates during the period under VKDUHKROGLQJ LQ 5DMDZHOOD +ROGLQJV /LPLWHG review. However, occupancy in the city, overall, (RHL), the owners of over 500 acres of land was strong in the fourth quarter and this is an including a Donald Steel designed golf course, encouraging trend. Cinnamon red, the selectRs.2.45 Bn service hotel, performed beyond expectations in its ﬁrst full year of operations. With new from 17 per cent to 51 per cent at a total investment commitment of Rs.1.04 billion. A master plan is currently being developed in capacity expected to come in over the next Transportation few years, especially into the city, there is order to maximise the development potential RIWKHODQGSORWV5DMDZHOODZLOOFRPSOHPHQW an urgent need for the country to enhance Proﬁt After Tax its product offering to attract the higher the Group’s property and leisure portfolios. 7KH ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ SURMHFW LV SURJUHVVLQJ spending tourists. with satisfactory demand for both residential 13 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Chairman’s Message and commercial spaces. As announced pressure on net interest margins due to LQ -DQXDU\  WKH SURMHFW HQFRXQWHUHG rising funding costs in the second half of the some unforeseen delays, and as such, the FRQVWUXFWLRQ RI ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ LV QRZ expected to be completed in 2019. Rs.36.46 Bn year and intensiﬁed competitive pressures. Notwithstanding the challenging operating environment, Nations Trust Bank (NTB) Consumer Foods and Retail recorded a double digit growth in both deposits Consumer Foods and Retail Industry Group and credit, which trended above the industry Revenue average. In line with its 5 year mapping The Consumer Foods and Retail industry strategy which was developed in 2013, NTB group recorded revenues of Rs.36.46 billion continued its focus on lean management and a PAT of Rs.3.23 billion, contributing 35 strategically expand its store network, while initiatives together with increased automation per cent and 20 per cent to Group revenue improving its distribution centre to optimise and greater reliance on digital channels. and PAT respectively. The Consumer Foods supply, storage and delivery productivity. sector recorded strong growth in proﬁtability The Nexus Mobile loyalty programme, which Information Technology Industry Group with both Ceylon Cold Stores (CCS) and enables the business to identify key trends in Keells Food Products (KFP) contributing to customers and shopping lifestyles using data The Information Technology industry group the improved performance. The encouraging analytics, proved to be a key tool in retaining recorded revenues of Rs.8.26 billion and trend in consumer sentiment on the back and attracting customers. a PAT of Rs.96 million, contributing 8 per of increased disposable income, together cent and 1 per cent to Group revenue and with the expansion of the product portfolio Financial Services Industry Group PAT respectively. The Office Automation in line with evolving consumer tastes and business maintained its market share in preferences, resulted in higher volumes being The Financial Services industry group both the mobile and copier markets, driven recorded under both the Beverage and Ice recorded revenues, including the share of by increased volumes and revenue from Cream businesses. Continued focus on the revenues from associate companies, of new products. The increase in consumer distribution network, production efficiencies Rs.11.90 billion and a PAT of Rs.1.72 billion, purchasing power coupled with the increased and cost control, further enabled healthy contributing 11 per cent each to Group revenue substitution of feature phones with smart improvement in margins which contributed and PAT. This ﬁnancial year marked the ﬁrst phones drove volumes in the Mobile Phone towards the strong growth, overall. In the year full year of operations for the Life Insurance segment whilst the company’s extensive under review, KFP also recorded an improved business under Union Assurance PLC (UA) dealer network enabled retention of market performance, aided by a double digit growth post the segregation of the Life and General share in the Copier segment. in volumes and improved operational insurance businesses. During the year, UA efficiencies arising from measures demonstrated an encouraging double digit Other including Plantation Services implemented in the prior year. growth in Gross Written Premiums (GWP). The Plantation Services sector recorded The Retail sector recorded a strong increase revenues of Rs.2.42 billion, contributing in performance on the back of an encouraging double digit growth in footfall as the emphasis on improving the service quality, product Rs.11.90 Bn 2 per cent to Group revenue, and a PAT of Rs.6 million. Similar to the previous year, continuing political unrest and economic offering and consumer awareness, bore Financial Services volatility in key tea export destinations, fruit in contributing towards enhancing the coupled with low oil prices which signiﬁcantly overall shopping experience. The new outlets Revenue impacted their purchasing power resulted in opened in recent years are performing above a sharp decline in tea prices and negatively expectations. The penetration of modern impacted the proﬁtability of the Plantations Fast Moving Consumer Goods (FMCG) Services sector. Others, comprising of the retail in the country is still low compared to The banking industry recorded a healthy Holding Company and other investments, more developed regional countries and this growth, driven, mainly by the strong credit and the Plantation Services sector, together, presents a signiﬁcant opportunity for growth. demand stemming from both private and recorded revenues of Rs.2.66 billion and a PAT With a number of new locations having been public sectors. However, performance was of Rs.2.34 billion for 2015/16, contributing 3 identiﬁed, already, the sector will continue to dampened to an extent due to increased per cent and 15 per cent to Group revenue and PAT respectively. The increased PAT is mainly a result of the exchange gains recorded at the Company on its foreign currency denominated “on theTheback cash holdings. Retail sector recorded a strong increase in performance of an encouraging double digit growth in footfall as the emphasis on improving the service quality, product offering and consumer awareness, bore fruit in contributing towards enhancing the overall shopping experience. ” 14 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information The Group is in the process of setting reduction Considering the diversity and geographical “process targets against baseline ﬁgures for its carbon breadth of the businesses within the Group, The value creation footprint and water withdrawal. Whilst these we recognise our responsibility to make a targets are Group-wide, particular focus positive difference in the communities in of the Group has will be given to the most carbon and waterwhich we operate in. been built around our loyal intensive industry groups, namely Leisure and Consumer Foods and Retail. As part of At this moment our thoughts are with those and committed employees, its sustainability strategy, and alongside its persons, including our employees, and their and I wish to pay tribute to comprehensive risk management process, the families, whose lives have been severely Group seeks continuously to conserve energy disrupted by the unprecedented ﬂoods them for their contribution and water, dispose of waste responsibly, and landslides. The Group took immediate to what has been a provide training and development, maintain measures to assist those affected, by challenging year. ” a safe working environment and ensure the highest standards of product stewardship. This has extended to its value chain in recent years providing urgent relief items. I am moved by the spontaneous volunteerism of our employees in these efforts and this is living through ongoing engagements and awareness evidence of our deeply entrenched affinity Employees creation through supplier fora, implementation with society. The Group will continue to The value creation process of the Group has of a supplier code of conduct and on-site monitor the situation and will take further been built around our loyal and committed assessments of our signiﬁcant suppliers. steps as necessary. We will also work with employees, and I wish to pay tribute to them John Keells Foundation in exploring ways to for their contribution to what has been a I am pleased to announce that this year too we restore the livelihoods of affected persons. challenging year. Over the years, we have have made signiﬁcant progress on the agenda attracted the best and the brightest talent items reported in last year’s Integrated Annual The focus of our CSR activities continues towards building a strong team that reﬂects Report. Although the Group’s carbon footprint to be on six key areas, namely, Education, the diversity of the customers we serve. increased by 4 per cent to 78,278 MT as a Health, Environment, Community/Livelihood We continue to engage and encourage our result of higher levels of operational activity Development, Arts and Culture and Disaster employees to perform to the best of their during the year under review, key industry 5HOLHI 7KHVH SURMHFWV KDYH EHHQ LQVSLUHG ability through a performance oriented culture groups such as Leisure and Consumer Foods and sustained over time by our CSR vision founded on ethical and transparent behaviour and Retail experienced a combined reduction ŗ(PSRZHULQJWKH1DWLRQIRU7RPRUURZŘ7KH which, in turn, promotes sustainable and of 9 per cent in carbon footprint per rupees CSR initiatives of the Group are centrally proﬁtable growth. The Corporate Governance million of revenue, reﬂecting the positive planned and implemented by John Keells Commentary and the Group Consolidated results of the initiatives embarked upon in Foundation (Foundation), a company limited Review sections of this Report explain in these areas. During the year under review, by guarantee which is also registered as further detail the best practices, policies and water withdrawal increased by 5 per cent to D ŗ9ROXQWDU\ 6RFLDO 6HUYLFH 2UJDQLVDWLRQŘ procedures that are in place to ensure that 1,904,911 cubic meters in these key industry with the Ministry of Social Welfare. Whilst -RKQ.HHOOVLVŗ0RUH7KDQ-XVWD:RUN3ODFHŘ groups. However, there was a combined further details are available under the Group reduction of 10 per cent in water withdrawal, Consolidated Review and Industry Analysis Corporate Governance per million rupees of revenue. Waste generated sections of this Report, some of the highlights I am pleased to state that there were no also increased by 6 per cent to 8,251 MT due of the Foundation’s work during the year are departures from any of the provisions of to the aforementioned increase in operational listed below. the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics activity across the Group. of the Code of Best Practice of Corporate English Language Scholarship Programme *RYHUQDQFH MRLQWO\ DGYRFDWHG E\ WKH From an employee perspective, 218 incidences A total of 1,200 school children completed Securities and Exchange Commission of RI RFFXSDWLRQDO LQMXULHV DQG GLVHDVHV ZHUH classes, under the foundation, preSri Lanka and the Institute of Chartered recorded this year, whilst Group employees intermediate and intermediate level courses. Accountants of Sri Lanka. Further details on received, on an average, 35 hours of training compliance can be found in the Corporate per person. The training hours for employees Soft Skills and Industrial Training for Governance Commentary of this Report. are determined on a needs basis, aligning University Undergraduates business speciﬁc requirements with gaps A total of 1,275 undergraduates from multiple Sustainability identiﬁed in respect of both operating and faculties beneﬁtted from the workshops Similar to last year, this Report has been roof competencies as outlined in the Group FRQGXFWHG XQGHU ŗ7KH )LQDO 6WHSŘ LQLWLDWLYH SUHSDUHG ŗ,Q DFFRUGDQFH&RUH RI WKH *5, Learning and Development policy guidelines. in the Sabaragamuwa and Uva-Wellassa (G4) Guidelines and has obtained the GRI Universities. Materiality Disclosures check. The Report Corporate Social Responsibility contains the overall sustainability strategy, The John Keells Group continues to be a Project WAVE (Working Against Violence framework and performance of the Group participant of the United Nations Global through Education) and has also been independently assured Compact Initiative and is fully committed to 7KLVSURMHFWDLPHGDWFRPEDWLQJJHQGHUEDVHG by DNV GL represented in Sri Lanka by DNV the newly-adopted Sustainable Development violence and child abuse through awareness Business Assurance Lanka (Private) Limited. Goals. Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) raising, made substantive strides in its second is an integral part of our business and it year, sensitising a total of 8,182 persons, of permeates throughout the organisation. which 5,026 persons were Group staff. 15 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Chairman’s Message The John Keells Vision Project Our Volunteers Mr. Franklyn Amerasinghe and Mr. Tarun Das, A total of 16 eye camps and 8 cataract clinics During the year in review, the John Keells being over the age of 70 years and having were conducted in all 9 provinces, resulting Foundation recorded a total of 1,611 served the Board for over 10 years, have in the completion of 2,049 cataract surgeries. engagements by 624 employee volunteers informed us that they would not be seeking Under the School Screening Programme across the John Keells Group in respect re-election at the Annual General Meeting of in the Colombo District – a new initiative of activities conducted by the Group. This the Company. I would like to place on record undertaken in the reporting year with the number excludes volunteer activities at the our sincere appreciation to them for the Ministry of Health and John Keells Foundation business or sector level. invaluable contribution made during their in collaboration with Ceylon Cold Stores PLC tenure and wish them the very best in their vision screening was conducted in 63 schools, Dividends future endeavours. testing over 35,984 school children, including a donation of spectacles to 2,812 school Your Board declared a ﬁnal dividend of Rs.1.50 Finally, I thank my colleagues on the Board children. per share to be paid on the 13th of June 2016. and the Group Executive Committee for their The ﬁrst and second interim dividends for the guidance and support during the year. HIV and AIDS Awareness Campaign year were Rs.4.50 per share and Rs.1.00 per A total of 15,629 were sensitised on HIV and share respectively. The ﬁrst interim dividend AIDS including Group staff as well as external included a special dividend of Rs.3.50 per entities. The Foundation also launched a share on account of the cash inﬂow of web-based e-module, hosted free-of-charge Rs.4.14 billion to the Company from the share on its website, to mark World AIDS Day on 1 repurchase made by Union Assurance PLC. December 2015. Accordingly, the total pay-out in the year under review was Rs.8.04 billion compared to Susantha Ratnayake Batticaloa Teaching Hospital Emergency and Rs.3.48 billion in the previous ﬁnancial year. Chairman Accident Project In line with its commitment to facilitate 2015 Warrant 25 May 2016 public health services to disadvantaged communities, the John Keells Group released Subsequent to the exercise and conversion of the ﬁrst half of its pledged sponsorship the 2015 Warrant, 50,281,136 voting shares of Rs.26 million during the reporting year of the Company were listed on the Colombo to facilitate the building of an emergency Stock Exchange on 26 November 2015. Based medical treatment unit. on the ﬁnal conversion of 2015 Warrants into ordinary shares, the Company received a sum Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD) Prevention of Rs.7.97 billion. The Foundation also initiated a pilot with the National Water Supply and Drainage Board Subdivision of Shares (NWSDB) in the Trincomalee District involving the supply and installation of two Reverse The Board of Directors has recommended a Osmosis (RO) ﬁltration Systems as part of an subdivision of the Company’s shares in the overall plan to address CKD issues. proportion of 8 ordinary shares for every 7 ordinary shares held for approval of the Elephant Research Project shareholders at an Extraordinary General As part of the Group’s commitment to Meeting. Accordingly, the price and quantity of elephant conservation and research, the WKH:DUUDQWVZLOOEHDGMXVWHGWRUHĲHFW )RXQGDWLRQ SURYLGHG D VSRQVRUVKLS IRU ŗ6UL the aforementioned subdivision of shares. /DQND (OHSKDQW Ř  D WULOLQJXDO RXWGRRU exhibition to showcase the current status Conclusion of elephants in Sri Lanka, presented by The Federation of Environmental Organisations In conclusion, on behalf of the Board of (FEO). The exhibition was held in 12 cities Directors and all employees of the John around the country, many of which are heavily Keells Group, I thank all our stakeholders for affected by the human-elephant conﬂict. the support extended during the year. 16 COHESIVE This section introduces the Board of Directors and Senior Management Committees that oversee the Group of Companies. It also offers a detailed analysis of the John Keells Group governance framework; the mandatory requirements complied with as well as the Group’s own internal benchmarks of good governance. GOVERNANCE 18 Board of Directors 20 Group Executive Committee 21 Group Operating Committee 23 Corporate Governance Commentary John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Board of Directors Susantha Ratnayake* Ronnie Peiris* Amal Cabraal Chairman Group Finance Director Non-Executive Director Susantha Ratnayake was appointed as the Appointed to the John Keells Holdings PLC Appointed a Director on 1 November 2013, Chairman and CEO of John Keells Holdings Board during 2002/03, Ronnie, as Group Amal Cabraal is the former Chairman and PLC (JKH) in January 2006 and has served Finance Director, has overall responsibility Chief Executive Officer of Unilever Sri Lanka. on the JKH Board since 1992/1993 and has for the Group’s Finance and Accounting, He has over 3 decades of business experience 39 years of management experience, all of Taxation, Corporate Finance, Treasury, and the in general management, marketing and sales which is within the John Keells Group. A past Information Technology functions. He is also and apart from Sri Lanka, he has served with Chairman of the Sri Lanka Tea Board and a Director of several companies in the John Unilever in the United Kingdom, India and Ceylon Chamber of Commerce, he is also the Keells Group. He was previously the Managing Bangladesh. Chairman of the Employers’ Federation of Director of Anglo American Corporation He is an alumnus of INSEAD-France and Ceylon. (Central Africa) Limited in Zambia. holds an MBA from the University of Colombo, He has over 40 years of ﬁnance and general a Chartered Marketer by profession and a management experience in Sri Lanka and Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Marketing abroad. He is a Fellow of the Chartered UK. Ajit Gunewardene* Institute of Management Accountants, Deputy Chairman He is presently an Independent External UK, Association of Chartered Certiﬁed Director of Hatton National Bank PLC, Ceylon Accountants, UK, and the Society of Certiﬁed $MLW *XQHZDUGHQH LV WKH 'HSXW\ &KDLUPDQ Beverage Holdings PLC, Lion Brewery (Ceylon) Management Accountants, Sri Lanka and of John Keells Holdings PLC and has been a PLC, S A Silva & Sons (Private) Limited and holds an MBA from the University of Cape member of the Board for over 23 years. He is also serves on the Supervisory Board of Town, South Africa. Previously, the Chairman a Director of several companies in the John Associated Motorways (Private) Limited. On of the Sri Lanka Institute of Directors, he is Keells Group and is the Chairman of Union 1 April 2015, he assumed the role of Noncurrently a member of the Committee of the Assurance PLC. He is a member of the Board Executive Director and Chairman of CIC Feeds Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. of SLINTEC, a company established for the (Private) Limited. He is a committee member development of nanotechnology in Sri Lanka of the Ceylon Chamber of Commerce and under the auspices of the Ministry of Science serves on the Management Committee of the and Technology. He is also a member of the Mercantile Services Provident Society. Franklyn Amerasinghe Tourism Advisory Committee appointed by Senior Independent Director the Minister of Tourism Development and a member of the Steering Committee for Appointed to the Board during 1999/2000, establishment of the National Science Centre Dr. Indrajit Coomaraswamy Franklyn Amerasinghe is the former CEO and in Sri Lanka appointed by the Minister of Non-Executive Director Director General of the Employers’ Federation Science, Technology and Research. He has of Ceylon. He was thereafter attached to the also served as the Chairman of the Colombo 'U,QGUDMLW&RRPDUDVZDP\ZDVDSSRLQWHGWR International Labour Organisation as a Senior Stock Exchange and Nations Trust Bank PLC. the John Keells Holdings PLC Board in February Specialist in the social dialogue sector in $MLW KDV D 'HJUHH LQ (FRQRPLFV DQG EULQJV 2011. He was an official in the Central Bank of charge of Employers’ Organisations in East over 33 years of management experience. Sri Lanka from 1974 till 1989. He worked in Asia up to October 2002. A Bachelor of Law the Economic Research, Statistics and Bank and a Lawyer by profession, he is currently Supervision Divisions. During this time he was a consultant and trainer in social dialogue, also seconded to the Ministry of Finance and human resource management, corporate Planning (1981-89). He was employed by the social responsibility and industrial relations, Commonwealth Secretariat from 1990-2008. both in Sri Lanka and abroad. He has During that time he held the positions, inter DXWKRUHGERRNVRQDZLGHUDQJHRIVXEMHFWV alia, of Director, Economic Affairs Division and published papers in some international and Deputy-Director, Secretary-General’s DQG ORFDO MRXUQDOV +H LV D )RXQGHU 7UXVWHH Office. He was subsequently Interim Director, of the Association for Dialogue and Conﬂict Social Transformation Programme Division, Resolution and a Founder Director of the Commonwealth Secretariat (January-July Skills Development Fund. He is also a Board 2010). He is currently Adviser to the Ministry member of the International Centre for Ethnic of Development Strategies and International Studies and the Commercial Arbitration Trade. He completed his undergraduate Board of the Institute for the Development of degree at Cambridge University and obtained Commercial Law and Practice (ICLP). his Doctorate from the University of Sussex. * Refer Group Directory for Directorships held by Executive Directors in other Group companies 18 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Tarun Das Nihal Fonseka Premila Perera Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Non-Executive Director Tarun Das has spent his professional career Nihal Fonseka is a career banker and served as Premila Perera was appointed to the Board in the development and promotion of Indian the Chief Executive Officer/Ex-Officio Director of the Company with effect from 1 July 2014 industry. Starting in November 1963 with the of DFCC Bank from 2000 until his retirement as an Independent Non-Executive Director. predecessor body of Confederation of Indian in 2013. He is currently a Non-Executive Premila Perera, formerly a Partner, KPMG Industry (CII) he was the Director General Director of DFCC Bank PLC, Chairman of the in Sri Lanka, also served as the Global and Chief Executive of CII from April 1967 Group Audit Committee of Brandix Lanka Firms Regional Tax Director for ASPAC in to May 2004 and Chief Mentor from June Limited, President of the Sri Lanka National 2000/2001, as a member of the Global Task 2004 to October 2009. His leadership of the Advisory Council of the Chartered Institute of Force commissioned in 1998, to advice organisation over three decades has led to Securities and Investments, UK, Director of the the International Board of KPMG on future strengthening business and strategic ties Employees’ Trust Fund Board and a member directions in determining long term strategic between India and the world. of the National Procurement Commission. plans, and faculty of the KPMG International Tax Business School. She also served a period He is Founding Trustee, Ananta Aspen 3ULRUWRMRLQLQJ')&&%DQNKHZDVWKH'HSXW\ of secondment with the US Firm’s National Centre; Ananta Centre and Council on Energy Manager of HSBC Sri Lanka. He is a past Tax Office in Washington DC, and was a Environment and Water (CEEW); member, Chairman of the Colombo Stock Exchange and participant at the KPMG-INSEAD International %RDUG RI *RYHUQRUV 5DMLY *DQGKL ,QGLDQ the Association of Development Financing Banking School programme. Institute of Management, Shillong and Indian Institutions in Asia and the Paciﬁc (ADFIAP). Council for Research on International Economic He has also served as a member of the She is a Fellow of the Institute of Chartered Relations (ICRIER); member, Board of Trustees, Presidential Commission on Taxation (2009), Accountants of Sri Lanka and currently serves Sasakawa India Leprosy Foundation (SILF); the Financial System Stability Consultative as an Independent Director and Chairperson Public Interest Foundation (PIF); Institute of Committee of the Central Bank of Sri Lanka of the Audit Committee of Ceylon Tobacco Economic Growth; Bharatiya Yuva Shakti Trust and Strategic Enterprise Management Agency Company PLC, and is also a Non-Executive (BYST); Singapore India Partnership Foundation (SEMA). He holds a BSc from the University of Director of Holcim (Lanka) Limited. (SIPF) and India@75 Foundation, Confederation Ceylon, Colombo, is a Fellow of the Institute of Indian Industry (CII); member, Apex Council of Financial Studies, UK and a member of on India@75, Confederation of Indian Industry the Chartered Institute of Securities and (CII); member, Advisory Board, CIITriveni Investments, UK. Water Institute and World Wildlife Fund (WWF); Lifetime Trustee, the Aspen Institute, USA. He is Co-Chair of US – India Strategic Dialogue; Ashroff Omar US-India-Japan Strategic Dialogue; IndiaNon-Executive Director Japan Strategic Dialogue, IndiaIsrael Forum and member of IndiaSingapore Strategic Ashroff Omar is a Director of Phoenix Dialogue; India-China Strategic Dialogue; Ventures Limited, Chief Executive Officer of IndiaTurkey Forum, US-India Climate Brandix Lanka Limited and serves as Director Change Dialogue and Trilateral Commission. on many of its subsidiary companies. He is Chairman, Advisory Board, JCB India He is the founder Chairman of the Joint (UK); member, International Advisory Board of Apparel Association Forum (JAAF) and former ACE –Chubb Insurance (USA). Chairman of the Sri Lanka Apparel Exporters He has been conferred with Padma Bhushan Association. in 2006, one of the highest Civilian Awards, for He serves as a Director of the Sri Lanka contribution in the ﬁeld of Trade and Industry, Institute of Nanotechnology (SLINTEC), and by the President of India. He has also been is Chairman of the Advisory Committee on conferred the Honorary Commander of the Garments Export Development Board (EDB). Most Excellent Order of the British Empire (CBE) for contribution to Indo-British relations He is the Hon. Consul General of the Republic in 1998 and Singapore National Award (Public of Finland, a Chartered member of The Service Medal) in 2004 by the Singapore Textile Institute International, UK and a senior Government for contribution to strengthening member of the Society of Plastics Engineers, economic ties between India and Singapore. Connecticut, USA. In 1996 he was given Honorary Doctorate in Science by the University of Warwick, UK and in 2011 by the Tel Aviv University in Israel for extraordinary commitment in promoting the Indian Economy in the global arena. He has authored a new book, ‘’Crossing Frontiers’’. 19 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Executive Committee Dilani Alagaratnam Gihan Cooray Sanjeeva Fernando President President President Dilani Alagaratnam is the President with Gihan Cooray is responsible for the Retail 6DQMHHYD )HUQDQGR LV UHVSRQVLEOH IRU WKH ,7 overall responsibility for the Group Human sector, the Corporate Finance and Strategy industry group and the Plantation Services Resources, Legal and Secretarial, Corporate division, Group Treasury function, John Keells sector. He possesses over 28 years of senior Communications, Sustainability and Capital the investment banking arm of the managerial experience in diverse businesses Enterprise Risk Management and Group Group and John Keells Research. He is also a DQGFDSDFLWLHV+HMRLQHGWKH-RKQ.HHOOV*URXS Sourcing functions of the Group. She is also a Non-Executive Director of Nations Trust Bank in 1993 and has headed the Group’s Printing Director of Union Assurance PLC and several PLC. Gihan holds an MBA from the Jesse H. and Packaging businesses and Bunkering unlisted companies within the John Keells Jones Graduate School of Management at businesses. He was previously the Head of the Group. A Lawyer by profession, she has been Rice University, Houston, Texas. He is an Transportation and Logistics sector overseeing with John Keells Holdings PLC since 1992 and Associate member of the Chartered Institute the Group’s airline, travel, freight forwarding, is a law graduate and a holder of a Masters’ of Management Accountants, UK, a certiﬁed shipping and bunkering businesses in Sri Degree in Law. Currently, she is a member of management accountant of the Institute of /DQND ,QGLD DQG WKH 0DOGLYHV 6DQMHHYD ZDV the Legislation Sub Committee of the Ceylon Certiﬁed Management Accountants, Australia also involved in setting up and developing the Chamber of Commerce, member of the and has a Diploma in Marketing from the Group’s IT Enabled Services business (BPO) in National Labour Advisory Committee and a Chartered Institute of Marketing, UK. He Gurgaon, India and resided in India from 2007 Council member of the Sri Lanka Institute of serves as a member of the sub-committee on until 2012 whilst overlooking the rest of the Directors. Economic, Fiscal and Policy Planning of the IT businesses in the Group. He is a Director of Ceylon Chamber of Commerce. John Keells PLC and Tea Smallholder Factories 3/&$SULQWHUE\SURIHVVLRQ6DQMHHYDTXDOLıHG from the London School of Printing and is a Krishan Balendra member of the London Institute of Printing. President Romesh David President Krishan Balendra has responsibility for the Jitendra Gunaratne Leisure industry group and John Keells Stock Romesh David leads the Transportation President Brokers. He also serves as the Chairman of industry group of JKH. He has been with Nations Trust Bank PLC and is the Hon. Consul the JKH Group for 36 years during which Jitendra Gunaratne is responsible for the General of the Republic of Poland in Sri Lanka. he has served in the Leisure, Domestic and Consumer Foods sector. Prior to his appointment He is a former Chairman of the Colombo Stock International Trade and IT sectors of the Group as President, he oversaw the Plantations and Exchange. He started his professional career in addition to Transportation. He presently Retail sectors. His 36 years of management at UBS Warburg, Hong Kong, in investment serves as a Vice President of the Indo-Lanka experience in the Group also covers Leisure and banking, focussing primarily on equity capital Chamber of Commerce. He is a member of Property. He is a Director of Ceylon Cold Stores markets. After a four year stint in Hong Kong, the Executive Committee of the Council for PLC and Keells Food Products PLC and is also he continued his career in corporate ﬁnance Business with Britain and Co-Chair of the CCC the President of the Beverage Association of at Aitken Spence and Company PLC, Sri Lanka National Agenda Committee on Logistics and Sri Lanka. He is a member of the Council of the SULRU WR MRLQLQJ -.+ .ULVKDQ KROGV D ODZ Transport. He serves on the Council of the Employers' Federation of Ceylon. degree (LLB) from the University of London Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport and an MBA from INSEAD. – Sri Lanka and was recently appointed to the International Management Council of the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Transport Suresh Rajendra as an International Vice President. He serves President on the Advisory Council of the Sri Lanka Logistics and Freight Forwarders Association 6XUHVK5DMHQGUDLVUHVSRQVLEOHIRUWKH3URSHUW\ and is a past Chairman of the Chartered industry group of the John Keells Group and Institute of Logistics and Transport – Sri also serves as a Director of Union Assurance Lanka, the Sri Lanka Logistics and Freight PLC and Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. He Forwarders Association and the Council for has over 21 years of experience in the ﬁelds Business with Britain. of ﬁnance, property and real estate, travel and tourism, and business development acquired ERWKLQ6UL/DQNDDQGRYHUVHDV3ULRUWRMRLQLQJ the Group, he was the head of commercial and business development for NRMA Motoring and Services in Sydney, Australia, Director/General Manager of Aitken Spence Hotel Managements (Private) Limited, and also served on the boards of the hotel companies of the Aitken Spence Group. Suresh is a Fellow of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, UK. 20 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Group Operating Committee Zaﬁr Hashim Vasantha Leelananda Mano Rajakariar Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Zaﬁr Hashim is the Head of the Transportation Vasantha Leelananda is Head of the 0DQR 5DMDNDULDU KDV EHHQ WKH *URXS Sector and has been with the Group for 13 Destination Management sector and counts Financial Controller since April 2005. He \HDUV+HMRLQHGWKH*URXSLQVHFRQGHG over 37 years in the Leisure industry group has been with the Group for over 20 years to Lanka Marine Services where he served with the John Keells Group. He served as the in many capacities including serving as as CEO from 2005-2015. He has also served Managing Director of Walkers Tours from the Sector Financial Controller of the as a member of the Transportation Sector 1997 to 2005 and heads the inbound travel Plantations sector and heading the Shared Committee from 2005. During the last 13 operations in Sri Lanka. Vasantha holds an Services implementation within the Group. years he has held the position of CEO at John MBA from the University of Leicester. He has over 27 years of experience in audit, Keells Logistics Lanka Ltd., for a short time, ﬁnance and general management acquired and Mackinnons Mackenzie Shipping Co. Ltd. He is a past President of the Sri Lanka both in Sri Lanka and overseas. Mano is a He has an MSc in Chemical Engineering from Association of Inbound Tour Operators Fellow member of the Institute of Chartered the University of Birmingham (UK). (SLAITO), a Board member of the Sri Lanka Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) Convention Bureau from 2003 to 2007, Board and the Chartered Institute of Management member of the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism Accountants, UK. He currently serves as and Hotel Management from 2007 to 2010 a member of the Statutory Accounting Sanjeewa Jayaweera and served as a Board member of American Standards Committee, the Financial Reporting Executive Vice President Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM) from 2012 Standards Implementation and Interpretation to 2014. He is currently a Board member of Committee, the IFRS Education Committee, 6DQMHHZD-D\DZHHUD&KLHI)LQDQFLDO2ĴFHU the Responsible Tourism Partnership which the Tax Faculty and the Examinations for the Consumer Foods and Retail industry is affiliated to the Travel Foundation UK and Committee of the Institute of Chartered group, has been with the Group for 23 years, a Board member of the Sri Lanka Tourism Accountants of Sri Lanka. He also serves during which he served in the Resort Hotels Promotion Bureau (SLTPB). as a member in the Task Force to provide sector of the Leisure industry group and was recommendations on law reforms in relation the Sector Financial Controller for Resort to the accounting profession established +RWHOVIURPWR3ULRUWRMRLQLQJWKH by CA Sri Lanka. Mano is also a member of *URXS 6DQMHHZD ZDV EDVHG LQ WKH 8QLWHG Chandrika Perera the Taxation sub-committee of the Ceylon Kingdom and worked for several years as an Executive Vice President Chamber of Commerce. Audit Manager. Chandrika Perera was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of the Leisure industry group in March 2005. She has been with the Waruna Rajapaksa Rohan Karunarajah Group for 33 years. She held the position Executive Vice President Executive Vice President of Group Financial Controller from 1999 to 2005. A Fellow of the Institute of Chartered :DUXQD 5DMDSDNVD +HDG RI 1HZ %XVLQHVV 5RKDQ .DUXQDUDMDK 6HFWRU +HDG RI WKH Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) Development for the John Keells Group City Hotels sector, currently overlooks and the Society of Certiﬁed Management DQG +HDG RI 2SHUDWLRQV IRU WKH &LQQDPRQ the management of the Cinnamon Grand, Accountants, Sri Lanka, she holds an MBA /LIH LQWHJUDWHG SURMHFW KDV RYHU  \HDUV Cinnamon Lakeside and Cinnamon red. A (Finance) from the University of Southern of experience in Sri Lanka and in the UK, career hotelier counting over three decades, Queensland. She is currently serving on primarily in management consultancy, both in the local and international hospitality the Technical Committee for the National SURMHFW LQIUDVWUXFWXUH ıQDQFH DQG DXGLW industry; he held the position of General Conference of Chartered Accountants 3ULRUWRMRLQLQJWKH*URXSLQKHZRUNHG Manager in several hotels in the United for the Government as an Executive Director Kingdom, lastly being the Marriott Marble at the Bureau of Infrastructure Investment, Arch, London. He is a Director of Asian Hotels Informatics International Limited (UK) and at and Properties PLC and Trans Asia Hotels Ernst & Young. He is a member of the Board PLC. He read for his Masters in Hospitality of Directors of South Asia Gateway Terminals and Business Studies from the Thames Valley (Private) Limited. Waruna is a Fellow member University, London. of the Chartered Institute of Management Accountants, UK, and an Associate member of the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka. He also holds an MBA from City University Cass Business School, London, UK. 21 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Operating Committee Sunimal Senanayake Charitha Subasinghe Suran Wijesinghe Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Sunimal Senanayake, Sector Head of Charitha Subasinghe is the Head of the Retail 6XUDQ:LMHVLQJKHMRLQHGWKH*URXSLQ-DQXDU\ the Resorts sector, has over 30 years of sector. He has been with the John Keells 2004 as the Sector Financial Controller of experience in the Leisure industry, both in Group since 2003. He was the Sector Financial the Financial Services industry group and hotels and inbound tourism. He is a Director Controller of the Retail sector, before being was appointed as the Chief Financial Officer of John Keells Hotels PLC. He has also appointed as the Chief Executive Officer in of the same industry group in July 2010. served as the Managing Director of Walkers 2005. He was also employed at Aitken Spence He is a Director of Nations Trust Bank PLC Tours Limited from 1991 1997. He is a past Hotel Management as the Sector Financial and has over 30 years of experience in the President of the Sri Lanka Association of Controller before moving over to John Keells. ﬁelds of auditing and ﬁnancial and general Inbound Tour Operators (SLAITO) and has held He is an Associate Member of the Chartered management which has been acquired many positions in various travel trade related Institute of Management Accountants (UK) while serving in organisations both locally associations and committees. He has also as well as a Diploma Holder of the Chartered and overseas. Suran is a Fellow member of been a member of the Hotels Classiﬁcation Institute of Marketing (UK). He also holds a both the Institute of Chartered Accountants Committee and a member of the Advisory MBA from the University of Colombo. of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and the Chartered Board of the Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism Institute of Management Accountants, UK. and Hotel Management. Nadija Tambiah Executive Vice President Ramesh Shanmuganathan Vice President 1DGLMD7DPELDK+HDGRI/HJDODQG6HFUHWDULDO is a law graduate from the University of Ramesh Shanmuganathan is the Group’s Manchester, United Kingdom, a Barrister at Chief Information Officer, a member of the Law (Middle Temple), UK and is also qualiﬁed Group Management Committee for the an Attorney at Law in Sri Lanka. She also Information Technology industry group and heads the Corporate Social Responsibility has over 20 years of experience in the ICT arm of John Keells Holdings PLC. She industry both in Sri Lanka and the USA, has been involved in most of the strategic with over 15 years in C-level management. transactions of the John Keells Group during Ramesh is a Hayes-Fulbright Scholar her 20 year tenure with the Group. She serves and holds to his credit a MSc (Information as a member of the Steering Committee Technology and Computer Science) with Phi on Arbitration and Mediation at the Ceylon Kappa Phi Honours from Rochester Institute Chamber of Commerce. of Technology (New York, USA), Master of Business Administration from Postgraduate Institute of Management, University of Sri Jayewardenepura, Bachelor of Science Devika Weerasinghe in Electronics and Telecommunications Executive Vice President Engineering with First Class Honours from the University of Moratuwa. He is reading Devika Weerasinghe, Chief Financial Officer of for his Doctor of Business Administration the Transportation industry group previously (DBA) at International School of Management, held the position of Sector Financial Paris at present. He is a Chartered Engineer, Controller of the Transportation sector. She Chartered IT Professional and a Fellow of also served as the Sector Financial Controller the British Computer Society. He has active of the Airlines SBU of the Transportation memberships in several other professional sector during the period 19982004. An institutions and is a visiting faculty member Associate member of the Chartered Institute for several post-graduate programmes. He is of Management Accountants-UK, Devika also the Chair of the SLASSCOM CIO Council also holds a Bachelor’s Degree in Business and is actively involved with the ICTA and the Administration, from the University of Sri Presidential Task Force on IT in steering IT to Jayawardenepura. greater heights within the country. He is also a member of the Gartner Research Circle. 22 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Corporate Governance Commentary 1. Executive Summary Key Corporate Governance Initiatives Highlights of the 36th Annual General Undertaken at JKH for the Year 2015/16 Meeting Held on 26 June 2015 The corporate governance framework at John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH) is built on the š Appointment to Boards of JKH š Mr. A Gunewardene, who retired in core principles of accountability, participation subsidiaries were previously made terms of Article 84 of the Articles and transparency which are essential for the on the recommendation of the JKH of Association of the Company, was creation, enhancement and maintenance of a Nominations Committee, which acted re-elected a Director of the Company. sustainable business model. as the Nominations Committee for š Dr. I Coomaraswamy, who retired in the whole Group, as permitted by the terms of Article 84 of the Articles Accordingly, the Group has in place a wellSEC. However, in 2015/16, in instances of Association of the Company, structured corporate governance framework where a listed subsidiary had was re-elected as a Director of the which has been adopted across all business units another listed subsidiary of its own, a Company. and is integral in maintaining and enhancing Nomination Committee was formed sustainable shareholder value. In addition to at the level of the ﬁrst level subsidiary š Ms. P Perera, who retired in terms WKH ŗWULJJHUVŘ ZKLFK HQVXUH FRPSOLDQFH ZLWK company to make recommendations of Article 91 of the Articles of mandatory requirements, the Group has also on Board appointments at its own Association of the Company, was established its own set of internal benchmarks, listed subsidiary. re-elected as a Director of the processes and structures in meeting accepted Company. š The performance evaluation process of best practices in governance. These, we believe, the Chairman-CEO was reviewed and š An Ordinary Resolution was passed are the attributes which have lent credence to such that the age limit stipulated in revised in keeping with best practices. JKH’s well established reputation amongst all Section 210 of the Companies Act its stakeholders. š The Group Business Process Review No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. division contracted a Forensic Data T Das, who is 76 years, and as such, The report below demonstrates, in detail, how Analytic Vendor to assist in enhancing Mr. Das was re-elected a Director of JKH has embraced, and complied with, all the the internal controls within JKH by the Company. mandatory provisions of the Companies Act, providing management, authorised approvers and Internal Auditors š An Ordinary Resolution was passed Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange HDUO\ ŗFDXWLRQDU\ WULJJHUVŘ YLD D XVHU such that the age limit stipulated in (CSE) and the Securities and Exchange IULHQGO\ GDVKERDUG XVLQJ ŗUHDOWLPHŘ Section 210 of the Companies Act Commission of Sri Lanka Act (SEC) and all data which highlight transaction No. 7 of 2007 shall not apply to Mr. other legislation and rules relevant to the exceptions and outliers. F Amerasinghe, who is 70 years, businesses of the Group. Further, it highlights and as such, Mr. Amerasinghe was the efforts made by the Group in ensuring that š A comprehensive review of the re-elected a Director of the Company. its practices are in line, where relevant and Segregation of Duties (SoD) of all the appropriate, with the Code of Best Practices on roles and individuals who execute š Re-appointment of Ernst and Young &RUSRUDWH*RYHUQDQFHMRLQWO\DGYRFDWHGE\WKH transactions across an entire business as the External Auditors of the SEC and the Institute of Chartered Accountants process under Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Company. of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka). The systems guidelines was undertaken. and procedures are continuously assessed š Expansion of the Group Risk against the core principles of accountability, Management policy to cover cyber participation and transparency which have security risks. been embedded and adopted by all business units in the Group, and updated as necessary. The ensuing sections describe the following in Key Governance Disclosures greater detail: Reference section š 7KH FRPSRQHQWV RI WKH -.+ &RUSRUDWH Governance System The Governance System Section 2 š 7KHPRQLWRULQJPHFKDQLVPVLQSODFHWR Board related disclosures Section 3.1 ensure strict compliance to the Group’s Audit Committee report Section 3.2.1 Governance policy in order to gain Human Resource Committee report Section 3.2.2 assurance of its effectiveness Nominations Committee report Section 3.2.3 š 7KHRXWORRNDQGHPHUJLQJFKDOOHQJHVIRU Related Party Transaction Review Committee report Section 3.2.4 corporate governance Combined role of Chairman-CEO Section 3.3 Group Executive Committee and other Management Committees Section 3.5 Human Resource Governance Section 4.2 Communication with shareholders Section 4.5 Assurance mechanisms Section 5 Outlook and emerging challenges Section 7 This Corporate Governance Commentary is Governance compliance summary Section 8 available on our corporate website at http://www.keells.com/governance-structure 23 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Commentary 2. The Corporate Governance System The diagram below depicts the key components of the JKH Corporate Governance System and their inter-linkages. The Corporate Governance Commentary is broadly sequenced in keeping with this diagram. JKH Corporate Governance System Within a Sustainability Development Framework LEVEL INTERNAL GOVERNANCE INTEGRATED ASSURANCE REGULATORY STRUCTURE GOVERNANCE MECHANISMS BENCHMARKS Board of Directors and Senior Integrated Governance Key Components Management Committees Systems and Procedures Strategy Senior Companies Act No. 7 of Human Related Party Formulation and Independent Resources and Transaction 2007 Decision Making Director Compensation Review Mandatory compliance Committee Committee Process Board Committee Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock GROUP Human Resource Exchange (CSE) Governance Mandatory compliance Employee Participation Nominations Audit Committee Committee The Code of Best Practice on Corporate Governance as Integrated Risk Internal published by the Management Control Securities and Exchange Chairman-CEO Commission and the Institute of Chartered GROUP + Group Executive Committee (GEC) Accountants, Sri Lanka INDUSTRY / JKH Code of Conduct Voluntary compliance FUNCTION Group Operating Committee (GOC) INDUSTRY / IT Governance FUNCTION Group Management Committee (GMC) Recommendations of the UK Corporate SECTOR / Ombudsperson Governance Code as FUNCTION / Sector Committee practicable in the SUBSECTOR context of the nature Management Committee Stakeholder of businesses and risk BUSINESS / Management and proﬁles External FUNCTION / Effective Employee Empowerment Control Voluntary compliance BU / DEPT Communication š $OO%RDUG6XE&RPPLWWHHVDUHFKDLUHGE\,QGHSHQGHQW'LUHFWRUVDSSRLQWHGE\WKH%RDUG š 7KH&KDLUPDQ&(2DWWHQGVWKH+XPDQ5HVRXUFHDQG&RPSHQVDWLRQ&RPPLWWHHZLWKWKH*URXS)LQDQFH'LUHFWRUDQG3UHVLGHQW+5DVIUHTXHQWDWWHQGHHV š $XGLW&RPPLWWHHLVDWWHQGHGE\&KDLUPDQ&(2*URXS)LQDQFH'LUHFWRU*URXS)LQDQFLDO&RQWUROOHU+HDGRI*URXS%XVLQHVV3URFHVV5HYLHZDQG([WHUQDO$XGLWRUV š 7KH*URXS2SHUDWLQJ&RPPLWWHH *2& DFWVDVWKHJOXHELQGLQJWKHYDULRXVEXVLQHVVHVZLWKLQWKH*URXSWRZDUGVLGHQWLI\LQJDQGH[WUDFWLQJ*URXSV\QHUJLHVDQG GULYLQJ*URXSLQLWLDWLYHV š 2QO\WKHNH\FRPSRQHQWVDUHGHSLFWHGLQWKHGLDJUDPGXHWRVSDFHFRQVWUDLQWV 2.1 Internal Governance Structure a view to highlighting deviations and quick 3. Internal Governance Structure Discussed in section 3 of this Commentary, redress, and in providing assurance that the Internal Governance Structure comprises actual outcomes are in line with expectations These are the components embedded within of the committees which formulate, execute and suggesting best practices, as appropriate. the Group, and as a result, have an impact and monitor Group strategies and initiatives on the execution and monitoring of all and the policies, processes and procedures 2.3 Regulatory and Performance governance related initiatives, systems and employed. Benchmarks processes. The Internal Governance Structure Discussed in section 6 of this Commentary, encompasses: 2.2 Assurance Mechanisms this comprises, among others, the regulations Discussed in section 5 of this Commentary, this which govern all JKH corporate activities from i. the Board of Directors; FRPSULVHV RI WKH ŗERGLHV DQG PHFKDQLVPVŘ the Companies Act to Listing Rules of the CSE, ii. Board Sub-Committees; which are employed in enabling regular rules of the SEC and the benchmarks set for iii. Senior Management Committees; and UHYLHZ RI SURJUHVV DJDLQVW REMHFWLYHV ZLWK the Group in working towards local and global best practices. iv. Employee Empowerment. 24 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information As depicted in the Governance framework, the above components in the structure are strengthened and complemented by internal policies, processes and procedures such as “mixJKH is conscious of the need to maintain an appropriate of skills and experience in the Board through a regular strategy formulation and decision making, review of its composition in ensuring that the skills human resource governance, integrated risk management, IT governance and stakeholder representation is in alignment with current and future needs management and effective communication. 3.1 The Board of Directors of the Group. ” 3.1.1 Board Responsibilities In carrying out its responsibilities, the Board š ,QFUHDVHG WKH *URXSŖV VKDUHKROGLQJ LQ 3.1.3 Board Skills promotes a culture of openness, constructive 5DMDZHOOD +ROGLQJV /LPLWHG 5+/  IURP Collectively, the Board brings in a wealth of dissent and productive dialogue, ensuring 17 per cent to 51 per cent, at a total diverse exposure in the ﬁelds of management, an environment which facilitates employee investment cost of Rs.1.04 billion. business, administration, banking, ﬁnance, law, empowerment and engagement. economics, marketing and human resources. š 'HFODUHG D VSHFLDO GLYLGHQG RI 5V All Directors possess the skills, expertise per share, in addition to the base dividend The Board’s key responsibilities include: and knowledge complemented with a high of Rs.1.00 per share, as a ﬁrst interim VHQVHRILQWHJULW\DQGLQGHSHQGHQWMXGJPHQW dividend for the ﬁnancial year 2015/16 š 3URYLGLQJGLUHFWLRQDQGJXLGDQFHWRWKH Further details of their qualiﬁcations and in November 2015. The payment of Group in the formulation of sustainable experience are provided under the Board the special dividend was enabled by high-level medium and long term Proﬁles section of the Annual Report. the cash inﬂow of Rs.4.14 billion to the strategies which are aimed at promoting Company from the share repurchase the long term success of the Group; JKH is conscious of the need to maintain made by Union Assurance PLC. an appropriate mix of skills and experience š 5HYLHZLQJ DQG DSSURYLQJ DQQXDO SODQV š $SSURYHG HQWHULQJ LQWR D SDUWLDO KHGJH in the Board through a regular review of and longer term business plans; of the USD 395 million syndicated loan its composition in ensuring that the skills š 7UDFNLQJDFWXDOSURJUHVVDJDLQVWSODQV facility, obtained by Waterfront Properties representation is in alignment with current (Private) Limited for the development and future needs of the Group. Additionally, š 5HYLHZLQJ+5SURFHVVHVZLWKHPSKDVLV RI ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ DV D PHDVXUH WR individual Directors are encouraged to seek on top management succession mitigate the interest rate exposure of the expert opinion and/or professional advice planning; Group. on matters where they may not have full š $SSRLQWLQJ DQG UHYLHZLQJ WKH knowledge or expertise. performance of the Chairman-CEO; 3.1.2 Board Composition As at 25 May 2016, the Board comprised 3.1.4 Access to Independent Professional š 0RQLWRULQJ V\VWHPV RI JRYHUQDQFH DQG of 10 Directors, with 7 of them being NonAdvice compliance; Executive and Independent. The Group policy In order to preserve the independence of the š 2YHUVHHLQJ V\VWHPV RI LQWHUQDO FRQWURO is to maintain a healthy balance between the Board and to strengthen the decision making, risk management and establishing Executive, Non-Executive and Independent the Board seeks independent professional whistle-blowing conduits; Directors with the Executive Directors advice, in furtherance of their duties, at the bringing in deep knowledge of the businesses Group’s expense. This is coordinated through š 'HWHUPLQLQJ DQ\ FKDQJHV WR WKH and the Non-Executive Independent Directors the Board Secretary as and when requested. discretions/authorities delegated from EULQJLQJ LQ H[SHULHQFH REMHFWLYLW\ DQG During the year, the Board contacted experts the Board to the executive levels; independent oversight. on the remuneration paid to the Executive š 5HYLHZLQJ DQG DSSURYLQJ PDMRU Directors and Senior Management Personnel. acquisitions, disposals and capital The current composition of the JKH Board is expenditure; illustrated as follows: 3.1.5 Board Appointment Board appointments follow a structured š $SSURYLQJ DQ\ DPHQGPHQWV WR and formal process within the purview of constitutional documents; 0 2 4 6 8 10 the Nominations Committee. The Terms š $SSURYLQJ LQ SULQFLSOH WKH LVVXH RI -.+ ED SID NED of Reference for the members of the equity/debt securities. Designation Nominations Committee and the Committee Female Male report can be found in section 3.2.3 of this Some of the key decisions made by the Board Gender Commentary. during the year included: 55-60 61-70 < 71 Age group Details of new Directors are disclosed to the š ,QFUHDVHG WKH QXPEHU RI VKDUHV RI WKH 0-3 4-8 Over 9 shareholders at the time of their appointment Board tenure (years) by way of public announcement as well as Company in issue by way of a share subdivision whereby seven existing None 1-2 3-4 in the Annual Report (refer Board Proﬁles Directorships in other public companies ordinary shares were subdivided to eight ordinary shares. 25 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Commentary section of the Report). The Directors are 3.1.8.2 Timely Supply of Information “to have required to report any substantial changes The Board of Directors was provided with in their professional responsibilities and The Directors continue the necessary information well in advance business associations to the Nominations (at least 2 weeks prior to the meeting), by Committee, which will examine the facts and independent contact way of Board papers and proposals, for circumstances and make recommendations with the corporate and all four Board meetings held during the to the Board. year in order to ensure robust discussion, senior management of the ” informed deliberation and effective decision 3.1.6 Board Induction and Training Group. making. Board papers are made available When Directors are newly appointed to in electronic format, keeping in line with the the Board, they undergo a comprehensive Group’s sustainability initiatives. Members induction where they are apprised, inter-alia, maximum of three successive terms unless an of the corporate and senior management of the Group values and culture, its operating extended Board tenure is necessitated by the team made presentations to Directors on model, policies, governance framework exigencies of the Group. Annually, the Board important issues relating to strategy, risk and processes, the Code of Conduct and the discusses the possibility of any impairment management, investment proposals, reoperational strategies of the Group. of Director independence due to extended structuring and system procedures, where Board tenures, and collectively evaluates necessary. The Directors continue to have Additionally, the newly appointed Directors the re-election of such Board members. The independent contact with the corporate and have access to relevant parts of the business Executive Directors, other than the Chairmansenior management of the Group. and are availed the opportunity to meet with CEO, are re-elected in a manner similar to that key management personnel and other key applying to Non-Executive Directors. 3.1.8.3 Board Agenda third party service providers such as External The Chairman-CEO ensured that all Board Auditors, Risk Consultants etcetera. 3.1.8 Board Meetings proceedings were conducted in a proper 3.1.8.1 Regularity of Meetings and Pre-Board manner, approving the agenda for each The Board of Directors recognises the need Meetings meeting prepared by the Board Secretary. The for continuous training and expansion of During the ﬁnancial year under review, there typical Board agenda in 2015/2016 was; knowledge and undertakes such professional were four pre-scheduled Board meetings. development as they consider necessary in Each of the pre-scheduled meetings are š &RQıUPDWLRQRISUHYLRXVPLQXWHV assisting them to carry out their duties as generally preceded by a Pre-Board meeting, š 5DWLıFDWLRQRI&LUFXODU5HVROXWLRQV Directors. which is usually held on the day prior to the formal Board Meeting. In addition to š 0DWWHUV DULVLQJ IURP WKH SUHYLRXV these Pre-Board meetings, where issues minutes 3.1.7 Re-election All the Non-Executive Directors are appointed of strategic importance requiring extensive š %RDUG6XE&RPPLWWHHUHSRUWVDQGRWKHU for a period of three years and are eligible discussions are considered, the Board of matters exclusive to the Board for re-election by the shareholders. NonDirectors communicated regularly as and š 6WDWXVXSGDWHVRIPDMRUSURMHFWV Executive Directors can serve up to a when required. The attendance at the Board š 5HYLHZ RI SHUIRUPDQFH  LQ VXPPDU\ meetings held during the ﬁnancial year and in detail, including high level 2015/16 is given below. commentary on actuals and outlook š 6XPPDWLRQRIVWUDWHJLFLVVXHVGLVFXVVHG Board meeting attendance at Pre-Board meetings š $SSURYDO RI TXDUWHUO\ DQG DQQXDO 26.05.2015 30.07.2015 03.11.2015 29.01.2016 Date of Eligible to Attended appointment ﬁnancial statements attend š 5DWLıFDWLRQ RI FDSLWDO H[SHQGLWXUH DQG donations Executive š 5DWLıFDWLRQ RI WKH XVH RI WKH FRPSDQ\ S Ratnayake Chairman-CEO 1992/93 9 9 9 9 4 4 seal and share certiﬁcates issued A Gunewardene Deputy Chairman 1992/93 9 9 9 9 4 4 š 1HZUHVROXWLRQV R Peiris Group Finance Director 2003/04 9 9 9 9 4 4 š 5HSRUWRQFRUSRUDWHVRFLDOUHVSRQVLELOLW\ Senior Independent Non-Executive š 5HYLHZRI*URXSULVNVVXVWDLQDELOLW\+5 F Amerasinghe 1999/00 9 9 9 9 4 4 practices/updates Independent Non-Executive š $Q\RWKHUEXVLQHVV A Cabraal 2013/14 9 9 9 9 4 4 I Coomaraswamy 2010/11 9 9 9 9 4 4 3.1.8.4 Board Secretary T Das 2000/01 9 9 9 9 4 4 The President HR, Legal and Secretarial is the N Fonseka 2013/14 9 9 9 9 4 4 Secretary to the Board, who is an Attorney-atA Omar 2012/13 9 9 9 8 4 3 Law by profession. In addition to maintaining Board minutes and Board records, the Board P Perera 2014/15 9 9 9 9 4 4 Secretary has provided support in ensuring 26 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information that the Board receives timely and accurate The scoring and open comments are collated 3.1.11 Managing Conﬂicts of Interests and information, advice relating to corporate by the Senior Independent Director, and Ensuring Independence governance matters, Board procedures and the results are analysed to give the Board In order to avoid potential conﬂicts or biases, applicable rules and regulations during the an indication of its effectiveness as well the Directors make a general disclosure of year. All concerns raised and wished to be as areas that required addressing and/or interests, as illustrated below, at appointment, recorded have been documented in sufficient strengthening. Despite the original anonymity at the beginning of every ﬁnancial year and detail. of the remarks, the open and frank discussions during the year as required. Such potential that follow include some Directors identifying conﬂicts are reviewed by the Board from 3.1.9 Time Dedicated by Non-Executive themselves as the person making the remark time to time to ensure the integrity of the Directors reﬂecting the openness of the Board. This Board’s independence. Details of companies The Board has dedicated adequate time for exercise has led to an improvement in the in which Board members hold Board or Board the fulﬁllment of their duties as Directors of Board dynamics. Committee membership are available with the Group. It is estimated that Non-Executive the Company Secretaries for inspection by Directors each devote a minimum of 30 full shareholders on request. time equivalent days to the Group during the year. The general time allocation is as illustrated below. Prior to appointment Once appointed During Board meetings Nominees are requested to Directors obtain Board Directors who have an interest Time commitment make known their various clearance prior to: in a matter under discussion: interests 15% š $FFHSWLQJDQHZSRVLWLRQ š ([FXVHWKHPVHOYHVIURP š (QJDJLQJLQDQ\WUDQVDFWLRQ deliberations on the that could create or VXEMHFWPDWWHU 50% potentially create a conﬂict š $EVWDLQIURPYRWLQJRQWKH of interest VXEMHFWPDWWHU DEVWHQWLRQ 35% All NEDs are required to notify from decisions are duly the Chairman-CEO of any minuted) changes to their current Board Strategy and performance representations or interests and Assurance and risk management a new declaration is made every Other Board matters ﬁnancial year In addition to attending Board meetings and The independence of all its Non-Executive Directors was reviewed on the basis of criteria Pre-Board meetings, they have attended the summarised below. respective Sub-Committee meetings and have also contributed to decision making Deﬁnition Status of conformity via Circular Resolutions and one-on-one meetings with key management personnel, 1. Shareholding carrying not less than 10 per None of the individual EDs or NED/IDs when necessary. cent of voting rights shareholding exceeds 1 per cent 2. Director of another company* None of the NED/IDs are Directors of another 3.1.10 Board Evaluation related party company as deﬁned The Board conducted its annual Board 3. Income/non cash beneﬁt equivalent to 20 per NED/ID income/cash beneﬁts are less than performance appraisal for the ﬁnancial cent of the Director’s income 20 per cent of individual Director’s income year 2015/16. This formalised process of 4. Employment at JKH two years immediately None of the NED/IDs are employed or individual appraisal enabled each member preceding appointment as Director have been employed at JKH or any of its to self-appraise, on an anonymous basis, the subsidiaries performance of the Board under the areas of: 5. Close family member who is a Director, CEO No family members of the EDs or NED/IDs is or a Key Management Personnel a Director or CEO of a related party company š 5ROH FODULW\ DQG HĳHFWLYH GLVFKDUJH RI 6. Has served on the Board continuously for a Refer note below responsibilities period exceeding nine years from the date of š 3HRSOHPL[DQGVWUXFWXUHV the ﬁrst appointment š 6\VWHPVDQGSURFHGXUHV 2WKHUFRPSDQLHVLQZKLFKDPDMRULW\RIWKHRWKHU'LUHFWRUVRIWKHOLVWHGFRPSDQ\DUHHPSOR\HGRUDUH š 4XDOLW\RISDUWLFLSDWLRQ 'LUHFWRUVRUKDYHDVLJQLıFDQWVKDUHKROGLQJRUKDYHDPDWHULDOEXVLQHVVUHODWLRQVKLS š %RDUGLPDJH Note: All Directors make a formal declaration of all their interests on an annual basis. Based on such declarations and notwithstanding that Franklyn Amerasinghe and Tarun Das have completed PRUHWKDQFRQVHFXWLYH\HDUVDV'LUHFWRUVWKH%RDUGFRQVLGHUVWKHPŗ,QGHSHQGHQWŘJLYHQWKHLU REMHFWLYHDQGXQELDVHGDSSURDFKWRPDWWHUVRIWKH%RDUG 27 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Commentary Summary of Non-Executive Independent Directors’ Interests The composition of the ﬁxed and variable components of compensation paid to Material business Employed by the Family member a Continuously Executive Directors is depicted below. Shareholding Management served for more relationship Company Director or CEO Director than nine years Composition of Executive Director (1) (2) (3) (4) (5) (6) remuneration 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% F Amerasinghe š š š š š š 45% 55% A Cabraal š š š š š š 2012 / 13 I Coomaraswamy š š š š š š 47% 53% T Das š š š š š š 2013 / 14 N Fonseka š š š š š š 47% 53% A Omar š š š š š š 2014 / 15 P Perera š š š š š š 47% 53% 2015 / 16 š Compliant Fixed š Compliant by assessment and resolution Variable 3.1.11.1 Details in Respect of Directors In addition to the Director proﬁles given in the Report, the following table illustrates the total 3.1.12.2 Non-Executive Director number of Board seats (excluding Group Board seats) held in other listed companies outside the Remuneration Group by each Director. The compensation of Non-Executive Directors was determined in reference to fees paid to Name of Director Directorship status No. of Board seats held in other listed other Non-Executive Directors of comparable at JKH Sri Lankan companies FRPSDQLHV DQG DGMXVWHG ZKHUH QHFHVVDU\ Executive capacity Non-Executive capacity in keeping with the complexity of the Group. Non-Executive Directors were paid additional S Ratnayake Chairman-CEO Nil šCeylon Tobacco Company PLC fees for either chairing or being a member A Gunewardene Executive Director Nil Nil of a Sub-Committee and did not receive R Peiris Executive Director Nil Nil any performance/incentive payments or F Amerasinghe Senior Independent Nil Nil share option plans. Total aggregate of NonDirector Executive Director remuneration for the year A Cabraal Non-Executive Director Nil šCeylon Beverage Holdings was Rs.22 million. PLC šLion Brewery (Ceylon) PLC 3.1.12.3 Compensation for Early Termination šHatton National Bank PLC In the event of an early termination of I Coomaraswamy Non-Executive Director Nil šTokyo Cement Company a Director, there are no compensation (Lanka) PLC commitments other than for: T Das Non-Executive Director Nil Nil i. Executive Directors: as per their N Fonseka Non-Executive Director Nil šDFCC Bank PLC employment contract similar to any A Omar Non-Executive Director Nil šTextured Jersey Lanka PLC other employee P Perera Non-Executive Director Nil šCeylon Tobacco Company PLC ii. Non-Executive Directors: accrued fees payable, if any, as per the terms of their contract 3.1.12 Director Remuneration Total aggregate Executive Director 3.1.12.1 Executive Director Remuneration remuneration for the year was Rs.163 million 3.2 Board Sub-Committees The remuneration of Executive Directors of which Rs.76 million was a variable based The Board has delegated some of its functions has a signiﬁcant element which is variable. on performance. This does not include the to Board Sub-Committees, while retaining 7KLVYDULDELOLW\LVOLQNHGWRWKHSHHUDGMXVWHG performance based Employee Share Options ﬁnal decision rights. Members of these consolidated Group bottom line and expected (ESOP) granted to the Executive Directors. Sub-Committees are able to focus on their returns on shareholder funds. Further, During the year, ESOPs valued using a designated areas of responsibility and impart the Human Resource and Compensation binomial pricing model were granted to the knowledge and oversight in areas where they Committee consults the Chairman-CEO Executive Directors as well as to all other have greater expertise. about any proposals relating to the Executive eligible employees. Further details are found Director remuneration, other than that of the in the Notes to the Financial Statements Chairman-CEO. section and Share and Warrant Information section of this Annual Report. 28 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information The four Board Sub-Committees are as follows: Report of the Audit Committee i. Audit Committee Role of the Committee ii. Human Resources and Compensation Committee The role of the Audit Committee is to assist the Board in fulﬁlling its oversight responsibilities iii. Nominations Committee for the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements iv. Related Party Transaction Review Committee of the Company and the Group, the internal control and risk management systems of The Board Sub-Committees comprised predominantly of Independent Non-Executive Directors. the Group and its compliance with legal The membership of the four Board Sub-Committees is as follows; and regulatory requirements, the external auditors’ performance, qualiﬁcations and Board Sub-Committee membership independence, and the adequacy and Audit Committee Human Related Party performance of the Internal Audit function, Resources and Nominations Transaction undertaken by the Group Business Process Compensation Review Division (Group BPR). The scope of Review Committee Committee Committee functions and responsibilities are set out in the terms of reference of the Committee Executive which has been approved by the Board and is reviewed annually. S Ratnayake Chairman-CEO š š A Gunewardene Deputy Chairman The Committee’s responsibilities pertain R Peiris Group Finance Director to the Group as a whole and in discharging Senior Independent Non Executive its responsibilities, the Committee places F Amerasinghe š š š reliance on the work of other Audit Independent Non Executive &RPPLWWHHVLQWKH*URXSZLWKRXWSUHMXGLFLQJ A Cabraal š š š š the independence of those Committees. However, to the extent, and in a manner I Coomaraswamy š š it considers appropriate, the Committee T Das š provides feedback to those entities for their N Fonseka š š š consideration and necessary action. A Omar š š P Perera š š š The effectiveness of the Committee is evaluated annually by each member of the š Committee Member Committee and the results are communicated š Committee Chair to the Board. Composition of the Committee and Meetings 3.2.1 Audit Committee There was no change in the composition Composition All members to be exclusively Non-Executive, Independent Directors with of the Committee during the ﬁnancial year at least one member having signiﬁcant, recent and relevant ﬁnancial and the Audit Committee comprised of the management and accounting experience and a professional accounting undersigned and the following Independent qualiﬁcation. Non-Executive Directors: The Chairman-CEO and the Group Finance Director are permanent invitees A Cabraal for all Committee meetings. The Group Financial Controller is also present at I Coomaraswamy discussions relating to Group reporting. P Perera Mandate Monitor and supervise management’s ﬁnancial reporting process in ensuring; The Head of the Group BPR Division served as the Secretary to the Audit Committee. š $FFXUDWHDQGWLPHO\GLVFORVXUH š 7UDQVSDUHQF\LQWHJULW\DQGTXDOLW\RIıQDQFLDOUHSRUWLQJ The Audit Committee held ﬁve meetings during the ﬁnancial year. Information on Scope i. Conﬁrm and assure: the attendance at these meetings by the š ,QGHSHQGHQFHRIH[WHUQDODXGLWRU members of the Committee is given in the ensuing section. The Chairman-CEO, the š 2EMHFWLYLW\RILQWHUQDODXGLWRU Group Finance Director, the Group Financial ii. Review with independent auditors the adequacy of internal controls and Controller and the External Auditors attended quality of ﬁnancial reporting most parts of these meetings by invitation. The Internal Auditors carrying out outsourced iii. Regular review meetings with management, internal auditor and external assignments and other officials of the auditors in seeking assurance on various matters 29 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Commentary Company and the Group also attended these During the year, the Group BPR division matters of signiﬁcance that were pending meetings on a needs basis. The Committee contracted with a Data Analytic vendor resolution. Before the conclusion of the Audit, engaged with management to review key risks to implement a surveillance mechanism the Committee met with the External Auditors, faced by the Group as a whole and the main to identify exceptional transactions in and management, to discuss all audit issues sectors with a view to obtaining assurances near real time basis on a management and to agree on their treatment. This included that appropriate and effective risk mitigation dashboard for further investigation. This the discussion of formal reports from the strategies were in place. SURMHFWZDVODXQFKHGLQHQG0DUFKDW External Auditors to the Committee. The three pre-selected large companies and is Committee also met the External Auditors The activities and views of the Committee currently under implementation at the other without management being present, prior to have been communicated to the Board of companies in the Group. the ﬁnalisation of the ﬁnancial statements. Directors quarterly through verbal brieﬁngs, and by tabling the minutes of the Committee’s The Sustainability and Enterprise Risk The External Auditors’ ﬁnal management meetings. Management division (SRM) reported to the reports on the audit of the Company and Group Committee on the process of identiﬁcation, ﬁnancial statements for the year 2014/15, Financial Reporting evaluation and management of all signiﬁcant together with management’s responses, were The Audit Committee has reviewed and risks faced by the Group. The report covered discussed with management and the auditors. discussed the Group’s quarterly and annual the overall risk proﬁle of the Group for the ﬁnancial statements, prior to publication, year under review in comparison with that The Committee is satisﬁed that the with management and the external auditors, for the previous year, and the most signiﬁcant independence of the External Auditors has including the extent of compliance with risks from a Group perspective together with not been impaired by any event or service Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, the the remedial measures taken to manage that gives rise to a conﬂict of interest. Due appropriateness and changes in accounting them. consideration has been given to the nature of SROLFLHV DQG PDWHULDO MXGJHPHQWDO PDWWHUV the services provided by the Auditors and the The Committee also discussed with the Formal conﬁrmations and assurances were level of audit and non-audit fees received by External Auditors and management the obtained from the senior management the Auditors from the John Keells Group. The matters communicated to the Committee by of Group companies on a quarterly Committee also reviewed the arrangements the External Auditors in their reports to the basis, regarding the efficacy and status made by the Auditors to maintain their Committee on the audit for the year. of the internal control systems and risk independence and conﬁrmation has been management systems, and compliance with received from the Auditors of their compliance The External Auditors were also engaged to applicable laws and regulations. with the independence guidance given in the conduct a limited review of the Group’s interim Code of Ethics of the Institute of Chartered ﬁnancial statements for the six months The Committee reviewed the whistleblowing Accountants of Sri Lanka. ended 30th September 2015. The results of arrangements for the Group and had direct this review were discussed with the External access to the Ombudsman for the Group. The performance of the External Auditors Auditors and management. has been evaluated and discussed with the The effectiveness and resource requirements Senior Management of the Company and the Internal Audit, Risks and Controls of the Group BPR division were reviewed and Committee has recommended to the Board The Committee reviewed the adequacy of discussed with management and changes that Ernst & Young be re-appointed as the the Internal Audit coverage for the Group effected where considered necessary. Lead/Consolidation Auditors of the Group and the Internal Audit Plans for the Group for the ﬁnancial year ending 31 March 2017, with the Head of the Group BPR Division and External Audit VXEMHFWWRDSSURYDOE\WKHVKDUHKROGHUVDWWKH management. The Internal Audit function The External Auditors’ Letter of Engagement, Annual General Meeting. of most Group companies is outsourced including the scope of the audit, was reviewed to leading professional ﬁrms under the and discussed by the Committee with the overarching control of the Group BPR Division. External Auditors and management prior to the commencement of the audit. N Fonseka The Group BPR Division regularly reported &KDLUPDQRIWKH$XGLW&RPPLWWHH to the Committee on the adequacy and The External Auditors kept the Committee effectiveness of internal controls in the Group advised on an on-going basis regarding 25 May 2016 and compliance with laws and regulations and established policies and procedures of the Audit Committee Meeting Attendance Group. Reports from the Outsourced Internal Auditors on the operations of the Company 19.05.2015 25.05.2015 29.07.2015 02.11.2015 28.01.2016 Eligible to Attended and some of the unquoted direct subsidiaries of the Company were also reviewed by the attend Committee. Follow-up action taken on the recommendations of the Outsourced Internal Auditors and any other signiﬁcant follow-up A Cabraal 9 9 9 9 9 5 5 matters were documented and presented to I Coomaraswamy 9 9 9 9 9 5 5 the Committee quarterly by the Head of Group N Fonseka 9 9 9 9 9 5 5 BPR. P Perera 9 9 9 9 9 5 5 30 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 3.2.2 Human Resources and Compensation Committee &RPPLWWHH 7KH FXUUHQW ŗEHORZ LQGXVWU\ Composition The Chairperson must be a Non-Executive Director. Committee should QRUPVŘ HPSOR\HH WXUQRYHU VXJJHVWV WKDW FRPSULVHH[FOXVLYHO\RI1RQ([HFXWLYH'LUHFWRUVDPDMRULW\RIZKRPVKDOO the bond between the employees and the be independent. Company has strengthened over the years. The Chairman-CEO and Group Finance Director are present at all Committee In June 2015, the Committee, as is usual, meetings unless the Chairman-CEO or Executive Director remuneration is evaluated the performance of the CEOunder discussion respectively. The President, Human Resources and Legal, Chairman and examined his evaluation of is also present at all meetings. the Executive Directors and members of Mandate Determine the quantum of compensation (including stock options) for the Group Executive Committee (GEC). All Chairman and Executive Directors, conduct performance evaluation of of them were evaluated on measurable Chairman-CEO, review performance evaluation of the other Executive criteria which had been pre-agreed with Directors and key Executives and establish a Group Remuneration Policy. them individually. Notwithstanding the same, the evaluation involved the closer Scope i. Determine and agree with the Board a framework for remuneration of the examination of the achieved results in a Chairman and Executive Directors background of the controllable and/or the ii. Consider targets, and benchmark principles, for any performance related non-controllable external conditions which pay schemes could have impacted performance either favourably or adversely. All in all, the team iii. Within terms of agreed framework, determine total remuneration performed well and the results achieved package of each Executive Director, keeping in view; have been exceptional. š 3HUIRUPDQFH š ,QGXVWU\WUHQGV In conclusion, I wish to thank my colleagues, on the Committee for their š 3DVWUHPXQHUDWLRQ insightful guidance and co-operation. I wish iv. Succession planning of Key Management Personnel to also thank our secretary, Linda Starling, who has now retired for her contribution v. Determining compensation of Non-Executive Directors will not be under towards the effective functioning of the the scope of this Committee Committee over the past years. Report of the Human Resource and The Committee ensured that the Board Compensation Committee complied with the Companies Act in relation to remuneration of Directors, especially the The Committee met three times during requirements of section 216. the year. The Committee interacted among F Amerasinghe themselves as well as with the Executive 7KH ŗSD\ IRU SHUIRUPDQFHŘ VFKHPH LV Chairman of the Human Resource and Board members when the necessity monitored and the CEO-Chairman and the Compensation Committee arose. The President in charge of Human President, Human Resources, regularly 25 May 2016 Resources was proactive in facilitating briefs the Committee of the employee the work of the Committee. This is greatly compensation and how it compares with appreciated. the market. Based on the information available, the management staff appear A report from the Committee continues to to be content with their terms and with the be a standing agenda item at the quarterly manner in which they are assessed. The Board meetings. The Chairman of the annual appraisal scheme, the calculation Committee reports on the developments of the short term incentives and the award, which have taken place since the last and pricing of ESOPs are monitored by the Board meeting and also updates the Board on various matters, as requested and as relevant. The Board was also kept advised Human Resources and Compensation Committee Meeting Attendance of the work of the Committee at times by Eligible to electronic mail. One important progressive 29.06.2015 20.10.2015 Attended attend measure taken during 2015/2016 was to make the responsibility for evaluating F Amerasinghe 9 9 2 2 the CEO-Chairman a matter for the entire A Cabraal 9 9 2 2 %RDUGDQGQRWMXVWIRUWKH+XPDQ5HVRXUFH I Coomaraswamy 8 9 2 1 and Compensation Committee, as was N Fonseka 9 9 2 2 existing. A Omar 9 9 2 2 31 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Commentary 3.2.3 Nominations Committee During the year, the Committee recommended Composition The Chairperson must be a Non-Executive Director. The Chief Executive to the Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (CCS) Board that Officer should be a member. Mr. M. Hamza be considered for appointment as a Non-Executive Director on the CCS Board. Mandate Deﬁne and establish the nomination process for Non-Executive Directors, The recommendation was accepted. lead the process of Board appointments and make recommendations to the Board on the appointment of Non-Executive Directors. The Committee continues to work closely with Scope i. Assess skills required on the Board given the needs of the businesses the Board on reviewing, regularly, its skills mix based on the immediate and emerging needs. ii. From time to time assess the extent to which the required skills are The skills needs of the company are also represented on the Board discussed by the Board during the Annual JKH iii. Prepare a clear description of the role and capabilities required for a Board Evaluation. particular appointment The Committee also recommended to the iv. Identify and recommend suitable candidates for appointments to the Board. Board that Mr. Tarun Das (with Mr. Tarun Das abstaining) be reappointed as a Nonv. Ensure, on appointment to Board, Non-Executive Directors receive a Executive Director for a further term of 3 formal letter of appointment specifying clearly years commencing 15 August 2015. š ([SHFWDWLRQLQWHUPVRIWLPHFRPPLWPHQW In December 2015, the Nomination Committee š ,QYROYHPHQWRXWVLGHRIWKHIRUPDO%RDUGPHHWLQJV Charter of JKH was amended to allow an š 3DUWLFLSDWLRQLQ&RPPLWWHHV immediate subsidiary of JKH PLC, listed The appointment of Chairperson and Executive Directors is a collective on the Colombo Stock Exchange, to form a decision of the Board Nomination Committee, if such immediate subsidiary had, in turn, a subsidiary, of its own, listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange. Report of the Nominations Committee š 7RLGHQWLI\VXLWDEOHSHUVRQVZKRFRXOG be considered for appointment to The Nominations Committee, as of 31st March the Board of JKH PLC or other Listed 2016, consisted of the following. Company in the Group as Non-Executive Directors. F Amerasinghe š 0DNH UHFRPPHQGDWLRQ RQ PDWWHUV A Cabraal referred to it by the Board. T Das T Das A Omar Chairman of the Nominations Committee During the period under review, the P Perera Committee had one formal meeting with all 25 May 2016 S Ratnayake members in attendance and several other informal discussions. The mandate of the Committee remains: š 7RUHFRPPHQGWRWKH%RDUGWKHSURFHVV of selecting the Chairman and Deputy Chairman. Nominations Committee Meeting Attendance Eligible to 12.05.2015 Attended attend F Amerasinghe 9 1 1 A Cabraal 9 1 1 T Das 9 1 1 A Omar 9 1 1 P Perera 9 1 1 S Ratnayake 9 1 1 32 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 3.2.4 Related Party Transaction Review Committee recurrent RPTs were reviewed annually by Composition The Chairperson must be a Non-Executive Director. Must include at least one the Committee. Other signiﬁcant transactions Executive Director. of non-listed subsidiaries were presented to the Committee for information. The Chairman-CEO, Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller are permanent invitees for all Committee meetings. In addition to the Directors, all Presidents, Mandate To ensure on behalf of the Board that all related party transactions of JKH Executive Vice Presidents, Chief Executive and its listed subsidiaries are consistent with the Code of Best Practices on Officers, Chief Financial Officers and Financial related party transactions issued by the SEC. Controllers of respective companies/sectors were designated as KMPs in order to increase Whilst the above requisitions the minimum required by the CSE, the Group transparency and enhance good governance. has broadened the mandate to include senior decision makers in the list of Annual disclosures from all KMPs setting key management personnel, whose transactions with Group companies also out any RPTs they were associated with, get reviewed by the Committee. if any, were obtained and reviewed by the Scope i. Develop, and recommend for adoption by the Board of Directors of JKH Committee. and its listed subsidiaries, a Related Party Transaction Policy which is consistent with the operating model and the delegated decision rights of The Committee held four meetings during the the Group ﬁnancial year. Information on the attendance of these meetings by the members of the ii. Update the Board on related party transactions of each of the listed Committee is given below. companies of the Group on a quarterly basis LLL'HıQHDQGHVWDEOLVKWKHWKUHVKROGYDOXHVIRUHDFKRIWKHVXEMHFWOLVWHG The activities and views of the Committee companies in setting a benchmark for related party transactions, related have been communicated to the Board of party transactions which have to be pre-approved by the Board, related Directors quarterly through verbal brieﬁngs, party transactions which require to be reviewed annually and similar and by tabling the minutes of the Committee’s issues relating to listed companies meetings. Report of the Related Party Transaction The Committee in discharging its functions Review Committee primarily relied on processes that were validated from time to time and periodic The undersigned and the following Directors reporting by the relevant entities and Key N Fonseka served as members of the Committee during Management Personnel (KMP) with a view to &KDLUPDQRIWKH5HODWHG3DUW\7UDQVDFWLRQ the ﬁnancial year: ensuring: 5HYLHZ&RPPLWWHH F Amarasinghe š WKDWWKHUHLVFRPSOLDQFHZLWKWKH&RGH 25 May 2016 A Cabraal š WKDWVKDUHKROGHULQWHUHVWVDUHSURWHFWHG P Perera and S Ratnayake š WKDW IDLUQHVV DQG WUDQVSDUHQF\ DUH In addition, the Group Finance Director maintained. Mr. Ronnie Pieris and the Group Financial The Committee reviewed and pre-approved &RQWUROOHU 0U 0DQR 5DMDNDULDU DWWHQGHG all proposed non recurrent RPTs of the meetings by invitation, and the Head of Group parent and all its listed subsidiaries. Further, Business Process Review Mr. Druvi Sirisena served as the Secretary to the Committee. 7KH REMHFWLYH RI WKH &RPPLWWHH LV WR exercise oversight on behalf of the Board, Related Party Transaction Review Committee Meeting Attendance of John Keells Holdings PLC and its listed 25.05.2015 29.07.2015 02.11.2015 28.01.2016 Eligible to Subsidiaries, in complying with the Code Attended on Related Party Transactions as issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission of attend 6UL /DQND ŗ7KH &RGHŘ  DQG ZLWK WKH /LVWLQJ Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange F Amerasinghe 9 9 9 9 4 4 (CSE). The Committee has also adopted best A Cabraal 9 9 9 9 4 4 practices as recommended by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka and CSE. N Fonseka 9 9 9 9 4 4 P Perera 9 9 9 9 4 4 S Ratnayake 9 9 9 9 4 4 33 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Commentary 3.3 Combined Chairman-CEO Role Group’s performance The Group’s Chairman continued to play the role of the CEO as well as the role of Chairman Against goal Against peers* and the appropriateness of combining the Creating and adding shareholder value š š two roles is discussed in detail in the ensuing section. Achievement of ﬁnancial goals š š Execution of sustainability development and Green Agenda š 3.3.1 Appropriateness of Combining the 6XFFHVVLQLGHQWLI\LQJDQGLPSOHPHQWLQJSURMHFWV š Roles of Chairman and CEO Sustaining a ﬁrst class image š š The appropriateness of combining the roles Developing human capital š of the Chairman-CEO was established after Promoting collaboration and team spirit š rigorous evaluation and debate internally Building sustainable external relations š š and externally. The appropriateness Leveraging Board members and other stakeholders š continues to be discussed periodically, and Ensuring good governance and integrity in the Group š š in the minimum, at least once a year. These 2WKHUOLVWHGFRPSDQLHVLQWKH&RORPER6WRFN([FKDQJH discussions are supported by international best practices accessed through consultancy services and experts. 3.3.3 Direct Discussions with the Non3.5.1 Group Executive Committee (GEC) Executive Directors As at 25 May 2016, the 10 member GEC Subsequent to these rigorous evaluations the The Chairman-CEO conducts direct consisted of the Chairman-CEO, the Deputy Board deemed that combining the two roles discussions with the Non-Executive Directors Chairman, the Group Finance Director and is more appropriate for the Group at present at meetings of the Non-Executive Directors, the Presidents of each business/function. The LQ PHHWLQJ VWDNHKROGHU REMHFWLYHV LQ D ODUJH convened by the Senior Independent Director. GEC is the overlay structure that implements, conglomerate setting. Issues arising from these discussions are under the leadership and direction of the actioned in consultation with the relevant Chairman-CEO, the strategies and policies As the head of the Group Executive Committee, persons. During the year under review, the determined by the Board, manages through the Chairman-CEO provides the overall Non-Executive Directors met twice without delegation and empowerment, the business direction and policy/execution framework for the presence of the Executive Directors. and affairs of the Group, makes portfolio the Board’s decisions via this structure. decisions and prioritises the allocation of 3.4 Senior Independent Director the capital, technical and human resources. Experience has proved that the JKH Board Given the combined role of the Chairman-CEO, A key responsibility of the members of the FRPSRVLWLRQ RI PDMRULW\ ,QGHSHQGHQW the Senior Independent Director played the GEC is to act as the enablers of the operating Directors coupled with the role of the Senior role in ensuring the adherence to corporate model of the Group. The members of the GEC Independent Director and other supporting governance principles, and acted as the are well equipped to execute these tasks and Board dynamics have enabled him to independent party to whom concerns could bring in a wealth of experience and diversity effectively balance his role as the Chairman of be voiced on a conﬁdential basis. to the Group in terms of their expertise and the Board and the CEO of the Company/Group. exposure (refer GEC Proﬁles section of the During the year, the Senior Independent Annual Report for more details). Given the above need to have a combined Director met with other Non-Executive Chairman-CEO role, the Chairman-CEO does Directors, without the presence of 3.5.2 Group Operating Committee (GOC) not come up for re-election as in the case the Chairman-CEO, and evaluated the As at 25 May 2016, the 21 member GOC with other Executive and Non-Executive effectiveness of the Chairman-CEO and the consisted of the Chairman-CEO, the Deputy Directors. It should be noted that the Articles executive support of the Board. Chairman, the Group Finance Director, the of Association of the Company allow for this. Presidents and the Executive Vice Presidents. 3.5 Group Executive Committee and Other The GOC provided a forum to share learnings, 3.3.2 Chairman-CEO Appraisal Management Committees and identify synergies, across industry The Human Resources and Compensation The Group Executive Committee and the other groups, sectors, business units and functions. Committee, chaired by the Senior Independent Management Committees met regularly The GOC meets once a month during the year Director, appraised the performance of the as per a time table communicated to the and is instrumental in preserving a common Chairman-CEO on the basis of pre-agreed participants 6 months in advance. In the group identity across diverse business units goals for the Group, set in consultation with absence of a compelling reason, attendance at (refer GOC Proﬁles section of the Annual the Board, covering the following broad these Committee meetings is mandatory for Report for more details). aspects: the Committee members. All the Committees carried out their speciﬁc tasks as expected. 3.5.3 Other Management Committees These include the Group Management Whilst the Chairman-CEO and Presidents Committee, Sector Committee and are ultimately accountable for the Company/ Management Committee which are Group and the industry groups/business/ responsible at the industry group level, sector functions respectively, all decisions are taken level and business unit level respectively. on a committee structure as described below. The underlying intention of forming these Committees is to encourage the respective 34 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Group Industry group Management President Committee š 6WUDWHJ\IRUPXODWLRQ š 3HUIRUPDQFHPRQLWRULQJ š &DUHHUPDQDJHPHQWDQG Sector Executive Vice Sector succession planning Committee President š 5LVNPDQDJHPHQW š ,PSOHPHQWDWLRQRI*URXS Initiatives Vice President/ Business unit/ Management Assistant Vice Function Committee President / Manager business units to take responsibility and š 2UJDQLVDWLRQDODQG&RPPLWWHHVWUXFWXUHV i. Strategy formulation and decision accountability at the grass-root level via are designed to enable, and facilitate, making process suitably structured Committees and teams in high accessibility of all employees to ii. Human resource governance DPDQDJHPHQWE\REMHFWLYHVVHWWLQJ every level of management. iii. Integrated risk management š 2SHQ KRQHVW IUDQN DQG FRQVWUXFWLYH The agendas of these Committees are communication was encouraged at all iv. IT governance carefully structured to avoid duplication of levels. The Group strongly believes that effort and to ensure that discussions and v. Stakeholder management and effective constructive disagreement is essential debate are complementary, both in terms of a communications for optimal decision making. bottom-up and top-down ﬂow of information vi. Sustainability governance and accountability. These Committees met Moreover, the Group provides a safe, regularly and carried out their tasks in secure and conducive environment for its 4.1 Strategy Formulation and Decision keeping with their scope. The Management employees, allows freedom of association Making Processes Committees proved to be key in enhancing and collective bargaining, prohibits child The Group’s investment appraisal employee engagement and empowerment. labour, forced or compulsory labour and methodology and decision making Illustrated above is the structure of the three any discrimination based on gender, race, process ensures the involvement of all Committees. religion, gender identity or sexual orientation, key stakeholders that are relevant to the and promotes workplaces which are free evaluation of the decision. 3.6 Employee Empowerment from physical, verbal or sexual harassment. Given the importance the Group places on its In furtherance of this, The Group continued In this manner: employees for the growth of the organisation, LWV &65 LQLWLDWLYH 3URMHFW :$9( :RUNLQJ policies, processes and systems are in place š 6HYHUDO YLHZV RSLQLRQV DQG DGYLFH DUH Against Violence through Education) aimed at to ensure effective recruitment, development obtained prior to making an investment combating gender based violence and child and retention of this vital stakeholder. The decision. abuse through awareness creation. A total bedrock of these policies is the Group’s of 5,026 Group staff were sensitised under š $ KROLVWLF YLHZ LV WDNHQ RQ WKH competency framework. To support these WKH SURMHFW DV DW  0DUFK 7KH *URXS commercial viability and potential of any policies, the Group continued with, and further KDVDOVRHPEDUNHGRQDSURMHFWWRVHQVLWLVH SURMHFW LQFOXGLQJ RSHUDWLRQDO ıQDQFLDO strengthened, the following practices. its employees regarding gender identity funding, legal, risk, sustainability and tax and sexual orientation towards building implications. š 7RSPDQDJHPHQWDQGRWKHUVHQLRUVWDĳ a truly inclusive culture within the Group. are mandated to involve, as appropriate, š $OO LQYHVWPHQW GHFLVLRQV DUH Additionally, the Group strives to incorporate all levels of staff in formulating goals, consensual in nature, made through the these practices, where relevant, in the supply strategies and plans. aforementioned management committee chain contracts entered into by the Group. structure where no single individual has š 'HFLVLRQ ULJKWV ZHUH GHıQHG IRU HDFK unfettered decision making powers over level of employment in order to instill a 4. Integrated Governance Systems and investment decisions. sense of ownership, reduce bureaucracy Procedures and speed-up the decision making š 7KH XOWLPDWH UHVSRQVLELOLW\ DQG process. Listed below are the main governance accountability of the investment decision systems and procedures of the Group. These rests with the Chairman-CEO. š $ ERWWRPXS DSSURDFK ZDV WDNHQ LQ systems and procedures strengthen the the preparation of annual and longelements of the JKH Internal Governance The following section further elaborates on term plans and the Group also ensured Structure and are benchmarked against WKH *URXSŖV SURMHFW DSSUDLVDO DQG H[HFXWLRQ employee involvement in strategy, and industry best practices. process. thereby empowerment, in the process. 35 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Commentary The illustration below depicts the Group’s strategy formulation process; 4.2 Human Resource Governance The Group human resource governance framework is designed in a manner that Formulating enables high accessibility by any employee business strategy, REMHFWLYHVDQGULVN to every level of management. Constant management for each dialogue and facilitation are also maintained BU for the ﬁnancial ranging from work related issues to matters year pertaining to general interest that could affect employees and their families. The Group Performance follows an open door policy for its employees evaluation of the GEC review and and this is promoted at all levels of the Group. second half/full year Continuous approval performance monitoring at BU/ The Group performance management sector/industry dynamics and compensation policy is group level explained in the ensuing sections. “project Business Reforecasting the performance Subsequent to the targets for the second evaluation of the ﬁrst half of the year and six months against satisfying the above GEC approval the target highlighted criteria, the ﬁnal approval to proceed will be granted by the Board. 4.1.1 Project Approval Process Social and environmental impacts will also be When appropriate, the GEC 3URMHFWV XQGHUWDNHQ DW WKH *URXS IROORZ considered in ensuring the sustainability of a detailed feasibility report covering the business and the communities impacted is empowered to approve key business considerations under by it. Where the transaction involves the such proposals in terms of multiple scenarios, within a framework of transfer or lease of land, title searches would sustainability. The feasibility stage is not be conducted for both private and state land. the delegated decision rights restricted to a ﬁnancial feasibility only, but In case of state land, every action would be with the Board being kept ” encompasses a wider scope of work covering taken to ensure compliance with the relevant risk management, sustainable development rules and regulations. As appropriate, written informed. and HR considerations. authority and approvals will be obtained. :KHUHWKHSURMHFWLVDSDUWRIDSULYDWLVDWLRQ Based on the decision rights matrix, the entire process will be conducted in subsequent to review by the relevant line with the directives of the relevant leadership committee of the feasibility report administrative authority as communicated and once approval in principle is obtained, a though expressions of interests, request PXOWLGLVFLSOLQHGSURMHFWWHDPZLOOSURFHHGWR for proposals, pre-bid meetings and official WKHQH[WSKDVHRIWKHSURMHFWHYDOXDWLRQZKLFK approvals and correspondence. will focus on detailed operational, commercial, ﬁnancial and legal due diligence. Discussions 6XEVHTXHQW WR WKH SURMHFW VDWLVI\LQJ WKH will also commence with regulatory and above highlighted criteria, the ﬁnal approval licensing authorities, ﬁnancial institutions to proceed will be granted by the Board. and possible partners as being relevant and When appropriate, the GEC is empowered deemed necessary. to approve such proposals in terms of the delegated decision rights with the Board being kept informed. 7KHDIRUHPHQWLRQHGSURMHFWDSSUDLVDOIUDPHZRUNĲRZLVLOOXVWUDWHGEHORZ Risk management 3URMHFW Feasibility Review by the Board/GEC Due diligence origination study GEC approval Sustainability management 36 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 4.2.1 Performance Management The Performance Management System, as illustrated below, is at the heart of many supporting human resource management processes such as learning and development, career development, succession planning, talent management, rewards/recognition and compensation/beneﬁts. Whilst the employees are appraised for their performance, equal emphasis is placed on how well they embody the Group’s core values, namely; Caring, Trust, Integrity, Excellence and Innovation. Identiﬁcation of: š/RQJWHUPGHYHORSPHQWSODQV š&RPSHWHQF\EDVHGWUDLQLQJQHHGV Learning and š%XVLQHVVIRFXVVHGWUDLQLQJQHHGV Development Pay decisions based on: š3HUIRUPDQFHUDWLQJ š&RPSHWHQF\UDWLQJ Compensation Career and Beneﬁts Development Identiﬁcation of: š3URPRWLRQV š,QWHUFRPSDQ\WUDQVIHUV š,QWHUGHSDUWPHQWWUDQVIHUV Performance Management Nomination for Awards: System š&KDLUPDQŖV$ZDUG Identiﬁcation of: š(PSOR\HHRIWKH<HDU š -REVDWULVN š&KDPSLRQRIWKH<HDU Rewards and Succession š 6XLWDEOHVXFFHVVRUV Recognition Planning š 5HDGLQHVVOHYHORIVXFFHVVRUV š 'HYHORSPHQWSODQV š ([WHUQDOUHFUXLWPHQWV Talent Identiﬁcation of Management š+LJKSHUIRUPHUV š+LJKSRWHQWLDO 4.2.2 Performance Based Compensation Philosophy development, to identify, evaluate and The JKH Group Compensation Policy is as follows: manage signiﬁcant Group risks and to stressPerformance Management Satisfaction test various risk scenarios. The programme ensures that a multitude of risks, arising as “More than just a workplace” “Pay for performance” a result of the Group’s diverse operations, Continuously focuses on creating a sound work Greater prominence is given to the incentive environment covering all aspects of employee are effectively managed in creating and component of the total target compensation satisfaction and engagement preserving stakeholder wealth. Compensation Policy The steps taken towards promoting the Group’s š&RPSHQVDWLRQFRPSULVHVRIı[HG EDVH SD\PHQWVVKRUWWHUPLQFHQWLYHVDQGORQJWHUPLQFHQWLYHV integrated risk management process are: š+LJKHUWKHDXWKRULW\OHYHOVZLWKLQWKH*URXSKLJKHUWKHLQFHQWLYHFRPSRQHQWDVDSHUFHQWDJHRIWRWDO pay š ,QWHJUDWLQJ DQG DOLJQLQJ DFWLYLWLHV DQG š*UHDWHUWKHGHFLVLRQLQĲXHQFLQJFDSDELOLW\RIDUROHKLJKHUWKHZHLJKWJLYHQWRRUJDQLVDWLRQDO processes related to planning, policies/ performance as opposed to individual performance š/RQJWHUPLQFHQWLYHVDUHLQWKHIRUPRI(PSOR\HH6KDUH2SWLRQVDW-.+ procedures, culture, competency, internal audit, ﬁnancial management, monitoring Internal Equity External Equity and reporting with risk management š 6XSSRUWLQJ H[HFXWLYHVPDQDJHUV LQ š)L[HGFRPSHQVDWLRQLVVHWDWFRPSHWLWLYH moving the organisation forward in a š5HPXQHUDWLRQSROLF\LVEXLOWXSRQWKH levels using the median, 65th percentile and premise of ensuring equal pay for equal roles cohesive integrated and aligned manner 75th percentile of the best comparator set of š0DQDJHUDQGDERYHOHYHOUROHVDUHEDQGHG companies (from Sri Lanka and the region, as to improve performance, while operating XVLQJWKH0HUFHUPHWKRGRORJ\IRUMRE relevant) as a guide evaluation, on the basis of the relative worth š5HJXODUVXUYH\VDUHGRQHWRHQVXUHWKDW effectively, efficiently, ethically and legally RIMREV within the established limits for risk taking. employees are not under/over compensated The risk management programmes have allowed greater visibility and understanding of risk appetites 4.2.2.1 Equity Sharing are awarded to individuals on the basis of Employee Share Option Plans are offered at their immediate performance and potential Please refer the Risks, Opportunities and deﬁned career levels based on pre-determined importance of their contribution to the Group’s Internal Control section and Notes to the criteria which are uniformly applied across future plans. Financial Statements of the Annual Report the eligible levels and performance levels. for a detailed discussion on the Group’s These long term incentives have been very 4.3 Integrated Risk Management Integrated Risk Management process and the instrumental in inculcating a deep sense of JKH’s Group-wide risk management key risks identiﬁed in achieving the Group’s ownership in the recipients. Share options programme focuses on wider sustainability VWUDWHJLFEXVLQHVVREMHFWLYHV 37 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Commentary 4.4 Information Technology (IT) Governance “for Shareholders IT governance stewardship roles are governed through layered and nested committees, may, at any time, direct questions, request cascading from the GEC to the Group IT Management Committee to the Group IT publicly available information and provide comments and Operation Committee with well-deﬁned roles suggestions to Directors or management of the Group by ” and responsibilities at a Group, sector and business unit level. contacting the Investor Relations team. The IT governance framework used within the Group leverages best practices and industry leading models such as CoBIT (Control 4.5.1 Channels to Reach All Shareholders of Director or the Chairman. Further, individual 2EMHFWLYHV IRU ,QIRUPDWLRQ DQG 5HODWHG the Company shareholders are encouraged to carry out Technology), ISO 35800, ISO27001, ISO The primary modes of communication adequate analysis or seek independent 9000:2008, COSO (Committee of Sponsoring between the Company and the shareholders advice on their investing, holding or divesting Organisations of the Treadway Commission)/ are through the announcements made to the decisions at all times. BCP (Business Continuity Planning), ITIL CSE, Annual Reports, Quarterly Reports and (Information Technology Infrastructure the Annual General Meeting (AGM). 4.5.1.2 Release of Information to the Public Library), in providing a best of breed and CSE framework. 4.5.1.1 Investor Relations 7KH %RDUG RI 'LUHFWRUV LQ FRQMXQFWLRQ ZLWK The Investor Relations team of the Group is the Audit Committee where applicable, The Group IT function carried out a disaster responsible for maintaining an active dialogue is responsible in ensuring the accuracy recovery drill in November 2015, to ensure with shareholders, potential investors, and timeliness of published information business continuity across the Group. investment banks, stock brokers and other and in presenting an honest and balanced This initiative enabled the Group to test its interested parties in ensuring effective assessment of results in the quarterly and business resilience against the centrally investor communication. annual ﬁnancial statements. Accordingly, hosted/facilitated IT services and provided JKH has reported a true and fair view of its an opportunity to identify limitations and The Investor Relations team has regular ﬁnancial position and performance for the areas for further improvement in the IT discussions with shareholders, as and when year ended 31 March 2016 and at the end of infrastructure. applicable, to share highlights of the Group’s each quarter of the ﬁnancial year 2015/16. performance as well as to obtain constructive 4.5 Stakeholder Management and Effective feedback. Shareholders may, at any time, All other material and price sensitive Communication direct questions, request for publicly available information about the Company is promptly Following are the key stakeholder information and provide comments and communicated to the CSE and such management methodologies adopted by suggestions to Directors or management of information is also released to employees, the Group. Please refer the Materiality and the Group by contacting the Investor Relations the press and shareholders. Shareholders Stakeholder Relationship section of the team, Secretaries, the Senior Independent may, at any time, direct questions, request Annual Report for a detailed discussion. š3UHVHQFHRIDQ,QYHVWRU5HODWLRQVWHDP š6RFLDOPHGLDSUHVHQFH š3URPSWUHOHDVHRILQIRUPDWLRQWRSXEOLF&6( Shareholders/ š(ĳHFWLYHFRPPXQLFDWLRQRI$*0UHODWHGPDWWHUV š0HDVXUHVLQSODFHLQFDVHRIVHULRXVORVVRIFDSLWDO Investors š$FFHVVLELOLW\WRDOOOHYHOVRIWKH management š9DULRXVPHDQVIRUHPSOR\HH Customers/ š3URYLGLQJRITXDOLW\DQGVDIHSURGXFWV Employees involvement Suppliers š&RQVWDQWHQJDJHPHQWZLWKFXVWRPHUV o Corporate Communications š3URFHGXUHVWRHQVXUHORQJWHUP o JK Forum Stakeholder business relationships with suppliers o Young Forum management Key Stakeholders Government š 7UDQVDFWLRQVLQFRPSOLDQFHZLWKDOOUHOHYDQW š3URYLVLRQRIIRUPDODQG laws and regulations, transparently and ethically sometimes informal, access to š=HURWROHUDQFHSROLF\LQHQVXULQJWKDWDOO other key stakeholders business units meet their statutory obligations in time and in full 38 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information for publicly available information and provide “sustainable comments and suggestions to Directors or Management of JKH. Such questions, The John Keells Group places great importance on requests and comments should be addressed to the Company Secretary. development. The Group believes that its ﬁnancial performance and brand image are closely aligned with sound The Group focusses on open communication and fair disclosure, with emphasis on the corporate governance practices, product and service excellence, integrity, timeliness and relevance of the a productive workforce, environmental stewardship and social ” information provided. The Group ensures responsibility. that information is communicated accurately and in such a way as to avoid the creation or continuation of a false market. 4.6 Sustainability Governance 7KH REMHFWLYHV RI WKH &RGH RI &RQGXFW DUH 4.5.1.3 Annual General Meeting The John Keells Group places great importance strongly affirmed by a strong set of corporate Information is provided to the shareholders on sustainable development. The Group Values which are well institutionalised at all prior to the AGM to give them an opportunity believes that its ﬁnancial performance and levels within the Group through structured to exercise the prerogative to raise any issues brand image are closely aligned with sound communication. The degree of employee relating to the businesses of the Group. corporate governance practices, product and conformance with corporate Values and Shareholders are provided with the Annual service excellence, a productive workforce, their degree of adherence to the JKH Code of Report of JKH in CD form. Shareholders may environmental stewardship and social Conduct are the key elements of reward and at any time elect to receive Annual Report responsibility. During the year under review, recognition schemes. from JKH in printed form. Printed copies are the Group’s approach to sustainability was reprovided free of charge. aligned to support the Sustainable Development The Group Values are found in the About Goals adopted by the United Nations in 2015, Us section of the Annual Report and are/ The Group makes use of the AGM which expands on the Millennium Development have been consistently referred to by the constructively towards enhancing Goals. Please refer the Materiality and Chairman-CEO, Presidents, Sector and relationships with the shareholders and Stakeholder Relationships section of the Report Business Unit Heads during employee and towards this end the following procedures are for a detailed discussion of the Group’s strategy other key stakeholder engagements, in order followed: of entrenching sustainability within its business to instill these values in the hearts and DNA of operations, and the scope and boundary of its the employee. š 1RWLFHRIWKH$*0DQGUHODWHGGRFXPHQWV sustainability content. are sent to the shareholders along with 5.2 Senior Independent Director the Annual Report within the speciﬁed 5. Assurance Mechanisms Considering the combined role of the time Chairman-CEO, the presence of the Senior The Assurance Mechanisms comprise of Independent Director is important in ensuring š 6XPPDU\ RI SURFHGXUHV JRYHUQLQJ the various supervisory, monitoring and that no one person has unfettered decision voting at general meetings are clearly benchmarking elements of the Group making powers, and that matters discussed at communicated Corporate Governance System which are used the Board level are done so in an environment š $OO ([HFXWLYH DQG 1RQ([HFXWLYH WR PHDVXUH ŗDFWXDOVŘ DJDLQVW ŗSODQŘ ZLWK D which facilitates independent thought by Directors are made available to answer view to signalling the need for quick corrective individual Directors. queries action, when necessary. These mechanisms DOVRDFWDVŗVDIHW\QHWVŘDQGLQWHUQDOFKHFNVLQ The Senior Independent Director meets with š 7KH &KDLUPDQ&(2 HQVXUHV WKDW WKH the Governance system, which are discussed other Non-Executive Directors, without the relevant senior managers are also in detail in the ensuing section. presence of the Chairman-CEO, at least twice available at the AGM to answer speciﬁc every year to evaluate the effectiveness of queries 5.1 The Code of Conduct the Chairman-CEO and has regular meetings š 6HSDUDWH UHVROXWLRQV DUH SURSRVHG IRU with the other Non-Executive Directors on each item JKH Code of Conduct matters relating to the effectiveness of the š$OOHJLDQFHWRWKH&RPSDQ\DQGWKH*URXS Board or the Board as appropriate. The Senior š 3UR[\ YRWHV WKRVH IRU DJDLQVW DQG Independent Director is also kept informed by withheld are counted š&RPSOLDQFHZLWKUXOHVDQGUHJXODWLRQV applying in the territories that the the Ombudsperson of any matters in respect Group operates in of the JKH Code of Conduct which has come 4.5.1.4 Serious Loss of Capital to his attention. In the unlikely event that the net assets of š&RQGXFWDOOEXVLQHVVLQDQHWKLFDO a company fall below half of shareholder manner at all times in keeping with funds, shareholders would be notiﬁed and the acceptable businesses practices requisite resolutions would be passed on the š([HUFLVHRISURIHVVLRQDOLVPDQG proposed way forward. LQWHJULW\LQDOOEXVLQHVVHVDQGŗSXEOLFŘ personal transactions 39 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Commentary Report of the Senior Independent Director 5.3 Board Sub-Committees 5.5.2 System of Internal Control The Board Sub-Committees play an important The Board has, through the involvement of Independent Directors supervisory and monitoring role by focussing the Group Business Process Review function, F Amerasinghe N Fonseka on the designated areas of responsibility taken steps to obtain assurance that systems, A Cabraal A Omar passed to it by the Board. For more designed to safeguard the Company’s assets, I Coomaraswamy P Perera information on the Board Sub-Committees maintain proper accounting records and T Das section refer section 3.2 of this Report. provide management information, are in place and are functioning according to expectations. All the Independent Directors have served for 5.4 Employee Participation in Assurance less than nine years from their date of ﬁrst The Group is continuously working towards The risk review programme covering the appointment with the exception of Messrs introducing innovative and effective ways internal audit of the whole Group is outsourced. Amerasinghe and Das. In keeping with the of employee communication and employee Reports arising out of such audits are, in the requirements of regulators, the Board after due awareness. The importance of communication ﬁrst instance, considered and discussed at consideration recommended that the said two – top-down, bottom-up, and lateral-in gaining the business/functional unit levels and after Directors be still considered Independent and employee commitment to organisational goals review by the Sector Head and the President capable of acting independently and without has been conveyed extensively through various of the industry group are forwarded to the bias, and therefore continue as members communications issued by the Chairman-CEO relevant Audit Committee on a regular basis. of the Board. The said two Directors are also and the management. Whilst employees have Further, the Audit Committees also assess the over seventy years and the approval of the many opportunities to interact with senior effectiveness of the risk review process and shareholders was obtained, at the AGM, for the management, the Group has created formal systems of internal control on a regular basis. said two Directors to continue on the Board. channels for such communication through feedback as listed below. 5.5.3 Review of Segregation of Duties (SoD) The Independent Directors, apart from the under Sarbanes-Oxley (SOX) Guidelines other unstructured/informal contacts, meet š 6NLSOHYHOPHHWLQJV During the year, the Group reviewed the SoDs every six months to discuss matters relevant š ([LWLQWHUYLHZV of every role and individual using the SOX to their responsibilities, and participation, as š <RXQJ)RUXPPHHWLQJV guidelines. The Group is very aware of the Non-Executive Board members. Accordingly š GHJUHHHYDOXDWLRQ need to ensure that no individual has excessive two meetings were held. The Independent š (PSOR\HHVXUYH\V system access to execute transactions across Directors concluded each meeting with a š 0RQWKO\VWDĳPHHWLQJV an entire business process or business wrap up meeting with the Chairman-CEO and š 2PEXGVSHUVRQ processes which have critical approval discussed with him matters which they felt š $FFHVVWR6HQLRU,QGHSHQGHQW'LUHFWRU linkages. The increasing use of information needed looking into and/or sought information š &RQWLQXRXVO\UHLWHUDWLQJWKHŗ2SHQ'RRUŘ technology and integrated ﬁnancial controls on other matters which they wished to raise. policy creates unintended exposures within the Group. The Independent Directors actively follow SoD dictates that problems such as fraud, the work of the Group Executive Committee Additionally, the Group continued with its material misstatements and manipulation (GEC) through the GEC meetings minutes whistle-blower policy and securities trading of ﬁnancial statements have the potential to which are regularly forwarded to the entire policy. The Group has witnessed an increased arise when the same individual is allowed Board. The system ensures that there is great level of communication ﬂow from employees. to execute two or more conﬂicting sensitive transparency and interaction between the Such communication and feedback received WUDQVDFWLRQV6HSDUDWLQJGLVFUHWHMREVLQWRWDVN Executives and the Non-Executive members from the employees by the management oriented roles can often result in inefficiencies of the Board. are recorded, irrespective of the level of and costs which do not meet the cost versus anonymity, and subsequently discussed and beneﬁt criteria. Whilst the attainment of a zero The Ombudsperson has reported to me that followed up. The respective outcomes are SoD conﬂict state is utopian, during the year, there have been no issues which showed any duly recorded. the Group took steps, to identify and evaluate PLVPDQDJHPHQWXQIDLUWUHDWPHQWRUMXVWLıHG existing conﬂicts and reduce residual risks to discontent on the part of any employee or ex5.5 Internal Controls an acceptable level under a cost versus beneﬁt employee during 2015/2016. The Board has taken necessary steps to rationale. A revised SoD matrix is one of the ensure the integrity of the Group’s accounting outcomes of the exercise. The Independent Directors would like to thank and ﬁnancial reporting systems and that members of the management team for their internal control systems remain robust and 5.5.4 Data Analytics ready co-operation in all matters where their effective via the review and monitoring of Traditionally, internal auditing followed an attention, and participation, were sought. such systems on a periodic basis. approach which was based on a cyclical Particular mention is made of the members of process that involves manually identifying the GEC, Sector Heads and Executive Directors 5.5.1 Internal Compliance FRQWURO REMHFWLYHV DVVHVVLQJ DQG WHVWLQJ for their openness and co-operation. A quarterly self-certiﬁcation programme controls, performing tests, and sampling requires the Presidents, Sector Heads and only a relatively small population of the Chief Financial Officers of industry groups dataset to measure control effectiveness and F Amerasinghe to conﬁrm compliance with statutory and operational performance. Today, the Group Senior Independent Director other regulatory procedures, and also identify operates in a complex and dynamic business any signiﬁcant deviations from the expected environment where the transaction numbers 25 May 2016 norms. have increased exponentially over the years 40 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information “andThelateral and the traditional cyclical/sample based internal auditing techniques are becoming importance of communication – top-down, bottom-up, less effective. Therefore, during the year in gaining employee commitment to organisational XQGHU UHYLHZ WKH *URXS FRPPHQFHG ŗELJ GDWD DQDO\VLVŘ WHFKQLTXHV RQ WKH WRWDO GDWD goals has been conveyed extensively through various using Standard Deviations and Z-Scores in communications issued by the Chairman-CEO and the ” HVWDEOLVKLQJ UHDO WLPH XVHUIULHQGO\ ŗRXWOLHU LGHQWLıFDWLRQŘDQGŗHDUO\ZDUQLQJWULJJHUVŘ management. 5.5.5 Internal Audit The Group internal audit process is conducted by outsourced parties at regular intervals, Report of the Ombudsperson 5.7 External Audit coordinated by the Group Business Process Ernst & Young are the external auditors of Review function (GBPR) of the Group. Mandate and Role the Company as well as many of the Group GBPR ensures that the internal audit plan companies. The individual Group companies For purpose of easy reference, I set out the adequately covers the signiﬁcant risks of the also employed KPMG Ford, Rhodes, Thornton below, the Ombudsperson’s mandate and role: Group, reviews the important internal audit & Co, Price Waterhouse Coopers, Deloitte ﬁndings and follow-up procedures. and Touche, India and Luthra and Luthra, a) Legal and ethical violations of the Code India as external auditors. The appointment/ Whilst there are merits and demerits associated of Conduct for employees, but in an re-appointment of these auditors was with outsourcing an internal audit, the Group appellate capacity when a satisfactory recommended by the individual Audit is of the view that having an external based outcome using existing procedures and Committees to their respective Boards of auditor is more advantageous. However, there processes has not resulted or when the Directors. The audit fees paid by the Company are certain industries where the domain is very matter has been inadequately dealt with; and Group to its auditors are separately operationally speciﬁc and requires an internal b) Violations referred to above by individuals classiﬁed in the Notes to the Financial auditor in addition to the external auditor. at the Executive Vice President, President Statements of the Annual Report. and Executive Director levels, including 5.6 Ombudsperson that of the Chairman-CEO, in which case 6. Regulatory and Accounting Benchmarks An Ombudsperson is available to report the complainant has the option of either any complaints from employees of alleged complaining to the Ombudsperson in The Board, through the Group Legal division, violations of the published Code of Conduct if the ﬁrst instance, or ﬁrst exhausting the the Group Finance division and its other the complainant feels that the alleged violation internal remedies. operating structures, strived to ensure that has not been addressed satisfactorily by the the Company and all of its subsidiaries internally available mechanisms. c) Sexual harassment, in which event the and associates complied with the laws and complainant has the option of either The ﬁndings and the recommendations of the regulations of the countries they operated in. complaining to the Ombudsperson in Ombudsperson, subsequent to an independent the ﬁrst instance or ﬁrst exhausting the inquiry, is conﬁdentially communicated to the The Board of Directors also took all internal remedies. Chairman-CEO or to the Senior Independent reasonable steps in ensuring that all ﬁnancial Director upon which the involvement duty of statements were prepared in accordance The mandate excluded disciplinary issues the Ombudsperson ceases. with the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards from the Ombudsperson’s responsibilities. (SLFRS/LKAS) issued by the Institute of The right to take disciplinary action is vested On matters referred to him by the Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri exclusively in the Chairman-CEO and those to Ombudsperson, the Chairman-CEO or the Lanka) and the requirements of the CSE and whom this authority has been delegated. Senior Independent Director, as the case may other applicable authorities. Information be, will place before the Board: contained in the ﬁnancial statements of the Complaints Received and Responses by the Annual Report is supplemented by a detailed i. the decision and the recommendations; Ombudsperson Management Discussion and Analysis which ii. action taken based on the No issues were raised by any member of the explains to shareholders, the strategic, recommendations; companies covered during the year under operational, investment, sustainability and review. risk related aspects of the Company, and the iii. where the Chairman-CEO or the Senior Independent Director disagrees with means by which value is created and how any or all of the ﬁndings and or the it is translated into the reported ﬁnancial Ombudsperson performance and is likely to inﬂuence future recommendations thereon, the areas of 25 May 2016 results. disagreement and the reasons therefore. In situation (iii) the Board is required to consider the areas of disagreement and decide on the way forward. The Chairman-CEO or the Senior Independent Director is expected to take such steps as are necessary to ensure that the complainant is not victimised, in any manner, for having invoked this process. 41 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Commentary JKH and its subsidiaries are fully compliant “governance, with all the mandatory rules and regulations stipulated by the: In an ever changing and dynamic world of corporate š &RUSRUDWH *RYHUQDQFH /LVWLQJ 5XOHV JKH is acutely aware of the need to remain published by the CSE; and vigilant and geared through its level of preparedness and its š &RPSDQLHV$FW1RRI capability in meeting the emerging governance needs of the Group, its stakeholders and the environment in which the ” Please refer section 8 of this Commentary for the compliance summary. The Group Group operates. has also given due consideration to the Best Practice on Corporate Governance Reporting JXLGHOLQHVMRLQWO\VHWRXWE\WKH&$6UL/DQND and the SEC and have in all instances, barring employee populations, the Group will make business and industry since they have been a few, embraced such practices, voluntarily, greater effort to attract appropriately qualiﬁed engaged in it for some time. The Group is in particularly if such practices have been women to its various Boards. IDYRXURIDŗPLGGOHRIWKHURDGŘDSSURDFKLQ identiﬁed as relevant and value adding. In the this respect. very few instances where the Group has not 7.2 Activist Investors adopted such best practice, the rationale for The past few years have seen a signiﬁcant 7.5 Board Independence such non adoption is articulated. increase in shareholder activism. This In corporate governance, independence is would invariably mean that Directors will important in a number of contexts. It is vital 7. Outlook and Emerging Challenges be held increasingly accountable for the that external auditors are independent of their company’s performance. The Group will clients; the internal auditors are independent In an ever changing and dynamic world of meet this challenge through more frequent of the colleagues they are auditing and that corporate governance, JKH is acutely aware communication with its shareholders Non-Executive Directors have a degree of of the need to remain vigilant and geared and through enhanced levels of public independence from their Executive colleagues through its level of preparedness and its disclosure. The Group will continue to on the Board. JKH will, as stated before, strike capability in meeting the emerging governance focus on maintaining suitable channels of a right balance between continuous Board needs of the Group, its stakeholders and the communication with investors, and analysts, refreshment, which, in general, is thought environment in which the Group operates. As as required, on a timely basis. to facilitate independence, and tenured is evident from the aforesaid Commentary, the and experienced Board members, who are Group has continued to endeavour, in the year 7.3 Cyber Security perceived as having lesser independence under review, to stay abreast of governance JKH and its subsidiaries, are increasingly because of their extended tenure on the best practices. reliant on technology in ways that were, Board. perhaps, inconceivable several years ago. In Corporate implosions in the recent past, fact, there is really no end to the possibilities 7.6 Greater Employee Involvement in the pursuit of continuous improvement of how technology will continue to impact Governance in governance and a call for increased businesses. The Board is well aware of the JKH acknowledges, and recognises the role transparency are exerting change pressure need to protect companies from threats played by all its employees in reinforcing an on selected governance aspects. Summarised which are novel and illusive. There is a need effective governance system. Going forward, below are the more signiﬁcant challenges, to be proactive in avoiding, planning and being JKH will encourage employee participation amongst many others, being addressed by prepared for an inevitable breach. Therefore, through; JKH. cyber security will be a regular item on the agenda of Risk Management and Audit š $ IXUWKHU VWUHQJWKHQHG SHUIRUPDQFH 7.1 Gender Diversity on the Board Committees. Needless to say, it will also be management process. There will undoubtedly be a renewed push periodically discussed at the Board level. š (QJDJHPHQW DQG HPSRZHUPHQW YLD to increase the number of women Board greater authority. Directors. The question of whether more 7.4 Board Refreshment women in the boardroom leads to improved There is increasing pressure for Boards to š (QKDQFHGWUDLQLQJDQGGHYHORSPHQW results have already been answered update themselves more frequently than š ,QFUHDVHG FRPPXQLFDWLRQ DQG empirically, in many fora. they have done in the past. Whilst there is one collaboration. school of thought that routine turnover on JKH believes that a Board which is composed Boards is necessary to introduce new ideas, š $GRSWLRQ RI GLĳHUHQWLDWHG PHDQV RI of Directors who represent, and therefore experiences and to keep up with the dynamic communication based on the age reﬂect the needs and desires of its customers, needs of the business, there is another dynamics of employee segments. employees and other stakeholders will be school which is of the view that Boards more effective. Given that women comprise and companies beneﬁt from tenured and a signiﬁcant proportion of the customer and experienced Board members who know the 42 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 8. Compliance Summary 8.1 Statement of Compliance under Section 7.10 of the Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) on Corporate Governance Mandatory provisions fully complied CSE Rule Compliance JKH action status 7.10 Compliance a./b./c. Compliance with Corporate Governance Yes The Group is in compliance with the Corporate Governance Rules Rules and any deviations are explained where applicable 7.10.1 Non-Executive Directors (NED) a./b./c. At least 2 members or 1/3 of the Board, whichever is Yes 7 out of 10 Board members are NEDs. The JKH Group is higher should be NEDs conscious of the need to maintain an appropriate mix of skills and experience in the Board and to refresh progressively its composition over time, in line with needs 7.10.2 Independent Directors a. RURI1('VZKLFKHYHULVKLJKHUVKDOOEHŗLQGHSHQGHQWŘ Yes All NEDs are Independent b. Each NED to submit a signed and dated declaration of his/ Yes Independence of the Directors has been determined in her independence or non-independence accordance with CSE Listing Rules and the 7 Independent NEDs have submitted signed conﬁrmation of their independence 7.10.3 Disclosures Relating to Directors a./b. Board shall annually determine the independence or Yes All Independent NEDs have submitted declarations as to otherwise of NEDs their independence c. A brief resume of each Director should be included in the Yes Refer Board of Directors section of the Annual Report annual report including the directors’ experience d. Provide a resume of new Directors appointed to the Board Yes Detailed resumes of the new Independent NEDs appointed along with details during the ﬁnancial year were submitted to the CSE 7.10.4 Criteria for Deﬁning Independence a. to h. Requirements for meeting the criteria to be an Independent Yes Refer Summary of NEDs interests section of the Annual Director Report 7.10.5 Remuneration Committee a.1 Remuneration Committee shall comprise of NEDs, a Yes The Human Resources and Compensation Committee PDMRULW\RIZKRPZLOOEHLQGHSHQGHQW (equivalent of the Remuneration Committee with a wider scope) only comprises of Independent NEDs a.2 One NED shall be appointed as Chairman of the Committee Yes The Senior Independent NED is the Chairman of the by the Board of Directors Committee b. Remuneration Committee shall recommend the Yes The remuneration of the Chairman-CEO and the Executive remuneration of the CEO and the Executive Directors Directors is determined as per the remuneration principles of the Group and recommended by the Human Resources and Compensation Committee c.1 Names of Remuneration Committee members Yes Refer Board Committees section of the Annual Report c.2 Statement of Remuneration policy Yes Refer Director Remuneration section of the Annual Report c.3 Aggregate remuneration paid to EDs and NEDs Yes Refer Director Remuneration section of the Annual Report 7.10.6 Audit Committee a.1 $XGLW&RPPLWWHH $& VKDOOFRPSULVHRI1('VDPDMRULW\RI Yes The AC comprises only of Independent NEDs whom should be independent a.2 A NED shall be the Chairman of the committee Yes Chairman of the AC is an Independent NED a.3 CEO and CFO should attend AC meetings Yes The Chairman-CEO, Group Finance Director, Group Financial Controller and the External Auditors attended most parts of the AC meetings by invitation 43 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Commentary CSE Rule Compliance JKH action status a.4 The Chairman of the AC or one member should be a Yes The Chairman of the AC is a member of a professional member of a professional accounting body accounting body b. Functions of the AC Yes The AC carries out all the functions prescribed in this section b.1 Overseeing of the preparation, presentation and adequacy Yes The AC assists the Board in fulﬁlling its oversight of disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements in accordance responsibilities for the integrity of the ﬁnancial statements with SLFRS/LKAS of the Company and the Group b.2 Overseeing the compliance with ﬁnancial reporting Yes The AC has the overall responsibility for overseeing the requirements, information requirements as per laws and preparation of ﬁnancial statements in accordance with the regulations laws and regulations of the country and also recommending to the Board, on the adoption of best accounting policies b.3 Ensuring the internal and risk management controls, are Yes The AC assesses the role and the effectiveness of the adequate, to meet the requirements of the SLFRS/LKAS Group Business Process Review division which is largely responsible for internal control and risk management b.4 Assessment of the independence and performance of the Yes The AC assesses the external auditor’s performance, Entity’s External Auditors qualiﬁcations and independence b.5 Make recommendations to the Board pertaining to External Yes The Committee is responsible for appointment, reAuditors appointment, removal of External Auditors and also the approval of the remuneration and terms of Engagement c.1 Names of the AC members shall be disclosed Yes Refer Board Committees section of the Annual Report c.2 AC shall make a determination of the independence of the Yes Refer Report of the AC in the Annual Report external auditors c.3 Report on the manner in which AC carried out its functions. Yes Refer Report of the AC in the Annual Report 8.2 Companies Act No. 7 of 2007 Mandatory provisions fully complied Rule Compliance Reference status 168 (1) (a) The nature of the business of the Group and the Company Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Group Directory 2015/16 together with any change thereof during the accounting period 168 (1) (b) Signed ﬁnancial statements of the Group and the Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Financial Statements Company for the accounting period completed 168 (1) Auditors’ Report on ﬁnancial statements of the Group and Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Independent Auditors’ Report ( c) the Company 2015/16 168 (1) (d) Accounting policies and any changes therein Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 168 (1) (e) Particulars of the entries made in the Interests Register Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Annual Report of the Board of during the accounting period Directors 2015/16 168 (1) (f) Remuneration and other beneﬁts paid to Directors of the Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Company during the accounting period Statements 168 (1) (g) Corporate donations made by the Company during the Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial accounting period Statements 168 (1) (h) Information on the Directorate of the Company and its Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Group Directory 2015/16 subsidiaries during and at the end of the accounting period 168 (1) (i) Amounts paid/payable to the External Auditor as audit Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial fees and fees for other services rendered during the Statements accounting period    M Auditors’ relationship or any interest with the Company Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Financial Statements and its Subsidiaries 168 (1) (k) Acknowledgement of the contents of this Report and Yes The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 2015/16 signatures on behalf of the Board 44 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 8.3 Code of Best practice of Corporate Governance Issued Jointly by the Securities and Exchange Commission of Sri Lanka (SEC) and the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) Voluntary provisions fully complied A. Directors Rule Compliance Reference status A.1 Effective Board to Direct and Control the Company A.1.1 Regular Board meetings and supply of information Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.8 A.1.2 Board should be responsible for matters including Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1 implementation of business strategy, skills and succession of the management team, integrity of information, internal controls and risk management, compliance with laws and ethical standards, stakeholder interests, adopting appropriate accounting policies and fostering compliance with ﬁnancial regulations and fulﬁlling other Board functions A.1.3 Act in accordance with the laws of the country and obtain Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.4 professional advice as and when required A.1.4 Access to advice and services of the Company Secretary Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.8.4 A.1.5 %ULQJ ,QGHSHQGHQW MXGJPHQW RQ YDULRXV EXVLQHVV LVVXHV Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.3 and standards of business conduct A.1.6 Dedication of adequate time and effort Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.9 A.1.7 Board induction and training Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.6 A.2 Chairman and Chief Executive Officer A.2.1 Justiﬁcation for combining the roles of the Chairman and Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.3.1 the CEO A.3 Chairman’s Role A.3.1 The Chairman should ensure Board proceedings are Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.8.3 conducted in a proper manner A.4 Financial Acumen A.4 The Board should ensure the availability within it of those Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.3 with sufficient ﬁnancial acumen and knowledge to offer guidance on matters of ﬁnance A.5 Board Balance A.5.1 In the event the Chairman and CEO is the same person, Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.2 1('VVKRXOGFRPSULVHDPDMRULW\RIWKH%RDUG A.5.2 Where the constitution of the Board of Directors includes N/A N/A RQO\WZR1('VERWKVXFK1('VVKRXOGEHŗLQGHSHQGHQWŘ A.5.3 Deﬁnition of Independent Directors Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.11 A.5.4 Declaration of Independent Directors Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.11 A.5.5 Board determinations on independence or nonYes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.11 independence of NEDs A.5.6 If an Alternate Director is appointed by a NED such Alternate N/A N/A Director should not be an Executive of the company A.5.7 In the event the Chairman and CEO is the same person, the Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.4 Board should appoint one of the Independent NEDs to be WKHŗ6HQLRU,QGHSHQGHQW'LUHFWRUŘ 6,' A.5.8 The SID should make himself available for conﬁdential Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.4 discussions with other Directors who may have concerns A.5.9 The Chairman should hold meetings with the NEDs only, Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.3.3 without the presence of EDs 45 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Commentary Rule Compliance Reference status A.5.10 Where Directors have concerns about the matters of the Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.8.4 Company which cannot be unanimously resolved, they should ensure their concerns are recorded in the Board minutes A.6 Supply of Information A.6.1 Board should be provided with timely information to enable Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.8.2 it to discharge its duties A.6.2 Timely submission of the minutes, agenda and papers Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.8.2 required for the Board Meeting A.7 Formal and Transparent Procedure for Board Appointments A.7.1 Nomination Committee to make recommendations on new Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.5 and 3.2.3 Board appointments A.7.2 Assessment of the capability of Board to meet strategic Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.2.3 demands of the company A.7.3 Disclosure of New Board member proﬁle and Interests Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Board Proﬁles A.8 Re-Election A.8.1/ 5HHOHFWLRQDWUHJXODULQWHUYDOVDQGVKRXOGEHVXEMHFWWR Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.7 A.8.2 election and re-election by shareholders A.9 Appraisal of Board Performance A.9.1 The Board should annually appraise itself on its Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.10 performance in the discharge of its key responsibilities A.9.2 The Board should also undertake an annual self-evaluation Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.10 of its own performance and that of its Committees A.9.3 The Board should state how such performance evaluations Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.10 have been conducted A.10 Disclosure of Information in Respect of Directors A.10.1 Proﬁles of the Board of Directors and Board meeting Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Board Proﬁles attendance Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.8 A.11 Appraisal of the Chief Executive Officer A.11.1/ Appraisal of the CEO against the set strategic targets Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.3.2 A.11.2 B. Directors Remuneration B.1 Remuneration Procedure B.1.1 The Board of Directors should set up a Remuneration Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.2.2 Committee B.1.2 Remuneration Committees should consist exclusively of Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.2.2 NEDs B.1.3 The Chairman and members of the Remuneration Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.2 Committee should be listed in the Annual Report each year B.1.4 Determination of the remuneration of NEDs Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.12.2 B.1.5 The Remuneration Committee should consult the Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.12.1 Chairman and/or CEO about its proposals relating to the remuneration of other EDs B.2 The Level and Makeup of Remuneration B.2.1 Performance related elements in pay structure and Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.12 B.2.4 alignment to industry practices B.2.5 Executive share options should not be offered at a discount Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.12 B.2.6 Designing schemes of performance-related remuneration Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.12 46 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Rule Compliance Reference status B.2.7/ Compensation commitments in the event of early Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.12.3 B.2.8 termination of the Directors B.2.9 Level of remuneration of NEDs Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.12.2 B.3 Disclosure of Remuneration B.3.1 Disclosure of remuneration policy and aggregate Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.1.12 remuneration C. Relations with Shareholders C.1 Constructive Use of the Annual General Meeting (AGM) and Conduct of General Meetings C.1.1 Counting of proxy votes Yes Complied at AGM/EGM C.1.2 Separate resolution to be proposed for each item Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 4.5.1.3 C.1.3 Heads of Board Sub-Committees to be available to answer Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 4.5.1.3 queries C.1.4 Notice of Annual General Meeting to be sent to shareholders Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 4.5.1.3 with other papers as per statute C.1.5 Summary of procedures governing voting at General Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 4.5.1.3 meetings to be informed C.2 Communication with Shareholders C.2.1 Channel to reach all shareholders to disseminate timely Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 4.5.1.2 information C.2.2 Policy and methodology of communication with Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 4.5.1 C.2.7 shareholders and implementation C.3 Major and Material Transactions Including Major Related Party Transactions C.3.1 Disclosure of all material facts involving all material Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to Financial Statements transactions including related party transactions D. Accountability and Audit D.1 Financial Reporting D.1.1 Disclosure of interim and other price-sensitive and Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 4.5.1.2 statutorily mandated reports to Regulators D.1.2 Declaration by the Directors that the company has not Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Annual Report of the Board engaged in any activities, which contravene laws and of Directors regulations, declaration of all material interests in contracts, equitable treatment of shareholders and going concern with supporting assumptions or qualiﬁcations as necessary D.1.3 Statement of Directors’ responsibility Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Statement on Directors’ Responsibility D.1.4 Management Discussion and Analysis Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Management Discussion and Analysis D.1.5 The Directors should report that the business is a going Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Annual Report of the Board concern, with supporting assumptions or qualiﬁcations as of Directors necessary D.1.6 Remedial action at EGM if net assets fall below 50% of Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 4.5.1.4 value of shareholders’ funds D.1.7 Disclosure of Related Party Transactions Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements D.2 Internal Control D.2.1 Annual review of effectiveness of system of Internal Control Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 5.5 and report to shareholders as required 47 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Governance Commentary Rule Compliance Reference status D.2.2 Internal Audit function Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 5.5.5 D.2.3 / Maintaining a sound system of internal control Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 5.5 D.2.4 D.3 Audit Committee D.3.1 The Audit Committee should be comprised of a minimum Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.2.1 RIWZRLQGHSHQGHQW1('VRUH[FOXVLYHO\E\1('VDPDMRULW\ of whom should be independent, whichever is higher. The Chairman of the Committee should be a NED, appointed by the Board D.3.2 Terms of reference, duties and responsibilities Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.2.1 D.3.3 The Audit Committee to have written Terms of Reference Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.2.1 coving the salient aspects as stipulated in the section D.3.4 Disclosure of Audit Committee membership Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 3.2 D.4 Code of Business Conduct and Ethics D.4.1 Availability of a Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 5.1 an affirmative declaration that the Board of Directors abide by such Code D.4.2 The Chairman must certify that he/she is not aware of any Yes JKH Annual Report 2015/16 Chairman’s Message violation of any of the provisions of this Code D.5 Corporate Governance Disclosures D.5.1 The Directors should include in the Company’s Annual Yes Corporate Governance Commentary Report a Corporate Governance Report E. Institutional Investors E.1 Shareholder Voting E.1.1 Conducting regular and structured dialogue with Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 4.5.1 shareholders based on a mutual understanding of REMHFWLYHV E.2 Evaluation of Governance Disclosures E.2 When evaluating Companies’ governance arrangements, Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 4.5.1 particularly those relating to Board structure and composition, institutional investors should be encouraged to give due weight to all relevant factors drawn to their attention F. Other Investors F.1 Investing Divesting Decision F.1 Individual shareholders, investing directly in shares of Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 4.5.1.1 companies should be encouraged to carry out adequate analysis or seek independent advice in investing or divesting decisions F.2 Shareholder Voting F.2 Individual shareholders should be encouraged to Yes Complied at AGM/EGM participate in General Meetings of companies and exercise their voting rights G. Sustainability Reporting G Sustainability Reporting G.1.1 – Disclosure on adherence to sustainability principles Yes Corporate Governance Commentary – Section 4.6 and G.1.7 GRI Index 48 COMBINED This section of the Report is subdivided into the Group Consolidated Review and the Industry Group Review. The Group Consolidated Review analyses Group performance whilst the Industry Group Review details the performance of each industry group in the year under review. MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS 51 Group Consolidated Review 105 Industry Group Review INTERCONNECTED Group Consolidated Review 51 The Economy 54 Capital Management Review 73 Outlook 75 Strategy, Resource Allocation and Portfolio Management 81 Materiality and Stakeholder Relationships 90 Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls 95 Share and Warrant Information 50 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Group Consolidated Review EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT This is the ﬁrst Integrated Report of John Keells Holdings PLC in accordance with the Integrated Reporting Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council. The Report is centred on the theme “Connected”, which reﬂects the diverse relationships, partnerships, networks and synergies, amongst others, which come together to build the John Keells Group’s value creation process. In order to provide our stakeholders with A notable development in April 2016 was an insightful view of the Group’s operations, the preliminary agreement between the the Management Discussion and Analysis Government of Sri Lanka and the International (MD&A) section of this Report consists of the Monetary Fund (IMF) to enter into a USD following sections: 1.50 billion Extended Fund Facility (EFF) for a period of three years. The facility, which is š *URXS&RQVROLGDWHG5HYLHZ expected to be approved by the IMF Board in š ,QGXVWU\*URXS5HYLHZ June 2016, focusses on four primary aspects, these being; tax reforms to narrow the Whilst the Group Consolidated Review is a ﬁscal deﬁcit to 3.5 per cent of GDP by 2020, helicopter view of the Group’s performance, exchange rate ﬂexibility, reforming of statethe Industry Group Review section provides owned enterprises and better targeting of a detailed discussion on each of the industry subsidies. The ﬁnalisation of the IMF facility is group’s performance during the year under expected to support conﬁdence and stability review. as discussed in the ensuing Outlook section of the Group Consolidated Review. The Group Consolidated Review consists of the following sections: The following is a discussion on the movement of the primary macroeconomic š 7KH(FRQRP\ variables during the year under review and the resultant impacts on the performance of š &DSLWDO0DQDJHPHQW5HYLHZ the Group’s businesses. A detailed discussion š 2XWORRN on the performance of the Sri Lankan š 6WUDWHJ\5HVRXUFH$OORFDWLRQDQG economy is found under the Supplementary Portfolio Management Information section of this Report. A more š 0DWHULDOLW\DQG6WDNHKROGHU comprehensive discussion of the strategies Relationships and risks pertaining to the industry groups are covered in the Industry Group Review and š 5LVNV2SSRUWXQLWLHVDQG,QWHUQDO Risks, Opportunities and Internal Controls Controls sections of this Report. š 6KDUHDQG:DUUDQW,QIRUPDWLRQ The Economy Under the rebasing of the Gross Domestic “discussion Product (GDP) calculation which was introduced during the year under review, the A more comprehensive Sri Lankan economy grew by 4.8 per cent for of the strategies the calendar year 2015, marginally below the 4.9 per cent GDP growth recorded in 2014. and risks pertaining to the Whilst the ﬁrst half of the calendar year 2015 industry groups are covered indicated a gradual increase in growth driven in the Industry Group Review mainly by growth in services and recovery in agricultural output, the latter part of the year and Risks, Opportunities and See page 268 for a discussion was marked by rising volatility in external Internal Controls sections of on the Sri Lankan Economy ” ﬁnancing conditions and monetary policy This is complemented with a 7 year tightening. this Report. summary of key economic indicators. 51 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review EXTERNAL ENVIRONMENT Movement Cause Impact to JKH GDP Growth Sri Lanka’s GDP grew The economic growth in 2015 The growth in GDP enhanced the Rs. bn % by 4.8 per cent in 2015 was mainly supported by the sentiment of both consumers and 8,000 5.0 compared to 4.9 per cent services sector, which grew by 5.3 businesses alike, which positively in 2014. per cent. Agriculture and industry impacted the performance of the 6,000 4.5 related activities also contributed business units of the Group as a positively to the growth during the result of higher disposable incomes year, expanding by 5.5 per cent and the increase in tourist arrivals. 4,000 4.0 and 3.0 per cent, respectively. Sri Lanka sustained its economic 2,000 3.5 growth momentum despite a challenging global environment which resulted in reduced exports, 0 3.0 2013 2014 2015 remittances and signiﬁcant capital outﬂows. The growth in 2015 was Agriculture Industries Services GDP growth largely driven by an increase in consumption, whilst investment activities witnessed a deceleration. Inﬂation Year-on-year headline The rising trend in core inﬂation, The low inﬂation environment inﬂation, based on the above headline inﬂation, indicates during the ﬁrst nine months of 108 CCPI, increased to 2.0 per that inﬂationary pressures have the calendar year encouraged cent in March 2016 from gradually built up due to demand consumer sentiment and 106 CCPI movement indexed 0.1 per cent in March 2015. driven factors within the control discretionary spending, which Year-on-year core inﬂation of monetary policy as opposed to beneﬁtted Group businesses. The 104 rose to 4.5 per cent in price increases in food or energy. rising inﬂationary trend during March 2016 from 1.4 per Accordingly, the higher core the latter part of the ﬁnancial year 102 cent in March 2015. inﬂation is mainly attributable did not impact the margins of to the low market interest rate the businesses, as there was no 100 environment which resulted in a material translation to the price rapid monetary expansion and the levels of raw materials. 98 March April May June Jul steep deprecation of the Rupee. Aug Inﬂationary pressures were further Sept Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb March FY 2016 FY 2015 compounded by the increasing budget deﬁcit and low tax revenue due to delays in tax reforms. Domestic Interest Rates AWPLR increased to 8.9 The rise in market interest rates, For most part of the ﬁnancial year, % per cent in March 2016 reﬂects the tightening monetary the Group beneﬁtted from the low 10 compared to 6.9 per cent conditions and the transmission rates on its short and long term in the previous year. The of policy actions of the CBSL. At borrowings portfolio, particularly 9 three month Government the January 2016 Monetary Board on term loans priced using AWPLR T-bill rate was 9.9 per cent meeting, it was decided that the as a benchmark. However, the in March 2016 compared SDFR and the SLFR will remain low interest rates had a negative 8 to 6.6 per cent in March unchanged at 6.0 per cent and 7.5 impact on the Group’s ﬁnance 2015. per cent respectively. However, income. This was mitigated by the 7 In order to arrest the possible Group strategy to invest in more build-up of demand pressures on medium term investments based inﬂation through excessive credit on the Group’s rate outlook for the 6 Mar 15 Apr 15 May 15 Jun 15 creation, CBSL increased the SRR year. Jul 15 applicable on all Rupee deposit Aug 15 Sep 15 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 Jan 16 Feb 16 Mar 16 liabilities of commercial banks by Average Weighted 1.5 per cent to 7.5 per cent with Prime Lending Rate (weekly) effect from January 2016. 52 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Movement Cause Impact to JKH Global Interest Rates 3 month USD LIBOR The 3 month USD LIBOR was The steady LIBOR rates during % increased to 0.63 per cent generally stable for the ﬁrst nine most part of the calendar year 0.7 were as expected with the Group’s in March 2016 from 0.27 months of 2015 due to the US Fed per cent in March 2015. delaying policy rate hikes due to low rate forecast. Given the likelihood of 0.6 single digit inﬂation, on the back further rate increases in 2016 and of declining oil prices, and global beyond by the Federal Reserve and 0.5 economic uncertainty, particularly the pricing based on the interest in China. Subsequently, and as rate swap curve, the Group entered 0.4 anticipated, in December 2015, into a partial hedge on the USD the Federal Reserve approved 395 million syndicated facility as 0.3 a quarter-point increase in its a prudent measure to mitigate target funds rate, due to a steady the Group’s exposure to any rate 0.2 Mar 15 Apr 15 May 15 Jun 15 Jul 15 economic recovery and relative ﬂuctuations. Aug 15 Sep 15 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 Jan 16 Feb 16 stabilisation of the global economic Mar 16 outlook. 3 month US Dollar LIBOR Exchange Rate The Rupee depreciated to In September 2015, the CBSL The depreciation of the Rupee Rs. Rs.144.69 as at 31 March allowed a free ﬂoat of the Sri had a positive ﬁnancial impact 148 2016 against the US Dollar Lankan Rupee, moving away from on businesses having Dollar compared to Rs.133.32 in quoting a reference rate for the denominated income streams, 145 the previous year. currency. The Rupee depreciated particularly in the Leisure industry signiﬁcantly during the latter group. However, due to differences 142 half of the ﬁnancial year on the of timing, there were short term back of higher imports, growing impacts on the translation on 139 private sector credit and falling foreign currency debt in Leisure. export earnings. The slide of the Given the higher reliance on 136 Rupee however is in line with the imported inputs, Consumer Foods pressures witnessed by many and Office Automation businesses 133 Mar 15 Apr 15 May 15 Jun 15 emerging market currencies, took proactive steps to mitigate Jul 15 reﬂecting global views on the exchange rate risks, although the Aug 15 Sep 15 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 Jan 16 Feb 16 Mar 16 fundamentals of such economies. impacts were not material in the LKR/USD exchange rate context of the Group, particularly since Consumer Foods had offsetting impacts due to lower commodity prices. In addition to implementing foreign exchange exposure management strategies, the Group continued to maintain, RUZKHUHUHOHYDQWFUHDWHDŗQDWXUDO KHGJHŘ WR PDQDJH WKH YRODWLOLW\ RI foreign exchange markets. Note: AWPLR – Average Weighted Prime Lending Rate; CBSL – Central Bank of Sri Lanka; CCPI – Colombo Consumer Price Index; GDP – Gross Domestic Product; LIBOR – London Inter-Bank Offer Rate; SDFR rate – Standing Deposit Facility rate; SLFR rate – Standing Lending Facility rate; SRR Statutory Reserve Ratio. 53 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW Financial and Manufactured Capital Review Revenue In the year under review, Group revenue increased by 2 per cent to Rs.93.28 billion [2014/15: Rs.91.85 billion] with primary contributions from the Consumer Foods and Retail (CF&R), Leisure and Transportation industry groups. Revenue growth was muted due to the decline in revenue in the Bunkering business of the Transportation industry group solely due to the decline in oil prices Rs. 20.19 Bn despite maintaining its market share. Revenue emanating from domestic sources was Rs.79.20 billion [2014/15: Rs.78.28 billion]. Group revenue, inclusive of associate company revenue, increased by 2 per cent to Rs.104.75 Group EBIT billion [2014/15: Rs.102.65 billion]. Revenue from associate companies increased by 6 per cent A growth of 5 per cent to Rs.11.47 billion compared to the Rs.10.80 billion in the previous year. With the exception of South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT), all associates recorded an increase in revenue. The primary increases were from Union Assurance General Limited, which recorded a full year of operations as Fair value gains on investment property an associate company compared to only one quarter in the previous year and Cinnamon red, where were recorded at Rs.263 million in 2015/16, performance exceeded expectations. comprising of gains of Rs.194 million, Rs.52 million and Rs.17 million at Property, Other Group revenue composition including Plantation Services and CF&R respectively. This compares with a total of 3% 3% Rs.49 million recorded in the previous year. 8% 7% 16% 19% 11% 13% In terms of composition of EBIT, Leisure was the primary contributor with a 25 per 2015/16 23% 2014/15 23% cent contribution, followed by CF&R and 35% 29% Other Including Plantation Services with contributions of 22 per cent and 19 per cent 4% 6% respectively. Transportation Financial Services The graph that follows, illustrates the Group Leisure Information Technology EBIT, EBITDA and EBIT margins; indicating its Property Other including Plantation Services overall upward trend over a ﬁve year period. Consumer Foods and Retail Earnings Before Interest and Tax Group EBIT, EBITDA and EBIT margins During the year under review, the earnings before interest and tax (EBIT) increased by 5 per cent 19.3 Rs.mn % to Rs.20.19 billion [2014/15: Rs.19.23 billion] driven by increases in contributions from CF&R and 30,000 18.7 20 Other including Plantation Services industry groups. The growth in EBIT is despite the previous 17.7 17.0 16.5 year’s performance including capital gains of Rs.2.23 billion, whereas the Group recorded a total 25,000 16 capital gain of only Rs.82 million in the current year arising from the share repurchase of Asia 20,000 Power (Private) Limited. The growth in EBIT during the year under review, excluding the impact of 12 these capital gains, was 18 per cent, demonstrating the robust business performance of the Group. 15,000 8 10,000 Group EBIT composition 4 5,000 0 0 19% 12% 18% 13% 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 1% 2% Depreciation/amortisation EBIT EBIT margin 11% 2015/16 16% 2014/15 25% 30% 22% 8% 13% 8% Transportation Financial Services Leisure Information Technology Property Other including Plantation Services Consumer Foods and Retail 54 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Interest income related to Union Assurance EBIT margins (%) Reported Recurring PLC (UA) amounting to Rs.2.57 billion 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 [2014/15: Rs.2.74 billion], net of related costs, Transportation 15.0 12.0 15.0 12.0 is classiﬁed under operating segment results on the basis that interest income from the life Leisure 21.1 24.5 21.1 24.5 insurance funds is considered as operational Property 38.6 28.8 34.1 28.7 income. The decrease in interest income from Consumer Foods and Retail 12.3 8.6 12.3 8.6 UA is mainly on account of not recognising Financial Services 19.3 23.7 19.3 14.3 the interest income contribution from Union Information Technology 1.9 5.3 1.9 5.3 Assurance General Limited which is now Other including Plantation Services 146.7 98.5 144.8 97.5 treated as an associate company post the Group 19.3 18.7 19.0 17.5 divestment of the business in 2014/15. As per the SLFRS accounting standards, In addition to the discussion of the ﬁnancial The increase in recurring EBIT margins in the ﬁnance income includes capital gains from performance as reported, the Group Other Including Plantation Services industry the disposal of private equity investments, Consolidated Review will also analyse the group is mainly attributable to the increase which amounted to Rs.82 million during the Group performance at a recurring level – in ﬁnance income on account of exchange year under review. The increase in interest where the impacts of fair value gains on rate gains recorded at the Company on its income of the Group, excluding UA, to Rs.3.66 investment property and the capital gain foreign currency denominated cash holdings. billion is mainly on account of increases in on the disposal of Union Assurance General However, this was off-set to an extent due to deposit rates. The increase in other ﬁnance Limited amounting to Rs.1.22 billion recorded an impairment on account of a deterioration income to Rs.1.70 billion is mainly on account in 2014/15 will be excluded, as these do not RISURMHFWHGFDVKLQĲRZVLQWKH%32FOXVWHU of the exchange rate gains recorded on the arise as a result of the Group’s ongoing core The decrease in the EBIT margins of Company’s foreign currency denominated operations. Accordingly, the recurring EBIT Information Technology is mainly due to a bad cash holdings. Further details on ﬁnance for the year under review increased by 11 debt provision arising out of the termination of income can be found in the Notes to the per cent to Rs.19.93 billion compared to the business with a key client in the BPO business Financial Statements section of the Annual Rs.17.96 billion in the previous year. because of non-settlement. In spite of the Report. CF&R industry group recording a signiﬁcant The above table illustrates the reported and improvement in overall performance, its Finance Expense recurring EBIT margins for each industry EBIT margin is comparatively lower than the The ﬁnance expense of the Group increased to group. The recurring Group EBIT margin other industry groups as the Retail industry, in Rs.994 million compared to the Rs.668 million increased to 19.0 per cent from 17.5 per general, is marked by low EBIT margins, both recorded in the previous year. The increase is cent in the previous year. With the exception locally and globally. mainly on account of mark-to-market losses of Leisure and Information Technology, all on short term ﬁnancial instruments of the other industry groups achieved a growth Finance Income life insurance fund at Union Assurance PLC in recurring EBIT margins. For detailed During the period under review, the ﬁnance recorded during the year. However, this was discussions on the growth in EBIT for the income of the Group decreased marginally by off-set to an extent due to debt repayments respective industry groups, refer the Industry 1 per cent to Rs.8.01 billion [2014/15: Rs.8.12 which resulted in a decrease in total debt Group Review section of this Report. billion], of which the composition is given as to Rs.20.75 billion from Rs.23.93 billion in follows. 2014/15 combined with the relatively low interest rate environment which prevailed for most part of the ﬁnancial year and reﬁnancing of higher cost borrowings during the year. Finance Income 2015/16 2014/15 Financial Services accounted for In Rs.‘000s approximately 61 per cent of the total ﬁnance Interest income from life insurance policy holder funds at UA* 2,566,963 2,736,388 expense followed by Leisure and Other Interest income of Group excluding UA 3,659,192 3,249,280 including Plantation Services with 17 per Capital gains from disposals of private equity investments of JKH 82,406 1,010,417 cent and 14 per cent respectively. Property Other ﬁnance income 1,702,391 1,126,412 contributed to the highest decrease in Group debt, followed by Other including Plantation Total 8,010,952 8,122,497 Services and Leisure industry groups. * UA Union Assurance PLC 55 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW contributions of Rs.4.37 billion [2014/15: Rs.4.86 billion], Rs.3.23 billion [2014/15: Group ﬁnance expense Rs.1.80 billion] and Rs.2.45 billion [2014/15: 2% 8% Rs.2.34 billion] respectively. The recurring 14% 27% Group PAT increased by 7 per cent to Rs.15.53 17% 1% billion from Rs.14.48 billion in the previous 3% year. 2% 35% 2015/16 2% 2014/15 Non-Controlling Interest 10% Non-controlling interest (NI) increased by 23 61% per cent to Rs.1.72 billion [2014/15: Rs.1.40 18% billion] mainly due to the increase in proﬁts at British Overseas Private Limited (BOPL) Transportation Financial Services Leisure Information Technology and Ceylon Cold Stores PLC (CCS), which also Property Other including Plantation Services includes the proﬁts from its 100 per cent Consumer Foods and Retail owned subsidiary JayKay Marketing Services Limited. Both BOPL and CCS have a relatively higher non-controlling interest. The NI share Finance expense incurred under the syndicate CF&R, which has a higher effective tax rate, of PAT for 2015/16 is 11 per cent as against 9 SURMHFW GHYHORSPHQW IDFLOLW\ RI &LQQDPRQ where reported proﬁts increased signiﬁcantly. per cent in the previous year. /LIH LV FDSLWDOLVHG DV ZRUNLQSURJUHVV LQ The tax expense on inter-company dividends accordance with the Group accounting policy increased due to an increase in dividends Proﬁt Attributable to Equity Holders of the and in keeping with accounting standards, received by the Company to Rs.10.26 billion Parent under other non-current assets. The interest from Rs.8.84 billion in the previous year. Due The proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the cover of the Group decreased to 20.3 times to these reasons, the effective tax rate on parent decreased by 2 per cent to Rs.14.07 from 28.8 times in the previous year due to Group proﬁts increased to 17.7 per cent as billion [2014/15: Rs.14.35 billion] mainly the increase in ﬁnance expense. against 17.5 per cent in the previous year. due to the aforementioned increase in noncontrolling interest and the previous year’s Other including Plantation Services, CF&R proﬁts including capital gains. The net proﬁt Finance expenses and interest coverage and Leisure were the highest contributors margin of the Group decreased to 13.4 per to the Group tax expense with Rs.1.43 billion, cent against 14.0 per cent in the previous year. 28.8 Rs. mn 2,000 30 Rs.1.24 billion and Rs.601 million respectively. However, the recurring net proﬁt attributable For further details on tax impacts of the Group to equity holders increased by 5 per cent to 25 1,600 20.3 refer to the Notes to the Financial Statements Rs.13.85 billion from Rs.13.14 billion in the 20 section of the Annual Report. previous year whilst the recurring net proﬁt 1,200 15.5 margin of the Group increased to 14.8 per 13.6 15 As per the provisions of Part III of the cent against 14.1 per cent in the previous year. 10.1 800 Finance Act No. 10 of 2015, the Group and 10 the Company was liable for a Super Gain 400 Tax (SGT) of Rs.1.34 billion and Rs.236 5 Net proﬁt ratio and net proﬁt million respectively. According to the Act, the Rs. mn % 0 0 Super Gain Tax was deemed to be an item 14.0 16,000 16 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 13.4 of expenditure in the ﬁnancial statements 14,000 12.8 14 12.1 relating to the year of assessment which 11.2 Finance expenses Interest cover 12,000 12 commenced on 1 April 2013. Therefore, this did not have an impact on the Income 10,000 10 6WDWHPHQW IRU  DV LW ZDV DGMXVWHG 8,000 8 Taxation through the Statement of Changes in Equity 6,000 6 During the year under review, Group tax in 2015/16. The Government has reiterated 4,000 4 expense increased by 21 per cent to Rs.3.41 that the SGT was a one-off tax and that 2,000 2 billion [2014/15: Rs.2.81 billion]. The Group enhancement of tax revenue in the future will tax expense comprised primarily of Rs.2.58 be through implementation of tax reforms 0 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 billion from Group proﬁts and Rs.824 million and widening of the tax base. as withholding tax from inter-company Proﬁt attributable to Net proﬁt % equity holders dividends. The increase in the Group tax Proﬁt After Tax expense was mainly on account of an For the year under review, the Group proﬁt increase in the income tax and dividend after taxation (PAT) was Rs.15.79 billion tax by Rs.374 million and Rs.220 million [2014/15 Rs.15.75 billion]. Of the industry respectively. The increase in tax expense on groups, Leisure, CF&R and Transportation Group proﬁts was primarily on account of were the highest contributors to PAT with 56 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Contribution to the Sri Lankan Economy ,Q IXUWKHUDQFH WR WKLV \HDUŖV 5HSRUW WKHPH ŗ&RQQHFWHGŘ WKH IROORZLQJ HFRQRPLF YDOXH VWDWHPHQW depicts the generation of wealth and its distribution among the stakeholders in all business/ social activities throughout the entire value chain. It also reveals the amounts reinvested for the Rs. 229.53 Bn replacement of assets and retained for the growth and development of operations. An overview of the Group’s total purchases of goods and raw materials from its local community is found in the ensuing Social and Relationship Capital discussion and Industry Group Review section of the Report. Average Group Asset Base Economic Value Statement A growth of 9 per cent 2015/16 2014/15 Rs.million Direct economic value generated Revenue 93,282 91,852 During the year under review, the Group Finance income 8,011 8,122 return on capital employed (ROCE) decreased Equity accounted investees 2,781 2,778 marginally to 11.1 per cent in comparison Proﬁt on sale of assets and other income 2,132 3,077 with the previous year. Whilst the EBIT Valuation gain on investment property 263 49 margin and capital structure ratio recorded an increase, the impact was off-set by a 106,469 105,878 higher proportionate decrease in the asset Economic value distributed turnover ratio. The average asset base of the Operating costs 69,391 69,227 Group increased by 9 per cent to Rs.229.53 Employee wages and beneﬁts 11,623 11,180 billion [2015/15: Rs.209.83 billion] primarily Payments to providers of funds 10,763 5,541 as a result of cash infusion from the 2015 Payments to Government 4,694 5,103 Warrant issue amounting to Rs.7.97 billion Community investments 125 234 and the inclusion of work-in-progress costs 96,596 91,285 UHODWLQJ WR WKH ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ SURMHFW )RU Economic value retained further details on the ROCE of each of the Depreciation 2,782 2,767 industry groups, refer the Strategy, Resource Amortisation 1,059 948 Allocation and Portfolio Management and the Industry Group Review sections of the Report. Proﬁt after dividends 6,032 10,873 9,873 14,589 Quarterly Performance at a Glance FY 2015/16 (Rs.million) Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Total Net revenue 21,003 22,675 24,769 24,834 93,282 PBT 3,189 4,640 5,305 6,064 19,198 Transportation 590 844 464 597 2,495 Leisure 553 885 1,219 2,311 4,968 Property 203 273 558 609 1,643 Consumer Foods and Retail 880 1,036 1,085 1,472 4,472 Financial Services 373 299 1,092 (65) 1,699 Information Technology 68 23 92 (34) 148 Other including Plantation Services 522 1,280 796 1,175 3,772 Proﬁt attributable to equity 2,178 3,475 4,738 3,679 14,070 shareholders Total assets 217,501 226,266 232,966 240,975 240,975 Total equity 150,727 157,322 163,619 168,480 168,480 Total debt 21,998 21,965 20,653 20,750 20,750 Return on Capital Employed Capital Reported EBIT Asset = x X structure ROCE (%) margin (%) turnover leverage 2015/16 11.1 = 19.3 x 0.46 x 1.26 2014/15 11.5 = 18.7 x 0.49 x 1.25 57 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW Return on Equity Reported ROE Return on assets Common earnings Capital structure = x x (%) (%) leverage leverage 2015/16 9.6 = 6.9 x 0.89 x 1.57 2014/15 11.0 = 7.5 x 0.91 x 1.61 The Group return on equity (ROE) declined to 9.6 per cent compared to the 11.0 per cent recorded in 2014/15, due to similar impacts as discussed under Group ROCE. Adjusted ROCE and ROE Similar to the previous years, in order to provide our readers with further insight on the Group’s ROCE and ROE movements, the following DGMXVWPHQWVDUHFRQVLGHUHGLQUHDVVHVVLQJWKHUDWLRV ROCE When considering the Group capital employed for 2015/16, the following items are eliminated from the capital base, given the long gestation period. L (TXLW\DQGGHEWIXQGLQJRIWKH&LQQDPRQ/LIHSURMHFW y Rs.31.07 billion received from the 2013 Rights Issue and 2015 Warrant Issue. y 6\QGLFDWHGSURMHFWGHYHORSPHQWIDFLOLW\DPRXQWLQJWR5VELOOLRQGUDZQGLUHFWO\E\:DWHUIURQW3URSHUWLHV 3ULYDWH /LPLWHG ii. The cumulative ﬁnance income portion of Rs.3.05 billion received during the period 2013/14 to 2015/16 on account of the Rights and Warrants Issue funds. iii. Investment property gains amounting to Rs.782 million for the period 2013/14 to 2015/16. iv. Revaluation of property, plant and equipment amounting to Rs.3.09 billion for the period 2013/14 to 2015/16. 6LPLODUO\WKH*URXS(%,7UHFRUGHGIRUWKH\HDULVDGMXVWHGIRUWKHIROORZLQJLWHPV i. Finance income of Rs.1.23 billion received from the investment of the 2013 Rights Issue and 2015 Warrants Issue funds. ii. Investment property gains Rs.263 million. %DVHGRQWKHDERYHWKHDGMXVWHGLQGXVWU\JURXSDQGRYHUDOO*URXS52&(LVDVLOOXVWUDWHGLQWKHWDEOHEHORZ)RUFRPSDULVRQSXUSRVHVWKHFDSLWDO gain arising from the disposal of Union Assurance General Limited amounting to Rs.1.22 billion in 2014/15 has been excluded when considering the ROCE for 2014/15. Reported ROCE (%) ROCE adjusted for Rights and ROCE adjusted for Rights and Warrant Warrants Issue and Waterfront Issue, Waterfront debt, investment debt (%) property, gains and revaluations (%) (Rs.million) 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 Transportation 15.0 16.0 15.0 16.0 15.0 16.1 Leisure 11.6 10.0 11.6 10.0 14.5 11.5 Property 5.3 4.8 9.7 10.3 10.9 10.0 Consumer Foods and Retail 33.7 55.7 33.7 55.7 43.9 63.1 Financial Services 29.0 24.2 29.0 24.2 18.8 26.2 Information Technology 15.3 6.8 15.3 6.8 15.3 6.8 Other including Plantation Services 6.8 6.6 7.1 7.0 7.1 7.0 Group 11.5 11.1 13.4 13.4 14.0 14.3 7KH*URXS52&(SRVWWKHDIRUHPHQWLRQHGDGMXVWPHQWLVIXUWKHUDQDO\VHGDVIROORZV Capital structure Adjusted ROCE (%) = EBIT margin (%) x Asset turnover x leverage 2015/16 14.3 = 17.8 x 0.58 x 1.37 2014/15 14.0 = 16.3 x 0.63 x 1.36 58 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Adjusted ROCE, Capital Employed and EBIT (size of bubble represents the relative contribution to EBIT in Rs.mn) ROCE (%) 60.0 50.0 CF&R 4,481 40.0 30.0 Financial Services IT 2,301 161 Leisure 20.0 Transportation 5,134 2,517 10.0 Property 1,480 Other 2,625 0.0 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50 Capital employed Rs. bn ROE 6LPLODUO\ZKHQDGMXVWHGIRUWKHDERYHGHVFULEHGLPSDFWVWKHDGMXVWHG52(IRUWKH*URXSLV Reported ROE (%) ROE adjusted for Rights and ROE adjusted for Rights and Warrant Warrants Issue and Waterfront Issue, Waterfront debt, investment debt (%) property, gains and revaluations (%) (Rs.million) 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 2014/15 2015/16 Group 11.0 9.6 12.6 11.1 12.9 11.8 $GXSRQWDQDO\VLVRIWKHDGMXVWHG*URXS52(LVDVIROORZV Adjusted ROE Return on assets Common earnings Capital structure = x x (%) (%) leverage leverage 2015/16 11.8 = 8.0 x 0.90 x 1.65 2014/15 12.9 = 8.2 x 0.91 x 1.73 7KHDGMXVWHG52(GHFOLQHGWRSHUFHQWFRPSDUHGZLWKWKHSUHYLRXV\HDUGXHWRWKHLQFUHDVHLQDYHUDJHWRWDODVVHWVDQGDYHUDJHVKDUHKROGHU funds, which resulted in a decline in the capital structure leverage ratio. Financial Position Structure For the period under review, the Group’s Assets (Rs. mn) Equity and Liabilities (Rs. mn) total asset’s increased by Rs.22.89 billion to 23,936 Rs.240.98 billion [2014/15: Rs.218.09 billion] 80,199 35,172 mainly on account of increases in other non74,634 48,559 33,709 63,094 current assets, short term investments and 13,499 32,837 14,664 33,554 additions to property, plant and equipment of 15,859 12,279 19,113 11,421 the Group. The increase in other non-current 82,488 assets was on account of work-in-progress 69,321 154,982 FRVWVUHODWLQJWRWKHŗ&LQQDPRQ/LIHŘSURMHFW 62,872 137,798 122,897 whilst the increase in short term investments was on account of the cash infusion from the 56,503 58,272 63,625 2015 Warrant Issue. 201,581 218,086 240,975 240,975 218,086 201,581 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Cash, short term investments and other investments Current liabilities Inventories and receivables Non current liabilities Other non current assets Non controlling interests Property, plant and equipment and leasehold rentals paid in advance Shareholders' funds 59 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW Working Capital/Liquidity Rs. 20.75 Bn Liquidity management Rs. bn 100 Group Debt 80 A decrease of 13 per cent 60 40 Debt The consolidated debt of the Group decreased 20 to Rs.20.75 billion from Rs.23.93 billion in the previous year. The Property and Leisure 0 industry groups continued to account for a 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 PDMRULW\RIWKH*URXSŖVWRWDOGHEWZLWK5V billion and Rs.4.66 billion respectively. Current assets Cash and short term investments Current liabilities Where businesses have foreign currency denominated income, borrowings in foreign Net working capital of the Group increased to currency are effected to take advantage of the Rs.70.93 billion as at 31 March 2016 [2014/15: comparatively lower cost of foreign currency “on account Rs.55.32 billion]. Current liabilities declined debt. This has been practiced in the Leisure on account of settlement of the bridge loan Current liabilities declined industry group in particular where foreign facility, which is now treated as a long term of settlement of currency receipts are regularly monitored to loan, obtained by Waterfront Properties proactively evaluate the borrowing capacity (Private) Limited for the development of the Bridge loan facility, which of the business. Currently, approximately 84 ŗ&LQQDPRQ/LIHŘ&XUUHQWDVVHWVUHFRUGHGDQ is now treated as a long term per cent of the overall debt of the Group is increase on account of the aforementioned denominated in foreign currency, primarily cash infusion from the 2015 Warrant Issue. loan, obtained by Waterfront due to the increased debt of Cinnamon Life Properties (Private) Limited which is in foreign currency. Considering its strong ﬁnancial position, the for the development of ” Group is conﬁdent of its ability to comfortably The Property industry group, followed by Other meet its short and medium term funding “Cinnamon Life”. including Plantation Services, were the highest and debt repayment obligations, pursue contributors to the decrease in Group debt. organic and acquisitive growth opportunities Except for Financial Services and Information and to meet other obligations. In terms of Technology, all other industry groups recorded the composition of the liquid assets of the a decline in debt. The Property and Leisure Group, Other including Plantation Services billion in the current ﬁnancial year compared industry groups settled a few loans that accounted for more than half of the cash against the Rs.4.84 billion in the previous reached maturity during the year. The loan DQGFDVKHTXLYDOHQWVRIZKLFKDPDMRULW\RI ﬁnancial year. The increase was primarily due balance of the IFC facility as of 31 March 2016 assets are in the Holding Company, followed to the higher dividend payment on account reduced to USD 10 million from USD 20 million by the Leisure and Financial Services industry of the special dividend paid over and above in the previous year, and will be repaid in full by groups. the second interim dividend. This was off-set the end of the 2016 calendar year. to an extent due to the cash infusion from Cash Flow the 2015 Warrant Issue and the debt drawn The debt to equity ratio of the Group reduced to Cash and cash equivalents increased by GRZQIURPWKHV\QGLFDWHSURMHFWGHYHORSPHQW 12.3 per cent in the current year from 15.9 per Rs.8.04 billion to Rs.53.21 billion by the end of facility. cent in the previous year. The net debt (cash) the current ﬁnancial year [2014/15: Rs.45.17 to equity ratio was negative 30.8 per cent as billion]. Net cash from operating activities Leverage and Capital Structure against a negative 28.8 per cent in the previous decreased by Rs.341 million mainly due to Capital Structure year. The debt to EBITDA cover of the Group the payment of Rs.1.10 billion with regard A higher proportion of the Group’s total assets at stood at 0.8 times compared to the 1.0 times to the Super Gains Tax. Net cash used in Rs.240.98 billion were funded by shareholder’s in the previous year, underscoring the Group’s investing activities increased to Rs.4.76 billion funds (64 per cent) whilst the remainder were ability to resort to higher leverage if required. mainly due to the increase in purchases of funded by a combination of non-controlling Long term debt to total debt increased to 66 property, plant and equipment, lease rights interests (6 per cent), long term creditors (20 per cent from 21 per cent primarily due to and increase in short term investments in per cent) and short term creditors (10 per cent). WKH FODVVLıFDWLRQ RI WKH V\QGLFDWH SURMHFW Government securities and bank deposits. Net The long term funding of assets at Rs.217.04 development facility at Waterfront Properties cash used in ﬁnancing activities was Rs.7.72 billion was 90 per cent of total assets. (Private) Limited as long term debt. 60 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information The Leisure and CF&R industry groups were 2015/16 2014/15 the largest consumers of energy, accounting Current ratio (times) 4.0 2.6 for over 73 per cent of the energy consumed Quick ratio (times) 3.8 2.4 and 89 per cent of the carbon footprint of the Group. Net working capital (Rs.mn) 70,927 55,321 Asset turnover (times) 0.5 0.5 Capital employed (Rs.mn) 189,230 174,011 Energy consumption by Total debt (Rs.mn) 20,750 23,934 industry group/sector GJ '000 Net debt (cash) (Rs.mn) (51,849) (43,224) 350 Debt/equity ratio (%) 12.3 15.9 300 Net debt (cash)/equity ratio (%) (30.8) (28.8) Long-term debt to total debt (%) 66.1 20.5 250 Debt/total assets (%) 8.6 11.0 200 Liabilities to tangible networth 0.4 0.5 Debt/EBITDA (times) 0.8 1.0 150 Net debt/EBITDA (2.1) (1.9) 100 50 Statement of Changes in Equity Total equity of the Group increased by Rs.18.40 billion to Rs.168.48 billion [2014/15: Rs.150.08 billion]. 0 Leisure Consumer Foods & Retail Other/Plantation Services Transportation Financial Services Property Information Technology The main increases were on account of the proﬁt after tax of Rs.15.79 billion, other comprehensive income of Rs.4.29 billion and the funds generated from the exercise of the 2015 Warrant amounting to Rs.7.97 billion, which were partially offset by the dividends paid during the year amounting to Rs.8.04 billion. Concluding the Group’s Financial and Manufactured Capital Review, the section which follows discusses the third aspect of Capital Management, this being Natural Capital. This section will discuss 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 the Group’s management of its environmental impacts as well as the outcomes and value creation processes through its sustainability and corporate social responsibility agenda, respectively. The Plantation Services sector accounted Natural Capital Review for 20 per cent of the Group’s total energy consumption. However, the sector contributed only 5 per cent to the Group’s carbon The Group strongly believes that a sound Natural Capital management strategy is a vital footprint, primarily due to its continued usage component of long term and sustainable value creation. As such, the Group is committed to of renewable energy generated through establishing policies and procedures that enable sustainable and efficient business operations biomass. Tea Smallholder Factories PLC (TSF whilst also resulting in growth of the bottom line. The Group has a comprehensive environmental PLC) is the largest consumer of power in the management system through which it focusses on energy conservation, the reduction of carbon Plantation Services sector obtaining 65 per footprint and optimisation of water usage, efficient waste management and conservation of biocent of its energy through renewable energy. In diversity and wildlife, as discussed in the ensuing sections. addition, during the year under review, Group Energy and Carbon Footprint companies saved approximately 517,086 'XULQJWKH\HDUXQGHUUHYLHZWKH*URXSŖVHQHUJ\FRQVXPSWLRQRI*LJDMRXOHV> million kWh with a resultant estimated saving  *LJDMRXOHV@ ZDV GHULYHG IURP QRQUHQHZDEOH DQG UHQHZDEOH HQHUJ\ VRXUFHV DQG WKH of 352 MT of carbon, through various energy national grid. conservation initiatives, details of which can be found in the Industry Group Review section of the Report. Total power consumed in GJ 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Direct energy 325,785 353,389 384,165 “7.2 The Fossil fuel 214,723 223,321 243,433 Group generated Diesel 136,794 138,740 144,377 Petrol 14,993 21,361 19,590 million kWh of power Furnace oil 37,057 38,638 55,380 from renewable energy ” LPG 25,880 24,717 24,086 sources. Renewable energy 111,061 130,067 140,732 Indirect energy national grid 330,525 311,263 296,747 Hydro and renewable 128,905 186,758 86,057 Thermal 201,620 124,505 210,690 Total energy consumption 656,310 664,653 680,912 61 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW Overall, the Group generated 7.2 million kWh due to a full year’s operations at Cinnamon of power from renewable energy sources such red, 6 new Keells Super outlets resulting in an “discharged as ﬁrewood purchased from the surrounding increase in the square footage and increased communities and solar power, constituting production volumes in the Consumer Foods 16 per cent of water 7 per cent of its total energy requirement. sector, the Group recorded an increase of only was completely ” Whilst such practices have enabled the Group 4 per cent in its carbon footprint amounting to reduce its environmental impact and cost to 78,278 MT [2014/15: 75,267 MT]. The scope recycled by operations. of operations, it has also provided a means of 1 direct energy carbon footprint amounted livelihood for the surrounding communities. to 15,699 MT, while scope 2 indirect energy carbon footprint amounted to 62,579 MT. The movement over the past six years’ carbon Carbon footprint by footprint in metric tons per million rupees of industry group/sector revenue illustrates an overall declining trend year. This was mainly due to the increase CO2MT ‘000 as depicted in the chart below. in operational activity across all sectors of 450 the Group. Where feasible, the Group seeks 400 to fulﬁll part of its requirement from green 350 water sources through rainwater harvesting. Carbon footprint per 300 rupees million of revenue Given the nature of operations, the Leisure 250 and CF&R industry groups account for the MT CO2eq 1.2 highest proportion of water consumed, with 200 approximately 97 per cent of the Group’s 150 1.0 water consumed by these industry groups. 100 0.8 50 0 0.6 Water withdrawn by industry group/sector Leisure Consumer Foods & Retail Other/Plantation Services Transportation Financial Services Property Information Technology 0.4 m3 ‘000 1,200 0.2 1,000 0.0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 800 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 600 Water Management The main contributor to the Group’s carbon As part of its Natural Capital management 400 footprint was electricity from the national strategy, the Group monitors and measures grid followed by diesel and furnace oil. Given water from all sources, which includes ground 200 that Sri Lanka’s national grid is hydro power water, inland surface water bodies, oceans, based, the resultant carbon footprint is lower pipe-borne water from the National Water 0 Leisure Consumer Foods & Retail Other/Plantation Services Transportation Financial Services Property Information Technology in comparison to countries producing power Supply and Drainage Board and rainwater solely through fossil fuels. harvesting. Carbon footprint by energy type Water withdrawal by source 2% 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 1% 7% 4% 13% 41% Water usage per rupees million of revenue m3 80% 51% 30 1% 25 LPG Diesel Surface water wetlands, rivers, lakes, oceans etc 20 Petrol Electricity Ground water Furnace oil Rainwater harvested 15 Municipality/authority water 10 Demonstrating the continuous improvement The Group withdrew a total of 1,904,911 cubic 5 in carbon efficiency and notwithstanding the meters of water, resulting in a 5 per cent increased operational activity of the Group increase of consumption from the previous 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 62 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information The Group makes best efforts to reduce its water requirement through the recycling Waste generated by “produced of treated effluent, where feasible. Where industry group/sector possible, the Group seeks to treat effluent to an 42 per cent of waste MT '000 5,000 acceptable quality and, in any event, ensures was recycled meeting of regulatory standards when returning such water to the environment. or reused by the Group’s 4,000 business units or through 3,000 selected third party ” Water discharge by method contractors. 2,000 1% 10% 4% 1,000 38% 0 Business units also carry out a range of Leisure Consumer Foods & Retail Other/Plantation Services Transportation Financial Services Property Information Technology initiatives such as awareness campaigns 31% and installation of water saving ﬁxtures and 16% equipment. A detailed discussion of water withdrawal and discharge by sector, as well as To municipality sewerage/NWSDB drainage lines water savings initiatives, can be found in the Treated and recycled/reused Industry Group Review section of the Report. 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Treated and discharged Direct discharge as per guidelines Waste Management Through soakage pits Despite increased operational activity across Provided to another organisation outside the Group Waste disposal by method the Group, waste generated increased marginally to 8,251 MT from 7,803 MT in the During the reporting period, the Group previous year. Of this, 318 MT was classiﬁed discharged 1,439,138 cubic meters of as hazardous waste and disposed of through 29% specialised third party contractors. Of the total 38% effluent. Of all water discharged to the environment, 31 per cent was treated through waste produced, 42 per cent was recycled on-site sewerage treatment plants at the or reused by the Group’s business units or through selected third party contractors. 12% various operational locations, 38 per cent was discharged to municipal sewerage treatment The Leisure and CF&R industry groups 20% 1% systems whilst 16 per cent of water was contributed to over 94 per cent of the waste completely recycled by operations, utilising generated by the Group. Further details of Reuse Incineration such water for general cleaning, gardening how such waste was generated, reused and Recycling Landﬁll and ﬂushing mechanisms. recycled are available in the Industry Group Composting On-site storage Review section of the Report. Recovery Waste generated per rupees million of revenue MT 0.15 0.12 0.09 0.06 0.03 0.00 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 6HZDJHWUHDWPHQWSODQWDW&LQQDPRQ%H\ 63 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW Progress Review on Sustainability Commitments Safe Drinking Water Initiatives 7KH)RXQGDWLRQIRFXVVHGRQWZRNH\SURMHFWV Targets for 2015/16 Comment on progress Status aimed at providing access to safe drinking The Group will strive to outperform In the short to medium term, Achieved, but will water facilities: selected international benchmarks for the Group will strive to reduce continue to be a part carbon footprint, energy management its carbon footprint, energy of the Group strategy š &ROODERUDWLRQ ZLWK WKH 1DWLRQDO :DWHU and water management whilst consumption and water going forward. Supply and Drainage Board (NWSDB) to seeking to better its own performance usage through sector speciﬁc address Chronic Kidney Disease (CKD). on the said aspects. sustainability strategies. During the reporting year, the Foundation XQGHUWRRNDSLORWSURMHFWZLWK1:6'%LQ the Trincomalee District (Morawewa DS Corporate Social Responsibility Projects and implemented work relating to water and and Gomarankadawela DS) involving As part of John Keells Group’s conscious sanitation facilities, including renovation of the supply and installation of 2 Reverse and collective effort to protect and enhance toilets, sewage and water systems. Osmosis (RO) ﬁltration systems. The the environment, John Keells Foundation systems will be operated and managed ŗ)RXQGDWLRQŘ  WKH VRFLDO UHVSRQVLELOLW\ DUP Sri Lankan Elephant 2016 by the water-based CBOs in the of the Group, has undertaken numerous 7KH )RXQGDWLRQ ZDV WKH ŗ7XVNHU 6SRQVRUŘ respective villages while NWSDB will SURMHFWVRYHUWKH\HDUVFRQWULEXWLQJWRZDUGV for this trilingual outdoor travelling exhibition, provide training and technical assistance environmental conservation and sustainability. which showcased the current status of for operation and maintenance. The following is an overview of the key elephants in Sri Lanka. The exhibition was initiatives undertaken by the Foundation. held in 12 cities around the island, many of š 3DUWQHUVKLS ZLWK WKH 8QLWHG 1DWLRQV Refer to the John Keells Foundation website which are heavily affected by the humanGlobal Compact (UNGC) Water and the Supplementary Information section of elephant conﬂict, and witnessed by a total of 6WHZDUGVKLS 3URMHFW WR SURYLGH this Report for further details. over 116,300 persons. The exhibition content equitable access to safe drinking water was also reprinted and displayed during the in Meegahakiula (Badulla District) Nature Field Centre, Rumassala public destruction of Blood Ivory at the Galle which is estimated to directly beneﬁt 7KLV SURMHFW LV WKH UHVXOW RI D FROODERUDWLRQ Face Green in January 2016. approximately 1,100 persons, including 4 between John Keells Foundation and schools. During the year, the Foundation the Central Environment Authority (CEA) Paper Conservation released its full sponsorship for this to facilitate experiential learning on the During the year in review, waste paper initiative. environment and bio-diversity conservation. As continued to be collected from each of per the CEA’s report, a total of 1,564 visitors, of the business locations for shredding and Concluding the Group’s Natural Capital which 1,140 were students, visited the Centre recycling. The impact of this initiative during Review, the section which follows discusses during the year in review. In addition, following the reporting period is summarised as the fourth aspect of Capital Management, this a needs assessment, the Foundation funded follows: being the Human Capital. Human Capital Review Waste Savings (indirect impact) Payment paper Landﬁll The Group’s Human Capital is the primary (Rs.) (direct Water Electricity collected Trees (Nos) Oil (Litres) (Cubic component of its earning potential, impact) (Litres) (kWh) (kg) Meters) productivity and long term sustainability. The Group’s holistic approach to the management 57,736 404,152 974 1,817,816 228,800 100,390 171 of its Human Capital encompasses ensuring diversity, employee satisfaction and continuous engagement, stringent policies on health and safety, talent management, career development, training and development. Further details of the Corporate Social Responsibility projects are available on http://www.johnkeellsfoundation.com/ 6FKRROFKLOGUHQOHDUQDERXWELRGLYHUVLW\FRQVHUYDWLRQDWWKH1DWXUH)LHOG&HQWUH5XPDVVDOD 64 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Employee Diversity As an equal opportunity employer, the Group encourages workplace diversity, bringing about innovative thinking while creating an enabling environment which promotes a productive workforce. The workforce as at 31 March 2016 was 19,522 of which 11,886 were employees and 7,636 were outsourced personnel (over 4,000 were sales agents of Union Assurance PLC). Of the Group’s total employees, 506 are placed in the Maldives and 458 in India, with the remainder stationed in Sri Lanka. The Group monitors the diversity of its workforce based on age and gender as illustrated by the following diagrams. Workforce by type of employment Total employees by age Total employees by gender 8% 24% 39% 37% 49% 76% 43% 24% Employees permanent Less than 30 Between 30-50 Above 50 Male Female Employees contract Contractor's personnel Workforce by gender Contractor's personnel by gender verbal harassment and discrimination on the basis of race, religion, gender, age, nationality, social origin, disability, political affiliation 26% 30% or opinion, was expanded to include sexual orientation and gender identity. A Group wide awareness campaign was also undertaken 74% 70% to sensitise staff on the areas of nondiscrimination, with special emphasis on nondiscrimination based on sexual orientation and gender identity. Male Female Male Female Talent Management The Group continuously monitors its employee retention and, in particular, seeks to All of the ten Board Directors of JKH are of 30-50, and eight are over the age of 50, with address staff attrition in typically high attrition over the age of 50 with one female Director. three GOC members being female. industry groups through proactive initiatives Of the 10 Group Executive Committee (GEC) that engage employees. These include members, one GEC member is female, whilst As an equal opportunity employer in surveys such as the Voice of Employee (VOE) seven members are over 50 years of age further expanding and strengthening our which allows employees to rate the Group’s and three members are between the ages of commitment of the acceptance and inclusion performance on key barometers such as 30–50 years. Excluding the GEC members, of of diversity, our overall Non-Discrimination credibility, caring, equality and pride. the thirteen members of the Group Operating Policy, which commits to maintaining a Committee (GOC), ﬁve are between the ages workplace that is free from physical and The Group’s total attrition (for executives and non-executives) and new hire attrition rate, excluding the IT Enabled and Retail sectors, where staff turnover is expected to be high and is an industry norm, was 21 per cent and 7 per cent respectively. However, the Group has seen insigniﬁcant turnover for staff identiﬁed as Talent, with senior management placing extra emphasis on developing and nurturing them with many one-on-one interactions during the year. The executive level attrition is relatively lower than attrition at non-executive levels. Further, recruitment based on proﬁle mapping was introduced in certain businesses to ensure a better ﬁt with the needs of the organisation. A survey of millennials' aspirations to understand their needs better has assisted the Group in retaining employees. 0RUH7KDQ-XVWD:RUNSODFH-RKQ.HHOOV*URXS 65 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW Attrition by gender Attrition by region Attrition by age breakdown 18% 18% 33% 67% 82% 82% Male Female Local Foreign Below 30 Between 30-50 Above 50 New hires by gender New hires by region New hires by age group 1% 10% 12% 34% 66% 90% 87% Male Female Local Foreign Below 30 Between 30-50 Above 50 Performance Appraisals while businesses also have their business as outlined in the Group learning and The Group’s performance management speciﬁc recognition schemes. development policy guidelines. Through cycle ensures that all employees of the the performance management system, Group undergo regular appraisals. Formal Training and Development employees can request for training when feedback is provided on a bi-annual basis The Group’s training and development conducting self-appraisals while supervisors to the executive cadre and once a year to programmes are key policy components of also nominate employees for training based all others. This process ensures constant talent retention and ensuring a sustainable on the needs in line with the Group’s training dialogue and seeks to assist in continuous competitive advantage, with a total of 418,726 calendar. On average, 35 hours of training was improvements in performance. A number of hours [2014/15: 480,635 hours] training provided per employee, with average training employee recognition schemes are in place, provided to Group employees. Each year, hours per annum amounting to 37 hours for such as Chairman’s Awards, Innovation, training hours for employees are determined males and 29 hours per female. The current CSR and Sustainability Awards, in addition on a needs basis, aligning the business year saw the introduction of bite sized learning WR ŗ(PSOR\HH RI WKH <HDUŘ ŗ&KDPSLRQ RI WKH speciﬁc requirements with gaps identiﬁed in for better long term engagement of learners. <HDUŘ DQG ŗ%UDYRŘ $ZDUGV DW D *URXS OHYHO employee skills and the roof competencies HR capacity building and People Manager quality enhancement through a series of Team Leader Workshops for all team leaders in the executive cadre, at every level, under the themes of Understanding People/Driving Performance for Better Engagement and Developing Teams for Better Engagement. Total training hours ('000) 0 50 100 150 200 250 300 350 Non Executives Executives Assistant Managers Manager 1HJRWLDWLRQVNLOOVWUDLQLQJFDUULHGRXWE\LQWHUQDOWUDLQHUVRIWKH*URXS AVP and Above 66 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Employee Beneﬁt Plans In Sri Lanka, employees are eligible for the “empowered Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) and the All business units within the Group have been Employees’ Trust Fund (ETF) contributions. to undertake any measure it may Employees who are Maldivian nationals or employed in the Maldives are eligible deem necessary to ensure that it is a “Safe Place for Maldives Retirement Pension Scheme to Work”. ” (MRPS) contributions whist employees based in India are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund (EPF) contributions according to the terms of the Employees’ Provident Fund and Miscellaneous Provisions Act in India. The total contribution made to the trust funds for the As part of its career development strategy, 2015/16 2014/15 reporting year was Rs.135 million while the the Group carries out leadership development total contribution made to the provident funds programmes, management development Number of staff 217 199 was Rs.640 million. In Sri Lanka and India, programmes, and Development Centres in affected by employees are also entitled to retirement collaboration with reputed international and RFFXSDWLRQDOLQMXULHV gratuity. The employee beneﬁt liability as at local institutes such as the National University and diseases 31 March 2016 was Rs.1.65 billion. of Singapore, Harvard University and Post Gender wise 166:51 159:40 Graduate Institute of Management Sri Lanka. RFFXSDWLRQDOLQMXULHV ,Q DGGLWLRQ ŗ<RXQJ )RUXPVŘ DUH FDUULHG RXW Corporate Social Responsibility Projects (male: female) Project WAVE (Working Against Violence with the intention of developing management Gender wise through Education) skills in executive and above levels through occupational diseases During the reporting year, staff awareness interactions with the business leaders of the (male: female) sessions on gender based violence and child Group. Additionally, the Group strengthened Region-wise 206:11 192:7 abuse continued to be conducted for the beneﬁt its career support initiatives with the RFFXSDWLRQDOLQMXULHV of Group staff, covering employees from senior introduction of a Career Support Panel to (in Sri Lanka: outside management to non-executive levels. During assist employees in chartering their careers, Sri Lanka) the year in review, a total of 5,026 Group staff and also by providing e-learning modules and awareness sessions to support them in this Region-wise were sensitised via 166 sessions. important area. occupational diseases (in Sri Lanka: outside HIV and AIDS Master Trainer programme Collective Bargaining Sri Lanka) As at 31 March 2016, 36 employees The Group engages with trade unions on an 2FFXSDWLRQDOLQMXULHV 1.11 1.05 participated in training programmes ongoing basis through Joint Consultative per 100 workforce organised by the International Labour Committees and other mechanisms. Formal Total man days lost 0.05 0.05 Organisation and the Employers’ Federation agreements are found in the CF&R industry per 100 workforce of Ceylon. Following certiﬁcation as an HIV group, covering over 711 employees, days and AIDS master trainer, these employees amounting to 6 per cent of the Group’s total Total absentee days 0.0022 0.0024 conducted HIV and AIDS awareness within employees count. The Plantation Services per 100 workforce their own business units as well as for sector follows the wage structures of the days external audiences. In the year under review, plantation industry of the country and the over 3,317 Group employees were sensitised. Resort Hotels have entered into a Memoranda of Understanding with staff representatives from one trade union. Health and Safety The Group places the highest importance on ensuring a safe working environment for all its employees, taking steps to ensure that health and safety concerns are prioritised and addressed across the Group. All business units within the Group have been empowered to undertake any measure it may GHHP QHFHVVDU\ WR HQVXUH WKDW LW LV D ŗ6DIH 3ODFHWR:RUNŘ$VSDUWRILWV+XPDQ&DSLWDO management strategy, incidents are logged, recorded and tracked on a continuous basis. Health and safety practices at Cinnamon Life 67 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW Staff Volunteerism initiatives, 855,364 people were impacted, “commitment A vital element in the Group’s community while Rs.105 million was expended in carrying engagement strategy is staff volunteerism. As a testament to its out community service and infrastructure The Foundation functions with the assistance SURMHFWV7UDLQLQJDQGDZDUHQHVVRQVHULRXV of the Group's staff volunteers in all its to responsible diseases such as HIV and AIDS, Dengue, SURMHFWV 7KH -RKQ .HHOOV *URXS YROXQWHHU business, the Group had no Thalassemia and Diabetes was also carried network enables employees to reach beyond out, with a total of 33,510 persons educated their day-to-day work to contribute to the environmental, product related during the year. community and environment. The Group or any other signiﬁcant ﬁnes has also introduced a volunteer leave policy, As a testament to its commitment to enabling staff to be released for CSR activities during the reporting year responsible business, the Group had no with minimum restraint. and did not have any nonenvironmental, product related or any other compliance with regard to signiﬁcant ﬁnes during the reporting year and ” During the year, over 624 staff volunteers did not have any non-compliance with regard HQJDJHG LQ SURMHFWV XQGHUWDNHQ E\ WKH marketing communications. to marketing communications. Foundation while over 1,611 volunteer instances were recorded for the year, Social Responsibility Supply Chain Sustainability excluding CSR initiatives that occur at a Building Social and Relationship Capital is The Group believes that striving to entrench sector/business level. essential for the long term sustainability of sustainability along the supply chain helps any business. The Group strives to create trust create long term value and business and reciprocity among its key stakeholders, sustainability for all parties. The Group whilst creating long term value. works closely with its key suppliers to create awareness and disseminate knowledge on ŗ9ROXQWHHULQJ ZLWK -RKQ .HHOOV sustainability best practices, with supplier 81 per cent of the Group’s economic value Foundation has been one of the most fora being carried out for over 80 Group distributed was spent on goods, services and fulﬁlling experiences in my life up to sourced suppliers in Sri Lanka as well as utilities locally, with Sri Lanka being deﬁned as date. This is something quite new for signiﬁcant suppliers in the Maldives. local, based on the number of operations and me as I have not done any volunteer revenue, and being the signiﬁcant location of related work. The feeling of giving back The Group’s signiﬁcant suppliers are operations. Mutually beneﬁcial relationships to the community and being able to help assessed for key sustainability impacts are sought in relevant industries through someone else is what keeps me involved and reviewed in terms of labour practices, sustainable sourcing, with Rs.2.23 billion and has truly been a life changing upholding of human rights and environmental spent on purchases, mainly fresh produce, H[SHULHQFHIRUPHŘ impacts. Approximately 90 suppliers were by the Consumer Foods and Retail industry group and the Sri Lankan Resorts segment, assessed this year, while any new suppliers Amrick Andrado will be assessed based on the above criteria stimulating local economies and encouraging 9ROXQWHHUIURP:DONHUV7RXUV/LPLWHG in the future. small businesses to help fulﬁll the supply chain requirements of the Group. The Group Sourcing process also ensures Concluding the Human Capital Review, the Group companies also undertake corporate further integration of sustainability within the section which follows discusses the ﬁfth social responsibility initiatives in locations value chain. Tenders and bids received for aspect of Capital Management, this being the of operations, across the six key areas of high value items sourced by the Group are Social and Relationship Capital. national focus. During the year, through these Social and Relationship Capital Review Product Responsibility The Group strives to ensure and maintain the highest standards for its products and services through adhering to all statutory and regulatory requirements, both local and international, as well global best practices. As such, Group companies ensure the highest quality in processes, responsible marketing and communications, as well as consumer and employee health and safety, through robust quality management processes and quality assurance. The ongoing ISO 9001 , ISO 22000, ISO 14000 and OHSAS 18001 certiﬁcations by the relevant Group companies are testimony to the Group’s commitment in this regard. -RKQ.HHOOV9ROXQWHHUVSDLQWLQJDFODVVURRPDW+RO\5RVDU\6LQKDOD9LG\DOD\D6ODYH,VODQG 68 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Progress Review on Sustainability Commitments Neighbourhood Schools An initiative to support the development and Targets for 2015/16 Comment on progress Status maintenance of infrastructure and facilities Seek to entrench sustainability During the year, the Group Assessments for all signiﬁcant of disadvantaged Government schools in and risk management carried out reviews of suppliers were carried out. Colombo 2. A total of eight schools with practices across its signiﬁcant approximately 90 signiﬁcant Supplier fora awareness more than 2,800 students have beneﬁtted value chain partners in an value chain partners on all programmes will continue to from infrastructure and facility development, effort to promote responsible areas of the triple bottom be conducted on an annual career guidance, vocational training and skills corporate citizenship in its line, whilst also carrying out basis. development. supply chain whilst reducing sustainability awareness the risk of operations for the through supplier fora for John Keells Group. approximately 80 Group suppliers. ŗ, XVHG WR ZDQGHU WKH VWUHHWV ZLWK P\ assessed not only for quality and price but youth, and creating opportunities for higher friends daily. Now I’m focussed and have also for social and environmental impacts. learning and sustainable employment. DGUHDPWRIXOıOOŘ Corporate Social Responsibility Projects English Language Scholarship Programme A.R.M. Hamdan The Group’s CSR initiatives represent how An initiative to enhance the English language 9RFDWLRQDOWUDLQHH.LWFKHQGHSDUWPHQW the Group’s values, corporate culture and skills of school children and youth from Cinnamon Grand Colombo operations are intrinsically intertwined and socially and economically disadvantaged connected to social, economic and environment backgrounds throughout the country. 1,200 concerns. All initiatives carried out by the scholars completed the programme in the Foundation are medium to long term strategic reporting year resulting in a cumulative total University Soft Skills Programme DQGVXVWDLQDEOHSURMHFWVWKDWIDOOLQWRRQHRIVL[ of over 12,000 children and youth island-wide ŗ7KH )LQDO 6WHSŘ LV D VHULHV RI VRIW VNLOOV focus areas; Education, Health, Environment, being empowered via this initiative since its development workshops designed for Community/Livelihood Development, Arts and inception in 2005. university undergraduates. During the Culture and Disaster Relief. reporting year, soft skills workshops were organised for the University of Uva Wellassa 3URMHFWV VHOHFWHG ZLWKLQ WKH IRFXV DUHDV and Sabaragamuwa University of Sri are inspired by the Group’s CSR vision Lanka, with a participation of more than ŗ(PSRZHULQJ WKH 1DWLRQ IRU 7RPRUURZŘ 1,275 students. The programme has been ŗ0RVW RI RXU VWXGHQWV DUH IURP IDUPHU and are aligned to one or more of the conducted successfully a total of 14 times families. You have given us a golden Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). Refer at 11 universities since its inception in 2006, opportunity to learn and speak good to the John Keells Foundation website and beneﬁtting more than 5,000 undergraduates. English. We will never forget that it is the Supplementary Information section of the because of you we were able to realise Report for further details. RXUGUHDPVŘ Promoting Science Education Amongst School Children Education In total, over 124 schools with 1,809 children K. Roshani Thamali The initiatives discussed below have been and 120 teachers have beneﬁtted from the (QJOLVK/DQJXDJH6FKRODUVKLS implemented with the aim of increasing the Science Day Programmes in ﬁve selected 3URJUDPPHEHQHıFLDU\$PSDUD skills, knowledge and productivity of our districts. A novel feature was the introduction of an Astronomy Programme in the Ampara and Vavuniya Districts. Health The John Keells Group believes that a healthy society is vital to enable productive output. The Foundation continues its long-term focus on three areas of health: HIV awareness; vision care; and working against violence through education which are considered pertinent to Sri Lanka as a developing nation. 6FKRROOHDYHUVIROORZLQJYRFDWLRQDOWUDLQLQJDWD.HHOOV6XSHURXWOHW 69 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW š 'XULQJWKH\HDUXQGHUUHYLHZDWRWDORI 15,629 persons were sensitised on HIV and AIDS, resulting in a cumulative total of 93,510 persons. This is the highest number of persons educated on HIV and AIDS by a Sri Lankan private sector entity. š 7KH DZDUHQHVV VHVVLRQV ZHUH OHG by John Keells Master Trainers who volunteered for the programme, with several sessions featuring sharing by HIV positive persons as a means of effectively addressing aspects of stigma and discrimination. š 2Q :RUOG $,'6 'D\ LQ 'HFHPEHU 2015, the Foundation launched a free -RKQ.HHOOVGLVWULEXWHVVSHFWDFOHVDWWKHODXQFKRIWKH6FKRRO6FUHHQLQJ3URJUDPPH web-based e-module, hosted on the Foundation’s website. The e-module is a comprehensive and interactive learning The John Keells Vision Project providing ﬁnancial and volunteer tool that covers critical information on 7KLV LV DQ LVODQGZLGH FDWDUDFW SURMHFW assistance for intensive screening of HIV and AIDS and is accessible free of which is aligned with the World Health school children in the Colombo District charge to any member of the public over 2UJDQLVDWLRQŖVŗ9LVLRQŘ3URMHFW&DWDUDFW for visual impairment, and subsequently the age of 18 years. has been recognised as the primary cause of providing spectacles or facilitating preventable blindness in Sri Lanka. treatment for other visual problems. PROJECT WAVE (Working Against Violence Since November 2015, vision screening through Education) has been conducted in 63 schools, 6LQFHWKHODXQFKRIWKHSURMHFWLQ1RYHPEHU testing over 35,984 school children and 2014, awareness sessions have been donating 2,812 spectacles, resulting conducted across all sectors of the John LQ D FXPXODWLYH SURMHFW WRWDO RI  Keells Group. Over 5,026 employees have ŗ0\YLVLRQLVUHDOO\EDG,FDQŖWVHHOHWWHUV spectacles. directly beneﬁtted during the year. External or read without wearing glasses. With sessions were also initiated, beneﬁtting 3,156 these spectacles, I can now look forward John Keells HIV and AIDS Awareness persons. In addition, the following initiatives WRP\GUHDPRIEHFRPLQJDWHDFKHUŘ Campaign were undertaken during the year; Awareness sessions for this campaign $UHFLSLHQWRIH\HJODVVHVDWWKH6FKRRO were phased commencing with staff of the š &KLOG $EXVH $ZDUHQHVV IRU D WRWDO RI 6FUHHQLQJ3URJUDPPH John Keells Group, and gradually extending 2,389 school children of the Colombo, to include both corporate and public third Anuradhapura, Trincomalee and parties. Mullaitivu Districts in partnership with As Sri Lanka reports a high backlog of Sri Lanka Girl Guides Association and surgeries due to the lack of resources, the The Grassrooted Trust. SURMHFW ZDV LQLWLDWHG WR SULPDULO\ VSRQVRU cataract surgeries for disadvantaged persons across the island. During the year in review: š $WRWDORIH\HFDPSVDQGFDWDUDFW clinics were conducted in all 9 provinces, resulting in the completion of 2,049 cataract surgeries. The cumulative number of cataract surgeries since SURMHFWODXQFKLQLV š $ZDUHQHVV Ĳ\HUV ZHUH GLVWULEXWHG WR all cataract patients sponsored by the Foundation, detailing post-surgery instructions and best practices. š 7KH 6FKRRO 6FUHHQLQJ 3URJUDPPH ZDV newly undertaken by the Foundation in collaboration with the Ministry of Health and Ceylon Cold Stores PLC, involving &KLOGDEXVHSUHYHQWLRQDZDUHQHVVIRUVWXGHQWVRI1HLJKERXUKRRG6FKRROV 70 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information š 3DUWQHULQJ ZLWK 7KH $VLD )RXQGDWLRQ to improve police services related to violence against women and children at the Puthukudiyiruppu (PTK) Police Station. During the reporting year, 46 officers from the Mullaitivu SSP Division were provided gender sensitisation training of whom 35 officers were also SURYLGHG D ŗ7UDLQ WKH 7UDLQHUVŘ NQRZ how on conducting effective outreach programmes for community members with the potential to beneﬁt an estimated 23, 827 community members in the PTK Police area. Infrastructure development work is also in progress to make the Women’s and Children's Desk at PTK Police Station a more suitable space. %HQHıFLDULHVRIWKHOLYHVWRFNLQLWLDWLYHLQ0RUDZHZD activities including those highlighted below the beneﬁts derived for the farmers include undertaken during the reporting year: increasing their levels of income, providing an ŗ,W LV YHU\ LPSRUWDQW WKDW VRFLHW\ LV ZHOO assured market for quality produce, technical educated in this regard as this has š 3URYLGLQJDFFHVVWRFOHDQDQGVDIHZDWHU assistance, exposure to developed markets become a global issue. This programme and improving their quality of life and living š 3URYLGLQJ LQIUDVWUXFWXUH DQG RWKHU standards. is thought provoking and has a very good facilities for education. LPSDFWRQSDUWLFLSDQWVŘ Slave Island Railway Station š )DFLOLWDWLQJ WKH GHYHORSPHQW RI V. Weerasingham During the reporting year, the Foundation sustainable and diversiﬁed livelihoods )DFLOLWDWRU3URMHFW:$9( continued to refurbish and maintain the Slave and income generation by providing Island Railway Station. It is estimated that capacity building and entrepreneurship over 599,394 commuters have beneﬁtted support. from renovations made during the year. Emergency and Accident Unit at the š &RQGXFWLQJ JHQGHU DQG \RXWK Batticaloa Teaching Hospital Arts and Culture empowerment initiatives. The John Keells Group pledged a platinum John Keells believes in safeguarding and sponsorship of Rs.26 million towards this promoting the cultural heritage of Sri Lanka SURMHFWZKLFKZLOOSURYLGHDSRSXODWLRQRIRYHU via increased engagement and exposure to one million persons living in the Batticaloa the arts, whilst also boosting the opportunities District, as well as parts of the Trincomalee and livelihoods of artists. and Ampara districts, to receive short and ŗ, DP YHU\ WKDQNIXO WR -RKQ .HHOOV IRU long term emergency medical attention. The providing me with this cow which I can Kala Pola SURMHFWLQYROYHVFRQVWUXFWLRQRIDWKUHHVWRUH\ use to provide for my family as well as Sri Lanka’s highly popular open-air hospital building with three operating theatres XVHWKHH[FHVVPLONWRHDUQDQLQFRPHŘ art exhibition is an annual event which dedicated to emergency and accident use and attracts numerous artists from across the vision care. Nyanasir Erandavaraani island. Conceptualised by The George Keyt &DWWOHEHQHıFLDU\LQ,UDQDLSDODL )RXQGDWLRQ WKH .DOD 3ROD KDV HQMR\HG WKH Community and Livelihood Development Mullaitivu unbroken patronage of the John Keells Group The John Keells Group reaches out to the for 22 successive years. Kala Pola 2016 communities surrounding its operations showcased 308 artists, generating over Rs.13 through constructive dialogue with )RU IXUWKHU GHWDLOV RQ WKLV SURMHFW UHIHU WKH million in sales and attracting over 22,300 stakeholders, translating into a range of John Keells Foundation website and the visitors. community service initiatives that foster Supplementary section of this Report. the spirit of entrepreneurship as a key to Sri Lanka Art Gallery sustainable development. Sustainable Sourcing Initiatives This is the ﬁrst and only free corporate digital This is one of the Group’s largest and most art gallery for Sri Lankan artists, which acts Village Adoption VXFFHVVIXO VXVWDLQDEOH SURMHFWV ZLWK PDQ\ as a virtual platform throughout the year. This is a key initiative of John Keells VXESURMHFWV7KH&RQVXPHU)RRGVDQG5HWDLO 7KH PDLQ ZHEVLWH ŗ6UL /DQNDQ $UW *DOOHU\Ř Foundation aimed at poverty alleviation sector sources a variety of low country and DOVRKRVWVWKHŗ-RKQ.HHOOV$UW*DOOHU\ŘZKLFK at village level through a sustainable and up country vegetables from farming families is a platform for selected art by a panel of integrated development programme. Its in various parts of the country, beneﬁting curators who are experts in the ﬁeld. As at 31 scope covers a wide range of development hundreds of farmer families. In each case, March 2016, 365 artists were registered with 71 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review CAPITAL MANAGEMENT REVIEW the Sri Lankan Art Gallery and the work of 18 Artists selected by a team of curators was on view at the curated site, John Keells Art Gallery. The site contains 663 artwork pieces for display and purchase. During the reporting year, approximately 22,026 visitors visited the site. Disaster Relief John Keells provides relief to victims of natural and man-made disasters, helping them rebuild their lives and livelihoods. Nepal Earthquake Subsequent to the devastating earthquake which struck Nepal in April 2015, the Group donated three hospital tents to an Army hospital which was damaged by the 6LJQLıFDQWHPSKDVLVZDVSODFHGRQV\VWHPDWLFDOO\H[HFXWLQJWKHŗ&LQQDPRQŘEUDQGVWUDWHJ\ earthquake. In addition to the above discussed CSR The Group is home to many brands which “believes initiatives, during the year under review, have gained recognition in their respective John Keells Foundation held a Partner The Group strongly spheres over many years. The range of Felicitation event to celebrate its partners brands under each of the industry groups are and collaborators over the years, and also that Intellectual depicted in the Organisational Structure of launched its own website on 28 March 2016 Capital is a vital source of this Report. In addition to routine strategies which coincided with the 11th anniversary of executed by each of the businesses to the Foundation's registration. competitive advantage, strengthen their respective brands, the which, in the long term, will Leisure industry group has placed signiﬁcant Concluding the Group’s Social and emphasis on systematically executing the result in a value premium ŗ&LQQDPRQŘEUDQGVWUDWHJ\7KHGHYHORSPHQW Relationship Capital Review, the section which follows discusses the sixth aspect of Capital for JKH through innovation of an A-Z manual on the brands’ positioning Management, this being the Intellectual and disruption of business XQGHUWKH&LQQDPRQXPEUHOODDQGLQKRXVH Capital. development of lifestyle related activities models and ultimately and events aimed at communicating the Intellectual Capital Review serving the needs of an &LQQDPRQ YLEH ZHUH VRPH RI WKH NH\ initiatives undertaken during the year. evolving and emerging ” The Group strongly believes that Intellectual Capital is a vital source of competitive consumer. During the year under review, the Group advantage, which, in the long term, will result HPEDUNHG RQ D MRXUQH\ RI LGHQWLI\LQJ in a value premium for JKH through innovation emerging or current disruptive business and disruption of business models and LQQRYDWLRQ 7KLV LQLWLDWLYH WLWOHG ŗ'LVUXSW ultimately serving the needs of an evolving together with the Human Genetics Unit (HGU)  ş 7KH 'LJLWDO ,PSHUDWLYHŘ IRFXVVHV and emerging consumer. Where possible and of the Colombo Medical Faculty, submitted on developing the digital quotient (DQ) of relevant, the Group strives to dynamically its ﬁrst research publication and is awaiting individuals and businesses. This is believed manage its Intellectual Capital, interweaving DFFHSWDQFH IURP WKH -RXUQDO ŗ1DWXUH to increase the productivity and efficiency of it to the Group’s strategic management 6FLHQWLıF5HSRUWVŘRQDSURMHFWUHODWLQJWRWKH businesses through the employment of digital process. Following are the key components sequencing of the entire genome of a variety technologies and disruptive business models, of the Group’s Intellectual Capital. Refer to the RI ULFH NQRZQ DV ŗ*RGD 9HHŘ $GGLWLRQDOO\ which in turn would create sustainable value Industry Group Review section of the Report since its inception, JKR has made signiﬁcant to stakeholders. for further details. headway through many innovations and LQLWLDWLRQV RI UHVHDUFK SURMHFWV UHODWLQJ WR While concluding the Group Capital Whilst the Group undertakes research and unique energy storage material, productive Management Review, the ensuing sections development at the business unit level, utilisation of ﬁsh waste, advanced materials will discuss the overall strategy and outlook John Keells Research (JKR), the research and nanotechnology, amongst others. for the Group, followed by a materiality and and development arm of the Group, JKR currently collaborates with leading risk management discussion. was established in an attempt to create universities and research institutes in Sri sustainable value through innovation to /DQND DQG DOVR KDV SURMHFWV ZLWK D OHDGLQJ enhance the Intellectual Capital base of the research institute in India and a university in Group. Currently, as a lead initiative, JKR, the United States. 72 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Group Consolidated Review OUTLOOK Following is a discussion on the economic The pressure on the exchange rate is which will come into stream in the next two outlook for Sri Lanka in the short to medium expected to continue in the short term due years. These expansions, coupled with the term, the high level impacts to our businesses to the widening trade deﬁcit, growing private enhancements in the dealer management and the overall business strategy of the Group. sector credit, falling export earnings and systems, are expected to increase productivity For a detailed discussion on the strategy and the continued outﬂows as described before. and efficiency of operations. The Group’s outlook for each industry group, refer the However, the pressure on the Rupee should Retail sector will continue to roll out stores Industry Group Review section of this Report. ease with the conﬁdence exuded through the in strategically placed locations and sees IMF facility and the possibility of the GoSL potential for further growth considering The Sri Lankan economy is expected to raising further funds via the international the low penetration of modern retail in the FRQWLQXH LWV JURZWK WUDMHFWRU\ DOEHLW DW D capital markets on the back of the IMF country. Retail will also focus on centralising slower pace compared to the immediate support. Whilst the depreciation of the Rupee its distribution network in the medium term to post-conﬂict era. The year under review negatively impacted businesses with higher maximise on operational efficiencies. was dominated by governance related reliance on imported inputs, the Group also changes initiated by the new leaders post the beneﬁtted through its individual subsidiaries The Leisure industry group is well positioned Presidential Election held in January 2015 which have direct, and indirect, dollar to capitalise on the growth momentum of and the General Elections held in August denominated income streams. The Group’s tourist arrivals to the country under the 2015. The lack of ﬁrmness in economic policy ULVNVWUDWHJ\RIPDLQWDLQLQJŗQDWXUDOKHGJHVŘ XPEUHOOD RI WKH ŗ&LQQDPRQŘ EUDQG 7KH and taxations reforms, balance of payment where relevant and feasible will mitigate, growth momentum of arrivals is expected to SUHVVXUHV ORZ SULFHV IRU 6UL /DQNDŖV PDMRU to a great extent, the volatility arising from continue given the favourable fundamentals exports, exchange rate pressures and the possible ﬂuctuations in the exchange rate. of the tourism offering in Sri Lanka, such as downgrading of Sri Lanka’s sovereign credit diverse experiences within close proximity, rating from BBto B+ were key factors which Implementation of the tax reforms, which is increasing awareness of the destination, resulted in deferral of investments with a key element, amongst others, in the IMF stability in the country, increasing ﬂight LQYHVWRUVDGRSWLQJDŗZDLWDQGVHHŘDSSURDFK facility would also help in strengthening connectivity and gradually improving tourism predictability, easing the tax administration, LQIUDVWUXFWXUH ŗ&LQQDPRQŘ LV SRVLWLRQHG In recent times, the Government of Sri Lanka broadening the tax net and improving to capture the higher spending customers (GoSL) has made several announcements collection. The GoSL has already signalled its through differentiated products and services on the direction of its economic policy and intent in this regard by increasing the VAT rate in line with its brand promise. In addition, the has also obtained an IMF facility, principally from 11 per cent to 15 per cent, lowering the branding initiative aims to further streamline to plug budget deﬁcits. The economic policy VAT thresholds and limiting VAT exemptions all processes, policies and standards within pronouncements signal its desire to exit to a few essential services and items. the Leisure industry group in contributing investments in non-core public owned to a more effective management of room interests and to enable private sector driven The Consumer Foods sector will continue to inventory, yield management, enhanced investments both directly and through public focus on expanding its portfolio, remaining guest experiences and in deriving synergies private sector partnerships. This augurs well relevant to its consumers and widening its on common costs which lend themselves for the private sector, in general, and for our footprint by staying ahead of the market to centralisation. Further, in the medium to Group, in particular. The details of the policies through understanding consumer trends long term, the opportunity of the Meetings, and timelines in this regard are expected to and needs, as the Group has done in the past. Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions be announced during the latter half of the Whilst volume growth in the ensuing year may (MICE) market, particularly from India, will calendar year 2016. see a slight moderation from the very high enable the Group to attract the high spending growth witnessed in 2015/16, the long term segment of tourists which Sri Lanka has The fears of the increasing pressure on the growth potential for the business remains hitherto been unable to satisfy. To this end, balance of payments due to the widening strong considering the low penetration levels ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ LV XQLTXHO\ SODFHG WR FDWHU trade deﬁcit, uncertainty surrounding worker in the country. Considering the strong growth towards the emerging requirements of the remittances because of the continuing in the previous year and the anticipated contemporary tourist and the increasing tensions in the Middle East and capital growth in the ensuing year, the sector will MICE traffic, positioning Colombo as a hub for outﬂows resulting from debt servicing and undertake sizeable capacity enhancements business and leisure travel. anticipated policy actions of the US Fed will be partially alleviated by the still relatively ORZHU DYHUDJH RLO SULFHV SURMHFWHG IRU  “expanding against the average prices in 2015 and before. In addition, the anticipated renewal of The Consumer Foods sector will continue to focus on the GSP Plus preferential tariff system from the European Union in 2016, will be a positive its portfolio, remaining relevant to its consumers factor for exports. The greater acceptance of and widening its footprint by staying ahead of the market Sri Lanka by the international community, due through understanding consumer trends and needs, as the ” to the proximity to India and the increasing number of ﬂights to Sri Lanka from China, are Group has done in the past. likely to drive tourist numbers and this will have a multiplier effect on the local economy. 73 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review OUTLOOK Given the strategic location of the country and “Transportation the inherent advantage Sri Lanka possesses as a maritime hub, the Logistics, Ports and Opportunities in the Bunkering businesses are expected to beneﬁt from the increase in traffic with further industry infrastructure expected to support this group will continue to be traffic. Opportunities in the Transportation industry group will continue to be evaluated, evaluated, particularly particularly considering any opportunities considering any opportunities based on the Government’s interests in private-public partnerships, such as with based on the Government’s the East Container Terminal of the Port of interests in private-public Colombo and bunkering at Hambantota. partnerships, such as with However, given the slowdown in global trade and decline in commodity prices, Shipping, the East Container Terminal Bunkering and Ports will be impacted, in the of the Port of Colombo and ” immediate term, throughout the world and this could be a challenge for Sri Lanka in the bunkering at Hambantota. near term. The Property industry group will continue to look for unique product propositions within the residential property market, on the back groups such as Leisure and CF&R, which of the Group’s sizeable land bank and by contribute signiﬁcantly to the Group’s total leveraging on its reputation as a leading energy and water usage. The Group will developer in entering into partnerships with strive to outperform selected international land owners. benchmarks for carbon footprints, energy consumption and water usage, whilst also The Insurance business will continue to seeking to better its own performance on the capitalise on the opportunities made available said aspects. by the signiﬁcantly low, life insurance penetration within the country, leveraging The Group will also continue to integrate its risk on its strong brand presence, cost efficient management process with its sustainability processes and differentiated offerings, strategy through consistent tracking and whilst Nations Trust Bank, although facing reporting of key risk indicators on areas challenges with the narrowing of net interest such as green-house gas emissions, talent margins, will continue to leverage on its attrition, third party claims, non-compliance renowned customer service, brand promise and stakeholder concerns with regards to and delivery network, which will strategically the Group’s operations. While maintaining focus on increasing market share in the SME the robust sustainability performance sector. management framework, the Group will also work to ensure that sustainability and In the forthcoming year, the Group will risk management practices are further embark on a target setting process for key entrenched across its signiﬁcant value material impacts such as carbon and water, chain partners through the implementation against baseline ﬁgures. The targets will be of responsible sourcing practices, where set based on systematic audits, assessments practical and relevant. and benchmarking carried out for industry 74 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Group Consolidated Review STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT This year’s Annual Report theme and reporting framework is centred on providing our stakeholders with a balanced report with “theThe Group vision of “Building businesses that are leaders in region” is the cornerstone of all resource allocation, portfolio further insight into the integrated manner evaluation and operational decisions of the business units. in which the Group makes decisions and focusses on the overall direction of the Group. In pursuing its vision, the Group is mindful of the governing As such, the Strategy, Resource Allocation and principles founding the strategies and initiatives planned, Portfolio Management section comprises of implemented and being implemented towards achieving the ” the following aspects: medium to long term objectives of the Group. š 6WUDWHJ\RIWKH*URXS š 5HVRXUFH DOORFDWLRQ DQG SRUWIROLR management š 3RUWIROLRPRYHPHQWV a framework of delegated decision rights/ bi-annually or as and when a situation so authority matrix as approved by the Group demands. Strategy Executive Committee/Board of Directors, as applicable, in ensuring speed of decision This exercise entails the following key 7KH*URXSYLVLRQRIŗ%XLOGLQJEXVLQHVVHVWKDW making, accountability and agility in aspects, among others. DUHOHDGHUVLQWKHUHJLRQŘLVWKHFRUQHUVWRQHRI responding to the needs of the market. Given all resource allocation, portfolio evaluation and the vastness of the Group and the multiple š 3URJUHVV DQG GHYLDWLRQ UHSRUW RI WKH operational decisions of the business units. In management layers within it, agendas, scope strategies formed in the prior year and pursuing its vision, the Group is mindful of the and role of these committees/positions are current year governing principles founding the strategies carefully structured to ensure the efficient š &RPSHWLWRU DQDO\VLV DQG FRPSHWLWLYH and initiatives planned, implemented and ﬂow of information, implementation of positioning being implemented towards achieving the strategic initiatives, minimisation of the š $QDO\VLVRINH\ULVNVDQGRSSRUWXQLWLHV PHGLXPWRORQJWHUPREMHFWLYHVRIWKH*URXS duplication of effort and adherence to the These principles are primarily; a stakeholder Group’s values. š 0DQDJHPHQW RI VWDNHKROGHUV VXFK DV focussed business model, corporate suppliers and customers governance philosophy which emphasises The Group Executive Committee, which gets š 9DOXH HQKDQFHPHQW WKURXJK LQLWLDWLYHV performance in addition to compliance its high level direction from the Board and centred on the various forms of Capital and conformance, risk identiﬁcation and has a macro focus of the overall direction under an integrated reporting framework management based on an enterprise risk of the Group, is accountable for the overall management framework and a sustainability performance of varied businesses/sectors/ The strategies of the various business units development framework which are all in line industry groups, and act as enablers of the operating in diverse industries and markets with international best practice. Operating Model of the Group. The support will always revolve around the Group strategy, functions at the Centre complement and while considering their domain speciﬁc As evident from the past, the Group strives assist, the businesses through a common factors. The prime focus always is to enhance to constantly align its portfolio of businesses pool of knowledge, if and when required, value for all stakeholders. with the growth sectors of the economy, which is continuously updated in line with both current and futuristic, and continuously new information and technologies. These endeavours to ensure that capital resources knowledge centres are able to complement are efficiently employed in a manner that the resources at the business level, as will expand the reach of the portfolio, ensure required from time to time, and are an “synergies relevance and give the ability to compete effective synergising force across the Group. at the relevant levels, both globally and In this manner, the inherent horizontal The inherent horizontal LQWHUQDWLRQDOO\ ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ LV RQH VXFK synergies between business units are further between initiative towards this end. The Consumer augmented by the vertical synergies enabled by the centralised Group knowledge/skills business units are Foods and Retail, Leisure, Financial Services and Transportation industry groups are poised repository. The Operating Model of the Group further augmented by to grow in the medium to long term in a local is designed to create a value premium where the vertical synergies economic environment which is expected the Group as a whole, creates more value to be progressive and also in the region in to JKH stakeholders than the sum of each enabled by the centralised industries where we have accumulated business taken individually. Group knowledge/skills ” competence. Strategy mapping exercises, concentrating on repository. The above described outcomes are facilitated the short, medium and long term aspirations by an Operating Model where each business of each business, are conducted annually unit is granted operational autonomy within and reviewed, at a minimum, quarterly/ 75 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT When allocating funds for various “areAllregularly LQYHVWPHQWV WKH SURMHFW HYDOXDWLRQ PRGHO discussed in detail in the ensuing sections, verticals and businesses within each industry group strives to strike a balance between optimising assessed on key dimensions such as customer immediate portfolio returns while preserving WKHPHGLXPWRORQJWHUPREMHFWLYHV orientation and bargaining power, supplier concentration and power, JV partner affiliations and dependence, cyclicality, During 2015/16, the Group encouraged all regulatory structure, performance against the industry and EXVLQHVVHVWRHQJDJHLQŗGLVUXSWLYHLQQRYDWLRQŘ aimed at challenging the traditional ways Sri Lankan economy and economic, procedural, regulatory or of doing business by utilising current and technological factors that obstruct or restrict operations, entry ” emerging technology. The ﬁrst phase of this initiative aims at increasing the digital or exit of both the unit and competitors. quotient (DQ) of individuals and businesses, particularly through the increased awareness of digital technologies and disruptive business Regular Assessment of Risk and Reward review, the hurdle rate has not been revised models. The initial outcomes of this initiative All verticals and businesses within each on the basis that it is a long term target, and are very encouraging. industry group are regularly assessed on key any revision would be warranted only if the dimensions such as customer orientation and above factors are expected to change over the Further details on the strategy formulation bargaining power, supplier concentration and long term. and decision making process can be power, JV partner affiliations and dependence, found under the Corporate Governance cyclicality, regulatory structure, performance Even though this hurdle rate is utilised as the Commentary of this Report. Group-wide against the industry and Sri Lankan economy initial benchmark rate in evaluating feasibility strategies are discussed in detail under the and economic, procedural, regulatory or DQG RSSRUWXQLW\ LQ DOO SURMHFWV RI WKH *URXS Strategy and Outlook section of each of the technological factors that obstruct or restrict SURMHFW VSHFLıF PRGLıHUV DUH DOVR XVHG LQ industry group reviews. operations, entry or exit of both the unit and RUGHUWRJHWDKROLVWLFYLHZRIWKHSURMHFWXQGHU competitors etcetera. consideration. As such, a country speciﬁc risk “strikeTheaGroup modiﬁer would be applied for investments aims to The capital structures for new ventures are with a high proportion of foreign currency stress tested under varied scenarios, which investment costs and operational cash ﬂows balance between often leads to taking proactive measures, WKURXJK WKH XVH RI D SURMHFW VSHFLıF FRVW optimising immediate particularly in managing potential foreign of debt and foreign currency denominated exchange risks during both the development equity return benchmarks commensurate portfolio returns against ” and operating phases. Further, ongoing with the investment, which in turn would be the returns in the future. SURMHFWVDUHUHJXODUO\WHVWHGDQGHYDOXDWHGLQ FRPSDUDWLYHO\DQDO\VHGDJDLQVWSURMHFWVZLWK partnership with independent and recognised similar risk proﬁles. Resource Allocation and Portfolio SDUWLHV WR HQVXUH FOHDU LPSDUWLDO MXGJPHQW Management on matters relating to capital structure, Conceptualising Portfolio Performance economic implications and key risks. The Group aims to strike a balance between Resource allocation and portfolio optimising immediate portfolio returns management is an imperative action in JKH’s Hurdle Rate/Required Rate of Return against the returns in the future. As such, creating value to all stakeholders through The present hurdle rate of JKH is at 15 per emphasis is placed on both return generating evaluation of the Group’s fundamentals, which cent which is a function of the Weighted capabilities of the business against its capital are centred on the forms of Capital. Whilst Average Cost of Capital (WACC). The WACC is employed and the earnings potential of the the Group is presented with opportunities derived from the Group’s cost of equity, cost EXVLQHVVRUSURMHFW)XUWKHUWRWKHGLVFXVVLRQ in diverse industries, it continues to follow of debt, target capital structure, tax rates and in the Group Consolidated Review section of its four-step, successful and structured the value creation premium required over and this Report, the ensuing section discusses the methodology indicated below in evaluating its above the WACC. Whilst the cost of debt has return on capital employed (ROCE) under two portfolio and thereby guiding investment and increased towards the end of the period under key modiﬁers. divestment decisions. Cornerstone of the Evaluates the industry Evaluates the long term Considers factors such decision criteria based on attractiveness and growth competitive advantage of a as senior management the JKH hurdle rate potential based on the business/industry by closely time and the risk to brand Financial ﬁlter Growth ﬁlter Strategic ﬁt Complexity ﬁlter industry lifecycle evaluating the competitive image and reputation forces, speciﬁc industry/ LQFRQMXQFWLRQZLWKWKH business risks, ability to anticipated returns control value drivers and the competencies and critical success factors inherent to the Group 76 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Modiﬁer I – Adjustment for land re-allocations to the Sri Lankan Resorts segment is excluded Modiﬁer II – Adjustment for investment Properties that are not under the operational as such properties constitute the land bank property and revaluations banner of the non-property related business of the sector for future hotel developments. Properties which have been re-rated in units, and are excess to their current and The properties re-allocated will be a part of keeping with the principle of fair value foreseeable operational requirements, have DŗSURSHUW\SOD\ŘDQGSODQVIRUGHYHORSPHQW DFFRXQWLQJ KDYH EHHQ DGMXVWHG IRU WKH been allocated to the Property industry and operation are the responsibility of the preceding three years in order to obtain a group along with the corresponding income. 3URSHUW\ LQGXVWU\ JURXS ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ LV clear and un-skewed view of the ROCE. However, it is noted that real estate belonging recognised as a stand-alone play. 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 ROCE after ROCE after ROCE after Unadjusted ROCE ROCE after Industry Group/Sector/Segment Modiﬁer I and II Modiﬁer I and II Modiﬁer I and II (%) Modiﬁer I (%) (%) (%) (%) Hotel Management 74.4 74.4 74.4 87.4 107.5 City Hotels 7.7 8.0 10.1 14.6 18.6 Sri Lankan Resorts 7.0 7.0 8.1 8.9 8.9 Destination Management 46.2 46.2 46.2 34.8 34.5 Maldivian Resorts 9.7 9.7 9.7 13.3 13.2 Transportation 16.0 16.1 16.1 15.3 16.1 Consumer Foods 53.6 54.6 65.0 51.4 17.7 Retail 61.6 61.6 61.8 30.8 14.7 Financial Services 24.2 24.2 24.5 29.3 22.6 Property (Excl. Cinnamon Life) 23.4 18.5 19.5 18.6 8.7 Cinnamon Life (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) 0.0 Information Technology 6.8 6.8 6.8 15.3 15.2 Plantation Services 1.5 1.6 0.8 9.3 20.1 7KHDGMXVWHG52&(IROORZLQJWKHDERYHWZRPRGLıHUVLVJUDSKLFDOO\GHSLFWHGEHORZ Adjusted ROCE (%) 80 Hotel Management 74.4 Consumer Foods 65.0 70 Retail 61.8 60 Destination 50 Management 46.2 40 Financial Services 24.5 30 Property (Excl. Waterfront) 19.5 Transportation 16.1 20 City Hotels 10.1 Maldivian Resorts 9.7 SL Resorts -8.1 Hurdle Rate 15.0 Information 10 Technology 6.8 Plantation Services 0.8 Waterfront (0.2) 0 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100 (Rs. billion) Adjusted effective average capital employed 77 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Key highlights of the graph are discussed in 15.3 per cent in the previous year. This “notProperties the ensuing section. increase stemmed from a marginal increase in EBIT and a decline in the asset base as that are The City Hotels sector underperformed discussed under the Transportation industry mainly on account of the partial closure of group review. under the operational Cinnamon Lakeside during the ﬁrst half of the banner of the non-property \HDU$VVXFKWKHDGMXVWHG52&(GHFOLQHGWR The Property industry group, excluding 10.1 per cent [2014/15: 14.6 per cent]. The ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ ZLWQHVVHG DQ LQFUHDVH LQ related business units, DGMXVWHG 52&( RI WKH 6UL /DQNDQ 5HVRUWV DGMXVWHG 52&( WR  SHU FHQW IURP  and are excess to its segment declined marginally to 8.1 per cent per cent. The said increase is on account of a current and foreseeable [2014/15: 8.9 per cent] mainly on account of decreased asset base, particularly due to the a provision in accordance with the Budgetary repayment of bridge ﬁnancing loans obtained operational needs, have Relief Allowance Workers Act and an from John Keells Residential Properties (for been included under the ” unrealised exchange valuation loss on the US OnThree20) and the double digit growth in EBIT Dollar loans. It is pertinent that, as part of its in the Real Estate sector. However, it is noted Property segment. future expansion plans, the asset base of the that the largest contributor to industry group Sri Lanka Resorts sector includes a large land (%,7 VWHPPHG IURP WKH ŗWK 6HQVHŘ SURMHFW bank earmarked for development of hotel on Gregory’s Road. As deﬁned above under properties. For further details on the land ŗPRGLıHU Ř SURSHUWLHV WKDW DUH QRW XQGHU bank refer the Group Real Estate Portfolio the operational banner of the non-property Incurrence of marketing and promotional section of this Report. related business units, and are excess to its expenditure which cannot be capitalised current and foreseeable operational needs, DV SURMHFW FRVWV SDUWLFXODUO\ UHODWLQJ WR WKH The Hotel Management sector and the have been included under this segment. IRUPDO ODXQFK RI WKH ŗ:DWHUIURQWŘ SURMHFW Destination Management sector recorded Despite the re-rating of the properties under DV ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ UHVXOWHG LQ DQ DGMXVWHG ROCEs well above the hurdle rate. However, this segment, the Group is of the view that ROCE of -0.2 per cent, similar to the previous the Hotel Management sector ROCE witnessed WKHUHLVDODJHĳHFWLQUHWXUQVDGMXVWLQJIRUWKH \HDU 1RWH WKDW DOO SURMHFW UHODWHG FRVWV DGHFOLQHLQWKHDGMXVWHG52&(WRSHUFHQW increased capital base of such properties and unless explicitly mentioned as above, are in comparison to the previous year [2014/15: thus warrants it impossible to employ such capitalised in accordance with Sri Lanka 87.4 per cent] mainly on account of expenditure properties in immediate return generating Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS). incurred on the property management system SURMHFWV+HQFHVXFKUHYDOXDWLRQVDVGHıQHG Additionally, it is highlighted that the revenue rolled out across the hotels and resorts in XQGHUŗPRGLıHUŘKDYHEHHQDGMXVWHGIRULQ IURP WKH ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ SURMHFW ZLOO RQO\ the prior year and related depreciation. The FDOFXODWLQJWKHDGMXVWHG52&( be recognised post the commencement of Maldivian Resorts segment has been included operations. in the aforementioned graph and the ROCE 8QOLNH WKH DQDO\VLV GRQH RQ DGMXVWHG 52&( analysis, to ensure capturing of all sectors/ under the Group Consolidated Review section The Consumer Foods sector experienced an industry groups. As evident, the return of the of the Report, debt and equity infused in to LQFUHDVH LQ WKH DGMXVWHG 52&( WR  SHU segment at 9.7 per cent is below the Rupee ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ KDYH QRW EHHQ DGMXVWHG cent from 51.4 per cent in the previous year. hurdle rate. However, it should be noted that DV WKH SURMHFW LV VHSDUDWHO\ HYDOXDWHG LQ WKH This increase was facilitated by an increase the return generated from the Maldivian ensuing section. in proﬁtability which was driven by higher Resorts segment should be appraised against volumes, improved cost management and a return of a comparable Dollar ﬁnanced asset As at 31 March 2016, a cumulative ﬁgure of efficient execution and management of the as opposed to the Group Rupee hurdle rate of Rs.10.66 billion of cash equity and Rs.11.14 dealer and distributor network. 15 per cent which is based on the Rupee risk ELOOLRQ RI GHEW ZDV LQIXVHG WR ŗ&LQQDPRQ free rate. /LIHŘ WR ıQDQFH WKH GHYHORSPHQW FRVWV RI The Retail sector also experienced a signiﬁcant WKH SURMHFW 7KH DIRUHPHQWLRQHG FDVK HTXLW\ increase in proﬁtability owing to increased 7KH DGMXVWHG 52&( RI 7UDQVSRUWDWLRQ LQYHVWPHQW DW ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ H[FOXGHV WKH footfall, coupled with incremental turnover marginally increased to 16.1 per cent from land transferred by JKH and its subsidiaries. from new outlets. The higher absorption of ﬁxed overheads, given the signiﬁcant growth in the scale of the business, resulted in an improvement in EBIT margins for the sector. “theDespite the re-rating of the properties under this segment, Group is of the view that there is a lag effect in returns $VVXFKWKHDGMXVWHG52&(LQFUHDVHGWR per cent [2014/15: 30.8 per cent] despite an increase in capital employed resulting from adjusting for the increased capital base of such properties the opening of six new outlets. and thus warrants it impossible to employ such properties in The Financial Services sector recorded an immediate return generating projects. Hence such revaluations, DGMXVWHG 52&( RI  SHU FHQW FRPSDUHG to 29.3 per cent recorded in the previous as deﬁned under “modiﬁer 2”, have been adjusted for in ﬁnancial year. The previous year’s ROCE calculating the adjusted ROCE. ” computations include a capital gain on the 78 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information disposal of the General Insurance business, \HDU7KHORZHUDGMXVWHG52&(LVDUHVXOWRI DQGH[FOXGLQJWKLVWKHDGMXVWHG52&(IRUWKH a decrease in EBIT stemming from weak previous year was 18.8 per cent. demand on the back of economic uncertainty and political unrest in some of the key tea 7KH DGMXVWHG 52&( RI WKH ,QIRUPDWLRQ importing countries. Low oil prices during the Technology industry group declined to 6.8 year also impacted the demand for tea from per cent [2014/15: 15.3 per cent] primarily the Middle East. stemming from a decreased EBIT, as against last year. This was mainly on account of a As shown in the graph above, the Consumer SURıW UHYHUVDO RI WKH VDOH RI ŗ=KDUD +6Ř D Foods and Retail industry group and the web based hotel management software, and Financial Services industry group have a bad debt provision stemming from the BPO exceeded the return thresholds of the Group business. An increase in promotional and whilst expanding their respective capital marketing expenses coupled with an increase bases. These businesses are poised to grow in working capital of the Office Automation in the medium term due to encouraging business impacted the industry group EBIT economic conditions and are expected to play and asset base, respectively. a pivotal role in driving proﬁtability within the Group’s portfolio. 7KHDGMXVWHG52&(RIWKH3ODQWDWLRQV6HUYLFHV sector declined to 0.8 per cent compared to 9.3 per cent recorded in the previous ﬁnancial Portfolio Movements Portfolio movements over the past ﬁve years are illustrated by the graph below. Capital Employed (Rs. billion) 200 180 160 140 120 100 80 60 40 20 0 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2015/16 Transportation Leisure Property Consumer Foods Financial Information Other including and Retail Services Technology Plantation Services 79 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review STRATEGY, RESOURCE ALLOCATION AND PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT Signiﬁcant Movements of the Portfolio and in Capital Employed 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Invested Rs.1.02 billion in JKH raised Rs.23.10 billion Invested Rs.113 million in Saffron Invested Rs.4.73 billion in subscribing to the Rights Issue of through a Rights issue to fund Aviation (Private) Limited, the operating Waterfront Properties (Private) Keells Foods Products PLC. The the equity contribution of the company of the domestic aviation Limited proceeds were utilised to fund the :DWHUIURQW3URMHFW operation Cinnamon Air acquisition of D & W Foods Limited Invested Rs.224 million in Saffron KHL invested Rs.899 million in Invested Rs.100 million in John Keells Invested Rs.243 million in Aviation (Private) Limited, the the ITHL Rights Issue to infuse Properties Ja-ela (Private) Limited Saffron Aviation (Private) Limited, operating company of the domestic equity to Cinnamon Bey the operating company of the aviation operation Cinnamon Air domestic aviation operation Cinnamon Air The JKH Group invested Rs.717 JKH infused Rs.32 million Invested Rs.585 million in Waterfront JKH, together with its subsidiaries, million in the Rights Issue of Union equity to Saffron Aviation Properties (Private) Limited increased its shareholding in Investments Assurance PLC (Private) Limited which 5DMDZHOOD+ROGLQJV/LPLWHG 5+/  operates Cinnamon Air from 16.9 per cent to 51.0 per Invested Rs.98 million during KHL invested Rs.199 million for the cent. Total investment in RHL the year in Sancity Hotels, a acquisition of a 426 perch land in of Rs.1.04 billion comprises a MRLQW YHQWXUH ZLWK 6DQNHQ /DQND Nuwara Eliya release of an existing sublease (Private) Limited to construct a of land held by the JKH Group in business hotel in Colombo exchange for shares, a partial buyout from existing shareholders Invested Rs.467 million during Entered into a lease agreement with and cash infusions into RHL on a the year for the refurbishment of MOT to acquire Kekuraalhuveli Island staggered basis. Cinnamon Citadel next to Hakuraa, in the Maldives The JKH Group invested Rs.119 million in K-Zone Ja-Ela Invested Rs.1.29 billion for the balance construction of Cinnamon Bey Disposed of the 44 per cent holding JKH disposed its 24.6 per JKH disposed its 4.3 per cent stake in in Quattro FPO Solutions (Private) cent stake in Central Hospital Expolanka Holdings PLC which resulted Limited for a consideration of USD (Private) Limited for a in a capital gain of Rs.389 million. 4.5 million consideration of Rs.1.59 billion Divested a 40 per cent stake JKH divested its 49 per JKH disposed its 4.0 per cent stake in Divestments in John Keells Logistics Lanka cent stake in Information Access Engineering PLC which resulted Limited and a 60 per cent stake in Systems Associates (ISA) for a in a capital gain of Rs.593 million John Keells Logistics India consideration of Rs.384 million UAL sold a 78 per cent stake of the Union Assurance General Limited for a consideration of Rs.3.66 billion which resulted in a capital gain of Rs.1.22 billion JKH’s 100 per cent stake in Nexus Share repurchase by Asia Power Networks (Private) Limited was divested (Private) Limited resulted in a Mergers and restructuring/other to JayKay Marketing Services (Private) capital gain of Rs.82 million Limited, resulting in an amalgamation with the surviving entity being JayKay Marketing Services (Private) Limited 90.44 million shares held by JKH were repurchased by John Keells Residential Properties (JKRP) at a value of Rs.1.60 billion 24.66 million shares held by JKH were repurchased by Union Assurance PLC at a value of Rs.4.14 billion 80 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Group Consolidated Review MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS Our stakeholders' success is ours... Sustainability Integration This comprehensive management framework which was implemented ﬁve years ago is constantly updated and improved to take into “groups, The John Keells Group, which operates in seven industry has over the years placed great importance on consideration the operational requirements of the various companies of the Group. This includes Standard Operating Procedures, sustainable development. The Group has an integrated common IT platforms for tracking key sustainability indicators and key risk approach to ensuring the interlinks between its ﬁnancial indicators, internal sustainability assurance, performance and brand image, and its sound corporate as well as internal audit and external assurance processes. governance, product and service excellence, workforce development, environmental stewardship and social The Group’s sustainability performance ” is tracked on a quarterly basis, compared responsibility. against local and international benchmarks and then reported both internally and externally. This has become a proactive Group Sustainability Policy process for assessing a Group company’s sustainability performance, aiding in the š The Group will strive to conduct its activities in accordance with the highest standards identiﬁcation of areas of risk and providing of corporate best practice and in compliance with all applicable local and international management with timely information for regulatory requirements and conventions. corrective action. š The Group monitors and assesses the quality and environmental impact of its operations, services and products, whilst striving to include its supply chain partners and customers, The Group’s SMF is also synchronised with where relevant and to the extent possible. various management systems including š The Group is committed to transparency and open communication about its environmental environmental management, human and social practices in addition to its economic performance. It seeks dialogue with resources, health and safety and product its stakeholders in order to contribute to the development of global best practice, while quality, as well as to business processes such promoting the same commitment to transparency and open communication from its as risk management, internal audit, legal and partners and customers. statutory compliance and corporate social š The Group strives to be an employer of choice by providing a safe, secure and nonresponsibility initiatives. discriminatory working environment for its employees whose rights are fully safeguarded and who have equal opportunity to realise their full potential. All Group companies will As the next stage in the Group’s sustainability abide by national laws and wherever possible will strive to emulate global best practice MRXUQH\WKH*URXSLVLQWKHSURFHVVRIVHWWLQJ governing the respective industry groups, seeking continuous improvement of health and reduction targets for its carbon footprint and safety in the workplace. water withdrawal per rupees of revenue generated. Such targets are intended to be š The Group will promote good relationships with all communities of which we are a part of group-wide, with particular focus given to and enhance their quality of life and opportunities while respecting people’s culture, ways the Leisure and Consumer Foods and Retail of life and heritage. industry groups, as these are the most carbon and water-intensive industry groups. The following section provides an overview Sustainability Management Framework of the Group’s strategy of entrenching sustainability within its business operations, The Group’s Sustainability Management the policies and methodologies in place for Framework (SMF) includes strategies for sustainability reporting and deﬁning material entrenchment of sustainability, facilitated sustainability aspects, and the scope and by a sustainability organisational structure, boundaries of the sustainability content. management information processes for benchmarking, gap analysis and reporting, as well as awareness creation and sustainability assurance. 81 G4-18 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS Sustainability Integration Process Identiﬁcation of risks, opportunities and stakeholder concerns Sustainability initiatives to Sustainability “Enterprise manage areas of policy and concern, external management The Sustainability, reporting and framework awareness Sustainability Risk integration Management and Group Initiatives Division, along with the Group Executive IT platform Internal and for providing Committee and the Group external sustainability assurance management information and Sustainability Committee variance control formulates the Group sustainability strategy. ” Sustainability Organisational Structure Heads and Heads of Business Units. This internal assessments of supply chain structure is used to integrate sustainability partners. It has also commenced an annual The Sustainability, Enterprise Risk within business operations as well as to drive to create awareness through supplier Management and Group Initiatives Division, assess and develop the value chain in fora for its signiﬁcant supply chain partners, along with the Group Executive Committee sustainable practices. and has introduced a Code of Conduct for all and the Group Sustainability Committee signiﬁcant suppliers bidding for the Group’s formulates the Group sustainability The strategic planning process and annual centrally sourced goods and services. strategy. The Division is responsible for the plan cycle of Group companies are now operationalisation of the Group’s Sustainability based on a holistic approach, and include an Report Content Management Framework under which integrated strategy of considering all aspects Group companies carry out their speciﬁc of the triple bottom line whilst striving for The Report is one of the primary methods sustainability strategies and initiatives. optimised ﬁnancial performance. Business used to communicate the Group's response units identify their material impacts and to stakeholder concerns during a cycle of one The Division is also responsible for the process commit to medium term strategies to ﬁnancial year. The process of recognising by which the Group identiﬁes its signiﬁcant minimise such impacts. This has enabled the key sustainability related risks, signiﬁcant stakeholders, the identiﬁcation of materiality Group to further integrate their sustainability stakeholders, the assessment of the material issues and sharing of best practices, carrying strategies with their business strategies and aspects based on their relative importance out of risk reviews, and the overall review has created the need for business units to to both the Group and stakeholders, and and monitoring of the sustainability drive. assess the hidden costs of operations and the formation of policies and management Awareness campaigns are carried out on a include sustainability initiatives and other approaches to manage and mitigate these regular basis, with one annual Group-wide JUHHQ SURMHFWV LQWR WKHLU DQQXDO REMHFWLYHV aspects, have become an integral part of awareness campaign carried out to broadAs business unit strategies and goals are deﬁning this Report. base knowledge and inculcate a culture of aligned to triple bottom line results, employee sustainability. REMHFWLYHV DUH LQ WXUQ DOVR DOLJQHG WR WKHVH The sections of this Report titled Signiﬁcant results, enabling the Group to truly entrench Stakeholders and Engagement of Signiﬁcant The Group has in place a robust sustainability sustainability into its organisational culture. Stakeholders explain the process adopted structure overlooked by the Group Executive by the Group in determining the information Committee and the Group Sustainability In the previous year, the Group commenced a requirements of its stakeholders, prioritisation Committee, while task groups for each focussed strategy to encourage its signiﬁcant of issues and establishing materiality. The sustainability aspect are headed by a suppliers to embrace sustainability as section titled Key Sustainability Concerns, member of the Group Operating Committee. part of their operations. This integration explains the outcomes of the stakeholder Additionally, each business unit has of sustainability within its value chain is in engagement process and establishes the a dedicated Sustainability Champion its initial stages, and the Group currently relevance of the material aspects and key responsible for sustainability initiatives and has in place processes to; assess risks of sustainability indicators that the Group has overall sustainability performance, under the environmental, labour and social impacts reported on. overall supervision of their respective Sector emanating from its value chain, carry out 82 G4-22, G4-24, G4-25, G4-26 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information This is the Group’s ﬁrst Integrated Report in accordance with the Integrated Reporting Framework of the International Integrated “considering Reporting Council (IIRC). It strives to discuss the inter connections between the six forms Expectations of the Group are diverse and numerous of Capital, the Group’s Business Model and the large number of stakeholders that the ” the creation of value. As always, this Report provides a holistic overview including Group engages with. the Group’s overall strategy, corporate governance framework, risk management processes and ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial performance covering all aspects of the triple bottom line. Prior to this, the Group provided under the GRI G4 Guidelines developing and sustaining relationships with published stand-alone sustainability included in the Reporting Principles and various stakeholder groups. Expectations of reports, disclosing relevant information to Standard Disclosures and the Implementation the Group would be diverse and numerous all stakeholders. During the last three years, Manual. Such data measurement techniques, considering the large number of stakeholders the focus has shifted from a Group-centric methodologies, assumptions and estimations that the Group engages with. The Group has approach to one which provided a sectorial are detailed in the relevant Disclosures therefore considered only the stakeholders analysis and presentation of relevant material of Management Approach section and that have a signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the aspects for each industry group. This Report can be found online at www.keells.com/ Group, or who would be signiﬁcantly impacted provides highlights of the triple bottom line sustainability. by the Group’s operations. These groups performance of each industry group, and have been identiﬁed in the diagrams on the also similar information from a Group-wide The GRI content index has been utilised to following pages. perspective. This Report too, was prepared refer to speciﬁc information and disclosures ŗLQDFFRUGDQFHş&RUHŘRIWKH*OREDO5HSRUWLQJ required by the GRI framework. The John Once every two years, a Group-wide Initiative (GRI) G4 Guidelines. Keells Group has been a part of the United FRPSUHKHQVLYHŗ*UHDW3ODFHWR:RUNŘ *37:  Nations Global Compact (UNGC) since 2002 survey is carried out to obtain timely feedback This year, the Industry Group Review section and this Report serves as a communication from employees. The Group also conducts and the Capital Management Review also on progress within this context. It also WKH ŕ9RLFH RI (PSOR\HHŘ 92(  VXUYH\ DV strives to capture the interrelationships reinforces the commitment to implement the required. This is an in-house dip stick study, between identiﬁed material aspects and the 10 principles of the UNGC initiative. Further administered online by an external party. The signiﬁcance of these aspects in areas such enhancing its disclosures to stakeholders, ﬁndings of the survey are incorporated into as ﬁnancial performance, Human Capital, WKH *URXS KDV PDSSHG DOO RI LWV SURMHFWV an action plan and are used in evaluating and relationships with community and carried out by the John Keells Foundation, manager effectiveness, inﬂuencing policy and the environment, with a view to providing Group Sustainability, Human Resources process changes, employee motivation and information with regard to risks, opportunities divisions as well as individual businesses, to morale. In 2015 a VOE survey was conducted and strategy going forward. the Sustainable Development Goals, in turn to monitor the employee satisfaction status aligning these with the six forms of Capital. post the GPTW held in 2014. The survey was This Annual Report strives to provide The Group also maps its sustainability based on four key drivers namely Caring, a balanced overview to all signiﬁcant performance to the IFC Sustainability Credibility, Equality and Pride which were stakeholders identiﬁed in the ensuing Performance Framework which further helps accessed through 16 statements. Engagement of Signiﬁcant Stakeholders manage risks from a sustainability point of section of this Report, providing year on view. Engagement of Signiﬁcant Stakeholders year comparisons for both ﬁnancial and non-ﬁnancial information relevant to such $\HDURQ\HDUFRPSDULVRQLVSRVVLEOHVXEMHFW Group engagement with its signiﬁcant identiﬁed stakeholders. The Group’s material to the explanations provided with respect stakeholders is carried out through formal aspects and its aspect boundaries are also to the divestments mentioned previously and informal consultations, participation, covered under Identiﬁcation of Sustainability as well as changes in operational activity negotiations, communication, mandatory and Aspects section. as mentioned in the Industry Group Review voluntary disclosures, as well as certiﬁcation, sections in this Report. In terms of reand accreditation. The various methods of The Report, which is published annually, statements in comparison to the previous engagement and frequency of engagement has been externally veriﬁed and assured year 2014/15, the numbers and statements with signiﬁcant suppliers have been shown through an independent assurance process have been re-arranged wherever necessary on the following pages: undertaken by DNV GL represented in Sri to conform to the present year’s presentation. Lanka by DNV Business Assurance Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. The data measurement techniques, Signiﬁcant Stakeholders calculation methodologies, assumptions and estimations applied in the compilation The Group conducts its commercial of the sustainability indicators contained in operations in several industry sectors of this Report, are in accordance with standard the economy across different geographical industry practices and indicator protocols markets. This diversity necessitates 83 G4-24, G4-26 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS Customers – Individual, Corporate B2B Expectations – Meeting customer expectations on product and service features, ensuring high quality and safe products and services delivered in an environmentally and socially responsible manner. Frequency Methods of engagement Annually Road shows, trade fairs and ﬁeld visits Bi-annually One-on-one meetings, discussion forums, progress reviews Quarterly Customer satisfaction surveys On-going Through information dissemination through printed reports, telephone, SMS, e-mail, corporate website, workshops and business development activities Employees – Directors, Executives, Non-Executives Expectations – Providing a safe and enabling environment, equal opportunity and a culture of meritocracy, enhancement of skills and knowledge, continuous engagement, providing feedback and encouraging work-life balance. Frequency Methods of engagement Annually Employee satisfaction surveys and dip stick surveys such as Great Place To Work (GPTW), VOE (Voice of Employee), Group-wide year end get-together Bi-annually Performance reviews, skip level meetings Regularly Intranet communications through JK Connect and My Portal On-going 3URIHVVLRQDO WUDLQLQJ GHYHORSPHQW DFWLYLWLHV DQG WHDP EXLOGLQJ WKURXJK LQWHUQDO DQG H[WHUQDO SURJUDPPHV MRLQW consultative committees, open door policy at all management levels, sports events, Corporate Social Responsibility programmes Community – Neighbours, Community, Community Leaders, Society Expectations – Stimulating local economy through procurement and providing direct and indirect employment whilst carrying out operations with minimal impact on shared natural resources. Frequency Methods of engagement One-off Engagement with the community is carried out prior to entry into the community area and on exit via one-on-one meetings, workshops, forums Monthly Engagement is then carried out on a monthly basis via one-on-one meetings, workshops, forums On-going Corporate Social Responsibility programmes, creating awareness and education Institutional Investors, Fund Managers, Analysts, Leaders, Multilateral Lenders Expectations – Consistent economic performance leading to greater economic value generation. Frequency Methods of engagement Annually Annual reports, disclosures and reviews Quarterly Quarterly reports Regularly Investor road shows On-going Phone calls, e-mail, written communication, websites, one-on-one meetings Government, Government Institutions and Departments Expectations – Contribution to the country’s economy through strategic investments, creating direct and indirect employment, timely payment of taxes and levies and stimulating local economies. Frequency Methods of engagement Quarterly The senior management are members of chambers and industry associations who meet at least on a quarterly basis On-going Engagement with the Government on an on-going basis through meetings, business forums, newsletters, circulars, presentations and brieﬁngs, advisory meetings of industry associates Legal and Regulatory Bodies Expectations – Carrying out operations in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations and operating as a responsible corporate citizen adhering to sound corporate governance practices. Frequency Methods of engagement Quarterly The senior management are members of chambers and industry associations who meet at least on a quarterly basis On-going Engagement with the legal and regulatory bodies on an on-going basis through meetings, periodic disclosures, correspondence with bodies such as local authorities, municipal councils and other institutions such as Consumer Affairs Authority, Department of Inland Revenue, Customs Department, Securities and Exchange Commission, Colombo Stock Exchange and Tourist Board of Sri Lanka 84 G4-18, G4-24, G4-26, G4-27 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Business Partners, Principals, Suppliers Expectations – Fostering long terms business relations and beneﬁtting from the growth of the Group, adherence to contractual obligations, knowledge sharing and active representation in business councils and committees in the relevant industry sectors. Frequency Methods of engagement Annually Distributor conferences, contract renegotiations and reviews, road shows, supplier assessments, supplier fora Quarterly Supplier review meetings, one-on-one meetings Regularly Market reports On-going Conference calls, e-mails, circulars, corporate website Society, Media, Pressure Groups, NGOs, Environmental Groups Expectations – Carrying out operations in accordance to social norms, prevailing culture, with minimal impact on society and environment, whilst adhering to all relevant laws and regulations and operating as a responsible corporate citizen adopting sound corporate governance practices. Frequency Methods of engagement On-going Website, press releases, media brieﬁngs, correspondence, disclosures, media coverage, participation in NGO forums, certiﬁcation and accreditation Industry Peers and Competition Expectations – Carrying out operations in a fair and ethical manner, active participation in business councils and committees and discouraging anticompetitive behaviour. Frequency Methods of engagement Quarterly The senior management are members of chambers and industry associations who meet at least on a quarterly basis Regularly Communication through membership of trade associations, conferences, discussion forums The John Keells Group has always placed “importance great importance in developing the The John Keells Group has always placed great communities within which it operates. The in developing the communities within which it Group's corporate philosophy has always been to be a responsible corporate citizen; operates. The Group's corporate philosophy has always been and it will continue to do so as it has done for to be a responsible corporate citizen; and it will continue to the last 145 years in its existence. The Group do so as it has done for the last 145 years. ” also constantly engages with its employees, identifying areas such as employee welfare, training and retention of talent as focus areas. Key Sustainability Concerns chain partners, effectively taking the Group’s In the past, the Group has been able to respond sustainability focus to its value chain partners There is strong stakeholder conﬁdence in to concerns raised by stakeholders through as well. the Group’s corporate and sustainability its Annual Report. During the reporting year, strategies and performance based on the The primary concern of shareholders is to the Group has made changes to its policy fact that no adverse reports relating to ensure not only return on their investment frameworks and management approaches, environmental and social concerns pertaining but consistent returns for the long run. so as to identify potential frontier risks and to the operations of the Group or its companies However, in addition to the overall economic address material aspects. have been highlighted during the reporting performance of the Company, such investors Identiﬁcation of Sustainability Aspects year. This conclusion has been reached by the would also consider the sustainability of the Group via the continuous monitoring of print organisation with regards to its environmental Taking into consideration the key sustainability and electronic media throughout the period. performance, social performance and concerns of signiﬁcant stakeholder groups, the This monitoring is part of the Group’s process corporate governance, to be of great Group assesses its material aspect boundary of tracking key risk indicators. importance. as follows; The Group considers its business units and employees as internal stakeholders, The most recent third party stakeholder Stakeholders such as society, pressure whilst its external stakeholder consist of engagement, as well as the materiality impact groups and regulatory authorities constantly shareholders, investors, lenders, customers, assessments carried out on a sectorial basis, assess the operations of corporates with suppliers, business partners, Government and were used to further ascertain material regard to the responsible utilisation of regulatory authorities, peers, pressure groups, issues to both the Group and its signiﬁcant resources, conservation of bio diversity, and media and the community. Continuing from stakeholders. The supplier assessments environmental protection. These will continue the previous year, this year too, the Group gave carried out during this year helped the to be high priority areas for the Group. greater focus to suppliers and distribution Group identify material environmental and networks in an attempt to assess the risks social concerns emanating from its value faced by the Group through its value chain. 85 G4-18, G4-20, G4-21 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS vernment Investo rs, Go rs, co supplie suppl mm unit , ors iers y, est Inv External , pe Inve rs er to ciet y nies, Leisure, s, sto ompa Pl Consum antatio cu In so up c ees s ity, rs ro cus vest G All emplo y er Fo ns Retail, e o mplo ds, un tom ors , yee Le m pplie er , ds isu om u s, reg Foo s Co re, , c rs, s m u r rs ed la Lei Re ns e ia, ta u ion m sur il, tat to e, C or s, on sp od an Fo ions Re sum Tr er m nta t ta e a Pl re groups, il , pressu stors Investors, supp Leisure, Plantati nsumer ure, Co Inve liers, ons unity, media customers, me Consumer, Foods, R , Leis ds, Retail s comm lator Foo dia etail Property , regu Internal s, All Inv nie es s, pa Gro tor com cu tors, up ula ia oup yees com sto reg reg d All Gr me u rs lator lo rs, y, me emp panie plie it s sup , pres s, comm sup un plie su unity ors, rs, m re groups Co mm Invest Le nsu ies s, co , isu m n edia , mer re er F ,P pa lan oods, om es custo p c tati e ons rou loy All G emp ur e ss rs, p re me Inv , to ia es ers s tor t, pe ty, cu ed n i m co s, su me mun ors, mm pp ern t un liers, Gov s, com gula Regula s, p e ity tors, customers, investor grou tors, r es suppliers, community inv Aspect grouping Internal External Economic Performance Procurement Practices, Indirect Economic Impact Energy and Emissions Water, Effluents and Waste Biodiversity and Environmental Compliance Employment, Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Labour Relations, Freedom of Association, Training, Occupational Health and Safety Non-discrimination, Prevention of Child Labour, Prevention of Forced and Compulsory Labour Local Communities Anti-corruption and Regulatory Compliance Supplier Assessment (Environmental and Labour) Product Quality and Compliance, Labelling, Marketing Communications 86 G4-18, G4-19, G4-23 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information In deﬁning Report content, the Group sought to prioritise the material impacts based on their relative importance to internal and external stakeholders. No changes have been made in terms of aspect boundaries this year. This prioritisation and identiﬁcation of material aspects for reporting is shown below. Material aspects High Impact to external stakeholders Indigenous Rights Low Impact to internal stakeholders High Colour Code of Category Material Aspects Management Approach Economic Economic Performance, Procurement Practices, Indirect Economic Impacts Financial Capital Environment Energy, Water, Biodiversity, Emissions, Effluents, Waste, Compliance Natural Capital Employment, Training and Development, Diversity and Equal Opportunity, Human Capital Employees Occupational Health and Safety Human rights Compliance, Child Labour, Forced or Compulsory Labour, Freedom of Association Social and Relationship Capital Product responsibility Product Labelling, Marketing Communications, Compliance Social and Relationship Capital Supplier assessment Assessment of Suppliers for Environment Stewardship, Labour Practices Social and Relationship Capital Social responsibility Local Community, Anti-Corruption Social and Relationship Capital Any clariﬁcations regarding this Report may be obtained from the: Sustainability, Enterprise Risk Management and Group Initiatives Division, John Keells Holdings PLC 186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Disclosures of Management Approach can be Email : sustainability@keells.com found on the corporate website at Website : www.keells.com/sustainability www.keells.com/sustainability 87 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review MATERIALITY AND STAKEHOLDER RELATIONSHIPS Management Approach to Identiﬁed Material Aspects A detailed description of the strategies and approach adopted by the Group in managing its material aspects is contained in the Disclosure of Management Approach section hosted on the Group website. A summary of this management approach to the Group’s Financial and Manufactured Capital, Natural Capital, Human Capital, Social and Relationship Capital and Intellectual Capital is given below. Financial and Manufactured Capital Natural Capital The John Keells Group is committed to delivering sustainable ﬁnancial The Group has signiﬁcant operations in various sectors which have high performance and growth to all its diverse stakeholders. Accordingly, environmental impacts such as energy, water consumption, emissions, the Group strategically manages its Financial and Manufactured Capital waste and effluents, and bio diversity. The Group is aware that it is a base, to provide economic value addition, pay back on investment to its custodian of the environment for future generations and as such make investors, payment of debt ﬁnancing to its ﬁnanciers, and beneﬁts to its every effort to minimise negative environmental impacts and comply employees, amongst others, whilst also maintaining its social license to with all applicable laws and regulations. The Group is also aware of operate. the importance of preserving the country’s natural resources which in turn enhance the unique value proposition of the Group’s products and The Group’s Financial and Manufactured Capital consists of the pool of services. IXQGVLQFOXGLQJPDQXIDFWXUHGSK\VLFDOREMHFWVWKDWDUHDYDLODEOHWRWKH Group for use in the production of goods and/or the provision of services. The John Keells Group is committed to promoting sound environmental practices within our key businesses, through the establishment of policies Furthermore, the Group’s ﬁnancial management is based on a diversiﬁed and practices that enable us to conduct our operations in a sustainable approach aiming to increase economic value while ensuring stringent and environmentally sound manner. internal controls and robust Enterprise Risk Management processes. š 7KH-RKQ.HHOOV*URXSSODFHVJUHDWLPSRUWDQFHRQWKHPDQDJHPHQW š (PSOR\HHVDUHWDUJHWHGWKURXJKDSHUIRUPDQFHFHQWULFFRPSHQVDWLRQ and reduction of energy, water consumption, carbon emissions, waste culture which results in high levels of efficiency and productivity. generation and effluent discharge within its areas of operations. š 7KH*URXSVHHNVWRVWLPXODWHWKHHFRQRP\WKURXJKLWVFRPPLWPHQW š &RPSOHPHQWLQJ WKH RYHUDOO (QYLURQPHQW 3ROLF\ WKH *URXS KDV to developing and working with local suppliers. in place several other policies such as its Energy Management Policy, Water Management Policy, as well as the Hazardous Waste Management Policy covering waste management. For further details, refer the Capital Management Section For further details, refer the Capital Management Section of the Group Consolidated Review section of the Report of the Group Consolidated Review section of the Report Human Capital Our People Our Ethics Human resources are an appreciating asset bringing continuous returns The Group is committed to upholding the universal human rights of all and constituting the catalyst for world class performance. Being in its stakeholders whilst maintaining the highest ethical standards in all its predominantly service based industries, productivity, efficiency, customer business operations. focus, and skills are of vital importance to the Group. The John Keells Group places the highest value on ethical practices and 7KH*URXSLVFRPPLWWHGWREHLQJŗ0RUHWKDQMXVWD:RUNSODFHŘZKLOHWKH has promulgated a zero tolerance policy towards corruption and bribery foundation of its HR philosophy is to be an equal opportunity employer. in all its transactions. The Group has in place policies with regard to human resources which š $OOEXVLQHVVXQLWVDQGIXQFWLRQVRIWKH*URXSDUHUHTXLUHGWRLQFOXGH are all aspects of employment. and analyse the risk of corruption as a part of their risk management process. š $OO*URXSFRPSDQLHVDGKHUHWRDOOUHOHYDQWORFDOODERXUODZVDQG š 7KH*URXSHPSOR\VVWULQJHQWFKHFNVGXULQJLWVUHFUXLWPHQWSURFHVV regulations. to ensure the minimum age requirements are met. š 7KH *URXS GRHV QRW GLVFULPLQDWH RQ WKH EDVLV RI JHQGHU UDFH š 7KH*URXSHQVXUHVWKDWDOOFRPSDQLHVDUHHGXFDWHGRQWKHSRVVLEOH nationality, age, social origin, disability, religion, or on any other basis. sources of forced and compulsory labour. š 7KH*URXSUHFRJQLVHVWKHULJKWVRIHPSOR\HHVDQGSURYLGHVIRUXPV š 7KH *URXS KDV ]HUR WROHUDQFH IRU SK\VLFDO RU YHUEDO KDUDVVPHQW support groups and policies to address their concerns and resolve based on gender, race, religion, nationality, age, social origin, issues and conﬂicts in a fair and transparent manner. disability, political affiliations or opinion. For further details, refer the Capital Management Section For further details, refer the Corporate Governance Commentary of the Group Consolidated Review section of the Report section of the Report 88 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Social and Relationship Capital Our Community Our Supply Chain The Group aims to be good neighbours and proactively contributes to Engaging with a vast number of business partners across its various the development of the nation through aligning its focus areas to the industry groups, the Group recognises the importance of entrenching Sustainable Development Goals adopted by Sri Lanka. sustainability across its value chain towards promoting responsible businesses while reducing risk. The Group abides by the values of caring, trust and integrity by demonstrating its commitment to the community and environment in line The Group engages with its signiﬁcant suppliers to ensure that their ZLWKRXU&659LVLRQŗ(PSRZHULQJWKHQDWLRQIRUWRPRUURZŘ working conditions are safe, workers are treated with respect and dignity, and that operations are carried out in an environmentally responsible š 7KH*URXSIRFXVVHVRQHGXFDWLRQKHDOWKHQYLURQPHQWFRPPXQLW\ manner. and livelihood development, arts and culture, and disaster relief. š 7KH*URXSKDVLQWURGXFHGDFRPSUHKHQVLYH6XSSOLHU0DQDJHPHQW š 7KH *URXS KDV FRQWULEXWHG WRZDUGV WKH GHYHORSPHQW RI VRFLHW\ Framework including a Supplier Code of Conduct. through infrastructure, public services and local community engagement initiatives. š $ZDUHQHVV FUHDWLRQ DQG HQJDJHPHQW RI VXSSOLHUV LV FDUULHG RXW through supplier fora. š 6LJQLıFDQW VXSSOLHUV DUH DVVHVVHG DQQXDOO\ EDVHG RQ ODERXU practices, human rights and environmental impacts through an internally developed supplier checklist. For further details, refer the Capital Management Section For further details, refer the Capital Management Section of the Group Consolidated Review section of the Report of the Group Consolidated Review section of the Report Intellectual Capital The Group believes that Intellectual Capital is a vital source of competitive advantage, which, in the long term, will result in a value premium for JKH through innovation and disruption of business models and ultimately serving the needs of an evolving and emerging consumer. Furthermore, the delivering of optimal levels of quality and ensuring maximum satisfaction to all its customers and clients has always been imperative and material to the Group. š 7KH*URXSHPEDUNHGRQDMRXUQH\RILGHQWLI\LQJHPHUJLQJRUFXUUHQWGLVUXSWLYHEXVLQHVVLQQRYDWLRQ7KLVLQLWLDWLYHWLWOHGŗ'LVUXSWş7KH 'LJLWDO,PSHUDWLYHŘIRFXVVHVRQGHYHORSLQJWKHGLJLWDOTXRWLHQW '4 RILQGLYLGXDOVDQGEXVLQHVVHV š -RKQ.HHOOV5HVHDUFK -.5 WKHUHVHDUFKDQGGHYHORSPHQWDUPRIWKH*URXSZDVHVWDEOLVKHGLQDQDWWHPSWWRFUHDWHVXVWDLQDEOHYDOXHWKURXJK innovation to enhance the Intellectual Capital base of the Group. JKR currently collaborates with leading universities and research institutes in 6UL/DQNDDQGDOVRKDVSURMHFWVZLWKDOHDGLQJUHVHDUFKLQVWLWXWHLQ,QGLDDQGDXQLYHUVLW\LQWKH8QLWHG6WDWHV š 7KH*URXSLVKRPHWRPDQ\EUDQGVZKLFKKDYHJDLQHGUHFRJQLWLRQLQWKHLUUHVSHFWLYHVSKHUHVRYHUPDQ\\HDUV,QDGGLWLRQWRURXWLQHVWUDWHJLHV executed by each of the businesses to strengthen their respective brands, the Leisure industry group has placed signiﬁcant emphasis on V\VWHPDWLFDOO\H[HFXWLQJWKHŗ&LQQDPRQŘEUDQGVWUDWHJ\ š 7KH*URXSGHYHORSVDQGPDUNHWVSURGXFWVDQGVHUYLFHVWKDWPHHWFXVWRPHUUHTXLUHPHQWVDQGPHHWWKHKLJKHVWSURGXFWTXDOLW\VWDQGDUGV which ensures customer health and safety. š 7KH*URXSIROORZVWKH,&&&RGHRI$GYHUWLVLQJDQG0DUNHWLQJ&RPPXQLFDWLRQIRUDOOLWVSURGXFWVDQGVHUYLFHV š 7KH*URXSDGKHUHVWRDOOSURGXFWODEHOOLQJUHTXLUHPHQWVVSHFLıHGLQDOOUHOHYDQWODZVDQGUHJXODWLRQVLQWKHFRXQWULHVLWRSHUDWHVLQ For further details, refer the Capital Management Section and the Industry Group Review sections of the Report Disclosures of Management Approach can be found on the corporate website at www.keells.com/sustainability 89 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review RISKS, OPPORTUNITIES AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Enterprise Risk Management Process Overview “governance Risk management is an integral part of the corporate process of the John Keells Group and, by all Business Unit/Sector/Industry Group Risks indications, it has been a key factor in the sustenance of the ” The centrally coordinated enterprise risk identiﬁcation and review process is carried Group’s long term success. out by all Group companies, quarterly, biannually and annually, based on a preagreed structure. In addition to managing the speciﬁc company related risks, sector and industry group common risks, are ensures that the impacts of all risks identiﬁed Committees of the listed companies and to also considered at various fora such as the for both the business unit and the Group are the Audit Committee of John Keells Holdings monthly Group Management Committees, proactively managed. Continuous horizon PLC with respect to all Group companies. the quarterly Board Meetings and the annual scanning helps the Group identify both risks comprehensive risk identiﬁcation and and opportunities with regard to global and Group Risks review exercise. Risks covered at the various regional trends. Risks pertaining to the greater Group, and levels, include operational risks, hazard the identiﬁed critical operating risks at a risks, ﬁnancial risks, fraud and corruption, All business unit risks once validated and business unit level, are reviewed bi-annually natural disasters, environmental pollution, reviewed, at Group Management Committees, by the Group Executive Committee. The risk labour related risks and supply chain risks. at the industry group level, are presented to management cycle is concluded with an Each Group company also identiﬁes its core the Audit Committees of all listed companies, annual Group Risk Report containing a Group sustainability risks, which, though having a and to the Boards of the unlisted companies, wide risk status, analysis and proﬁle which relatively low probability of occurrence could together with risk mitigation plans at least is presented to the parent Audit Committee have a signiﬁcant impact on the sustainability once a quarter. Business units are the ultimate and any policy level decisions stemming from of its operations. owners of the risks of that business and are this review are incorporated in the next risk responsible for reviewing and monitoring review cycle. The robust corporate governance structure the agreed risk control measures on an which encompasses the self-linking of risk ongoing basis. These risk control measures Risk Management Process management, sustainability, corporate social DUHRIWHQVXEMHFWWRDXGLWE\WKH,QWHUQDO$XGLW The risk management process and responsibility and internal audit processes, team which reports to the respective Audit information ﬂow is depicted below. John Keells Risk Universe Business External Business Organisation Analysis Technology Headline Risks Strategies and Environment Process and People and Reporting and Data Policies Risk Presentation JKH PLC Audit Committee John Keells Group Review Risk Report and Action Risk and Control Review Team Risk Group Executive Committee (GEC) Validation Risk Management Team Sustainability Integration BU Review and Sector Risk Listed Company Audit Committee Report and Action Integrated Risk Management Group Management Committee (GMC) BU Risk Report and Action Business Unit Risk Identiﬁcation Operational Units Report Content 90 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Key Impacts, Risks and Opportunities the local economy and communities within The Group remains positive about the future Risk management is an integral part of the which it operates. of Sri Lanka’s economy, and members of corporate governance process of the John its senior management actively participate Keells Group and, by all indications, it has From a social perspective, the Group in key policy making bodies, committed to been a key factor in the sustenance of the identiﬁed likely impacts to its internal supporting the Government in its efforts Group’s long term success. The structured stakeholders such as its workforce, and to its towards creating sustainable and equitable process for risk management seeks to create external stakeholders customers, suppliers economic growth. Similarly, in the Maldives, and protect value for all stakeholders by and the community. While such risks and the Group works closely with the authorities ensuring that Group companies effectively impacts vary for each stakeholder group, in supporting its economic growth. For these identify and mitigate a range of operational, the Group identiﬁed areas such as attracting reasons, this risk is considered Low. structural, ﬁnancial and strategic risks that and retaining necessary skills, maintaining may otherwise prevent the organisation good labour relations and ensuring product The Group continues to focus its efforts IURPPHHWLQJLWVREMHFWLYHV7KH*URXSŖVULVN responsibility are some of the key areas that on supporting local economies in the management process also identiﬁes aspects warranted special attention. geographical areas of its operations. Its from a triple bottom line perspective, covering sustainable sourcing initiatives ensure, risks and impacts to the Group arising from The Group’s operational decisions are whenever possible and practical, that raw the socio-economic environment it operates LQĲXHQFHG E\ WKH ŗ3UHFDXWLRQDU\ 3ULQFLSOHŘ materials for the Group’s Consumer Foods in, as well as the risks and impacts emanating and accordingly from an environmental sector and goods for the Retail sector are from its operations. perspective, the Group considers resource procured locally. This has resulted in the consumption, environmental pollution, Group contributing to uplifting livelihoods and During the reporting year, risks such as an environmental degradation and its impacts promoting industry in its areas of operations. unstable global economy, political instability, on the local community, as areas of high Further, the Group through its strategic especially in the Maldives and the Middle East, priority. As a part of this process, the Group CSR activities spearheaded by the John volatility in interest and foreign exchange tracks Key Risk Indicators such as natural Keells Foundation, continuously strives to rates and ambiguous and outdated laws, disasters, emissions, climate change and enhance livelihoods, improve education and were key areas of risk impacting the business process violations leading to environmental health, and invest in local community based operations of the Group. As an outcome of pollution. With one of the Leisure industry LQIUDVWUXFWXUHSURMHFWV its risk management process, the Group group’s unique selling propositions being Sri was able to identify areas such as emerging Lanka’s natural environment and biodiversity, Regulatory Environment markets in the Leisure industry group, the Group pro-actively contributes to efforts greater local purchases through sustainable which are aimed at the conservation of 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 sourcing in the Consumer Foods and Retail the country’s natural resources in areas industry group and the involvement of the Risk rating High Ultra high Ultra high identiﬁed via the risk management process. ORFDO FRPPXQLW\ LQ LQIUDVWUXFWXUH SURMHFWV Given the heavy reliance in Leisure and the While some degree of uncertainty still through various community based initiatives. Consumer Foods sector on water resources, continues to prevail as a result of transitioning This, needless to state, in turn, enabled the such conservation and protection of the legal and regulatory structures which are enhancement of the Group’s contribution to environment are seen as key to sustainable being crafted to meet the new economic growth. and social policies of the Government, the establishment of various fora for private Further, opportunities speciﬁc to business “to focus sector and public representation, gives the units, sectors and industry groups are The Group continues discussed in the Industry Group Review Group more conﬁdence that the anomalies will be corrected. The risk rating has therefore its efforts on section of this Report. reduced from Ultra High to High. The Group’s opportunities in supporting Macroeconomic and Political Environment operating model, together with its internal processes, aim to ensure ﬂexibility with, and local economies in the adaptability to, any unexpected changes in 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 geographical areas of its the legal framework. Participation of the operations. Its sustainable Risk rating Low Moderate Low Group’s senior executives in various industry associations and industry chambers, act as a sourcing initiatives ensure, Teething problems which customarily means of enlisting the support of the decision whenever possible and accompany political transition, the resultant makers to bring clarity and consistency to policy uncertainty and the volatility of the Government policies and regulations. practical, that raw materials economic environment both locally and for the Group’s Consumer globally slowed Sri Lanka’s GDP growth in 2015/2016. However, some of the very recent Foods sector and goods policy measures taken by the Government for the Retail sector are appear to be attracting positive responses ” from the business community. procured locally. 91 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review RISKS, OPPORTUNITIES AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Financial Exposure Interest Rate Liquidity 5LVNUDWLQJş/RZ 5LVNUDWLQJş/RZ 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 The Rupee interest rates saw an upward The Group strived to ensure that cash and Risk rating Low Low Moderate movement in the latter half of the year as undrawn committed facilities are sufficient a result of the Central Bank’s revision of to meet the short, medium and long term The central Treasury Division, guided by the Statutory Reserve Ratios and policy rates. capital and funding requirements, unforeseen Group Executive Committee and supported However, this did not have a material impact obligations as well as unanticipated by the Finance functions of the businesses, on the Group since the Rupee share of debt opportunities. The daily cash management is responsible for the management of declined in the previous year. The Group processes including active cashﬂow forecasts, ﬁnancial risks through ongoing monitoring continued its strategy of maintaining ﬂoating matches the duration and proﬁles of assets and hedging mechanisms, as well as GHEW IDFLOLWLHV IRU D PDMRULW\ RI WKH 'ROODU and liabilities, thereby ensuring a prudent management of liquidity and ﬁnancing denominated debt. Even so, it continued to balance between liquidity and earnings. requirements, and ensuring Board approved evaluate and enter into hedge instruments, strategies for interest rate, currency and where feasible, including the creation of a Information Technology liquidity management are applied across the natural hedge by entering into variable rate Group. Given the volatility and uncertainty 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Dollar denominated short-term deposits. in the global and local macroeconomic environment witnessed in the previous Risk rating High Low Low Given the current outlook for the interest ﬁnancial year, the ensuing section elaborates rate exposure in relation to the USD 395 on the key elements of ﬁnancial exposure, 7KH PDMRULW\ RI WKH *URXSŖV ,7 V\VWHPV million syndicated loan facility, obtained by the state of the Group’s readiness and the are centralised to ensure uniformity, Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited for the expected relative stability of the indicators standardisation and economies of scale. GHYHORSPHQW RI WKH ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ SURMHFW discussed below. Most servers which were outside the central the Group entered into a partial hedge in order data centre have now been consolidated to mitigate the interest rate exposure of the Currency/Exchange Rate into the Group's central data centre. Whilst Group. The Group will continue to monitor its 5LVNUDWLQJş0HGLXP such centralisation increases utilisation and LIBOR exposure in relation to the syndicated reduces unit costs, it does increase the risk loan facility, make periodic updates and The Central Bank’s adoption of a ﬂexible of concentration. Such risks are mitigated recommendation to the Board as necessary, exchange rate policy amidst growing reserve via strict IT protocols, ﬁrewalls, business and take required action to mitigate exposure and balance of payment concerns gave way continuity plans and disaster recovery sites and potential risks. to volatility in the USD/LKR exchange rate and processes. While the Group is comfortable in the latter half of the ﬁnancial year. The with the risk management of the aforesaid Credit and Counterparty Group adopted prudent measures to manage area under a cost versus beneﬁt scenario, the 5LVNUDWLQJş/RZ the ﬁnancial impacts arising from currency emergence of cyber security as a potential ﬂuctuations, underscoring the importance risk has led to increasing the overall score The Group continued to liaise with only reputed of matching liabilities with corresponding IURP ŗ/RZŘ WR ŗ+LJKŘ 7KH LQFUHDVH LQ WKH creditworthy counterparties. All clients are inﬂows and constantly evaluating such risk rating is due to insufficient accumulated VXEMHFW WR FUHGLW YHULıFDWLRQ SURFHGXUHV DQG positions. Accumulation of foreign currency knowledge on how to manage cyber risks, are required to submit bank guarantees/ funds and the deferral of conversions; and the Group is working continuously with performance bonds, where applicable. matching of Dollar revenue streams with experts to gain better knowledge in mitigating These clients are regularly monitored and 'ROODUGHQRPLQDWHGGHEWWRDUFKLWHFWŗQDWXUDO and managing this risk. concentration risk in any single counterparty KHGJHVŘ FXUUHQF\ KHGJHV DQG WKH UHJXODU is mitigated due to internally set exposure review of rates and related pricing were some limits. of the initiatives towards this end. It is noted that the exchange rate exposure arising from WKH ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ SURMHFW LV PLWLJDWHG WR an extent since the functional currency of “in relation Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited is in US Dollars. Given the current outlook for the interest rate exposure to the USD 395 million syndicated loan facility, obtained by Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited for the development of “Cinnamon Life” project, the Group entered Refer Note 10 of the into a partial hedge in order to mitigate the interest rate ” Notes to the Financial Statements exposure of the Group. For further details and quantiﬁcation of the aforementioned risks under Financial Exposure. 92 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information The Group makes every effort to ensure a “mechanism, safe working environment for its employees, The Group has in place an effective grievance handling consumers, customers and third parties, in keeping with its commitment to be a while maintaining a culture of continuous ” responsible corporate. This has improved engagement and dialogue with employees. morale, productivity and efficiency. Where relevant, Group companies have obtained OHSAS 8001 Occupational Health and Safety, HACCAP certiﬁcation and ISO 22000 certiﬁcation on food safety management systems. The provision of safe and healthy Global Competition Improving competencies and skills are products/services for its customers is also recognised as vital factors in maintaining a top priority. Against this background, the 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 current standards and matching global best risk of Environment and Health and Safety practice levels. The Group achieves this remains a Low. Risk rating Low Low Low through targeted, business focussed training and development programmes available to Reputation and Brand Image In the face of the numerous foreign all employees across the Group, on a needs investments taking place in Sri Lanka, 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 basis. The Group’s e-learning and classroom especially by international players, the training programmes provide employees with Risk rating Low Low Low Group remains alert with regard to ensuring the tools to improve their business leadership its competitiveness. The Group has and managerial skills, which ensures that The Group’s Code of Conduct is the foundation sought to match global standards through the Group retains the ability to position of its uncompromising approach to ethical and benchmarking its businesses to global best itself as a preferred employer. As a result of WUDQVSDUHQW EXVLQHVV FRQGXFW ZLWK D ]HUR practices and maintaining the highest quality these measures, and based on the empirical WROHUDQFH DWWLWXGH WR DQ\ &RGH RI &RQGXFW levels in terms of both products and services. evidence during the past year, the rating for violations. This is further supplemented and Further, in an effort to keep abreast of digital this risk remains a Low. strengthened, through the presence of an advancements, the Group is proactively relooking at business models, customer independent Ombudsperson, Whistleblower Environment and Health and Safety mechanisms and Chairman Direct conduits engagement and business processes and has put in place a Digitisation Steering Committee amongst other measures, supporting the 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 to further study emerging practices. In this governance structure of the Group. light, the risk rating remains at a Low. Risk rating Low Low Low The Group also identiﬁes and mitigates Human Resources and Talent Management The Group has in place a robust potential brand reputation risks through the Environmental Management System with tracking and monitoring of such under a 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 emphasis on environmental/society friendly sustainability development framework. The policies with respect to energy, emissions, numerous infrastructure and community Risk rating Low Low Low GHYHORSPHQW SURMHFWV FDUULHG RXW E\ WKH water, discharge and waste. All companies are required to ensure zero violations of -RKQ.HHOOV)RXQGDWLRQDUHDLPHGWRSURMHFW Over the years, the Group has placed strong the Group as a stakeholder friendly, societythe country’s environmental laws and emphasis on retaining key talent through centric entity. In addition, stringent quality regulations and are encouraged to go beyond performance recognition and reward assurance and product standards are compliance, where practicable, in keeping schemes, succession planning, leadership with global best practices, such as ISO 14000 and career development programmes. Environmental Management certiﬁcation. Evidence indicates that such strategies have The Group continuously strives to reduce its “Conduct proved to be effective with the Group retaining energy consumption, carbon footprint and high quality employees despite the highly water consumption. The waste sent to landﬁll The Group’s Code of competitive labour environment. Additionally, talent attrition is also tracked as a Key Risk is also under management focus, through is the foundation of training and awareness, usage of renewable Indicator on a quarterly basis and reported to energy sources, more efficient equipment and its uncompromising approach the Group Executive Committee. The Group conducts many climate surveys internally, the continuous incremental evolvement of to ethical and transparent processes and systems in reducing/reusing/ to better understand its employee needs recycling waste. As such, Group companies business conduct, with a and aspirations. The Group has in place an effective grievance handling mechanism, are encouraged to constantly seek out zero tolerance attitude renewable sources of energy, install energy while maintaining a culture of continuous to any Code of Conduct ” and water efficient equipment and take engagement and dialogue with employees. violations. proactive steps to minimise waste. The engagement with unions is on a partner basis and this has resulted in better performance oriented outcomes. 93 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review RISKS, OPPORTUNITIES AND INTERNAL CONTROLS Supply Chain Risk “reviewed Supplier performance is on an annual basis Risk rating 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Low Low Low with regard to compliance with labour, environmental With a strong focus on integrating best practices within its value chain, the Group and other relevant operating believes a comprehensive risk management regulations of the country. process must also extend to its value chain partners, through the regularly assessing Concurrently, the Group of risks associated with its supply chain. As also provides training and such, supplier performance is reviewed on an annual basis with regard to compliance knowledge transfer through with labour, environmental and other supplier fora held annually relevant operating regulations of the country. both in Sri Lanka and the Concurrently, the Group also provides training and knowledge transfer through Maldives, for its signiﬁcant supplier fora held annually both in Sri Lanka value chain partners. This and the Maldives, for its signiﬁcant value chain partners. This assists them to further assists them to further entrench sustainability within their own entrench sustainability business operations, resulting in cost beneﬁts as well as enhancement of their own brand within their own business image. The Group’s Supplier Code of Conduct operations, resulting in also educates suppliers on the expectations of the Group with regards to sustainable and cost beneﬁts as well as ethical business practices. As a result of these enhancement of their own proactive steps taken by the Group, the risk ” rating remains at a Low. brand image. In addition, given the interrelationship between risk management and sustainability, maintained and product quality is continually the Capital Management Review Group of monitored and tracked. All marketing, and Consolidated Review section of this Report, public communications, are vetted in ensuring details the Group’s performance with regard conformance with the Group Marketing and to all pillars of the triple bottom line and Communications Policy, based on the ICC further analyses and quantiﬁes the impacts Code of Advertising and similar. In this light, of risk and opportunities. Risk management the Group is conﬁdent that the rating of this is further reinforced through the Group’s risk remains a Low. corporate governance framework which ensures a strong focus on compliance to regulatory and ethical guidelines and operating in line with the principles of sustainable development. Refer Section 5.5 of the Corporate Governance Commentary For further details on Internal Controls. 94 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Group Consolidated Review SHARE AND WARRANT INFORMATION ﬁnancial year compared to Rs.2,891.17 billion Total number of shares in issue as at 31/03/2016 1,189,403,549 in the previous year, recording an overall Public shareholding as at 31/03/2016 98.49% decline of 11 per cent. The constrained Global Depositary Receipts (GDR) balance 1,282,364 performance of the CSE was the result of 2016 Warrants outstanding 50,281,136 domestic economic conditions, underpinned by the global factors discussed previously. Stock symbol JKH.N0000 2016 Warrant symbol JKH.W0023 Despite the low interest rate environment and Newswire codes of the JKH share benign inﬂation, particularly during the ﬁrst Bloomberg JKH.SL half of the ﬁnancial year, business and investor conﬁdence in the market was subdued. Dow Jones P.JKH This was due to a prolonged period of policy Reuters JKH.CM uncertainty and the measures announced in the 2016 Budget proposals, particularly in relation to Capital Gains Tax which dampened The following is an overview of the market Growth in Europe was dampened mainly due the situation predominantly in the domestic conditions which prevailed during the year to uncertainty surrounding the monetary retail space. The downgrade of Sri Lanka's under review, both globally and locally. The stance of the European Union (EU) and Brexit sovereign credit rating by Fitch ratings to section concludes with a discussion based on (Britain’s exit of the EU), which has also B+ with a negative outlook in February 2016 JKH share related information. resulted in the GBP and the Euro depreciating further exacerbated investor sentiment. against the US Dollar. In the wake of Brexit Consequently, the market experienced strong Global Review speculations, the London Stock Exchange fell selling pressure as foreign investors became by 9 per cent to 6,174.90 points at the close net sellers recording an outﬂow of Rs.6.41 The year under review was characterised of the ﬁnancial year. The quantitative easing billion in the year [2014/15: Rs.31.2 billion by signs of a gradual recovery of the US programme carried out by the European inﬂow]. A decline in domestic participation to economy since the ﬁnancial crisis in 2008. The Central Bank (ECB) resulted in the Euro 63 per cent from 73 per cent in the previous emergence of strong US economic data during exchange rate dropping further, to a 12 year year and continued net selling during much the year, particularly from the labour market, low, against the USD in March 2016. The of the ﬁnancial year collectively resulted in enabled the US Federal Reserve (Fed) to effects of the lax monetary policy stance of a decline in the market. Further, the average increase short term interest rates in December the ECB were further magniﬁed by the Brexit daily turnover levels of the ASPI decreased 2015, for the ﬁrst time in nearly a decade, by speculations and the Greek crisis. to Rs.954 million compared to Rs.1.48 billion 25 basis points. However, heightened concerns recorded in the previous year. regarding global economic prospects, The aforementioned global volatility and particularly during the latter half of the uncertainty in key markets, contributed The second half of the ﬁnancial year ﬁnancial year, have led to increased market subdued trading activities in regional witnessed further macroeconomic pressures volatility and uncertain ﬁnancial conditions in peers and emerging markets. The Jakarta with rising interest rates, depreciation of the the US, which resulted in the Fed holding rates Composite Index (JCI) and Singapore’s Strait Rupee and Balance of Payment concerns. The steady as at March 2016. Times index (STI) declined by 11 and 18 per increase in the Statutory Reserve Ratio (SRR) cent respectively, whilst Malaysia’s FTSE in December 2015 by 150 basis points to The steep reduction in oil prices, the third Bursa Malaysia KLCI (KLSE) fell by 6 per cent 7.50 per cent and a further increase in policy largest decline over the past three decades, during the ﬁnancial year. The S&P Sensex of rates in February 2016 resulted in increased coupled with the slowdown in the Chinese Mumbai (SENSEX) in India declined by 10 per investor appetite for ﬁxed income securities economy, were key drivers of market cent during the ﬁnancial year. among retail and local institutional investors. uncertainty during the year. China recorded Against this backdrop, the CSE recorded a growth rate below 7 per cent for the Local Stock Market Review 25 corporate debenture issues during the calendar year 2015, which is the slowest ﬁnancial year, through which a total of economic expansion recorded in two decades. The All Share Price Index (ASPI) of the Rs.83.41 billion was raised compared to the Whilst the growth rate is still substantial, Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) decreased Rs.66.76 billion raised in the previous ﬁnancial the deceleration was a key factor for the by 12 per cent to 6,071.88 points during the year. Correspondingly, the primary activities decline in global commodities over the past period under review. The Standard and Poor’s of the CSE declined, with only 2 initial public two years. Despite aggressive efforts by Sri Lanka 20 Index (S&P SL 20), which is the offerings in the year raising approximately the Government to stimulate the economy weighted average index of selected counters Rs.329 million [2014/15: Rs.3.08 billion]. through currency devaluation, interest rate of the CSE based on market capitalisation, cuts and stimulus packages, the outlook in liquidity and ﬁnancial thresholds, stood JKH Share China remains subdued in the eyes of most at 3,204.44 points as at 31 March 2016, investors. Alongside these developments, the recording a decrease of 17 per cent over the The JKH share decreased by 16 per cent to Shanghai Stock Exchange hit an 8 year low in previous ﬁnancial year [2014/15: 3,852.43]. Rs.147.00 as at 31 March 2016 from Rs.174.48 August 2015, recording an overall decline of The overall market capitalisation of the CSE DGMXVWHG IRU WKH VKDUH VXEGLYLVLRQ LQ -XQH 20 per cent during the ﬁnancial year. was Rs.2,586.16 billion as at the end of the 2015) recorded in the previous ﬁnancial year. 95 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review SHARE AND WARRANT INFORMATION However, as illustrated in the graph, JKH traded in strong correlation with the ASPI during the period under review. On an 120 JKH share performance vs. the ASPI (indexed) 8,000 DGMXVWHGEDVLVWKH-.+VKDUHWUDGHGEHWZHHQ Rs.199.00 (in July 2015) and Rs.140.00 (in 7,000 100 March 2016). 6,000 Despite this subdued market performance, 80 No. of shares 5,000 the JKH share contributed 14 per cent in Index terms of market turnover (2014/15: 20 per 60 4,000 cent), underscoring its consistency as a 3,000 preferred liquid equity instrument. The beta 40 of the JKH share as of 31 March 2016 stood 2,000 at 0.97 (the beta is calculated based on daily 20 JKH share and market movements measured 1,000 by ASPI for the ﬁve year period commencing 0 0 Apr 15 May 15 Jun 15 Jul 15 Aug 15 Sep 15 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 Jan 15 Feb 15 Mar 15 1 April 2011 to 31 March 2016). Foreign ownership of JKH declined from 54 No. of Shares traded in '000s JKH adjusted ASPI per cent to 51 per cent during the ﬁnancial year due to the exit of a few foreign shareholders. Given the migration of institutional funds away from emerging markets amid expectations 180 JKH share compared with key regional indices (indexed) of a rising rate environment in the US, the 160 higher proportion of foreign ownership of the 140 free ﬂoat of JKH, and liquidity of the counter, adversely affected price performance in 120 relation to the rest of the domestic market. 100 The compounded annual growth rate (CAGR) Index of the JKH share on a capital basis over the 80 5 year period stood at a negative 4 per cent, 60 similar to that of the market. 40 2015 Warrants and 2016 Warrants 20 The 2015 Warrant (ticker: JKH.W0022) ceased 0 Apr 11 Apr 12 Apr 13 Apr 14 Apr 15 Apr 16 trading on the CSE on 28 September 2015 with the exercise period commencing from JKH adjusted S&P SENSEX KLSE STI JKSE 29 September 2015 and ending 12 November 2015. The Company concluded the conversion of JKH High and Low Share Prices per Month 50.3 million 2015 Warrants in November Rs. 210 2015, of which 49 million Warrants were exercised and accepted at the price of 200 5V DGMXVWHG IRU WKH -XQH  190 subdivision). Based on the ﬁnal conversion 180 of 2015 Warrants into ordinary shares, the Company received a sum of Rs.7.97 billion. 170 The allotment of the ordinary shares of the 160 Company and the uploads to the Central Depository System (CDS) were completed 150 within the timeframes stipulated in the 140 Shareholder Circular dated 5 September 130 2013 and the Notice of Exercise dated 9 October 2015 respectively. 120 The 2016 Warrant traded at Rs.9.30 as at 31 0 Apr 15 May 15 Jun 15 Jul 15 Aug 15 Sep 15 Oct 15 Nov 15 Dec 15 Jan 16 Feb 16 Mar 16 March 2016. The 2016 Warrant will expire on 11 November 2016 at the exercise price High Low 30 day moving share RI 5V DGMXVWHG IRU WKH -XQH  * 30 day moving averages have been calculated using 15 days trailing and forward closing prices from the mid point of each month subdivision). 96 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Unexpired Employees Share Options capital gains arising from the sale of Union Assurance General Limited in 2014/15, has Outstanding increased to Rs.11.91 in the current ﬁnancial Expiring year End/current price Vested Unvested Total \HDU IURP 5V DIWHU DGMXVWLQJ IRU WKH share subdivision) recorded in the previous 2016/17 6,603,591 6,603,591 151.39 ﬁnancial year, thus representing an increase 2018/19 3,850,391 3,980,366 7,830,757 219.03 of 5 per cent. The growth in the recurrent 2019/20 2,179,117 5,761,349 7,940,466 201.19 EPS is on account of the improvement in 2020/21 89,712 7,494,805 7,584,517 171.25 proﬁtability of core business activities. The Total 12,722,811 17,236,520 29,959,331 items impacting proﬁts are discussed in depth in the Group Consolidated Review and Issued Share Capital Industry Group Review sections of this Report. Distributions to shareholders and The number of shares in issue by the payout ratio Total Shareholder Return Company increased to 1.18 billion as at 31 Rs. bn Pay-out % As discussed previously, the S&PSL 20 8 70 March 2016 from 997 million as at 31 March declined by 17 per cent compared to the 2015. The increase in the share capital was 7 60 JKH share which declined by 16 per cent. on account of the share subdivision, the 6 49 47 Despite the decline of the JKH share, the total 50 2015 Warrant conversion and the exercise 42 5 34 shareholder return (TSR) of the JKH share of Employee Share Options (ESOPs). The 40 4 41 outperformed the market at a negative 11.7 Company received approval to subdivide 7 30 per cent against the total return index of the 3 32 ordinary shares in existence to 8 ordinary S&P SL 20 which posted a return of negative 20 shares at the Extraordinary General Meeting 2 13.4 per cent. held on 26 June 2015. The subdivision was 1 10 concluded in July 2015. Consequently, the 0 0 TSR for a holder of a single share subsequent number of warrants accruing to the holders to the rights issue in 2013 with proportionate of 2015 and 2016 Warrants and the respective 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 ownership over the 2015 and 2016 Warrant, H[HUFLVH SULFHV ZHUH DGMXVWHG WR UHĲHFW WKH assuming the 2015 Warrant was fully aforementioned subdivision of shares. Dividend paid Dividend pay-out converted, remained ﬂat at a negative 12.2 per cent [2014/15: negative 12.0 per cent), ESOPs of 0.16 million equivalent shares were support its investment pipeline and optimise due to the aforementioned fall in the JKH exercised during the ﬁnancial year. Moreover, its capital structure, thus ensuring the VKDUHSULFHDQGWKH:DUUDQWEHLQJŗRXW out of the 30 million shares equivalent of creation of sustainable shareholder wealth in RIWKHPRQH\ŘDVDWWKHıQDQFLDO\HDUHQG unexercised ESOPs as at 31 March 2016, the short, medium and long term. 13 million unexercised ESOPs are eligible On a cumulative basis, over a ﬁve year holding for immediate exercise whilst the balance On this basis the Company maintained its period, the share inclusive of dividend and 17 million unexercised ESOPs will be vested dividend payout of Rs.3.50 per share for Warrants issued posted an annualised total based on performance based conditions the current ﬁnancial year together with an return of 7.5 per cent, which was primarily in accordance with the terms of the award. additional payment of a special dividend of impacted by the underperformance of the Further details of the Company’s ESOP plans Rs.3.50 per share, resulting in a total dividend JKH share in the current year. are found in the ensuing sections of this of Rs.7.00 per share. The payment of the discussion. Ordinary shares equivalent to the special dividend was on account of the cash Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) increased inﬂow of Rs.4.14 billion to the Company from to 1.3 million as at the end of the ﬁnancial the share repurchase of Union Assurance PLC. Total shareholder return (%) year due to the share subdivision. The total dividend paid for the ﬁnancial year Subdivision of Shares increased by 131 per cent to Rs.8.04 billion 86.9 86.1 [2014/15: Rs.3.48 billion] on account of the 8.0 The Board of Directors have recommended special dividend. Similarly, the dividend 63.8 a subdivision of the Company’s shares in payout ratio also increased to 47 per cent in 57.5 the proportion of 8 ordinary shares for every the current year [2014/15: 35 per cent]. 53.6 43.8 7 ordinary shares held for approval of the shareholders at an Extraordinary General Earnings per Share 21.7 Meeting. Accordingly, the price and quantity of The fully diluted earnings per share (EPS) (0.4) WKH:DUUDQWVZLOOEHDGMXVWHGWRUHĲHFW IRUWKHıQDQFLDO\HDUDGMXVWHGIRUWKHVKDUH (2.5) (12.0) (12.2) the aforementioned subdivision of shares. subdivision, decreased by 3 per cent to Rs.12.09 per share [2014/15: Rs.12.41 per 2010/11 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15* 2015/16* Dividend share] due to the decrease in proﬁt attributable The Company’s dividend policy seeks to to the equity holders. It is noteworthy to Annual TSR Cumulative TSR ensure a dividend payout that corresponds mention that, on a recurring earnings basis, with the proﬁt for the year, whilst ensuring WKH GLOXWHG (36 DIWHU DGMXVWLQJ IRU FKDQJHV * Includes the proportionate impact arising from the ownership of Warrants that the Company retains adequate funds to in fair value of investment property and 97 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review SHARE AND WARRANT INFORMATION Market Capitalisation and Enterprise Value Price to Book The market capitalisation of the Company The price to book value of the Group as at the ﬁnancial year end was 1.1 times [2014/15: 1.4 times]. decreased by 12 per cent to Rs.176.03 billion as The ratio decreased, due to the increase in the net asset value to Rs.130.30 which was offset by the at 31 March 2016 [2014/15: Rs.198.90 billion]. fall in the JKH share price as discussed above. At the ﬁnancial year end, JKH represented 6.8 per cent of the total market capitalisation of Liquidity the CSE [2014/15: 6.9 per cent]. During the ﬁnancial year, 177 million shares changed hands over 37,000 transactions as against 297 million shares over 34,000 transactions in the previous ﬁnancial year. The average daily The enterprise value of the Group decreased turnover of the JKH share was Rs.132 million, in comparison to the Rs.292 million recorded in the by 20 per cent to Rs.124.18 billion previous ﬁnancial year. [2014/15:Rs.155.68 billion] as at 31 March 2016. The decrease in enterprise value is due to As at 31 March 2016, 29 million 2016 Warrants changed hands over 20,260 transactions compared the reduction in market capitalisation coupled to 36 million, 2016 Warrants being traded in over 18,000 transactions during the previous ﬁnancial with the strengthening of the Group’s net cash year. The average daily turnover of the JKH share represented 14 per cent of the CSE during the position mainly on account of the 2015 Warrant. ﬁnancial year. The share turn ratio for the ﬁnancial year decreased to 0.16 from 0.18 as a result of the aforementioned market and economic conditions. Market capitalisation and enterprise value 2015/16 2014/15 2013/14 Rs. bn 250 Market cap (Rs.bn) 176.03 198.90 224.80 Enterprise value (Rs.bn) 124.18 155.68 193.61 200 Market value added (Rs.bn) 21.05 61.05 101.90 EV/EBITDA (times) 5.0 6.6 9.7 150 Diluted EPS (Rs.) 12.1 12.4 12.3 PER (diluted) 12.2 14.1 18.4 100 Price to book (times) 1.1 1.4 1.8 Price/cash earnings (times) 16.1 15.0 15.1 50 Dividend yield (%) 4.7 2.0 1.5 0 Dividend payout ratio (%) 46.7 33.5 44.2 TSR (%) (12.2) (12.0) (0.4) 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Distribution and Composition of Shareholders Market cap Enterprise value The total number of shareholders of JKH as at 31 March 2016 increased to 11,515 from 9,924 recorded at the end of the previous ﬁnancial year. Out of the total number of shares, 98 per cent of Price Earnings Ratio the shares were held by the public whilst the remaining 2 per cent were held by Directors, spouses The Price to Earnings Ratio (PER) of the JKH and other connected parties. share was 12.2 times as at the end of the current ﬁnancial year compared to 14.1 times In terms of residency of the shareholders, 47 per cent of the free ﬂoat excluding directors and recorded in the previous ﬁnancial year. The connected parties was held by 11,010 resident shareholders whilst the remainder were held by 409 decrease in the PER was driven by the 16 per QRQUHVLGHQWVKDUHKROGHUVRIZKLFKDPDMRULW\RIVKDUHVZHUHRZQHGE\LQVWLWXWLRQDOVKDUHKROGHUV cent decline in the share price as discussed earlier. The JKH share, which has historically Trend in composition of shareholders traded at a premium, was at a discount compared to the market PER of the CSE of % 22 10 25 22 21 15.3 times as at the end of the ﬁnancial year [2014/15: 18.4 times]. 39 46 42 43 40 Given the domestic economic conditions which prevailed during the year, the CSE traded at a 34 39 28 31 35 PER level which is relatively lower than the PER multiple of its regional peers and is presently trading at relatively attractive valuations. The Kuala Lampur’s FTSE Bursa Malaysia KLCI 3 3 3 3 3 was 17.8 times, Jakarta’s Composite Index was 25.8 times and Singapore’s STI was 1 2 2 2 2 13.2 times. The PER of the SENSEX Index 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Mumbai was 19.1 times, whilst the Dow Jones industry average index and London FTSE 100 indices were trading at 15.9 and 33.8 times Executive Directors, spouses and connected parties Public resident Executives and connected parties Public non-resident and GDRs respectively as of the end of the ﬁnancial year. Non-Executive Directors and connected parties Shareholders holding more than 10% 98 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Composition of Shareholders 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 Number of Number of Number of Number of (%) (%) shareholders shares shareholders shares Executive Directors, spouses and connected parties 5 17,974,139 2 5 15,044,340 2 Non-Executive Directors and connected parties 2 7,712 0 2 6,467 0 Executives and connected parties 89 39,928,856 3 104 33,132,911 3 Public Resident Institutions 681 247,554,155 21 599 178,989,306 18 Individuals 10,329 282,960,176 24 8,815 236,472,026 24 Public Non-Resident Institutions 136 591,145,094 50 149 525,613,638 53 Individuals 272 8,551,053 0 249 7,105,734 0 Global Depositary Receipts 1 1,282,364 0 1 1,122,069 0 Total 11,515 1,189,403,549 100 9,924 997,486,491 100 Distribution of Shareholders 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 Number of Number of Number of Number of (%) (%) (%) (%) shareholders shares held shareholders shares held Less than or equal to 1,000 6,692 58 1,635,940 0 5,888 59 1,451,868 0 1,001 to 10,000 3,191 28 11,329,474 1 2,706 27 9,816,491 1 10,001 to 100,000 1,258 11 36,392,126 3 998 10 28,860,464 3 100,001 to 1,000,000 242 2 73,799,873 6 204 2 65,351,235 7 1,000,001 and over 132 1 1,066,246,136 90 128 2 892,006,433 89 Total 11,515 100 1,189,403,549 100 9,924 100 997,486,491 100 Market Information of the Ordinary Shares of the Company 2015/16 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2014/15 Share Information High 195.20 177.00 187.00 195.20 181.13 230.13* Low 140.00 140.00 166.00 167.50 166.16 170.63* Close 147.00 147.00 177.00 167.50 176.93 174.48* Dividends paid (per share) 7.00 1.00 4.50 0.00 1.50 3.50 Trading Statistics of the JKH share Number of transactions 37,287 8,948 8,432 12,116 7,791 34,614 Number of shares traded ('000) 177,182 49,466 43,715 52,120 31,881 296,590 Total shares in issue (%) 14.9 4.16 3.67 4.57 2.80 29.7 Value of all shares traded (Rs.mn) 31,391 7,768 7,750 9,524 6,349 69,744 Average daily turnover (Rs.mn) 131.90 134 127 154 111 292 Total market turnover (%) 13.8 17.9 14.2 12.8 11.6 19.7 Market capitalisation (Rs.mn) 176,032 176,032 210,749 199,223 201,692 198,899 Total market capitalisation (%) 6.8 6.8 7.2 6.7 6.8 6.9 * Adjusted for the 2013 Rights Issue and 2015 share subdivision 99 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Consolidated Review SHARE AND WARRANT INFORMATION Market Information on 2016 Warrant 2015/16 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 2014/15 High 45.90 32.50 37.80 43.80 45.90 74.73* Low 6.80 6.80 30.00 30.00 32.10 23.71* Close 9.30 9.30 32.30 36.10 35.70 28.09* Number of transactions 20,263 5,191 4,457 6,053 4,562 14,142 Number of warrants traded ('000) 29,201 7,864 6,573 8,806 5,958 33,637 Value of the warrants traded (Rs.mn) 925 122 251 320 232 2,343 Average daily turnover (Rs.mn) 4 2 4 5 4 10 Market capitalisation (Rs.mn) 409 409 1,421 1,588 1,571 1,412 * Adjusted for 2015 share subdivision Director's Shareholding Director's 2016 Warrant Holding 31 March 31 March 31 March 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 S. Ratnayake 7,177,893 6,000,360 S. Ratnayake 320,339 280,297 A.Gunewardene * 8,721,491 7,298,898 A. Gunewardene * 379,896 332,410 R. Peiris 2,074,755 1,745,082 R. Peiris 80,376 70,329 F. Amerasinghe 7,592 6,362 F. Amerasinghe 322 282 A. Cabraal 120 105 A. Cabraal I. Coomaraswamy I. Coomaraswamy T. Das T. Das N. Fonseka N. Fonseka A. Omar A. Omar P. Perera P. Perera * Includes shares owned by related parties * Includes warrants owned by related parties Options Available to Directors Under the Employee Share Option Plan S. Ratnayake A. Gunewardene R. Peiris Granted Immediately Granted Immediately Granted Immediately To be vested To be vested To be vested shares* vesting shares* vesting shares* vesting 2017/18 578,230 578,230 505,950 505,950 433,667 433,667 2018/19 589,791 282,738 307,053 516,068 274,396 241,672 442,343 212,053 230,290 2019/20 530,580 132,645 397,935 464,258 116,064 348,194 397,936 99,484 298,452 2020/21 390,851 390,851 341,995 341,995 293,138 293,138 Total 2,089,452 993,613 1,095,839 1,486,276 896,410 589,866 1,273,946 745,204 528,742 * Adjusted for share subdivisions 100 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Twenty Largest Shareholders of the Company 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 Number of shares (%) Number of shares (%) Broga Hill Investments Limited 124,122,878 10.44 104,084,164 10.43 Mr. S. E. Captain 119,937,442 10.08 110,775,563 11.11 Paints and General Industries Limited 92,726,824 7.80 66,913,811 6.71 Melstacorp (Private) Limited 43,616,626 3.67 36,498,341 3.66 Schroder International Selection Fund 38,491,960 3.24 34,504,417 3.46 Deutsche Bank AG-London 35,868,199 3.02 30,065,961 3.01 Aberdeen Global-Asian Smaller Companies Fund 28,979,913 2.44 35,822,854 3.59 Aberdeen Global-Asia Paciﬁc Equity Fund 26,234,282 2.21 21,978,158 2.20 HWIC Asia Fund 25,519,159 2.15 Aberdeen Institutional Commingled Funds LLC 23,772,318 2.00 15,569,620 1.56 Aberdeen Global Emerging Markets Smaller Companies Fund 19,932,286 1.68 15,342,272 1.54 Mr. K. Balendra 18,111,218 1.52 15,227,172 1.53 Employees Trust Fund Board 16,438,392 1.38 8,817,681 0.88 London-Edinburgh Dragon Trust PLC 15,062,970 1.27 12,619,227 1.27 London-Aberdeen Asia Paciﬁc Equity Fund 12,497,857 1.05 Luxembourg-Aberdeen Global Frontier Markets Equity Fund 11,316,145 0.95 8,636,653 0.87 Mrs. C. S. De Fonseka 11,282,940 0.95 10,051,585 1.01 Mrs. S. A. J. De Fonseka 11,069,333 0.93 9,868,701 0.99 Mr. R. S. Captain 10,675,183 0.90 Somerset Small Mid Cap EM All Country Fund LLC 10,558,280 0.89 11,362,207 1.14 Twenty Largest 2016 Warrant Holders of the Company 31 March 2016 31 March 2015 Number of shares (%) Number of shares (%) Broga Hill Investments Limited 5,169,548 11.75 4,523,355 10.28 Seylan Bank PLC/Capital Trust Holdings (Private) Limited 1,987,446 4.52 6,151,503 14.00 Melstacorp Limited 1,904,237 4.33 1,666,208 3.79 Aberdeen Global-Asian Smaller Companies Fund 1,875,509 4.26 1,641,071 3.73 Capital Trust Holdings 1,410,325 3.21 Aberdeen-GlobalEmerging Markets Smaller Companies Fund 1,298,261 2.95 1,135,979 2.58 J. B. Cocoshell (Private) Limited 1,201,626 2.73 1,226,423 2.60 Deustche Bank AG Singapore 1,137,473 2.59 Aberdeen Global Asia Paciﬁc Equity Fund 1,116,388 2.54 976,840 2.22 Deustche Bank AG-London 1,093,657 2.49 956,950 2.18 Trading Partners (Private) Limited 891,878 2.03 843,122 1.90 Schroder International Selection Fund 811,321 1.84 709,906 1.61 Mr. K. Balendra 794,450 1.81 695,144 1.58 Mr. A. Singh 687,376 1.56 People's Leasing and Finance PLC 654,813 1.49 London-Edinburgh Dragon Trust 640,997 1.46 560,873 1.27 Pan Asia Banking Corporation PLC 559,397 1.27 London-Aberdeen Asia Paciﬁc Equity Fund 531,841 1.21 465,361 1.06 Aberdeen Institutional Commingled Funds LLC 491,269 1.12 433,909 0.99 Mr. A. B. K. Weeraman 460,000 1.05 101 Employee Share Option Plan as At 31 March 2016 Date of Employee Shares Expiry Option Shares2 Exercised Cancelled Expired Outstanding End/ grant category granted date grant price adjusted current2 Due to Due to Total Vested Unvested (Rs.) price (Rs.) resignations performance PLAN 6 09.12.2010 4,672,823 08.12.2015 292.00 8,205,032 524,859 774,573 6,905,600 185.46 GEC1 1,907,852 3,493,422 3,493,422 Other Executives 2,764,962 4,711,610 524,859 774,573 3,412,178 PLAN 7 07.12.2011 6,306,182 06.12.2016 172.10 8,220,519 1,388,897 228,031 6,603,591 6,603,591 151.39 GEC1 2,602,482 3,570,538 3,570,538 3,570,538 Other Executives 3,703,700 4,649,981 1,388,897 228,031 3,033,053 3,033,053 PLAN 83 01.07.2013 6,426,719 30.06.2018 265.18 8,708,641 701,797 176,087 7,830,757 3,850,391 3,980,366 219.03 Award 1 GEC1 2,712,919 3,702,430 69,580 3,632,850 1,663,060 1,969,790 Other Executives 3,713,800 5,006,211 701,797 106,507 4,197,907 2,187,331 2,010,576 Group Consolidated Review PLAN 84 01.07.2014 7,428,128 30.06.2019 265.18 8,454,394 485,110 28,818 7,940,466 2,179,117 5,761,349 201.19 1 102 Award 2 GEC 2,816,845 3,207,686 3,207,686 781,683 2,426,003 John Keells Holdings PLC Other Executives 4,611,283 5,246,708 485,110 28,818 4,732,780 1,397,434 3,335,346 PLAN 85 25.06.2015 6,781,282 24.06.2020 195.71 7,749,912 165,395 7,584,517 89,712 7,494,805 171.25 Award 3 GEC1 2,244,342 2,564,962 2,564,962 2,564,962 Other Executives 4,536,940 5,184,950 165,395 5,019,555 89,712 4,929,843 Annual Report 2015/16 Total 31,615,134 41,338,498 1,913,756 2,354,906 204,905 6,905,600 29,959,331 12,722,811 17,236,520 SHARE AND WARRANT INFORMATION 1 GEC comprises of the Executive Directors and Presidents $GMXVWHGIRU%RQXV,VVXHV5LJKW,VVXHV6XEGLYLVLRQV 3 Plan 8 (Award 1) – 50 per cent of the options had vested as at 31 March 2016 4 Plan 8 (Award 2) – 25 per cent of the options had vested as at 31 March 2016 5 Plan 8 (Award 3) – None of the options had vested as at 31 March 2016 with the exception of retirees Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Share Capital GDR History (in terms of ordinary shares, million) Year ended 31 March Number of shares in issue Year ended 31 Opening Issued* Converted/ Closing (million) March balance repurchased balance 2005 332 2005 0.65 0.06 0.71 2006 400 2006 0.71 0.14 0.85 2007 553 2007 0.85 0.12 0.97 2008 636 2008 0.97 0.14 1.11 2009 611 2009 1.11 0.12 0.99 2010 619 2010 0.99 0.01 0.98 2011 630 2011 0.98 0.03 0.95 2012 844 2012 0.95 0.32 0.08 1.19 2013 857 2013 1.19 0.06 1.13 2014 990 2014 1.13 0.01 1.12 2015 997 2015 1.12 1.12 2016 1,189 2016 1.12 0.16 1.28 Note. 1 GDR is equivalent to 2 ordinary shares * First issued in FY1994 and subsequently increased along with bonus issues and sub-division of shares Dividend History of Scrip Issues, Rights and Repurchases Year ended 31 March DPS (Rs.) Dividends Year ended Issue Basis Number Ex-date (Rs.’000) 31 March of shares 2005 3.00 1,027,497 (million) 2006 3.00 1,199,460 2007 3.00 1,412,306 2005 Bonus 1:10 30 13 May 2004 2008 5.00 3,176,302 2006 Bonus 1:5 66 11 May 2005 2009 3.00 1,883,442 2007 Bonus 1:7 57 13 June 2006 2010 3.00 1,843,642 2007 Rights @ Rs.140* 1:5 92 23 January 2007 2011 3.00 1,868,707 2007 Bonus 1:7 79 13 March 2007 2012 3.00 2,313,519 2009 Repurchase 1:25 26 11 October 2008 2013 3.50 2,982,421 2012 Subdivision 4:3 210 30 June 2011 2014 3.50 3,266,718 2013 Rights @ Rs.175* 2:13 132 3 October 2013 2015 3.50 3,475,947 2015 Subdivision 8:7 143 3 July 2015 2016 7.00 8,037,790 * Unadjusted prices 2015/16 Financial Calendar 2016/17 Financial Calendar Date Date Interim Financial Statements Interim Financial Statements Three months ended 30 June 2015 30 July 2015 Three months ended 30 June 2016 On or before 28 Six months ended 30 September 2015 3 November 2015 July 2016 Nine months ended 31 December 2015 29 January 2016 Six months ended 30 September 2016 On or before 3 November 2016 Nine months ended 31 December 2016 On or before 26 First interim dividend paid on 9 December 2015 January 2017 Second interim dividend paid on 19 February 2016 Annual Report 2016/17 On or before 1 Final dividend proposed to be paid on 13 June 2016 June 2017 Annual Report 2015/16 30 May 2016 38th Annual General Meeting On or before 30 37th Annual General Meeting 24 June 2016 June 2017 103 NETWORKED Industry Group Review 106 Transportation 114 Leisure 126 Property 134 Consumer Foods and Retail 144 Financial Services 150 Information Technology 156 Other including Plantation Services 104 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Industry Group Review INDUSTRY GROUP FINANCIAL AND NON-FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS Revenue* (Rs.billion) % 0 20 40 60 80 100 TRP LEISURE PROP CF&R FIN SER OTHER 21 23 4 26 13 8 5 IT 2013 / 14 20 23 6 29 13 7 2 2013/14 20.73 22.55 4.17 25.41 12.57 7.50 3.63 2014 / 15 2014/15 20.11 23.42 5.69 29.76 12.99 7.21 3.47 16 23 4 35 11 8 3 2015/16 16.83 24.31 4.34 36.46 11.90 8.26 2.66 2015 / 16 * Revenue is inclusive of the Group's share of associate company revenue EBIT (Rs.billion) % 0 20 40 60 80 100 TRP LEISURE PROP CF&R FIN SER OTHER 17 39 9 10 13 3 9 IT 2013 / 14 13 30 9 13 16 2 17 2013/14 2.66 5.91 1.36 1.48 2.00 0.39 1.46 2014 / 15 2014/15 2.41 5.74 1.64 2.57 3.08 0.38 3.41 12 25 8 23 11 2 19 2015/16 2.52 5.13 1.68 4.50 2.30 0.16 3.91 2015 / 16 Capital Employed (Rs.billion) % 0 20 40 60 80 100 LEISURE PROP CF&R FIN SER OTHER 12 35 22 6 7 2 16 TRP IT 2013 / 14 9 29 18 4 7 2 31 2013/14 16.68 48.27 30.21 7.68 9.42 2.57 23.14 2014 / 15 2014/15 15.49 50.59 31.66 7.54 11.78 2.41 54.54 8 28 20 5 4 1 34 2015/16 15.91 52.45 38.59 8.62 7.24 2.29 64.14 2015 / 16 Total Assets (Rs.billion) % 0 20 40 60 80 100 LEISURE FIN SER OTHER 10 29 18 7 20 2 14 TRP PROP CF&R IT 2013 / 14 8 25 16 6 17 2 26 2013/14 18.54 52.66 32.48 12.17 35.59 3.44 24.87 2014 / 15 2014/15 16.66 55.40 34.89 12.95 37.13 3.75 57.31 7 24 18 7 15 2 27 2015/16 17.16 57.65 43.93 15.86 35.88 4.12 66.37 2015 / 16 Employees (Number) % 0 20 40 60 80 100 TRP LEISURE PROP CF&R FIN SER OTHER 2 40 1 26 12 10 9 IT 2013 / 14 3 43 1 29 6 10 8 2013/14 307 5,054 101 3,263 1,527 1,206 1,043 2014 / 15 2014/15 326 5,147 107 3,427 718 1,224 941 3 43 1 31 7 8 7 2015/16 349 5,073 102 3,692 803 985 882 2015 / 16 Carbon Footprint (MT) % 0 20 40 60 80 100 TRP LEISURE PROP CF&R FIN SER OTHER 3 52 36 22 5 IT 2013 / 14 3 53 35 22 5 2013/14 1,863 38,562 52 26,428 1,687 1,428 4,059 2014 / 15 2014/15 2,313 39,698 59 26,441 1,550 1,309 3,898 3 52 37 22 4 2015/16 2,091 40,845 64 29,060 1,407 1,269 3,543 2015 / 16 TRP Transportation CF&R Consumer Foods and Retail IT Information Technology LEISURE Leisure FIN SER Financial Services OTHER Other including Plantation Services PROP Property 105 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review TRANSPORTATION Our Business Model These operations comprise of a container terminal in the Port of Colombo, a marine Vision and Scope EXQNHULQJ EXVLQHVV MRLQW YHQWXUH The vision of the Transportation industry group associations with leading shipping, logistics is to be recognised as a leading provider of and air transportation multinationals, as well transportation solutions and related services as travel and airline services in Sri Lanka and through a diversiﬁed portfolio of businesses the Maldives. in selected markets. 2SHUDWLRQVLQFOXGHDFRQWDLQHUWHUPLQDO D%XQNHULQJEXVLQHVVDQGMRLQWYHQWXUH DVVRFLDWLRQVZLWKOHDGLQJVKLSSLQJORJLVWLFV and air transportation multinationals Ports and Transportation Shipping 124 MT per bn revenue Contribution to JKH Group 16% 12% 8% 3% Revenue EBIT Capital employed Carbon footprint 106 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Sectors Ports and Shipping Transportation The business within š Operation of a container terminal in the Port of Colombo š Logistics services include the operations of DHL air the sector as a public-private partnership on a build, operate H[SUHVVLQ6UL/DQNDDMRLQWYHQWXUHZLWK'HXWVFKH3RVW and transfer (BOT) basis through South Asia Gateway third party logistics, warehousing, trucking and freight Terminals (SAGT) forwarding solutions under the John Keells Logistics EUDQGDQGDMRLQWYHQWXUHZLWK;32/RJLVWLFV UHIHUUHGWR š Associate stake in Maersk Lanka, agents in Sri Lanka and as NDO) as well as bunkering and related services under the Maldives for Maersk Line and Safmarine Lanka Marine Services (LMS) š Representation of airlines as general sales agents through Mack Air in Sri Lanka and through its subsidiary in the Maldives. On-line operations by Jet Airways and offline representation of a number of other airlines. Travel agency services through Mackinnons American Express Travels. A domestic scheduled air taxi service, Cinnamon Air, through Saffron Aviation Key external/internal š The total volume through the Port of Colombo for the š Improved prospects for private sector participation in the variables impacting calendar year grew by 6 per cent, with transshipment and bunkering industry the business domestic volumes growing by 5 per cent and 8 per cent š Decline in global fuel prices impacting top line of respectively, although the performance of the regional bunkering business shipping and ports industry declined š Growth in demand for 3PL offerings on the back of š Further consolidation of global shipping lines through signiﬁcant shifts to organised retail mergers, acquisitions and alliances to beneﬁt from š Increase in capacity in the airline industry through the greater operational efficiencies through cost pooling and entry of new players and intensiﬁed competition from strengthened purchasing power existing players š Improved prospects in the ports and shipping industry in š Signiﬁcant hotel developments in the Deep South, Colombo and Hambantota for private sector participation East and North East coasts of Sri Lanka increasing the opportunities for domestic air transport Key developments š SAGT recognised as the fourth most productive shipping š LMS maintained its position in the bunkering industry as during the ﬁnancial terminal in the World, and the ﬁrst in South Asia, by the the market leader year Journal of Commerce, USA š Full operation of the JKLL Seeduwa warehouse facility during the year under review š DHL Keells launched a new global campaign titled, ŗ&RQQHFWLQJ3HRSOH,PSURYLQJ/LYHVŘ š Acquisition of Norbert Dentressangle Overseas of France by XPO Logistics a logistics service provider in North America Key Indicators Inputs (Rs.mn) 2015/16 2014/15 (%) 2013/14 Outputs (Rs.mn) 2015/16 2014/15 (%) 2013/14 Total assets 17,163 16,656 3 18,543 Turnover3 16,829 20,114 (16) 20,733 Total equity 15,028 14,232 6 14,544 EBIT 2,517 2,412 4 2,658 Total debt 878 1,255 (30) 2,133 PBT 2,495 2,359 6 2,592 Capital employed1 15,905 15,486 3 16,677 PAT 2,454 2,335 5 2,457 Employees (number) 2 349 326 7 307 EBIT per employee4 7.2 7.4 (3) 8.7 2 Carbon footprint (MT) 2,091 2,313 (10) 1863 1 For associate companies the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity investment in these companies 2 Excludes SAGT, DHL, Maersk Lanka, NDO and Cinnamon Air 3 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue 4 As per the sustainability reporting boundary 107 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review TRANSPORTATION External Environment and Operational Review capacity during the year under review, contributed towards improved performance The Port of Colombo recorded a growth in of the company. volumes of 6 per cent during the 2015 calendar year, despite the dampened performance The Airlines business reported growth, as of the global ports and shipping industry expected, with the passenger, air cargo and and other regional ports such as Singapore, Seeduwa facility operated at full global distribution system arms exhibiting Shanghai and Hong Kong, underscoring the capacity during the year double digit growth, despite the increased strategic location and potential of the Port competition from new entrants and price of Colombo. The overall growth was mainly competition from larger players. driven by the existence of deep water terminal Furthermore, the company upgraded one of facilities which have the ability to cater to new As discussed in the previous year, given the its larger barges in November 2015 to enable generation container vessels, combined with growing inclination towards online bookings it to supply fresh water as a value added the strategic location of the Port of Colombo and direct bookings with the airlines itself, service to customers. During the year under and its close proximity to key trade routes. the operating environment within the travel review, LMS sold one of its tankers in order agency industry continues to become to improve productivity and asset utilisation. During the ﬁnancial year, the Group’s Port increasingly fragmented. business, South Asia Gateway Terminals During the year under review, DHL Keells (SAGT), handled 1.40 million twenty foot Cinnamon Air recorded double digit growth improved its market leadership position, equivalent units (TEUs) with transshipment in passenger volumes from both scheduled despite a decline in the weight of cargo volumes accounting for 77 per cent of total and chartered ﬂight operations. This increase carried for both inbound and outbound volumes. This was in comparison to the 1.61 is mainly attributed to the 18 per cent growth cargo. However, shipment growth from million TEUs handled during the previous year, in tourist arrivals and focussed marketing key sectors helped improve its year on where transshipment volumes contributed efforts which has now created awareness year revenue performance. On the side of to 79 per cent of total volumes. Although the amongst the discerning traveller. The use employer branding, a number of initiatives overall Port of Colombo witnessed growth of amphibian aircrafts, which facilitate were rolled out during the year to improve in volumes, the decline in volumes at SAGT, landing and take-off in several destinations the transit time and operational efficiencies, which was expected, is attributed to the using water landing sites, continues to give driving the company towards becoming a continuous deployment of larger, more cost Cinnamon Air a competitive advantage. provider of choice. The launch of a new global effective vessels requiring a deep draft on DGYHUWLVLQJ FDPSDLJQ WLWOHG ŗ&RQQHFWLQJ the Asia-Europe services resulting from the formation of new alliances witnessed in the 3HRSOH ,PSURYLQJ /LYHVŘ FRPSOHPHQWHG WKH Rugby World Cup 2015 sponsorship which Rs. 2.52 Bn prior year. was activated locally to build customer loyalty and attract new customers. During the year under review, SAGT continued to focus on improving the productivity of its Transportation industry group EBIT During the year, John Keells Logistics Limited operations through various cost management (JKLL) focussed on improving productivity A growth of 4 per cent initiatives and productivity enhancing across its facilities and increasing total measures. SAGT’s continued effort to improve throughput managed. An increase in volumes performance and productivity proved fruitful of over 20 per cent throughput managed in with SAGT being recognised as the most In June 2015, Norbert Dentressangle the Peliyagoda distribution centre, coupled productive shipping terminal in South Asia Overseas (NDO) of France was acquired by with the Seeduwa facility operating at full and the fourth in the World by the Journal of XPO Logistics, a logistics service provider Commerce, USA. from North America. The Freight Forwarding EXVLQHVV PDQDJHG E\ LWV MRLQW YHQWXUH “to improve The Bunkering business maintained its partner NDO of France, performed below position as the market leader despite SAGT’s continued effort expectations but focussed on developing the witnessing volatility in margins during the performance and general cargo vertical and minimising the year due to the rapid fall in global oil prices credit risk associated with perishable exports coupled with price competition from bunker productivity proved fruitful during the period under review. suppliers operating in Colombo and, to a with SAGT being recognised lesser extent, India. The sustained reduction Capital Management Review of the base price of bunker fuels, particularly as the most productive in the third quarter of the ﬁnancial year, had shipping terminal in South Further to the external environment and a signiﬁcant impact on the topline of the operations review, this section outlines the business. Leveraging on its reputation, LMS Asia and the fourth in the forms of Capital available for the execution also built on its procurement strategy and World by the Journal of of the businesses’ near, medium and long ” supplier relationships. term strategies in creating value and also Commerce, USA. discusses the performance of the sectors under each form of Capital. 108 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Key indicators under each form of Capital are as follows: contributed towards the improvement of the EBIT margin to 15.0 per cent, against Ports and Shipping Transportation the previous year [2014/15: 12.0 per cent]. Financial and Manufactured Capital Rs.4.93 billion, 3 per cent Rs.11.90 billion, 21 per cent y Asset turnover stood at 1.00 times in revenue and growth decrease decrease comparison to 1.14 times in the previous Financial and Manufactured Capital Rs.1.84 billion, 8 per cent Rs.681 million, 62 per cent year. EBIT and growth decrease increase Natural Capital carbon footprint Not within the boundary of 2,091 MT Natural Capital sustainability reporting With transportation infrastructure and Human Capital – number of Not within the boundary of 349 connectivity being a requisite for economic employees sustainability reporting growth and value creation for the country, it is also necessary that the industry ensures it Financial and Manufactured Capital billion]. The mismatch in the topline decline is environmentally responsible and actively As at 1 April 2015, the Transportation industry and EBIT growth mainly stemmed from the seeks to reduce any negative impacts on group had total assets of Rs.16.66 billion, debt Bunkering business where the impact on the country’s Natural Capital. Within this of Rs.1.26 billion and an opening equity capital proﬁtability from low oil prices was marginal. framework, the Transportation industry group of Rs.14.23 billion. The double digit growth in volumes in the operates under the umbrella of the Group’s Bunkering business, improved performance Environment and Energy Management policy, Financial Performance at DHL Keells at the gross proﬁt level and the as a means of managing its environmental Revenue of the Transportation industry fully operational warehousing facility in the footprint. group declined by 22 per cent to Rs.10.34 Logistics business also contributed towards billion [2014/15: Rs.13.34 billion], primarily the improved performance. However, it is The material impacts for the industry group due to continued low oil prices resulting in pertinent to note that a sharp and sustained are classiﬁed as follows: a reduction in the value of sales made by reduction in oil prices in the third quarter the Bunkering business compared to the of the year partially offset the signiﬁcant Energy and Financial implications previous year, despite an increase in volumes. growth in EBIT of the Bunkering business. The emissions and environmental Revenue, including associate company industry group PBT increased marginally to management responsibility revenue, declined by 16 per cent to Rs.16.83 Rs.2.50 billion [2014/15: Rs.2.36 billion]. Waste Regulatory and billion [2014/15: Rs.20.11 billion] on account management environmental of the decline in TEUs handled by the Group’s Borrowings and Finance Expenses responsibility Port business and the aforementioned Total debt as at 31 March 2016 stood at Rs.878 decrease in revenues of the Bunkering million. The signiﬁcant decline in ﬁnance Energy and Emissions Management: business. Despite the decline in revenue, the expenses by 59 per cent to Rs.21.8 million is Targets: EBIT for the industry group increased by 4 mainly attributable to the Bunkering business, y Internal fuel efficiency targets for per cent to Rs.2.52 billion [2014/15: Rs.2.41 as the company was able to negotiate the cost vehicle and aircraft ﬂeets to reduce fuel of borrowing on several of its loans. consumption and emissions Return on Capital Employed Initiatives: Revenue y ROCE increased to 16.0 per cent from 15.0 y Daily monitoring of fuel consumption per cent in the previous ﬁnancial year. and ongoing analysis of sales routes for 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Complementing the aforesaid increase in route optimisation in order to increase 76 24 EBIT, the asset base of the industry group efficiency 2013 / 14 also declined in lieu of the tanker that was 75 25 sold at LMS during the year, and increased 2014 / 15 Waste Management dividend payments at DHL Keells. Targets: 71 29 2015 / 16 y Adherence to Marine Environmental y As discussed previously, the decline Pollution Authority (MEPA) regulations EBIT in revenue and the increase in EBIT, 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 22 78 Return on Capital Employed 2013 / 14 17 83 ROCE 2014 / 15 2015/16: 16.0% 27 73 2014/15: 15.0% 2015 / 16 Transportation Ports and Shipping Asset turnover EBIT margin Asset/Debt + Equity 1.00 15.0% 1.08 109 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review TRANSPORTATION Initiatives: Human Capital y Hazardous oil sludge from bunkering operations are disposed of through a certiﬁed third party The Transportation industry group places contractor which is MEPA certiﬁed to ensure that such waste is responsibly disposed of and a signiﬁcant emphasis on health and safety, certiﬁcate for this disposal is obtained from MEPA given the nature of the some of the businesses of the industry group which are more prone to y JKLL initiated a process to reduce waste generated by utilising tying tape which reduced the road accidents, accidents at warehouses and need for stretch ﬁlm in the distribution centre other facilities, among others. Through the Group’s Health and Safety policy and creating y LMS conducts monthly oil spill drills for its employees to minimise the resulting impact in awareness and providing training on road WKHHYHQWRIDQDFFLGHQWDOVSLOO/06DOVRFRQGXFWHGDPDMRURLOVSLOOGULOOLQ)HEUXDU\ZKLFK safety, the industry group strives to ensure included a ﬁre drill and deployment of a rescue boat and oil containment boom a safe and healthy working environment. y Compliance with MARPOL regulations Additionally, the industry group has made efforts to encourage the growth of the industry Performance by investing in its people, thereby producing The carbon footprint of the Transportation industry group (excluding SAGT, DHL, Maersk Lanka, qualiﬁed professionals in the logistics and NDO and Cinnamon Air, which are beyond the sustainability reporting boundaries) was 2,091 MT, transportation ﬁeld. At industry level, there a 10 per cent reduction from the previous year. No signiﬁcant spillages were reported during the have been progressive changes in demand reporting year. by key players, from a purely cost-centric platform, towards a focus on service quality and dependability. To meet such demands, 2015/2016 2014/2015 (%) as well as to sustain and capitalise on the envisaged momentum in growth, investment Carbon footprint (MT) 2,091 2,313 (10) in Human Capital is considered vital, alongside the investment in infrastructure, processes Waste disposed (kg) 109,243 177,576 (38) and systems. Carbon footprint Scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor The material impacts for the industry group 2015/2016 2014/2015 are classiﬁed as follows: LMS CO2 (kg per MT of bunkers sold) 5.7 8.4 Talent The need to retain and 2 JKLL CO2 (kg per m of warehouse area managed) 4.5 4.7 management continuously upgrade the skills of existing Waste generated per operational intensity factor staff, while developing a resource base of 2015/2016 2014/2015 professionals for the LMS waste generated (kg per MT of bunkers sold) 0.3 1.0 country’s transportation industry JKLL waste generated (kg per m2 of warehouse area managed) 0.3 0.2 Health and Labour and productivity safety concerns as the Group places signiﬁcant emphasis on providing a safe working environment for its employees and stakeholders Talent Management Targets: y Continuous skills development and training y Build a resource base of qualiﬁed transportation and logistics professionals Initiatives: y The Transportation industry group provided 1,761 hours of training to its employees, in line with its strategy of increased focus on staff training and +HDOWKDQGVDIHW\SUDFWLFHVDW-RKQ.HHOOV/RJLVWLFV/LPLWHG development to further build capacity and 110 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information “Transport The Moratuwa University and Logistics Degree Programme is a strategic CSR project designed to develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes of undergraduates in the ﬁelds of aviation, shipping, logistics and supply chain management or public &ORVLQJ&HUHPRQ\RI0HQWRULQJ3URJUDPPH'HSDUWPHQWRI7UDQVSRUWDQG/RJLVWLFV 0DQDJHPHQW8QLYHUVLW\RI0RUDWXZD transport. ” efficiency across operationally critical During the year under review, 23 students y JKLL organised a seminar on warehouse areas. At JKLL, the establishment of were granted scholarships. Since these health and safety, traffic regulations and dedicated training centres backed by an programmes are conducted in English, 53 road safety. The audience included JKLL internationally recognised vocational students were also provided English language employees, other Group employees, qualiﬁcation is a part of the company’s training via a custom-made programme organisations operating in the logistics future strategy for staff recruitment and conducted by the Gateway Language Centre. industry and member organisations of retention the Chartered Institute of Logistics and Health and Safety Transport, Sri Lanka y The Transportation industry group Target: continued to sponsor the scholarship y Health and safety targets, including y LMS organised a ﬁrst aid training run programme at the University of targets of no more than one warehouse by Red Cross certiﬁed trainers, with Moratuwa for undergraduates reading LQMXU\DQGOHVVWKDQıYHPDMRURUVHULRXV invitations extended to businesses for the Bachelor of Science in Transport road accidents with considerable impact from the entire Transportation industry and Logistics Management as discussed to third parties, per month group. At present, the industry group below has seventeen Red-Cross certiﬁed First Initiatives: Aiders y Internship opportunities were provided y JKLL and LMS renewed OHSAS 18007 for students in the aforesaid scholarship certiﬁcation on health and safety SURJUDPPHWRSURYLGHRQWKHMREWUDLQLQJ practices and career development with the aim of identifying and absorbing new talent into the Group upon graduation Performance Impact through CSR initiatives: 7KHLQGXVWU\JURXSSURYLGHGVWDĳZLWKKRXUVRIWUDLQLQJSHUHPSOR\HHZKLOHLQMXU\ZDVUHFRUGHG The Moratuwa University Transport and during the year under review. Logistics Degree Programme is a strategic &65 SURMHFW GRQH LQ FROODERUDWLRQ ZLWK -RKQ 2015/2016 2014/2015 (%) Keells Foundation designed to develop the knowledge, skills and attitudes of ,QMXULHVGLVHDVHV QXPEHU 1 3 (67) undergraduates in the ﬁelds of aviation, shipping, logistics and supply chain Total hours of training 1,761 1,533 15 management or public transport. The programme consists of an aggregate of 174 scholarships awarded on a both need and merit based scheme. As part of the scheme, scholars can opt for an industrial placement period at JKH while employment within the John Keells Group is offered to at least 5 graduates annually. 111 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review TRANSPORTATION Social and Relationship Capital Strategy and Outlook “to evaluate The Transportation industry group, through its numerous business offerings, connects The availability of the ﬁrst deep water The Group will continue multiple entities and parties across and within container port in the whole of South Asia, the borders of the country. The Port of Colombo, complementing Sri Lanka’s strategic location opportunities in within which the Group’s Port business SAGT astride the global East-West shipping the transportation industry, also operates, is strategically positioned on the route, enhances the prospects for the Port main global East-West shipping route, linking of Colombo, particularly considering the particularly considering the Far East with Africa, Europe, and the East increasing number of new generation vessels the Government’s intent Coast of the US, providing ideal connections requiring a deeper draft. Despite the change for trading in the Indian sub-continent. The to promote private-public in market dynamics where the industry has Bunkering business has continued to enhance witnessed the formation of many shipping partnerships, such as its mutually beneﬁcial procurement contract alliances and the commencement of with the East Container with a leading petroleum company in India. operations of the only deep water terminal in the Port of Colombo, the positioning of the Terminal (ECT) of the Port In order to ensure healthy relationships with stakeholders and to mitigate any negative sustainability impacts, companies assess Port of Colombo as a leading maritime hub and the resulting growth in total volumes is expected to beneﬁt all terminals in the Port of of Colombo. ” all signiﬁcant suppliers, including suppliers Colombo. SURYLGLQJ MDQLWRULDO DQG RWKHU RXWVRXUFHG services. SAGT will continue to leverage on its The Bunkering business will strive to improve recognition and capability in terms of productivity and performance through the productivity in ensuring growth in volumes in restructuring of its delivery ﬂeet, leveraging the ensuing years. It is pertinent that, despite on its reputation and market position when the signiﬁcant enhancement in the overall executing its procurement strategy and capacity in the Port of Colombo, the overall also focussing on increasing direct sales in capacity utilisation in the Port of Colombo is the near and medium term. Whilst private currently at approximately 70 per cent. The sector participation in bunkering operations Group will continue to evaluate opportunities at the Port of Hambantota has hitherto in the transportation industry, particularly been restricted, the Government has now considering the Government’s intent to called for requests for proposals for the promote private-public partnerships, such operation of the bunkering facility in the Port as with the East Container Terminal (ECT) of Hambantota. Considering these plans as of the Port of Colombo. The Group will look outlined by the Government, the Group will to leverage on this investment opportunity look to capitalise on the opportunities within considering the overall prospects for the the Port of Hambantota, which are expected Port of Colombo as discussed before and the to materialise in the near term. As mentioned The Port of Colombo is strategically positioned on ability for the ECT to cater to larger vessels in the 2014/15 Annual Report, it is reassuring the main global East-West shipping route, linking which will complement the operations of that there is a likelihood that the full potential the Far East with Africa, Europe, and the East SAGT considering its back to back location of the existing infrastructure could be utilised Coast of the US, providing ideal connections for which will facilitate operational efficiencies. and the beneﬁts of the same could be reaped trading in the Indian sub-continent through globally competitive partnerships. The signiﬁcant suppliers within the industry group are illustrated below: 7KH H[SHFWHG JURZWK WUDMHFWRU\ RI international trade combined with focussed infrastructure development is expected to Signiﬁcant Suppliers transform Sri Lanka into a regional logistic hub in the medium term. Sri Lanka is uniquely positioned to capture this growth given the comparatively lower costs, skilled Maintenance, labour and ease of access to the ever growing Outsourced Warehouse Capital subcontinent markets, among others. support services and vehicle ﬂeets operations equipment outsourced employees 112 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information To capitalise on the aforementioned “process opportunity, JKLL will continually engage with key clients and also evaluate the potential JKLL is also in the for purpose built and anchored facilities. JKLL will focus on expanding its footprint of developing the and customer base to include long term concept for a Distribution integrated customer relationships. JKLL is also in the process of developing the concept Centre together with the for a Distribution Centre together with the Group’s Retail sector. Group’s Retail sector. As a part of its long term strategy, JKLL will also look to establish As a part of its long a dedicated training centre for its employees. term strategy, JKLL will also look to establish a The performance of DHL Keells is expected to remain stable with likelihood of increased dedicated training centre price competition in the near term. The competitive landscape is likely to remain stable given the high cost of entry associated for its employees. ” with the industry. The GSP Plus preferential tariff system to the European Union, if approved, is expected to augur well for the changing dynamics and proﬁle of tourists business with expansion in opportunities is expected to beneﬁt Cinnamon Air. The in the export industry, and in particular, the convenience of faster connectivity between apparel industry, which is a key growth area. cities and Sri Lanka’s growing popularity as a destination for shorter stays and attracting Similar to prior years, Cinnamon Air will focus more upscale leisure and corporate tourists on creating industry and customer awareness are expected to contribute towards improved of its services through multiple channels. The performance of the company. expected growth in tourist arrivals and the 113 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review LEISURE Our Business Model in Colombo, eight resort hotels spread in prime tourist locations across Sri Lanka and Vision and Scope three resorts in Maldives, offering beaches, Representing JKH’s largest asset exposure, mountains and cultural splendour under the the Leisure industry group encompasses EUDQG ŗ&LQQDPRQ +RWHOV DQG 5HVRUWVŘ 7KH two city hotels that offer approximately 39 Leisure industry group also has a destination per cent of the current 5-star room capacity management business in Sri Lanka. in Colombo, a select service hotel also 7RFRPSOHPHQWWKHIRFXVRIWKH Cinnamon brand on various OLIHVW\OHUHODWHGDFWLYLWLHV HYHQWVDLPHGDWFRPPXQLFDWLQJ WKH&LQQDPRQYLEHZHUH GHYHORSHGLQKRXVH City Hotels Resorts Destination Hotel Management Management 1,598 kg per Rs.Mn revenue Contribution to JKH Group 23% 25% 28% 52% Revenue EBIT Capital employed Carbon footprint 114 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Sectors City Hotels Destination Management Resorts Sri Lankan Maldivian The business within š Cinnamon Grand 501 š Walkers Tours and Whittal š 8 resort hotels in Sri š 3 resort hotels in Maldives the sector rooms Boustead Destination Lanka – 1,000 rooms 340 rooms š Cinnamon Lakeside 340 Management operations rooms in Sri Lanka š Cinnamon red 240 rooms Key external/internal š Increased room inventory, š Arrivals from China grew š The political unrest in š Political instability, variables impacting particularly from the 3-4 68 per cent during the Russia, Ukraine and including a state of the business star hotel segment in the calendar year 2015 the Middle East had a emergency in the prior years š Signiﬁcant inﬂux of negative impact on the Maldives which was š Flat growth in overall tourists from the United growth in tourist arrivals imposed for a brief period tourist arrivals to the City Kingdom, China and š Expected increase in in November 2015 Hotel sector Netherlands room inventory š The Government of š Increase in competition Maldives introduced a from the informal sector USD 6 per person per day Green tax effective from 1 November 2015 onwards š Increase of excise duty on liquor š Removal of the tourism development levy Key developments š Cinnamon Grand š Witnessed a signiﬁcant š Rebranding of all š Rebranding of all during the ﬁnancial maintained its position as growth in volumes from ŗ&KDD\DŘ UHVRUWV XQGHU ŗ&KDD\DŘ UHVRUWV XQGHU year the market leader web based sales WKHŗ&LQQDPRQŘXPEUHOOD WKHŗ&LQQDPRQŘXPEUHOOD š As planned, Cinnamon š Extension of the lease Lakeside was partially period of Ellaidhoo by ten closed for refurbishments years during the period March to š Acquisition of the island October 2015 DGMRLQLQJ+DNXUDD+XUDD š ,QDXJXUDOXQYHLOLQJRIWKHELPRQWKO\OLIHVW\OHPDJD]LQHWLWOHGŗ7KH&LQQDPRQPDJD]LQHŘ š Relaunch of website to complement the Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts branding š 7KHUROOLQJRXWRIWKHFRPPRQ3URSHUW\0DQDJHPHQW6\VWHPŗ,QGUD306ŘZDVFRPSOHWHGDFURVVDOOSURSHUWLHV Hotel Management Sector In addition to the sectors in the aforementioned table, Cinnamon Hotel Management Limited (CHML), functions as the hotel management arm of the Leisure industry group. Key Indicators Inputs (Rs.mn) 2015/16 2014/15 (%) 2013/14 Outputs (Rs.mn) 2015/16 2014/15 (%) 2013/14 Total assets 57,653 55,403 4 52,662 Revenue3 24,306 23,422 4 22,548 Total equity 47,782 45,764 4 41,570 EBIT 5,134 5,737 (11) 5,912 Total debt 4,664 4,826 (3) 6,697 PBT 4,968 5,505 (10) 5,434 Capital employed1 52,446 50,590 4 48,267 PAT 4,367 4,855 (10) 4,824 Employees (number)2 5,073 5,147 (1) 5,054 EBIT per employee 1.0 1.1 (9) 1.2 Carbon footprint (MT) 40,845 39,698 3 38,562 1 For associate companies the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity investment in these companies 2 As per the sustainability reporting boundary 3 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue 115 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review LEISURE External Environment and Operational Review a 240-room select service hotel in Colombo. The hotel performed beyond expectations, Sri Lanka recorded 1,798,380 tourist arrivals highlighting the efficacy of our newly adopted for the calendar year 2015, a growth of 18 brand strategy, with average occupancy per cent against the previous year [CY2014: exceeding 85 per cent during the period under 1,527,153 tourists]. The tourism industry review. The refurbishment of Cinnamon recorded receipts of USD 2.98 billion, an Lakeside was completed in increase of 23 per cent against last year. The The Sri Lankan Resorts segment recorded an October 2015 two largest source markets for tourist arrivals improvement in overall occupancies driven by to Sri Lanka, Western Europe and South Asia, non-traditional tourism generating markets grew by 15 per cent and 24 per cent to 552,442 and 459,415 arrivals respectively. Arrivals from Russia and Ukraine contracted by 11 “Conferences The Meetings, Incentives, and Events such as China and India, which offset the downturn in arrivals from both Russia and Ukraine. Increased competition within the per cent and 20 per cent respectively, albeit (MICE) segment recorded sector, particularly from the informal sector, off a relatively lower base, due to continuing exerted pressure on average room rates economic volatility and political unrest. India double digit growth during despite the signiﬁcant growth in arrivals. and China were the largest country-wise the year under review, However, the sector managed to maintain contributors to tourist arrivals, recording a average room rates marginally above last growth of 30 per cent (316,247 arrivals) and albeit on a lower base, year. The increase in administration and 68 per cent (214,783 arrivals) respectively. The demonstrating the signiﬁcant operating costs, which is mainly attributable Chinese market continued to be a key thrust to staff development initiatives in line with potential to position Colombo ” market, with many initiatives being rolled out the new brand strategy, contributed towards at a national policy level. These efforts and as a MICE hub. pressure on margins. the continuing increase in ﬂight connectivity resulted in the aforesaid increase in arrivals from China, which accounted for 12 per cent fourth quarter, despite the aforementioned competition from the 3-4 star segments, 1,798,380 of total arrivals to Sri Lanka in 2015. DVDPDMRULW\RIVXFKKRWHOVDUHQHDULQJIXOO occupancy. In the year under review, tourist arrivals into the City Hotels sector exhibited marginal Given the increasing prominence of Chinese Tourist arrivals growth, mainly attributable to a double and Indian tourists in to Sri Lanka, the City A growth of18 per cent during 2015 digit growth in the Meetings, Incentives, Hotels sector focussed on differentiating Conferences and Events (MICE) segment, their offering to these segments via dedicated albeit off a lower base, which was partially ﬂoors, menus, Mandarin ﬂuent front line staff offset by a marginal decline from the leisure and guest relations officers, among others. In the year under review, special emphasis and crew segments. The noteworthy growth The competitively priced holiday package was placed on volume driven strategies in the MICE segment demonstrates the DLPHGDWWKH,QGLDQWRXULVWPDUNHWWLWOHGŗ6HH such as increasing web sales, enhancing signiﬁcant potential to position Colombo as a 6KRS3DUW\&RORPERŘODXQFKHGE\&LQQDPRQ the destination management company base MICE hub. The corporate segment retained its Lakeside in collaboration with Sri Lankan and customising the product offering to the position as the largest contributor to overall Airlines, is another initiative towards this end. Chinese market. Further, in line with the arrivals although not demonstrating growth in branding strategy of the Leisure industry arrivals during the year. This ﬁnancial year marked the ﬁrst full year of group, the rebranding of all properties was operations for Cinnamon red, which manages also completed as follows. The performance of the City Hotels sector was impacted by the partial closure of the Cinnamon Lakeside (CL) from March 2015 Original name Name of resort post rebranding till mid-October 2015 for refurbishments Sri Lankan Resorts with only 40 per cent of the room inventory operational during this time. However, all Bentota Beach Hotel Bentota Beach by Cinnamon public areas and restaurants were fully Chaaya Village Habarana Village by Cinnamon accessible to the public. Cinnamon Grand (CG) Cinnamon Citadel Kandy Cinnamon Citadel Kandy maintained its market share and leadership Chaaya Blu Trinco Blu by Cinnamon position amongst the city hotels in 2015/16. Cinnamon Lodge Habarana Cinnamon Lodge Habarana Intensiﬁed competition from the 3-4 star Cinnamon Wild Yala Cinnamon Wild Yala segments exerted pressure on CG’s average Chaaya Tranz Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon room rates during the period under review. Cinnamon Bey Beruwala Cinnamon Bey Beruwala However, CG managed to maintain an average Maldivian Resorts occupancy of 76 per cent, marginally higher Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo Ellaidoo Maldives by Cinnamon than the 75 per cent recorded in the prior year. It should be noted that both CG and CL Chaaya Lagoon Hakura Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa Maldives witnessed promising occupancies in the Chaaya Island Dhonveli Cinnamon Dhonveli Maldives 116 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information During the calendar year 2015, 1,234,248 strategies and cost management initiatives Financial and Manufactured Capital tourists visited the Maldives, a growth of 2 such as the reduction of energy costs and As at 1 April 2015, the Leisure industry group per cent against the previous year [CY2014: procurement costs, among others, proved had total assets of Rs.55.40 billion, debt of 1,204,857 arrivals]. Arrivals from North fruitful during the year under review. Rs.4.83 billion and an opening equity capital East Asia and Western Europe, the primary Successful negotiations with partners of Rs.45.76 billion. contributors to overall arrivals, remained providing sea plane facilities also beneﬁtted ﬂat whilst South Asia recorded encouraging the segment in managing overheads. The Financial Performance growth of 16 per cent off a relatively lower Government of Maldives introduced a green The revenue of the Leisure industry group base. Arrivals from China, the largest source tax with effect from 1 November 2015, to increased by 4 per cent to Rs.24.31 billion market for tourism in the Maldives, witnessed replace the bed tax which was abolished in [2015/16: Rs.23.42 billion]. The Sri Lankan Resorts segment recorded an 2 per cent a decline of 1 per cent to 359,514 tourists the prior ﬁnancial year. growth in revenue due to a marginal increase whilst arrivals from Russia contracted by 33 in average room rates and occupancies per cent to 44,323 tourists. The decline in The performance of the Destination DFURVVDPDMRULW\RIWKHUHVRUWKRWHOV5HYHQXH arrivals is attributed to the unstable political Management sector was above expectations, growth was aided by the depreciation of environment prevailing within the country and as the signiﬁcant increase in volumes WKH 5XSHH VLQFH D PDMRULW\ RI FRQWUDFWV DUH the aforementioned economic and political generated from the United Kingdom, China priced in US dollars. The Maldivian Resorts climate in Russia. and Netherlands, more than compensated for segment recorded a 3 per cent decline in the decline in volumes from the United States revenue due to the challenging operating Despite the decline in occupancies compared of America, India, Canada and regions such as environment, as discussed previously, with to the previous year, the Maldivian Resorts the Far East and East Europe. The aggressive ARRs and occupancies declining marginally. segment maintained its occupancy levels marketing strategies undertaken during the The Destination Management sector recorded above the industry average of the country. year on focussed markets was a key driver a 15 per cent growth in revenue whilst the City The increasing numbers of guest houses of the sector’s performance. The online Hotels sector recorded a 4 per cent growth. being offered for tourist accommodation, ERRNLQJSODWIRUPŗ&YLVLWŘODXQFKHGLQ2FWREHU Despite the partial closure of Cinnamon and intensiﬁed competition from the informal 2014, yielded results as expected with online Lakeside in the ﬁrst half of the year, the sector, exerted pressure on average room bookings exhibiting double digit growth. The increase in revenue is mainly attributed to rates and occupancies of the segment. volume generated from conventions was also the increase in food and beverage and room Continued focus on streamlining operational encouraging. revenue at Cinnamon Grand. efficiencies through lean management The EBIT for the industry group declined by 11 per cent to Rs.5.13 billion [2014/15: Rs.5.74 billion], primarily on account of the lower EBIT Capital Management Review Concluding the external environment and operational review of the Leisure industry group the ensuing section discusses the forms of Capital available and elaborates on the manner in which Revenue each form of Capital is managed to create value to all stakeholders concerned. 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% 34 19 27 19 Key performance indicators for the industry group, under each of the sectors are summarised as 2013 / 14 follows: 32 20 27 21 2014 / 15 32 20 25 23 City Destination Hotel 2015 / 16 Sector Resorts Hotels Management Management Sri Lankan Maldivian EBIT 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Financial and Rs.7.75 Rs.4.84 Rs.6.18 Rs.5.53 Rs.5.59 11 44 15 24 5 Manufactured Capital billion, 4 billion, 2 billion, 3 billion, 15 million, 27 2013 / 14 revenue and growth per cent per cent per cent per cent per cent 14 38 16 26 5 growth growth decrease growth increase 2014 / 15 Financial and Rs.1.87 Rs.930 Rs.1.13 Rs.498 Rs.705 14 36 18 22 10 Manufactured Capital billion, 15 million, 1 billion, 24 million, 61 million, 13 2015 / 16 EBIT and growth per cent per cent per cent per cent per cent Hotel Management sector decrease decrease decrease growth decrease City Hotels sector Natural Capital 19,670 MT 13,576 MT 6,833 MT 523 MT 243 MT Sri Lankan Resorts segment Maldivian Resorts segment carbon footprint Destination Management sector Human Capital – 2,198 1,995 485 247 148 number of employees 117 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review LEISURE recorded in the City Hotel sector and Maldivian DGMXVWHGIRUWKHUHYDOXDWLRQJDLQVDULVLQJ friendly business practices with the intention Resorts segment. Lower revenue from the in the preceding three years in order to of minimising any negative impact to Maldivian Resorts segment and the decline FDOFXODWHWKHDGMXVWHGDVVHWEDVH2QWKLV natural resources. All operations proactively in EBIT stemming from the partial closure EDVLVWKHDGMXVWHG52&(LVSHUFHQW monitor and seek to improve outcomes of Cinnamon Lakeside, for façade related compared to 14.5 per cent in the previous in key environmental indicators such as refurbishments in the ﬁrst half of the year, year. As evident, this decline is mainly energy consumption, water withdrawal and contributed towards a 24 per cent and 15 per attributed to the decrease in EBIT. discharge, waste generation and responsible cent decline in the Maldivian Resorts segment disposal. and City Hotels sector EBITs, respectively. y The EBIT margin decreased to 21.1 per cent from 24.5 per cent in the prior The material impacts for the industry group The performance of the Sri Lankan Resorts ﬁnancial year. The decline is on account are classiﬁed as follows: segment was also impacted by a provision of lower margins recorded in all sectors in accordance with the Budgetary Relief except the Destination Management Energy and Financial implications, Allowance of Workers Act and an unrealised sector. emissions stakeholder expectations exchange valuation loss of Rs.158 million management of sustainable tourism on the US Dollar loans arising from the y The asset turnover ratio increased practices, regulatory devaluation of the Sri Lanka Rupee against marginally to 0.43 during the year as the requirements, brand the US Dollar. It is pertinent to note that the increase in the asset base, as discussed image and reputation foreign currency denominated revenue was previously, was offset by the increase in of the industry group’s positively impacted due to the depreciation revenue. businesses of the Rupee, although such a beneﬁt will accrue over the ﬁnancial year as opposed Water and Financial implications Natural Capital to the exchange impact on the valuation of effluent as well as regulatory Sri Lanka’s diverse natural environment and loans as at 31 March 2016, at which point of management and brand reputation rich biodiversity, amongst many other aspects, time the Rupee had depreciated signiﬁcantly. implications are key thrusts for the tourism industry in the The industry group PBT decreased to Rs.4.97 country and enables the creation of a strong Waste Regulatory and brand billion [2014/15: Rs.5.51 billion]. value proposition for the hotels and resorts management reputation implications of the Leisure industry group. As the largest Biodiversity Regulatory and brand Borrowings and Finance Expenses hotelier in the country, and with its reliance on reputation implications Total debt as at 31 March 2016 stood at natural resources to create value, the industry Rs.4.66 billion. The industry group recorded group places a strong focus on environmental The ensuing section discusses the key targets a signiﬁcant decrease in ﬁnance expenses to and operational efficiency, and strives to under the above identiﬁed material aspects Rs.166 million due to the retirement of long conduct its businesses with minimal impact and corresponding impacts, and the initiatives term debt and comparatively lower cost of US on the environment. The Leisure industry undertaken with a view to achieving said dollar denominated borrowings in the Resorts group’s strategy with regard to management targets. sector [2014/15: Rs.232 million]. of Natural Capital is underscored through both the John Keells Group’s sustainability policy Energy and Emissions Management: Return on Capital Employed DQG WKH ŗ&LQQDPRQŘ EUDQGŖV VXVWDLQDELOLW\ Targets: y ROCE decreased to 10.0 per cent strategy. y Energy conservation and reduction from the 11.6 per cent recorded in the in carbon footprint through energy previous year. The asset base for the The industry group is conscious of the fact efficient equipment and practices and industry group increased as a result of that long term value creation can only be replacement or upgrading of equipment DQ LQYHVWPHQW LQ ŗ&LQQDPRQ $LUŘ 7KH achieved through responsible management with energy efficient alternatives where revaluation gain for this year was Rs.413 of impacts and outputs, resulting in required million [2014/15: Rs.2.27 billion]. As sustainable outcomes. Business units operate discussed under the Strategy, Resource within this principle, with conservation and y Tracking and reduction of carbon Allocation and Portfolio Management preservation of the environment as business footprint and utilisation of renewable section of this Report, the asset base is priorities, achieved through environmentally energy sources where feasible y Alignment with international benchmarks for all hotel properties with respect Return on Capital Employed to carbon emissions and energy consumption ROCE 2015/16: 10.0% y Ensuring that quality of emissions are 2014/15: 11.6% within the tolerance levels stipulated by the Environmental Protection License (EPL) Asset turnover EBIT margin Asset/Debt + Equity 0.43 21.1% 1.10 118 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information water for washrooms, gardening and washing purposes, where possible, while collecting and utilising rainwater to reduce the overall consumption of water y Cinnamon Lakeside installed active water savers in 300 guest rooms, saving approximately 16 litres per minute whilst installing low ﬂow showerheads and dual ﬂush toilets. A towel and linen reuse programme is in place and grounds landscaping uses native and low water use plants to minimise water usage y All hotels monitor and track water using divisional sub-metering to target high usage areas. Effluents are tested regularly by independent assessors to %LRJDVGLJHVWHUDW&LQQDPRQ:LOG ensure regulatory standards are met Initiatives: obtained ISO 14001:2004 certiﬁcation for Waste Management y All hotels continue to adopt energy environmental management. Cinnamon Targets: efficient lighting systems in staff and Grand was recognised by SGS Lanka y Strive to achieve zero waste to landﬁll guest areas. Cinnamon Grand’s newly as being the ﬁrst 5-star city hotel in status as a long term goal through constructed associate lifestyle building the country to receive and maintain comprehensive waste management which is completely ﬁtted with LED bulbs uninterrupted ISO certiﬁcation for the strategies including tracking, is one such initiative past 9 years, not only for ISO 14001 but classiﬁcation, segregation, recycling, also for OHSAS 18001 and ISO 22000 composting and initiatives such as bio y Walkers Tours (WTL) continues to offset gas recovery the carbon footprint of its entire ﬂeet y Hotels continued the replacement of and is certiﬁed carbon neutral. WTL also less efficient standard air conditioners Initiatives: increased the number of hybrid vehicles with energy efficient inverter type air y Cinnamon Lakeside constructed a in its ﬂeet to reduce fuel consumption. A conditioning units new dry garbage segregation room ŗ&DUERQ&RQVFLRXVŘDZDUHQHVVFDPSDLJQ to streamline waste management was also carried out during the reporting Water and Effluent Management procedures and promote the concept of year and the company also obtained Targets: ŗUHGXFH UHXVH DQG UHF\FOHŘ DPRQJVW ŗ7RXU&HUWŘFKHFNVWDWXVWKLV\HDU y Reduction in the Leisure industry group’s staff. Colour coded waste bins continue to withdrawal of water facilitate waste segregation, with garden y Resorts utilise renewable energy sources waste being composted on site. The hotel such as solar thermal units and coy Ensure that the international benchmarks strives to reduce paper waste wherever generation units for water heating. The for all hotel properties on water possible with all printing settings set Reverse Osmosis (RO) plant at Cinnamon consumption are met to minimise paper usage. Additionally, Hakuraa Huraa Maldives uses an energy preference is given to product suppliers recovery unit to reduce overall energy y Ensure all effluents meet the requisite who provide reusable packaging and usage, saving an annualised 156,000 water quality standards containers kWh. Bentota Beach by Cinnamon LQLWLDWHGDSURMHFWWRXWLOLVHZDVWHDLUIURP y Installation of on-site effluent treatment y A bio gas digester was installed at its heat pump for cooling purposes plants for all hotels which are unable Cinnamon Wild Yala, in addition to the to discharge effluent into common already existent digesters at Cinnamon y The building management systems municipal sewerage lines Hakuraa Huraa, Cinnamon Citadel Kandy installed in Cinnamon Lakeside, and Habarana Village by Cinnamon, as Cinnamon Grand, Cinnamon Bey Initiatives: a means of re-using food waste whilst Beruwala and Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon y Cinnamon Grand has equipped the new simultaneously reducing the need for has features to optimise energy usage associate lifestyle buildings with sensor non-renewable energy sources such as the controlling and timing of taps for all wash basins. Additionally, outdoor and indoor lighting and setting shower water used in the building is y Cinnamon Lodge Habarana introduced a automatic and efficient temperature recycled and used for ﬂushing purposes biological bacteria digesting system for settings for the different areas of each whilst collection tanks are provided wet garbage to reduce waste volume and hotel. As with all other businesses in the to facilitate rainwater harvesting. for use in composting Leisure industry group, Cinnamon red Businesses seek to treat and recycle 119 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review LEISURE Name of resort hotel and geographic Feature of biological diversity in proximity to Distance from Subsurface Extent of site location site site land at site (m2) (km2) Bentota Beach by Cinnamon Marine ecosystems $GMDFHQW Nil 0.0446 Cinnamon Bey Beruwala Marine ecosystems $GMDFHQW Nil 0.045 Trinco Blu by Cinnamon Marine ecosystems $GMDFHQW Nil 0.1143 Cinnamon Citadel Kandy Mahaweli river and freshwater ecosystems $GMDFHQW Nil 0.0234 Hikka Tranz by Cinnamon Marine ecosystems $GMDFHQW 3,600 0.0176 Habarana Village by Cinnamon Minneriya tank sanctuary 15 km Nil 0.0378 Cinnamon Wild Yala Yala national park $GMDFHQW Nil 0.0405 Cinnamon Lodge Habarana Minneriya tank sanctuary 15 km Nil 0.1031 Cinnamon Dhonveli, Maldives Marine ecosystems $GMDFHQW Nil 0.1496 Ellaidhoo Maldives by Cinnamon Marine ecosystems $GMDFHQW Nil 0.0556 Cinnamon Hakuraa Huraa Maldives Marine ecosystems $GMDFHQW Nil 0.0543 Biodiversity y 3URMHFW/HRSDUGOHGE\&LQQDPRQ1DWXUH signiﬁcant number of tourist arrivals, Targets Trails, in partnership with the John Keells the lack of guidance and information y Minimal damage to important biodiverse Foundation, aims to mitigate the humanis a hindrance to the overall tourist areas to ensure long term value creation OHRSDUGFRQĲLFWLQWKHYLOODJHVDGMDFHQWWR experience. The map, developed during is not hindered Yala National Park through the provision 2015/16, addresses this issue. 15,500 of portable steel-fenced pens to herd copies of the map were printed with an Initiatives domestic cattle. During the reporting year, estimated indirect impact of over 46,500 y Given the proximity of resorts to a total of 17 stainless steel pens were through sharing of knowledge with family biologically diverse areas accounting donated to cattle farmers (69 pens since and friends for 0.6858 square kilometres, impact SURMHFWLQFHSWLRQ assessments are regularly conducted y Conducted for the 7th consecutive year, to ascertain any impacts on biodiversity y Development of a map of Block I of the WKH ŗ%DQQHUV WR EDJVŘ %E  VDOH DW and the environment resulting from Yala National Park, the second largest Cinnamon Grand, Colombo focusses on operations national wildlife park in Sri Lanka which transforming used banners into durable Impact through CSR initiatives: attracts over 100,000 visitors a year, is a and trendy bags. 57 banners were y 7KH &LQQDPRQ (OHSKDQW SURMHFW DW collaborative initiative of Cinnamon Hotels converted to 135 bags of different shapes Cinnamon Lodge Habarana conducted in and Resorts, Cinnamon Nature Trails and and sizes during the year collaboration with John Keells Foundation the John Keells Foundation. Despite the and the Centre for Conservation and Research aims to study elephants for long term conservation while enhancing tourists’ experience. During the year under review the following initiatives were undertaken: š Identiﬁcation of individual elephants and herds in the Minneriya National Park š Purchase of image storage equipment to facilitate information sharing on the elephant gathering with guests š Purchase of 3 satellite collars to track 3 elephant herds to determine seasonal movements š Conducting of 2 awareness programmes for special guest &DWWOHIDUPHUXVLQJGRQDWHGVWDLQOHVVVWHHOSHQWRSURWHFWKHUGIURPOHRSDUGV JURXSV RQ WKH SURMHFW DQG conservation of elephants 120 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Performance y Retention of talent within a highly The Leisure industry group’s carbon footprint during the reporting year was 40,845. The increase is competitive labour market mainly attributable to Cinnamon red being fully operational and certain renovation and construction works being undertaken during the year under review. Additionally, 1,144,685 cubic meters of Initiatives: water was withdrawn while 4,280,841 kg of waste was generated by the industry group. y &RQWLQXRXV FODVVURRP DQG RQWKHMRE training is provided to all employees to Indicators improve skills, productivity, service quality and value. Within the Group, the Leisure 2015/2016 2014/2015 (%) industry group offers the highest number of training hours to its employees with 48 Carbon footprint (MT) 40,845 39,698 3 hours of training provided per employee. 3 Water withdrawn (m ) 1,144,685 1,119,247 2 Such training covers industry speciﬁc Waste disposed (kg) 4,280,841 4,129,651 4 topics, managerial skills and company policies and values, among others Carbon footprint Scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor y Awareness building training on serious 2015/2016 2014/2015 diseases such as HIV/AIDs was provided to over 8,000 personnel, which included Sri Lankan Resorts segment CO2 kg per guest night 23.01 22.87 workforce, their families and members of Maldivian Resorts segment CO2 kg per guest night 31.73 31.91 local communities City Hotels sector CO2 kg per guest night 55.92 54.63 y Cinnamon Grand was awarded with Destination Management sector CO2 kg per client serviced 6.98 9.08 D &RPSOLDQFH  FHUWLıFDWH E\ WKH Employers Federation of Ceylon which Water withdrawal per operational intensity factor recognises businesses that are in line with international employment 2015/2016 2014/2015 standards. This award recognises the business’ strategy of creating long term Sri Lankan Resorts segment in liters water withdrawn per guest night 969.69 995.35 value and quality service standards Maldivian Resorts segment in liters water withdrawn per guest night 610.61 595.82 through effective management of its City Hotels sector in liters water withdrawn per guest night 1,217.39 1,189.33 Human Capital resources Health and Safety Waste generated per operational intensity factor Targets: 2015/2016 2014/2015 y Minimal occupational health and safety incidents through safe working conditions Sri Lankan Resorts segment in kg waste generated per guest night 2.50 2.73 and practices Maldivian Resorts segment in kg waste generated per guest night 5.86 5.27 Initiatives: City Hotels sector in kg waste generated per guest night 4.31 3.99 y All Group hotels have obtained, and continue to maintain, OHSAS 18001 certiﬁcation on an annual basis Human Capital The material impacts for the industry group y Staff health and safety training, ﬁrst aid Given the importance of service delivery and are classiﬁed as follows: and ﬁre training and drills are carried out quality, the Leisure industry group leverages on a regular basis on its Human Capital to create value and strive Talent Retaining talent and to deliver an unparalleled service offering and y Chauffeur guide training was carried out management upgrading skills of existing unique product proposition to its customers by WTL with emphasis on environmentally staff towards delivering and other key stakeholders. A motivated and friendly behaviour and safe driving habits superior customer service professional staff cadre is managed through as a means of minimising customer and quality levels. ongoing investments in its people, through complaints and improving service training in industry speciﬁc and general Health and The businesses within the standards management skills, thereby simultaneously safety sector need to ensure safe working conditions y WTL provided ﬁrst aid training to all safari improving productivity and quality. In addition, MHHS GULYHUV LQ +DEDUDQD :LOSDWWX DQG the Leisure industry group, along with all Talent Management Yala, amounting to 86 drivers, to whom other businesses in the JKH group, places Targets: ﬁrst aid certiﬁcations were awarded importance on providing a safe working environment for its employees, maintaining y 0DLQWHQDQFH RI ŗ&LQQDPRQŘ EUDQG y Business continuity plans are reviewed international standards in health and safety standards through provision of a target and tested periodically and constant education and training on safe number of training hours and on-going practices in the workplace. training, resulting in a skilled workforce 121 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review LEISURE y Cinnamon Grand, Cinnamon Lakeside y In collaboration with the Red Cross Social and Relationship Capital and all resorts have obtained ISO 22000 Society, Cinnamon Bey, Beruwala also The industry group recognises the importance certiﬁcation with respect to food safety organised a platform for employees and of building relationships and fostering trust standards community members to donate blood. and cooperation with key stakeholders, Over 60 individuals participated in this particularly the local communities within Impact through CSR initiatives: initiative which operations are carried out. The Social y A health check, including testing for HIV and Relationship Capital is enhanced through and other sexually transmitted diseases Performance mutually beneﬁcial relationships created (STDs), was organised free of charge A total of 89 occupational health and safety through sustainable sourcing, training and for the employees and surrounding incidents were recorded this year, while a total dissemination of knowledge on sustainability community of Cinnamon Bey Beruwala. of 243,514 hours of training was provided to and other best practices. These practices 30 employees and 10 community employees within the industry group. stimulate local economies, assist small time members participated in this health entrepreneurs and assist in creating value check and improving the quality of Sri Lanka’s tourism industry as a whole. Ongoing FRUSRUDWH VRFLDO UHVSRQVLELOLW\ SURMHFWV DQG 2015/2016 2014/2015 (%) activities carried out by the businesses further ,QMXULHVGLVHDVHV QXPEHU 89 89 assist in improving the quality of life of local communities and groups and build a strong Total hours of training 243,514 238,130 2 foundation for the continuance of healthy relationships and business operations. The material impacts for the industry group are classiﬁed as follows: Supply chain Assessing and educating sustainability signiﬁcant suppliers to ensure the mitigation of negative impacts in environmental, labour and human rights aspects Community Need to work closely with development surrounding communities and maintain good relations The signiﬁcant suppliers within the industry group are illustrated below: ŗ%DQQHUVWREDJVŘLQLWLDWLYHZKHUHĲH[EDQQHUVDUHFRQYHUWHGWREDJVE\UHWLUHG&*HPSOR\HHVDQGVROG Signiﬁcant Suppliers Hotels Food and beverage Travel agents and Amenities Casual employees suppliers travel websites Signiﬁcant Suppliers Destination Management Hotel and other Contracted retail Freelance national Jeep and boat Foreign travel agents Outsourced ﬂeet accommodation stores guides suppliers and tour operators 122 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Supply Chain and Community Engagement “continuously Targets: y Engagement with signiﬁcant supply chain The development of the Cinnamon brand is a partners to encourage environmental friendly and socially responsible activities evolving journey with much effort and time spent on keeping pace with international trends and y Community engagement to stimulate local economies through sourcing of fresh our evolving and dynamic stakeholders, especially our produce and other outsourced services customers. Our clients are from diverse backgrounds and Initiatives: y Hotels identiﬁed signiﬁcant suppliers nations spanning different regions of the world. ” working through the Central Purchasing Office (CPO) who were then audited by third party auditors on food safety. The audit ﬁndings, improvement areas 243,514 Subsequent to the development of the brand strategy during the ﬁnancial year 2013/14, and industry best practices were as outlined in the 2013/14 Annual Report, communicated to each of these suppliers the decoding of the brand promise and the and a follow up audit was also conducted. preparation of brand strategy were executed Hotels incorporated sustainability Total hours of training during the ﬁnancial year. This was aimed at and environmental criteria into their A growth of 2 per cent creating value for both external and internal purchasing policy and procedures, stakeholders. During the year under review, a favouring certiﬁed suppliers and suppliers complete A-Z manual was developed on each following best environmental and social of the brands, and their positioning under the practices. Wherever possible, preference contributed towards the purchase of &LQQDPRQXPEUHOODZLWKDOOFRPPXQLFDWLRQ is given to locally produced products so stationery and sporting equipment, material standardised and aligned. All signage, as to create mutually beneﬁcial value to among others, for the students of banners, printed material and images used for both suppliers and hotels Siduhath Vidyalaya in Ratnapura. Over all forms of communication were streamlined the years, with the assistance of WTL, to echo the new brand positioning as a y Bi-annual inspections are carried out by the school has developed and currently lifestyle brand and the employees across the the Destination Management sector of all has over 200 students. industry group were enlightened on this value ancillary suppliers to ensure consistency proposition. in quality and standards to minimise y As discussed under Human Capital, a any potential threats. The commitment blood donation campaign and a health to maintaining quality standards was check were organised for the community reﬂected through the ISO 9001 resurrounding Cinnamon Bey Beruwala certiﬁcation this year y As discussed under Natural Capital, y Recognising the importance of developing 3URMHFW /HRSDUG VWULYHV WR DVVLVW UXUDO its value chain as a means of value communities by safeguarding their creation and improving quality standards, livelihoods, and also offers hotel guests Trinco Blu by WTL conducted a comprehensive training and partners an opportunity to experience Cinnamon programme by training individuals as the life of a villager while making a ŗ7RXULVW 'ULYHUVŘ DQG LQWURGXFLQJ WKHP contribution towards their livelihoods and to the tourism industry, as a part of its protecting leopards Habarana Village by Cinnamon ongoing strategy to work with high quality Cinnamon Lodge Habarana chauffeurs. Through its outsourced y 7KH FRQYHUVLRQ RI ŗ%DQQHUV WR EDJVŘ model, WTL continues to provide (B2b) initiative discussed under Natural livelihood assistance to over 100 drivers Capital, is done by retired tailors of CG Cinnamon Citadel Kandy giving them a source of income Cinnamon Grand Colombo y Local sourcing in Sri Lankan Resorts Cinnamon Lakeside Colombo Cinnamon red Colombo continued to stimulate local economies Intellectual Capital Cinnamon Bey and improve the livelihoods of local 7KH GHYHORSPHQW RI WKH &LQQDPRQ EUDQG Beruwala Bentota Beach suppliers. In this regard, the outcome was LV D FRQWLQXRXVO\ HYROYLQJ MRXUQH\ ZLWK by Cinnamon Cinnamon Wild Hikka Tranz by the procurement of over Rs.361 million of much effort and time spent on keeping pace Cinnamon Yala fresh produce during the year with international trends and our evolving and dynamic stakeholders, especially our Impact through CSR initiatives: customers. Our clients are from diverse š 6LQFH  WKH VWDĳ WRXU OHDGHUV backgrounds and nations spanning different &LQQDPRQIRRWSULQWLQ6UL/DQND and suppliers of WTL have voluntarily regions of the world. 123 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review LEISURE is capable of handling the targeted arrivals “continue numbers and will be further supported by Tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka are expected to the Government’s plans to expand the main airport with the addition of another terminal. its current growth trajectory, primarily driven by arrivals from newly emerging source markets In order to cater to this exponential growth in tourist arrivals, Sri Lanka will require an such as China and India. The Sri Lanka Tourism increase in the room inventory, in both the Development Authority (SLTDA) has set a target of 2.2 city hotels and resort hotels, in the medium to long term. This is further validated by the million arrivals for the calendar year 2016 and also ” overall room inventory relative to expected expects 4 million arrivals by 2020. tourist inﬂows being well below that of other regional countries such as Thailand, Malaysia, Vietnam and Cambodia. Whilst the inventory does need to increase further in the long term, the available room inventory in Sri Lanka has increased To complement the focus of the brand on Strategy and Outlook substantially over the last few years. This lifestyle related activities, events aimed at increased capacity is expected to be absorbed FRPPXQLFDWLQJ WKH &LQQDPRQ YLEH ZHUH Tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka are expected with the continued growth in the market. This developed in-house. To this end, the following WR FRQWLQXH LWV FXUUHQW JURZWK WUDMHFWRU\ is evident as seen in the city hotels sector initiatives were carried out; primarily driven by arrivals from newly where approximately 450 rooms in the 3 to emerging source markets such as China and 4 star category were added over the last 2 y ŗ&LQQDPRQ &RORPERVFRSH  ş India. The Sri Lanka Tourism Development years resulting in a moderation of city hotel 6KDGRZ 6FHQHVŘ ZDV VSHDUKHDGHG LQ Authority (SLTDA) has set a target of 2.2 occupancies. However, this capacity is now order to communicate contemporary art million arrivals for the calendar year 2016 almost fully absorbed with the hotels under and performance and also expects 4 million arrivals by 2020. discussion operating at close to 90 per cent Sri Lanka is well positioned to meet these occupancy. y The inaugural future of tourism growth targets considering the increasing FRQIHUHQFHWLWOHGŗ)XWXUHRI7RXULVPDQG trend of outbound travel in the region, in Considering the long term growth prospects 5HVSRQVLEOH7RXULVPIRU'ULYLQJ5HYHQXHŘ particular from India and China. The proximity for tourism in the country, the Leisure was held featuring an eminent panel of to India, the increasing ﬂight connectivity industry group is currently evaluating several global tourism-industry related speakers from China coupled with the value proposition investments to expand its portfolio of hotels and attracting over 350 participants from offered by Sri Lanka as a destination, where DQG WKH EUDQG IRRWSULQW RI &LQQDPRQ DV Sri Lanka and the region diverse attractions catering to a multitude of elaborated in the discussion that follows tourist needs can be accessed within a short under the Sri Lanka and Maldivian Resorts y Hosted Nigel Barker, internationally time horizon, will be key drivers in attracting segments. The Leisure industry group will renowned fashion and celebrity arrivals. The infrastructure within the country also look to improve its process efficiency and photographer, of America’s Next Top Model Annual tourist arrivals to Sri Lanka Tourists (000's) y Organised elegant curated sit down 4,000 SLTDA target for 2020 dinners, workshops and a cook off challenge perfecting Marco Pierre White’s 2,200 SLTDA target for 2016 Tour of Sri Lanka 2,000 The strategies implemented during the 1,800 year are expected to contribute towards 1,600 WKH H[SDQVLRQ RI WKH &LQQDPRQ EUDQG 1,400 presence and increase recognition amongst 1,200 stakeholders, contributing towards the 1,000 attraction of more customers, employee retention and relationship building. This 800 would, in turn, be expected to translate to 600 stronger performance within the industry 400 group. 200 0 1982 2016 2020 1983 1984 1985 1986 1987 1988 1989 1990 1991 1992 1993 1994 1995 1996 1997 1998 1999 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Source : SLTDA 124 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information “in theConsidering the long term growth prospects for tourism country, the Leisure industry group is currently evaluating several investments to expand its portfolio of hotels and the brand footprint of Cinnamon . ” productivity, and more importantly, its ability Although the political uncertainty in the to cater to evolving customer preferences and Maldives is unlikely to dissipate in the requirements for convenience by leveraging ensuing year, the environment is expected to on its newly implemented information improve from the current status, particularly technology platforms whilst embarking on considering the importance of the tourism several digitisation initiatives. industry to the economy of the Maldives. The Maldivian Resorts segment will continue to The City Hotels sector is expected to witness follow a tactical pricing strategy whilst driving growth in the corporate and leisure tourist volume through direct bookings and online segments, and the three city hotels, Cinnamon sales whilst targeting new source markets Grand, Cinnamon Lakeside and Cinnamon to offset the negative impact of arrivals red, will pursue unique business speciﬁc from Russia and Ukraine. Further, in order to strategies aimed at catering to distinct strengthen our presence in the Maldives, the clientele. The overall outlook for the corporate *URXSVHFXUHGWKHLVODQGDGMDFHQWWR+DNXUDD segment looks promising with several MICE Huraa and plans are underway to enhance events also on the cards in the next year. capacity by constructing 35 rooms during the latter part of 2016/17. The Sri Lankan Resorts segment will continue to drive occupancies through a combination The Destination Management sector will of volume driven strategies with added leverage on its presence in the European and focus on web sales and local and foreign Middle Eastern markets and continue to focus partnerships. The segment will continue on China and India as main drivers of growth. to place emphasis on cost management As in the other sectors across the industry initiatives, staff development programmes group, cost management and productivity and productivity enhancement strategies. As improvements will remain an important area per the interim Budget 2016 proposals, the of focus in the near term. The sector will further mandatory registration of all hotels under consolidate its position in recently established the Tourism Development Authority augurs markets which have demonstrated potential well for the industry, particularly with the whilst concentrating on new markets. In order proliferation of informal sector rooms, as it to improve process efficiency, scalability of will ensure classiﬁcations in the hotel sector operations and enhance productivity, which and encourage maintenance of a minimum is a key medium to long term strategy for standard. The acquisition of a land spanning the business, evaluation of a digital platform over 2.5 acres in Nuwara Eliya has provided which will seamlessly connect all operations an opportunity for the sector to expand is currently being carried out. its footprint in the hill country where the &LQQDPRQ EUDQG GRHV QRW KDYH SUHVHQFH and is unable to cater to the demand for a complete roundtrip offering. The Group has called for tenders to evaluate the feasibility of FRQVWUXFWLRQFRVWV6XEMHFWWRıQDOLVLQJRIWKH SURMHFWFRQFHSWDQGFRVWSDUDPHWHUVDıQDO GHFLVLRQRQWKHSURMHFWZLOOEHDUULYHGDW 125 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review PROPERTY Our Business Model DQG WKH RQJRLQJ ŗ:DWHUIURQWŘ ,QWHJUDWHG 5HVRUW SURMHFW WLWOHG ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ 7KH Vision and Scope industry group includes the property division The Property Development and Real Estate of Asian Hotels and Properties PLC the sectors concentrate primarily on the GHYHORSHUV RI ŗ7KH &UHVFDW 5HVLGHQFLHVŘ development and sale of properties such as ŗ7KH0RQDUFKŘŗ7KH(PSHURUŘWKHXSPDUNHW WKH UHFHQWO\ FRQFOXGHG ŗ2Q7KUHHŘ SURMHFW VKRSSLQJ PDOO ŗ&UHVFDW %RXOHYDUGŘ DQG WKH DQG ŗWK 6HQVHŘ SURMHFW RQ *UHJRU\ŖV 5RDG ŗ.=RQHŘPDOOVLQ0RUDWXZDDQG-D(OD 6KRZĲDWDQGFRQVWUXFWLRQVLWH ŗ&LQQDPRQ/LIHŘSURMHFW6UL/DQNDŖV ODUJHVWSULYDWHVHFWRULQYHVWPHQW WRGDWH Property Real Estate Development 16 kg per Rs.Mn revenue Contribution to JKH Group 4% 8% 20% 0% Revenue EBIT Capital employed Carbon footprint 126 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Sectors Property Development Real Estate The business within š Development and sale of residential and commercial š Renting of commercial office spaces and the management the sector properties of the Group’s real estate within the city š 2ZQLQJDQGRSHUDWLQJWKH&UHVFDW%RXOHYDUGPDOODQG ŗ.=RQHŘPDOOVLQ0RUDWXZDDQG.DSXZDWWH-DHOD Key external/internal š Increasing supply of residential apartment units š Improved connectivity and accessibility to the suburbs variables impacting š The proposed Megapolis Development Plan within the following further development of the highway systems the business Colombo, Kalutara and Gampaha districts is expected to position the Western region as an urban economic base, MREFUHDWRUDQGDWUDGHGHVWLQDWLRQ š Exchange rate pressures contributed towards an increase in cost of construction š Acute shortage of skilled and unskilled manpower š Increase in the Value Added Tax (VAT) rate from 11 per cent to 15 per cent from May 2016 onwards which would impact construction costs š The imposition of a Mansion Tax on apartments valued above Rs.150 million and/or larger than 10,000 square feet š Proposals made through the Budget 2016 in November 2015, is expected to have a positive impact on attracting overseas buyers to real estate development. However, this is yet to be formalised through a gazette š Subsequent to the Budget 2016 it was proposed to reintroduce a Capital Gains Tax Key developments š All units have been handed over to the buyers and 100 per š 7KH*URXSŖVKROGLQJLQ5DMDZHOOD+ROGLQJV/LPLWHG 5+/  during the ﬁnancial FHQWRIUHYHQXHRIŗ2Q7KUHHŘZDVUHFRJQLVHG was increased from 17 per cent to 51 per cent. RHL year comprises of an 18 hole Donald Steel designed Golf š 7KHFRQVWUXFWLRQRIWKHŗWK6HQVHŘSURMHFWRQ*UHJRU\ŖV Course and a land extent of over 500 acres Road was completed during the period. A total of 95 per cent of the revenue was recognised as at the end of the ﬁnancial year š Crescat Boulevard recorded near full occupancy during the year under review š ,QWURGXFWLRQRIDFLQHPDWRWKHŗ.=RQHŘLQ-DHOD Key Indicators Inputs (Rs.mn) 2015/16 2014/15 (%) 2013/14 Outputs (Rs.mn) 2015/16 2014/15 (%) 2013/14 Total assets 43,935 34,891 26 32,484 Revenue 4,342 5,689 (24) 4,172 Total equity 26,947 18,539 45 19,447 EBIT 1,675 1,638 2 1,364 Total debt 11,647 13,125 (11) 10,767 PBT 1,643 1,516 8 1,293 Capital employed 38,594 31,664 22 30,214 PAT 1,585 1,427 11 1,291 Employees (number) 102 107 (5) 101 EBIT per employee 16.4 15.3 7 13.5 Carbon footprint (MT) 64 59 8 52 127 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review PROPERTY External Environment and Operational for shares. RHL, which owns over 500 acres Review of land in Digana with an 18-hole Donald Steele designed Golf Course, will complement During the year under review, demand the Group’s property and leisure portfolios. A in the overall property market remained master plan is currently being developed in relatively steady, particularly in the middle order to maximise the development potential to lower end of the market on the back of of land plots. the continuing trend of a growing urban population. The policy uncertainty, especially The required debt ﬁnancing for 7KH ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ SURMHFW 6UL /DQNDŖV with regard to taxation and weakening of &LQQDPRQ/LIHZDVFRQFOXGHG largest private sector investment to date, is the Sri Lankan Rupee resulted in dampened progressing with encouraging demand for investor sentiment, particularly in the luxury both residential and commercial spaces. “500RHL, apartment segment. Competition was high in 38 per cent of units available for sale in the the luxury segment with the Altair, Shangriwhich owns over ﬁrst residential tower and 40 per cent of La, Astoria, Havelock City Phase 3 releasing acres of land in Digana the commercial space were reserved as at new supply into the market. The increase in  0DUFK  7KH SURMHFW HQFRXQWHUHG interest rates in the latter part of the ﬁnancial with an 18-hole Donald some unforeseen delays, during the year year coupled with proposals to reduce the Steel designed Golf Course, under review, and as such, the construction country’s balance of payments and revenue RI ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ LV QRZ H[SHFWHG WR EH deﬁcits through increased tax collections will complement the completed in 2019. The Group is in the collectively contributed towards a somewhat Group’s property and leisure process of evaluating varying alternatives subdued performance in the luxury segment. IRU WKH UHWDLO VSDFH RI WKH SURMHFW DQG LV LQ portfolios. A master plan is discussion with several parties to house These impacts are explained in greater detail in the ensuing section. Despite this, the currently being developed unique attractions, which would create performance of the Property industry group in order to maximise the footfall for the development. As stated was in line with expectations. previously, the potential for MICE tourism to development potential of the Sri Lanka remains extremely positive given From a regulatory perspective, the increase in the Value Added Tax (VAT) rate from 11 per cent to 15 per cent and the proposed land plots. ” the continuing trend of increasing tourism numbers and the proximity and enhanced connectivity to key growth tourism markets, implementation of Capital Gains Tax (CGT) such as India and China. is expected to have an impact on the sale of residential units. However, the Group awaits 7KHVTXDUHIRRWŗ&UHVFDW%RXOHYDUGŘ Redeﬁning the best contemporary Sri Lankan clarity on the introduction of the CGT and the mall in Colombo maintained its position as offering, entertainment and hospitality related guidelines and deﬁnitions. The Land a leading retail destination within the City of combined with increased focus on lifestyle, the (Restriction on Alienation) Act introduced on Colombo and maintained near full occupancy ŗ:DWHUIURQWŘ SURMHFW ZDV IRUPDOO\ ODXQFKHG 29 October 2014, and applied retrospectively throughout the year. Increased footfall during DV ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ LQ 6HSWHPEHU  from 1 January 2013, continued to be in effect the said period is mainly on account of various ŗ&LQQDPRQ/LIHŘLQOLQHZLWKWKHŗ&LQQDPRQŘ during the year under review. However, the events, promotional happenings and other EUDQGVWUDWHJ\LVSURPRWHGDVDŗOLIHFDSLWDOŘ Budget 2016 proposed the removal of certain complementary activities which differentiated where different aspects of life, living, working provisions of the Act for certain identiﬁed the product offering and the overall experience and playing blend seamlessly within one investments and the tax on lease of lands RIFXVWRPHUV7KHRFFXSDQF\RIWKHŗ.=RQHŘ location, given its diverse and iconic nature. by foreign investors, and this is viewed to be mall in Moratuwa stood at 84 per cent as at encouraging. However, the industry is still 31 March 2016 [2014/15: 90 per cent]. The Further to ﬁnalising a USD 445 million awaiting publication of the amendments to ŗ.=RQHŘPDOOLQ-DHODUHFRUGHGHQFRXUDJLQJ V\QGLFDWHG SURMHFW GHYHORSPHQW IDFLOLW\ the Land Act which should allay some of the occupancies at 76 per cent [2014/15: 73 with Standard Chartered Bank in December concerns of foreign investors. per cent] during the year under review with 2014, and subsequent to the decision made increased footfall aiding tenant retention. LQ-DQXDU\WRFRQWLQXHZLWKWKHSURMHFW 7KHFRQVWUXFWLRQRIWKHŗWK6HQVHŘSURMHFWRQ The introduction of a 180-seat cinema on following developments impacting gaming Gregory’s Road was completed on schedule the premises is believed to have contributed operations in Sri Lanka, relevant sections of during the second quarter of the year under towards this improvement in footfall. the loan agreement were amended to reﬂect review, with 63 of the 66 units sold. The WKH UHYLVHG VWDWXV DQG VFRSH RI WKH SURMHFW remaining 8 units as at 31 March 2015 of During the period under review, the Group’s Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited WKHŗ2Q7KUHHŘSURMHFWZDVVROGGXULQJWKH VKDUHKROGLQJ LQ 5DMDZHOOD +ROGLQJV /LPLWHG ıQDOLVHG WKH UHYLVHG V\QGLFDWHG SURMHFW ﬁnancial year and all units have been handed (RHL) was increased from 17 per cent to 51 development facility amounting to USD 395 over to buyers. per cent. The total cost of this investment of million with the Standard Chartered Bank in Rs.1.04 billion, comprises a partial buyout June 2015, thus concluding the required debt from existing shareholders, an infusion into ıQDQFLQJIRUŗ&LQQDPRQ/LIHŘ RHL and the release of an existing sublease of land held by the JKH Group in exchange 128 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Capital Management Review Following the review of the external environment and operations, the ensuing section entails a discussion on the different forms of Capital available within the industry group in order to create Rs. 1.64 Bn value for our stakeholders, and, above all, discusses the performance of the sectors under each form of Capital. Key performance indicators for the industry group, under each of the sectors are summarised Property industry group PBT below. An 8 per cent growth Property Sectors Real Estate Development Financial and Manufactured Capital revenue and Rs.4.14 billion, 24 Rs.198 million, 2 per Return on Capital Employed growth per cent decrease cent decrease y ROCE declined to 4.8 per cent from the Financial and Manufactured Capital EBIT and Rs.1.51 billion, 3 Rs.162 million, 122 5.3 per cent recorded in the previous year. growth per cent decrease per cent increase The asset base increased on account of Natural Capital carbon footprint 62 MT 2 MT the infusion of cash equity to Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited in order WR IXQG WKH RQJRLQJ SURMHFW H[SHQVHV Financial and Manufactured Capital increased by 8 per cent to Rs.1.64 billion associated with the construction As at 1 April 2015, the Property industry [2014/15: Rs.1.52 billion] while the recurring RI ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ DQG WKH *URXSŖV group had total assets of Rs.34.89 billion, PBT decreased by 4 per cent to Rs.1.45 billion increased shareholding in RHL, as debt of Rs.13.13 billion and an opening equity [2014/15: Rs.1.51 billion]. discussed under the operational review. capital of Rs.18.54 billion. A higher gain on investment property of Rs.194 million [2014/15: Rs.4.8 million] Financial Performance Revenue and a revaluation gain of Rs.8.1 million The Property industry group reported a 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% of the land owned by Whittals Boustead decline in revenue of 24 per cent to Rs.4.34 in Colombo 2 [2014/15: Rs.136 million] 95 5 billion [2014/15: Rs.5.69 billion] compared to were recorded during the year. 2013 / 14 the previous year, mainly attributable to the 96 4 revenue recognition cycle of its residential y ,Q RUGHU WR FRPSXWH DQ DGMXVWHG 52&( 2014 / 15 apartments. The previous year’s revenue which reﬂects the return on the current 95 5 included recognition of the ﬁnal tranche of 2015 / 16 portfolio of the Property industry group, ŗ2Q7KUHHŘDQGDUHODWLYHO\KLJKSURSRUWLRQ the debt and equity infusions to the RIUHYHQXHIURPWKHŗWK6HQVHŘRQ*UHJRU\ŖV EBIT ŗ&LQQDPRQ/LIHŘSURMHFWZHUHHOLPLQDWHG Road. The largest contribution to industry 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% given the long gestation period, in addition group revenue, during the year, emanated WRDGMXVWLQJIRULQYHVWPHQWSURSHUW\DQG -4 104 IURP WKH ŗWK 6HQVHŘ RQ *UHJRU\ŖV 5RDG UHYDOXDWLRQ JDLQV 7KH DGMXVWHG 52&( 2013 / 14 It should be noted that the revenue from on this basis is 10.0 per cent [2014/15: 96 4 WKH ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ SURMHFW ZLOO RQO\ EH SHUFHQW@7KHORZHUDGMXVWHG52&( 2014 / 15 recognised post the commencement of is a reﬂection of the decreased EBIT as 90 10 operations. 2015 / 16 discussed earlier. EBIT marginally increased to Rs.1.68 billion Property Development y The EBIT margin improved to 38.6 per Real Estate [2014/15: Rs.1.64 billion] primarily on account cent from 28.8 per cent recorded in the of a revaluation gain in the Real Estate sector, prior year due to the aforementioned although the primary contribution to EBIT was Borrowings and Finance Expenses revaluation gain on investment property through the recognition of proﬁts from the Total debt as at 31 March 2016 stood at and higher margins associated with FRPSOHWLRQ RI WKH ŗWK 6HQVHŘ RQ *UHJRU\ŖV Rs.11.65 billion which comprised mainly of WKH ŗWK 6HQVHŘ RQ *UHJRU\ŖV 5RDG 7KH Road. The EBIT under consideration includes WKHERUURZLQJVUHODWHGWRŗ&LQQDPRQ/LIHŘ7KH UHFXUULQJ (%,7 PDUJLQ DGMXVWHG IRU a gain of Rs.194 million on the revaluation of industry group recorded a signiﬁcant decrease investment property gains, stood at 34.1 WKHŗ&UHVFDW%RXOHYDUGŘLQYHVWPHQWSURSHUW\ in ﬁnance expenses to Rs.32 million [2014/15: per cent [2014/15: 28.7 per cent]. and a few other properties under the industry Rs.122 million] due to the repayment of group. The corresponding revaluation gain on loans obtained by John Keells Residential investment property for 2014/15 was Rs.4.8 Properties. It should be noted that the interest million. Excluding the impact of revaluation GXULQJ FRQVWUXFWLRQ RQ ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ LV gains on investment property, the recurring FDSLWDOLVHGLQWRWKHSURMHFWFRVWLQDFFRUGDQFH EBIT decreased by 9 per cent to Rs.1.48 with the accounting standards, and therefore, billion [2014/15: Rs.1.63 billion]. The PBT is not reﬂected under ﬁnance expenses. 129 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review PROPERTY y The effluent discharge from sewer Return on Capital Employed treatment plants were maintained within the EPL limits for locations not covered by ROCE common sewerage lines 2015/16: 4.8% 2014/15: 5.3% y 7KHHĵXHQWWUHDWPHQWSODQWDWŗ.=RQHŘ mall in Ja-ela was utilised to re-use 100 per cent of its waste water. The treated water was used for gardening and general Asset turnover EBIT margin Asset/Debt + Equity cleaning purposes at the premises 0.11 38.6% 1.12 y Colour codes/ separate bins were introduced to the cafeteria and garbage collection points for garbage segregation, “Ja-elaThewas disposal of paper at all office locations effluent treatment plant at “K-Zone” mall in DW ŗ.=RQHŘ LQ -DHOD DQG UHF\FOLQJ RI e-wastage at all office locations utilised to re-use 100 per cent of its waste water. The treated water was used for gardening and y Rain water harvesting implemented general cleaning purposes at the premises. ” DW ŗWK 6HQVHŘ RQ *UHJRU\ V 5RDG DQG ŗ2Q7KUHHŘ LV XVHG IRU JDUGHQLQJ purposes and water features y Installation of energy efficient lighting, y Asset turnover decreased to 0.11 times Waste and Waste Water Management optimising the natural lighting and from 0.17 times due to the increase in the Targets: YHQWLODWLRQ DW ŗWK 6HQVHŘ RQ Gregory's DVVHW EDVH7KH DVVHW WXUQRYHU DGMXVWHG y Reduce solid waste below Environmental Road IRU WKH LPSDFWV IURP WKH ŗ&LQQDPRQ Protection Licence (EPL) limits /LIHŘ SURMHFW DQG WKH DIRUHPHQWLRQHG y Installation of an electric car charging investment property and revaluation gains y Re-use waste water VWDWLRQDWŗ&UHVFDW%RXOHYDUGŘ was 0.23 times compared to 0.32 times in the previous year. Refer the Strategy, Initiatives: The industry group continuously strives to Resource Allocation and Portfolio y Condensation water of air conditioners minimise the impact on the environment, as Management section of this Report for is being used for gardening through a evident in the following table. details pertaining to the aforementioned dripping line at Whittalls Boustead Limited DGMXVWPHQWVFDOFXODWLRQV y Installation of 220kVar power factor Natural Capital correction capacitor bank at Mackinnons In terms of national infrastructure and Keells Limited utilities, the industry group focuses on minimising its impacts on the Natural Capital y Adoption of energy saving initiatives with by incorporating best practices wherever close monitoring mechanism on central possible to reduce consumption and air conditioning system operation and discharge effluents responsibly. maintenance of efficiency levels of all equipment The material impacts for the industry group are classiﬁed as follows: Indicator Waste Requirement to 2015/2016 2014/2015 (%) management be compliant with and effluent Government regulations, Carbon footprint (MT) 64 59 8 discharge industry regulations and Waste disposed (kg) 141,659 164,798 (14) prerequisites of lending agencies :DWHUXVDJHDQGWUDLQLQJKRXUVDUHQRWVKRZQDERYHDVWKH\DUHQRWPDWHULDOIRUWKHLQGXVWU\JURXS7KHEDVLVIRU ZDVWHHVWLPDWLRQFRQVLVWVRIWKH3URSHUW\LQGXVWU\JURXSFRQVLGHULQJZDVWHJHQHUDWHGDWDOOVKDUHGRĴFHORFDWLRQVRI Implications on WKH*URXS brand image and the environment 130 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Human Capital to occupational health and safety “localTheconstruction The rapid growth of the local construction requirements industry has created a greater need rapid growth of the for outsourced personnel due to the y All regulatory requirements were met shortage of skilled and un-skilled labour, ensuring there were minimal negative industry and is a challenge for the industry group. impacts on communities and the has created a greater need Stemming from this, the health and safety environment in the vicinity of construction of its outsourced contractors’ personnel is a sites for outsourced personnel material aspect and impacts both workforce y Monthly site safety meetings were due to the shortage of well-being and productivity. conducted for all construction contractors skilled and un-skilled The material aspect and impact relating to y labour, and is a challenge ” Continuous improvements were made Human Capital is identiﬁed as follows: through internal and external audits and for the industry group. management reviews Occupational Business requirement health and to monitor occupational y Training programmes on ﬁrst aid, ﬁre safety health and safety evacuation and food testing were conducted incidents and practices for all maintenance, housekeeping and y A training session on food hygiene was in the supply chain while security staff of the retail malls conducted for all food court staff of the continuously assessing Group owned retail malls y Supplier health and safety processes and risks faced by the Property site safety were monitored through third y A full time health and safety team was industry group due to its party consultants and site safety officers PDLQWDLQHG DW WKH &LQQDPRQ /LIH VLWH business model of utilising on a bi-weekly basis and advocated E\ ERWK WKH FRQWUDFWRU DQG WKH SURMHFW third party construction changes were made, where necessary consultant contractors y Water stagnation areas were identiﬁed y The Labour Department’s requirements Targets: and drain lines were installed contributing for lifts, construction equipment and y Maintain health and safety standards towards dengue prevention health and safety standards were checked within the value chain and obtain OHSAS and monitored. Monthly meetings were 18001 certiﬁcation for all shopping malls y Site safety and labour practices were held with the consultant and contractor in incorporated into the contracts of order to review the progress made Initiatives: signiﬁcant suppliers y OHSAS audits and inspections were Indicators FDUULHG RXW IRU ŗ&UHVFDW %RXOHYDUGŘ y OHSAS 18001 certiﬁcation was obtained IRU ŗ.=RQHŘ PDOO LQ 0RUDWXZD DQG The Property industry group did not have ŗ.=RQHŘPDOOVLQ0RUDWXZDDQG-DHODRQ any occupational health and safety incidents maintenance, housekeeping and security ŗ&UHVFDW %RXOHYDUGŘ &HUWLıFDWLRQ IRU ŗ.=RQHŘPDOOLQ-DHODLVXQGHUZD\ involving its own employees in 2015/16. However, there were incidences reported y Supplier practices were continuously by its construction contractors. The industry assessed and monitored with regard group continues to engage with its contractors to minimise such instances. In addition, 568 hours of training were provided to the staff within the industry group during the year. Health and safety practices at Cinnamon Life construction site 131 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review PROPERTY “proposed From a regulatory and macro perspective, the introduction of dual citizenship and residence 95% visa for foreigners should encourage foreign investments, and, coupled with the proposed relaxation of certain provisions of the Exchange Control regulations, among 7th Sense on Gregory's Road others, is expected to augur well for the overall property ” Number of apartments sold market. Social and Relationship Capital Initiatives upper luxury segment of the market. Whilst With Sri Lanka’s property market expanding, y The industry group conducted an demand may moderate in the immediate the Property industry group seeks to Environmental Examination Report [EER], term due to the uncertainty and the negative differentiate itself by maintaining the quality approved by the Urban Development macroeconomic factors stemming from the standards of its products and its reputation as Authority (UDA) and the Central increase in VAT, depreciation of the Rupee and a responsible corporate citizen and to position Environmental Authority (CEA), while increase in interest rates, the Group remains itself as one of the foremost companies an environmental monitoring plan was positive about the prospects for the residential in the property market, thereby focusing submitted in line with the EER and will apartment market considering the expected considerably on its Social and Relationship be monitored by a committee consisting absorption of units and the underlying need Capital. This is carried out based on the JKH of Waterfront Properties (Private) Limited for housing offering convenience. In this light, Group’s overarching sustainability policies (WPL), the contractor and consultant IROORZLQJ RQ WKH ŗ2Q7KUHHŘ PRGHO ZKHUH including environmental and social impact location, price and product are considered assessments prior to the commencement of y Regular meetings are held on a monthly key differentiators, the Group will continue QHZSURMHFWV(ĵXHQWDQGZDVWHPDQDJHPHQW basis with representation from WPL, the to identify similar properties in convenient occupational health and safety, discussed contractor and the consultant locations to address the growing demand for under Natural and Human Capital, and the the mid-level residential market. Meanwhile, requirement to engrain sustainability in its y A Traffic Impact Assessment (TIA) and the Group will also seek new development supply chain through supplier engagement Initial Environmental Examination (IEE) opportunities in the high end niche residential and assessment are looked at carefully by the assessments were obtained as required, development space in prime locations similar industry group, for both its existing operations in order to minimise impacts on public WRWKHŗWK6HQVHŘRQ*UHJRU\ŖV5RDGZKHUH DQGQHZSURMHFWV7KHVHDVVHVVPHQWVDVVLVW utilities and infrastructure demand for unique and premium product in reducing the operational and reputational propositions exists. risks to the business. y All companies within the industry group reviewed and tested their business The demand for commercial space is expected The signiﬁcant suppliers within the industry continuity plans on a regular basis to increase in the near and medium term group are illustrated below: throughout the year following the growing need for efficient and convenient office space. To this end, the Group y All suppliers are required to sign off expects to capitalise on this opportunity in the Signiﬁcant Suppliers on a sustainability check-list, while the long term by identifying suitable land banks industry group maintains stringent in convenient locations, developing properties criteria for pre-qualiﬁcation of suppliers/ at the right price and positioning products to contractors relevant client segments. Construction Architects and Strategy and Outlook From a regulatory and macro perspective, contractors interior designers the proposed introduction of dual citizenship Despite the recent rise in interest rates and and residence visa for foreigners should the relatively uncertain policy environment, encourage foreign investments, and, coupled All signiﬁcant suppliers have been demand in the overall property market is with the proposed relaxation of certain assessed for signiﬁcant negative impacts expected to sustain in the medium to long provisions of the Exchange Control regulations, in environmental, labour and human rights term on account of the increase in wealth, among others, is expected to augur well for aspects. lifestyle changes and the convenience of the overall property market. However, the living in proximity to the city. This would increase in VAT and the proposed imposition be particularly applicable for the mid to of the Capital Gains Tax, are expected to exert 132 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information pressure on the demand for residential and spend category of tourists. India, being one commercial units by dampening investor of the fastest growing markets for Meetings, sentiment and deferring investor decisions, Incentives, Conferences and Exhibitions particularly due to lack of clarity in terms of (MICE) presents a signiﬁcant opportunity the criteria and implementation timelines. to Sri Lanka given its close proximity and improved ﬂight connectivity. Against this The proposed Megapolis Development Plan EDFNGURS ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ LV XQLTXHO\ within the Colombo, Kalutara and Gampaha positioned to bridge the current infrastructure districts is expected to contribute towards and product offering gaps and capitalise on better standards of living for the growing the aforementioned opportunities. middle income population. The growth in living standards and incomes coupled With the acquisition of a controlling stake in with the signiﬁcant inﬂux in tourist arrivals 5DMDZHOOD +ROGLQJV /LPLWHG WKH *URXS ZLOO anticipated in the future is expected to drive look to develop the undeveloped land and demand for real estate. Retail penetration optimise the use of land whilst ensuring the in Sri Lanka is below that of other regional creation of a unique proposition for customers. peers such as Malaysia, Thailand and India With this in mind, the Property industry group and thus presents a signiﬁcant opportunity to has commissioned a land use master plan FDSLWDOLVHRQLQWKHORQJWHUPŗ&LQQDPRQ/LIHŘ RI WKH 5DMDZHOOD SURSHUW\ 7KH GHYHORSPHQW will capitalise on this expected demand for and sale of plots such as villas, club house retail space and has plans to ensure the retail facilities and activity zones is currently being VSDFHZLWKLQWKHSURMHFWLVXQLTXHDQGDGULYHU evaluated. The Group will continue to operate of footfall to the complex. The Group is also the championship golf course and will focus conﬁdent that the unique selling proposition on instilling the fundamentals of the golf RI ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ ZLOO FRQWLQXH WR UHFRUG proposition in order to attract and retain encouraging residential and commercial clients. To this end, branding and promotional VSDFH VDOHV ŗ&LQQDPRQ /LIHŘ LV HQYLVDJHG campaigns will be carried out in the near to be the epi-center of modern South Asia, future in keeping with the positioning of the taking into account the medium to long offering. term prospects for tourism in the country. Despite the growth momentum of the tourism industry witnessed over the past years, there is signiﬁcant room to expand arrivals given the strong growth in outbound travel in the region, especially in attracting a higher “proposition The Group is also conﬁdent that the unique selling of “Cinnamon Life” will continue to record encouraging residential and commercial space sales. “Cinnamon Life” was envisaged to be the epi-center of modern South Asia, taking into account the medium to long term prospects for tourism in the country. ” 133 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL Our Business Model their respective categories and supported by The Retail sector focusses on modern a well-established island-wide distribution RUJDQLVHGUHWDLOLQJWKURXJKWKHŗ.HHOOV6XSHUŘ Vision and Scope channel. chain of supermarkets and also operated The Consumer Foods sector is home to ŗ1H[XVŘWKHPRVWVXFFHVVIXOFRDOLWLRQOR\DOW\ a portfolio of leading consumer brands The Consumer Foods sector competes in card in the country. LQFOXGLQJ ŗ(OHSKDQW +RXVHŘ VRIW GULQNV DQG WKUHH PDMRU FDWHJRULHV QDPHO\ EHYHUDJHV LFHFUHDPVDVZHOODVWKHŗ.HHOOVŘDQGŗ.UHVWŘ frozen confectionery and convenience foods. range of processed meats; all leaders in 7KH5HWDLOVHFWRUIRFXVVHGRQ HQVXULQJWKHIUHVKQHVVTXDOLW\DQG availability of its produce Consumer Retail Foods 797 kg per Rs.Mn revenue Contribution to JKH Group 35% 22% 5% 37% Revenue EBIT Capital employed Carbon footprint 134 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Sectors Consumer Foods Retail The business within š Ceylon Cold Stores (CCS) produces and markets a š -D\.D\ 0DUNHWLQJ 6HUYLFHV -06/  RSHUDWHV WKH ŗ.HHOOV the sector SRUWIROLR RI FDUERQDWHG VRIW GULQNV XQGHU WKH ŗ(OHSKDQW 6XSHUŘ FKDLQ RI PRGHUQ UHWDLO RXWOHWV DQG WKH 1H[XV +RXVHŘEUDQGDQHQHUJ\GULQNXQGHUWKHŗ:LOG(OHSKDQWŘ loyalty programme EUDQGDQLVRWRQLFVSRUWVGULQNEUDQGHGŗ)ŘIUXLWEDVHG WHD GULQNV EUDQGHG ŗ7ZLVWHHŘ DQG ŗ(OHSKDQW +RXVHŘ branded ice creams and related confectionery products š Keells Food Products (KFP) produces and markets a UDQJH RI SURFHVVHG PHDW SURGXFWV XQGHU WKH ŗ.HHOOVŘ ŗ.UHVWŘDQGŗ(OHSKDQW+RXVHŘEUDQGQDPHV Key external/internal š Increase in custom duties and other levies such as the š Restriction on the exempt supplies applicable on variables impacting port and airport development levy (PAL) wholesale and retail trade, deemed value added tax (VAT), the business š Emergence of a more health conscious consumer base was removed with effect from 1 January 2016 š ,QWURGXFWLRQRIDŗ7UDĴF/LJKW/DEHOOLQJ6\VWHPŘ &RORXU š Low inﬂationary environment coding) by the Health Ministry as a part of its sugar reduction programme š Improved purchasing power on account of increase in public sector wages and reduction in fuel and electricity costs which translated into higher discretionary spending Key developments š (OHSKDQW+RXVH&UHDP6RGDZDVDZDUGHGWKHŗ3HRSOHŖV š Opened 6 new outlets, increasing the total retail footprint during the ﬁnancial %HYHUDJH%UDQGRIWKH<HDUŘIRUWKHWKFRQVHFXWLYH\HDU to 50 stores as at 31 March 2016 year š Expanded the range of products in the beverage category š Ranked ﬁrst among competition in an independent survey with the launch of an isotonic sports drink and a few other of consumers products in the frozen confectionery category š Marketing and promotional activities, focussed especially on the fresh goods offering, rolled out during the year Key Indicators Inputs (Rs.mn) 2015/16 2014/15 (%) 2013/14 Outputs (Rs.mn) 2015/16 2014/15 (%) 2013/14 Total assets 15,862 12,945 23 12,171 Revenue 36,458 29,757 23 25,414 Total equity 7,803 6,613 18 5,977 EBIT 4,497 2,566 75 1,480 Total debt 812 923 (12) 1,699 PBT 4,472 2,498 79 1,328 Capital employed 8,616 7,536 14 7,676 PAT 3,229 1,804 79 1,005 Employees (number) 3,692 3,427 8 3,263 EBIT per employee 1.2 0.7 63 0.5 Carbon footprint (MT) 29,060 26,441 10 26,428 135 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL External Environment and Operational ZLWKŗ(OHSKDQW+RXVH1HFWRŘDWWKH3HRSOHŖV Review $ZDUGV MRLQWO\ RUJDQLVHG E\ 6/,0 DQG WKH Neilson company. Contributing towards The trend of improving consumer conﬁdence WKH +HDOWK 0LQLVWU\ŖV ŗVXJDUUHGXFWLRQ witnessed in the prior year maintained SURJUDPPHŘ WKH FRPSDQ\ KDV VXFFHVVIXOO\ momentum during the year under review reduced 30 per cent of the sugar content driven by an increase in disposable incomes in certain beverages through the use of on account of the increase in public sector Elephant House hot dog delivery substitutes, whilst ensuring the quality and wages, the reduction in electricity tariff and service was launched in taste proﬁle remain unchanged. various other relief measures to reduce the December 2015 cost of living implemented consequent to the CCS was also able to reap the beneﬁts of Interim Budget in early 2015. This increase in the dealer management system which “theCCS disposable incomes and consumer sentiment was implemented a few years ago. In coupled with low inﬂation throughout the year was also able to reap order to complement this system, further resulted in a signiﬁcant growth in volumes beneﬁts of the dealer improvements were made during the period, across the entire consumer foods industry as giving management real-time information evident in the performance of the Consumer management system which of the distribution network. Training and Foods and Retail industry group. was implemented a few incentives were also given to distributors ” during the year under review to encourage The Frozen Confectionery business recorded years ago. integration to the system. The efficient double digit growth in volumes during the year execution and management of the distribution under review. Whilst the industry witnessed and dealer network is believed to be critical strong growth as well, the business improved for the performance of the company and also its market share by leveraging on the strength breakdowns in the year under review, contributed to the improved performance of of its distribution network consisting of over helped the business manage the better the company during the year under review. 40,000 outlets island-wide. The bulk segment than anticipated demand for soft drinks. was the primary contributor to the improved Competitors continued to adopt various Considering the favourable macroeconomic performance, whilst the impulse segment initiatives such as extended product ranges fundamentals discussed previously, Keells continued to maintain its growth momentum, and investments in assets in order to capture Food Products (KFP) recorded double digit albeit off a lower base. This growth was market share in the year under review. CCS volume growth in the ﬁrst half of the ﬁnancial mainly led by the general trade and modern leveraged on its brand, the aforementioned year, although this growth did moderate in trade outlets. Continuing with its expanding distribution network and efficiencies and its the second half of the year. KFP continued portfolio, a 100ml premium single serve ﬂavour portfolio in exceeding expectations on to beneﬁt from a number of productivity ice cream, a line extension of the current volume growth and proﬁtability. CCS placed improving efficiency measures implemented premium bulk variant, was launched to offer emphasis on the composition of its portfolio in the prior years. During the year under consumers an opportunity to indulge on the such as with the product mix, the numerous review, the company introduced a smoky premium range on-the-go. Two ﬂavoured pack sizes sold and also introduced various chicken and cheese sausage under the water-ice products targeting the centennials cost management measures and productivity ŗ(OHSKDQW+RXVHŘEUDQGLQRUGHUWRLQFUHDVH XQGHU D QHZ VXEEUDQG XPEUHOOD ŗ)UXLWHH enhancing initiatives to drive proﬁtability. the product offering of the processed meats %ODVWŘZHUHDOVRLQWURGXFHGGXULQJWKHSHULRG SRUWIROLR .)3 DOVR LQWURGXFHG DQ ŗ(OHSKDQW under review. The enhanced distribution Given the preference of certain consumers +RXVHŘ KRW GRJ PRELOH GHOLYHU\ VHUYLFH LQ efficiencies via the introduction of pre-selling towards healthier alternatives, and in order December 2015 to cater to increased requests WRDPDMRULW\RIGLVWULEXWRUVGHDOHUVUHVXOWHG to expand the beverage portfolio of the by customers and the increasing demand for in a 50 per cent increase in the daily bill count EXVLQHVV DQ LVRWRQLF GULQN ŗ)Ř RĳHUHG LQ hot dogs and the accompanying, authentic, which also contributed towards the improved citrus and orange ﬂavours, was introduced ŗ(OHSKDQW +RXVHŘ VDXFH .)3 DOVR ıQDOLVHG performance and higher penetration, in October 2015. The overall sales have all paperwork and logistical requirements, particularly in markets outside of the Western EHHQ HQFRXUDJLQJ WKXV IDU ŗ7ZLVWHHŘ D post the Indian regulation revision in 2013, to Province. The company continued to be the fruit based tea drink introduced in the prior re-commence the export of processed meats market leader in the ice cream industry in the year, continued to demonstrate promising to India. A separate dedicated unit was also Maldives. UHVXOWV DQG ZDV DZDUGHG WKH ŗ%HVW 1HZ established to pursue the export strategy of (QWUDQW RI WKH <HDUŘ DW WKH 6/,0 %UDQG KFP. The Beverage business witnessed signiﬁcant Excellence 2015 awards organised by the growth in volumes and outpaced the Sri Lanka Institute of Marketing (SLIM). As The improved performance of the Retail sector performance of the overall industry, aided by testimony to the recognition and strength was on account of the double digit growth in the aforementioned increase in discretionary RI WKH EXVLQHVV ŗ(OHSKDQW +RXVH &UHDP customer footfall witnessed during the year spending. The efficient functioning of the 6RGDŘ ZRQ WKH %HYHUDJH %UDQG RI WKH <HDU under review. The aforesaid increases in public supply chain and distribution network, award for the 10th consecutive year and the sector wages as well as the low inﬂationary consisting of over 90,000 outlets spread Youth Choice Beverage Brand of the Year for environment which prevailed during the said across all districts of the island, with zero WKH WKLUG FRQVHFXWLYH \HDU WKH ODWWHU MRLQWO\ period also facilitated this growth. The growth 136 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information in same store sales was mainly driven by Capital Management Review the non-liquor stores. Similar to the previous year, continued emphasis was placed on Concluding the external environment and the operational review of the Consumer Foods and ensuring the value, availability and quality of Retail industry group, the ensuing section elaborates on the forms of Capital deployed to meet the the goods offered, delivery of goods to outlets, strategic priorities and the performance of the businesses during the year under review. particularly fresh products, on time, checkRXW WLPH HĴFLHQF\ DQG LQ JLYLQJ WKH ŗ.HHOOV The industry group adheres to the John Keells Group’s Environmental, Labour and Product policies 6XSHUŘ FXVWRPHU D GLĳHUHQWLDWHG VKRSSLQJ and continues to monitor employee, environmental and social activities within the Group, whilst experience. Focussed marketing initiatives to marketing its products responsibly when ensuring that value is created across all forms of Capital. improve customer awareness were carried RXW GXULQJ WKH \HDU 7R WKLV HQG WKH ŗ)UHVK Key performance indicators for the industry group, under each of the sectors are summarised as FDPSDLJQŘSURPRWLQJWKHEDNHU\LWHPVIUHVK follows: produce, meat and seafood proved effective with an increase in customer penetration for Sectors Consumer Foods Retail the said product categories. The introduction of efficient procurement systems, and Financial and Manufactured Capital Rs.14.31 billion, 25 per Rs,22.15 billion, 21 per adoption of more advanced equipment revenue and growth cent increase cent increase also contributed towards the better than Financial and Manufactured Capital EBIT Rs.3.22 billion, 63 per Rs.1.28 billion, 118 per expected performance during the year. JMSL and growth cent increase cent increase maintained its focus on the larger format Natural Capital carbon footprint 15,083 MT 13,976 MT outlets which have exceeded expectations Human Capital – number of employees 1,285 2,407 thus far. During the period under review, 6 new outlets conforming to the new format were opened in Dehiwala, Wattala, Liberty Plaza, Thimbirigasyaya, Boralasgamuwa and Kohuwala while one outlet was discontinued. Financial and Manufactured Capital overheads given the signiﬁcant growth in The performance of the new stores continues As at 1 April 2015, the Consumer Foods and the scale of the business. It should be noted to be encouraging with each new store Retail industry group had total assets of that the cost base of JMSL included one off meeting its return expectations within a short Rs.12.95 billion, debt of Rs.923 million and costs associated with a voluntary retirement period of time. an opening equity capital balance of Rs.6.61 scheme for selected staff and consultancy billion. charges. Higher volumes, combined with The Nexus Mobile loyalty programme the efficient execution and management of continued to be a key tool in retaining Financial Performance the distribution and dealer network, ensured and attracting customers as it enables Revenue increased by 23 per cent to Rs.36.46 an increase in EBIT for CCS. KFP, in addition the business to understand consumption billion [2014/15: Rs.29.76 billion]. Double patterns and target promotions and offers digit sales volume recorded by the Frozen which will speciﬁcally beneﬁt consumers. Confectionery, Beverage and Convenience Revenue A signiﬁcant proportion of the supermarket Foods businesses resulted in a growth in 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% customer base comprises of Nexus Mobile revenue of 25 per cent in the Consumer Foods customers. In order to drive the usage of this sector, whilst a signiﬁcant increase in footfall, 41 59 programme, various initiatives were carried coupled with incremental turnover from new 2013 / 14 out during the year under review. outlets, led to a 21 per cent growth in revenue 39 61 of the Retail sector. 2014 / 15 39 61 The 2014 Budget placed a restriction on the The EBIT of the industry group increased by 2015 / 16 maximum amount of turnover that could be exempted from VAT by wholesalers and 75 per cent to Rs.4.50 billion [2014/15: Rs.2.57 EBIT retailers and limited the same to 25 per cent. billion]. The fair value gain on investment 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% This resulted in a substantial impact to the property during the year was Rs.17 million main supermarket chains with JMSL being whilst the corresponding gain was Rs.9.0 82 18 no exception. The 2016 Budget removed the million for 2014/15. The recurring EBIT for 2013 / 14 aforesaid restriction on the exempt supplies 2015/16, excluding the fair value gain on 77 23 investment property, increased by 75 per cent 2014 / 15 applicable on wholesale and retail trade, that is, the deemed value added tax, with effect to Rs.4.48 billion [2014/15: Rs.2.56 billion], 72 28 with all three companies, JMSL, CCS and KFP 2015 / 16 from 1 January 2016, which had a positive impact on the Retail sector in the fourth contributing to the improved performance. Consumer Foods quarter of the period under review. JMSL recorded a 118 per cent increase in EBIT Retail mainly stemming from the aforementioned increase in revenue and the dilution of ﬁxed 137 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL to a 16 per cent increase in revenue, also beneﬁted from a number of cost management initiatives at the operational level. The PBT of the industry group increased by 79 per cent to Rs.4.47 billion [2014/15: Rs.2.50 billion] whilst the recurring PBT also increased by 79 per cent to Rs.4.46 billion [2014/15:Rs.2.49 billion]. Borrowings and Finance Expenses Total debt as at 31 March 2016 stood at Rs.812 million. Finance expenses decreased by 63 per cent to Rs.25 million [2014/15: Rs.68 million]. This is on account of improved cash ﬂows at JMSL which resulted in lower utilisation of overdraft facilities and repayment of loans at CCS and KFP. Return on Capital Employed Membrane bioreactor effluent treatment plant at CCS Ranala factory y ROCE increased to 55.7 per cent in comparison to 33.7 per cent recorded y The recurring EBIT margin of the Energy in the previous ﬁnancial year. The fair Consumer Foods sector stood at 22.4 per Targets: value gains on investment property, as cent [2014/15: 17.1 per cent] whilst that y Reduction of energy consumption discussed previously, and the gain of of the Retail sector almost doubled to 5.8 and the resultant reduction in carbon Rs.79 million arising from the revaluation per cent [2014/15: 3.2 per cent]. footprint through initiatives and better of land in 2015/16 [2014/15: Rs.22 management of infrastructure million] impacted the asset base. As y Asset turnover improved to 2.53 times discussed under the Strategy, Resource compared to 2.37 times during the year, Initiatives: Allocation and Portfolio Management primarily driven by the growth in revenue. y Replaced old ﬂorescent lights with LED section of this Report, the asset base is lights DGMXVWHGIRUWKHUHYDOXDWLRQJDLQVDULVLQJ Natural Capital in the preceding three years in order to y CCS continued its process of obtaining The Consumer Foods and Retail industry FDOFXODWH WKH DGMXVWHG DVVHW EDVH 2Q its carbon dioxide requirement from group carries out its operations within WKLVEDVLVWKHDGMXVWHG52&(HOLPLQDWLQJ overseas, through a byproduct of a the Group’s Environmental and Energy the aforesaid impacts, stands at 63.1 per fertilizer manufacturing plant, offsetting Management policy, whilst adhering to, and FHQW FRPSDUHG WR DQ DGMXVWHG 52&( RI the need for the combustion of fossil fuel going beyond, all required environmental laws 43.9 per cent in the prior year. The higher and regulations through regular monitoring y Two small cold chain trucks were 52&(ERWKDGMXVWHGDQGXQDGMXVWHGLVRQ and testing. replaced with a single large capacity cold account of the signiﬁcant increase in EBIT chain truck for long distance distribution, as mentioned above. The material impacts for the industry group resulting in a further reduction of CCS’s are classiﬁed as follows: carbon footprint y The EBIT margin was 12.3 per cent compared to 8.6 per cent in 2014/15. y All JMSL outlets were required to adhere The recurring EBIT margin was also 12.3 Energy, Financial, regulatory emissions, and brand reputation to equipment operating times as per the per cent as against 8.6 per cent in the energy saving action plan distributed. previous year. water and implications waste Furthermore, internal meters were installed at all outlets to monitor the consumption of electricity Water Management Initiatives: Return on Capital Employed y CCS, KFP and selected Retail outlets continue to treat and reuse waste water ROCE 2015/16: 55.7% through the installation and maintenance 2014/15: 33.7% of effluent treatment plants for purposes such as gardening and general cleaning in an effort to reduce the total volume withdrawn Asset turnover EBIT margin Asset/Debt + Equity y CCS installed a membrane bioreactor 2.53 12.3% 1.78 (MBR) based sewerage treatment plant 138 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information (150 m3/day) resulting in better quality discharge and thereby improving quality parameters of its effluent Rs.1.89 Bn y CCS carried out further improvements to the effluent treatment plant by including a new membrane using bio reactor technology. The capacity of the plant was also increased to 150 cubic meters per day Funds deployed y CCS carried out various initiatives such as rationalising production runs, improving ‘cleaning Sustainable sourcing drive with in process’ to reduce the number of washing cycles as well as implementing awareness local farmer communities programmes on water reduction for staff Indicators The carbon footprint of the Consumer Foods and Retail industry group increased by 10 per cent The increase in per customer usage is to 29,060 MT from 26,441 MT in the year under review. However, various production efficiencies on account of a signiﬁcant increase in resulted in a decrease in carbon, water and waste per operational factor. fresh volumes during the year. Given Indicators the increased polythene use from fresh produce packaging, JMSL is currently 2015/2016 2014/2015 (%) considering alternative packaging Carbon footprint (MT) 29,060 26,441 10 material in order to minimise this impact. Water withdrawn (l) 701,640 633,773 11 y In order to ensure that energy is used Waste disposed (kg) 3,498,450 3,078,564 14 efficiently, JMSL designed a framework to operate its buildings in the most Carbon Footprint Scope 1 and 2 per Operational Intensity Factor energy efficient manner through the use 2015/2016 2014/2015 of skylights, LED lighting and efficient cooling systems, among others. 15 stores CCS CO2 kg per litre produced 0.10 0.11 have been designed in this manner and every new store is expected to adhere to KFP CO2 kg per kg of processed meat produced 0.84 0.85 this model. JMSL CO2 kg per square foot of outlet area 30.34 31.44 Human Capital Water Withdrawal per Operational Intensity Factor Given its labour intensive nature, the industry 2015/2016 2014/2015 group also places signiﬁcant importance on its Human Capital, especially in areas CCS water withdrawn in litres per litre produced 4.72 5.15 such as health and safety and training of its KFP water withdrawn in litres per kg of processed meat produced 12.13 12.40 workforce. Emphasis is placed on providing continuous training to develop skills and JMSL water withdrawn in litres per square foot of outlet area 287.19 298.94 improve productivity of the staff whilst respecting employee rights and maintaining Waste Generated per Operational Intensity Factor good working conditions. To this end, JMSL is 2015/2016 2014/2015 currently in the process of obtaining approval from the National Apprentice and Industrial CCS waste generated in kg per litres produced 0.02 0.02 Training Authority (NAITA) to certify the KFP waste generated in kg per kg of processed meat produced 0.15 0.14 training courses conducted by the company. JMSL waste generated in kg per square foot of outlet area 1.93 2.00 Impacts through other initiatives: y -06/FRQWLQXHGLWVHĳRUWVDLPHGDWUHGXFLQJWKHXVHRISRO\WKHQHWKURXJKWKHXVHRIDŗ5HG %DJŘDUHXVDEOHFORWKEDJDQGFRUUXJDWHGFDUGERDUGER[HV.3,VUHODWLQJWRWKLVLQLWLDWLYHDUH summarised below. Red Bag Usage Fiscal year Red Bag sale Red Bag reTotal Red Bag Cardboard box Total re-use Per customer Re-use increase use usage usage re-use per customer (%) 2015/16 215,077 381,783 2,500 596,860 599,360 0.033 (3) Polythene Bags Usage Polythene usage in kg Polythene usage in grams per visit Increase in per customer usage (%) 2015/16 274,657 15.13 16 139 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL Social and Relationship Capital Considering its dependence on sourcing high quality raw material, the industry group places emphasis on its Social and Relationship Capital. A key strategy pursued by the business units is to purchase, where possible, raw materials locally, thereby, optimising the cost of purchase, stimulating the local economies and ensuring that the Group maintains its social license to operate. The industry group is also aware that changes in weather patterns can impact crop yields, thereby, adversely impacting its overall operations. As a result, the industry group proactively engages with its diverse farmer communities to adhere to agricultural practices that are environmentally sound and result in high yields. The farmers beneﬁt from the guaranteed volume and price .HHOOV6XSHU5HG%DJLQLWLDWLYHşDLPHGDWPLQLPLVLQJSRO\WKHQHXVDJH scheme being followed by the ice cream and beverage businesses. The material impacts are identiﬁed as: monitoring and process improvements to During the year under review, street vendors ensure a safe working environment were allowed to set up shop in the carparks RI VHOHFWHG ŗ.HHOOV 6XSHUŘ VXSHUPDUNHWV Health and The operations within the y JMSL carried out a training session during special seasons in order to contribute safety/ industry group are labour on health and safety for all its meat towards building surrounding communities. training intensive, with over 3,600 supervisors, store supervisors, data 9HQGRUVVHOOLQJıUHFUDFNHUVŗ9HVDNŘODQWHUQV and talent employees in total entry operators, internal trainers and and other products were offered space in retention bakery staff. The company also produced car parks in locations such as Maharagama, 4 videos on health and safety to be used Matara and Kottawa, to name a few. Targets: during future induction programmes y In line with Group practices, provide Companies in the industry group assess all regular feedback to employees, along y JMSL introduced new guidelines and signiﬁcant suppliers, including suppliers with performance reviews, and necessary instructions on the safe use of band saws, SURYLGLQJ MDQLWRULDO DQG RWKHU RXWVRXUFHG training and development throughout the while safety was further strengthened services, for signiﬁcant negative sustainability year on all slicers and band saws in meat impacts. counters y Maintain a healthy working relationship with employee unions through y All companies of the industry group Supply Ensure a continuous source FRQVWDQW GLDORJXH DQG MRLQW FRQVXOWDWLYH reviewed and tested its business chain and of raw materials which committees continuity plans regularly throughout the sustainable reduces risk, enhances year sourcing brand reputation and y Minimise occupational health and safety beneﬁts local businesses incidents Indicators y Identify and meet the training needs of )URP D ODERXU SHUVSHFWLYH  LQMXULHV ZHUH “proactively the staff and reduce employee attrition recorded during the reporting year, while 91,402 hours of training were provided to The industry group y those employed within the industry group. Encourage healthy labour relations within engages with its the industry group’s workforce 7KH LQFUHDVH LQ WKH LQMXULHV GLVHDVHV DQG fatalities of the industry group is mainly diverse farmer communities to Initiatives: attributed to the Retail sector. It is important adhere to agricultural practices y CCS and KFP continued to maintain WR QRWH WKDW D PDMRULW\ RI WKHVH LQMXULHV OHSAS certiﬁcation and streamlined its were minor in nature and no fatalities were that are environmentally sound organisational processes with continuous UHFRUGHGSHUWDLQLQJWRWKHMRE and result in high yields. The farmers beneﬁt from the Indicators guaranteed volume and price 2015/2016 2014/2015 (%) scheme being followed by ,QMXULHVGLVHDVHVDQGIDWDOLWLHV QXPEHU 91 55 65 the ice cream and beverage Total hours of training 91,402 123,003 (32) businesses. ” 140 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information The signiﬁcant suppliers within the industry group are illustrated below: Signiﬁcant Suppliers Consumer Foods Plastic Poultry and Sugar packaging Glass bottles Dairy suppliers meat suppliers suppliers containers Signiﬁcant Suppliers Retail Dry food Third party Frozen and Fresh meat Vegetable and Household product tenants (within Janitors Security chilled products suppliers fruit farmers items suppliers premises) Supply Chain and Sustainable Sourcing y The businesses within the industry year, reﬂecting the importance placed by Targets: group engaged with farmer communities the Group on entrenching sustainability in y Source all ingredients and produce and local suppliers to provide technical the value chain required from within Sri Lanka, with support and improve quality standards exceptions only due to the shortage of and yields whilst simultaneously uplifting Impact through CSR initiatives: raw materials livelihoods y Sustainable sourcing initiatives continue to boost agricultural activity in villages y Assess all signiﬁcant suppliers for y The industry group spent over Rs.1.89 and raise the standard of living in diverse environmental, social and labour risks billion during the year under review in communities. It is one of the Group’s carrying out its sustainable sourcing largest and most successful sustainable y Adhere to the Group’s policies on Labour, drive with local farmer communities as SURMHFWVHQFRPSDVVHV Child and Forced Labour with the aim of discussed below ensuring there are no such instances š ginger and vanilla outgrower y Evaluated some of its signiﬁcant Initiatives: programmes; suppliers to ensure they are in line with y With CCS providing ﬁnancial assistance, š WUHDFOHMDJJHU\DQGFDVKHZSURMHFWV the JKH Group’s Environmental, Labour and local authorities providing technical and Social policies š purchase guarantees of pork and advice and material, the company chicken; and continued to obtain its ginger and vanilla y The industry group’s management spent š assistance in the expansion of local, through its outgrower programme in over an estimated 100 hours in supplier mechanised and de-boned meat. partnership with local authorities and engagement and assessments during the farmer communities in several districts of the country, obtaining its entire requirement of ginger for its ﬂagship SURGXFW ŗ(OHSKDQW +RXVH *LQJHU %HHUŘ DQGDPDMRULW\RILWVYDQLOODUHTXLUHPHQW The company also continues to obtain LWV NLWXO MDJJHU\ DQG WUHDFOH IURP ORFDO farmers and suppliers, with CCS working with close to 3,000 farmers in total, to source the primary ingredients for its manufacturing process y JMSL identiﬁed small time private label suppliers and sponsored an initial good manufacturing practices (GMP) audit through Société Générale de Surveillance (SGS) y JMSL initiated a programme for 196 farmers in collaboration with local authorities to enlighten them on Good 6XVWDLQDEOHVRXUFLQJFDUULHGRXWE\-D\ND\0DUNHWLQJ6HUYLFHV/LPLWHG Agriculture practices (GAP) 141 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL The Retail sector sources a variety of low country and up country vegetables from farming families y Continuously ensure that all local in various parts of Sri Lanka. This beneﬁts hundreds of farmer families through an assured market packaging and labelling requirements for quality produce, technical assistance and exposure to practices adopted in more developed are met and that marketing markets. This has also facilitated the business in ensuring a sustainable business model while communications are in line with the creating value for the community. Key impacts from these initiatives are summarised below. Marketing Communication Guidelines of the John Keells Group, which is based on Company Number of Farmers Total Annual Supply Total Annual the Code of Advertising and Marketing (kg’000) Payment (Rs.million) Communications by the International Chamber of Commerce KFP 4,755* 3,214 972 y CCS and JMSL to assess its sustainability CCS 3,250 167 178 performance against international JMSL 567* 7,292 738 benchmarks and carry out initiatives to 10,673 1,889 address any gaps that are identiﬁed * Estimated monthly impact since supply is received on a monthly basis y Internal short term goals, aligned towards $OORWKHUıJXUHVDUHDQQXDO meeting international benchmarks, have also been established by the industry Product No. of farmers group. JMSL implemented a strategy to the standards stipulated by the Sri Lanka entrench sustainable practices both at Standards Institute and have achieved store level and in the value chain Spices 30,000 standards that are on par with international standards with respect to process excellence. y CCS and KFP will strive to meet Meat 26,700 internationally recognised quality As testimony to its product excellence, Ceylon standards, with both companies obtaining Vanilla 1,500 Cold Stores – a company in the industry group ISO 9001 and ISO 22000 certiﬁcations as won many awards and accolades during the well as SLS 183 and SLS 223 Cashew Nuts 1,300 year, with recognition at the FMCG awards night, SLIM Brand Excellence awards, ACCA Initiatives: Ginger 375 Sustainability awards, SLIM Nielsen People’s y 30 per cent reduction in sugar in three awards, among many others. beverage ﬂavours (Necto, Orange Vegetables 360 Crush and Cream Soda) using a natural The material impacts relating to this Capital sweetener extracted from the Stevia Kithul Jaggery 60 are identiﬁed as follows: plant which has zero calories Treacle 15 y JMSL tied up with a well-known Senior Product and Financial, regulatory, Dietitian Sigrid De Silva to obtain nutrition service quality brand reputation and tips which were communicated to business continuity Community Engagement: customers from April 2015 onwards, implications y CCS helped promote early childhood further enhancing the message of its development in Sri Lanka by providing Responsible Financial, regulatory ŗ)UHVKQHVVŘFDPSDLJQV improved children’s recreational facilities labelling and and brand reputation marketing implications y JMSL procured 124,342 kg of organic y CCS also continued to work towards communication SURGXFH IURP IDUPHUV FHUWLıHG E\ 6UL obtaining its biomass requirement for &HUW boilers through an intermediary working Targets: y CCS and KFP look to ensure the quality of y Organic fruits and vegetables is sold in 20 with the surrounding community raw materials through quality assurance stores, while chicken fed on organic feed Intellectual Capital processes and continuous monitoring of is sold in 22 JMSL stores Ensuring high product and service quality is its suppliers. y Of the 496 stock keeping units which are of paramount importance to the Consumer either manufactured by the Consumer Foods and Retail industry group, with its Foods sector or obtained via private HQG REMHFWLYH EHLQJ WR HQVXUH VDIH DQG KLJK labelling arrangements at the Retail quality products of the Consumer Foods sector, 81 per cent carry information on businesses, and differentiating the Retail the ingredients used, 1 per cent carry operations by facilitating a superior customer information on the sourcing of raw experience. The industry group’s businesses materials, whilst 20 per cent and 76 per have obtained international quality standards cent carry information on the safe use with assurance obtained annually through and responsible disposal of products third party veriﬁcations. Both Ceylon Cold 30 per cent reduction in sugar in 3 respectively Stores and Keells Food Products adhere to beverage ﬂavours 142 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Strategy and Outlook Modern trade density population ('000) per store The penetration of consumer food products 132 continues to be comparatively low with per capita consumption of carbonated soft drinks and ice creams in Sri Lanka currently standing at 8 per cent and 2 per cent respectively, signiﬁcantly below the regional average, 47 highlighting the potential for continued 30 21 long term growth in these industries. Whilst 7.3 4.7 4.5 3.7 3.6 3.4 3 2.5 1.9 0.9 consumer spending could moderate in the ensuing year on the back of increased interest India Vietnam Sri Lanka Philippines Indonesia Thailand Malaysia Singapore China HK Australia NZ rates and the increase in the value added tax Taiwan Korea rate from 11 to 15 per cent with effect from May 2016 onwards, the change in consumer Source: Retail and shopper trends in the Asia Paciﬁc, AC Nielsen lifestyles and consumption habits is expected “of ﬁnalising to provide opportunities for volume growth recognition and trusted reputation. CCS in the medium to long term. Although off a is currently in the process of evaluating CCS is in the process relatively lower base, the growth from the an exciting range of products, particularly plans for an outskirts of the country is expected to be relating to fruit based drinks and dairy signiﬁcantly higher than the growth stemming based products. CCS will continue to invest investment to enhance its from the urban markets. in research and development initiatives to production capacity in order to facilitate the use of natural ingredients when re-inventing existing products and developing facilitate the expected growth The Frozen Confectionery business will focus on strengthening its position in the premium new products. Given the increasing role of in the impulse range where ice cream range through the introduction digitisation and its impacts on businesses, CCS will place emphasis on the introduction new products will be added of various initiatives aimed at product development, portfolio extension and brand of digital initiatives aimed at improving and manufacturing capability ” efficiencies and managing costs within the differentiation. A greater emphasis will also company, particularly in relation to the supply will be enhanced. be placed on the impulse range to capture an emerging consumer base and to ensure chain and in enhancing customer satisfaction. a holistic portfolio that can cater to evolving The expansion of the portfolio in the continues to seek properties in strategically consumers. To this end, CCS is in the process Convenience Foods business remains a near placed locations in line with its expansion plan of ﬁnalising plans for an investment to term priority, with plans to add products with a view to rolling out conforming outlets enhance its production capacity in order to mainly in the vegetarian, ﬁsh and pork ranges. SULPDULO\LQWKHODUJHUIRUPDW:KLOHDPDMRULW\ facilitate the expected growth in the impulse In the medium to long term, KFP will look of outlets will be concentrated within, and range where new products will be added and to diversify its portfolio through a greater in close proximity to, the Western Province, manufacturing capability will be enhanced. HPSKDVLVRQWKHŗKHDOWKFRQVFLRXVŘFRQVXPHU other locations will also be considered based The business will continue to invest in and capitalising on the growing need for main on certain criteria. In order to complement the optimising the processes and procedures meal opportunities. Added focus will also be growth plans of the business and to further relating to its distribution network, expanding placed in the ensuing year on KFP’s export improve the productivity and efficiency of freezer capacity and strengthening the mobile strategy which is aimed at increasing volumes the company, JMSL will place added focus distribution channel. from markets such as India and the Maldives. on centralising its distribution network in the medium term. JMSL, in collaboration with Given the aforementioned low penetration The modern trade share of Sri Lanka’s retail John Keells Logistics, the Group’s logistics of carbonated soft drinks in Sri Lanka, and industry is approximately 15 per cent, well business, is ﬁnalising plans to build a large as witnessed over the prior years, growth below that of countries in the region (Singapore: state of the art Distribution Centre which in volumes in the rural areas is expected 70 per cent; Malaysia: 49 per cent and Thailand: will cater to the chain’s expanding footprint. to exceed that of densely populated areas 43 per cent), indicating the growth potential of The Retail business will continue to focus on such as Colombo, Kandy and key suburban Sri Lanka’s modern retail sector. As illustrated, differentiating the shopping experience to the cities. The long term growth potential for the population per store in Sri Lanka is customers through the quality of its produce, the carbonated soft drinks industry may be also signiﬁcantly higher than that of other particularly in the fresh products ranges whilst moderated however, to an extent, due to the comparable countries, although this statistic also driving service standards and customer emergence of a health conscious consumer. should also be looked at in the context of store care. The prospects for the beverage industry continue to be encouraging nevertheless format, population density and other country speciﬁc factors. The Retail sector will look to Nexus Mobile, the loyalty programme of the since these health conscious consumers capitalise on this opportunity by strategically Retail business, will continue to add value, seek alternate beverage options. CCS will expanding its retail footprint in the near and enabling the business to identify key trends in look to cater to this segment of the market PHGLXP WHUP VXEMHFW WR PDFURHFRQRPLF customers and shopping lifestyles using data with its evolving product portfolio. In doing conditions and feasibility. The business analytics. so, the company will leverage on its brand 143 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review FINANCIAL SERVICES Our Business Model becoming leading players in their chosen segments within the ﬁnancial services Vision and Scope industry, offering a total solution to its The cluster of ﬁnancial services companies customers. offer a comprehensive range of ﬁnancial solutions including commercial banking, insurance, stock broking, debt trading, fund management and leasing with the vision of 7KHFOXVWHURIıQDQFLDOVHUYLFHV companies offer a comprehensive UDQJHRIıQDQFLDOVROXWLRQV Insurance Banking and Stock Broking Leasing 197 kg per Rs.Mn revenue Contribution to JKH Group 11% 11% 4% 2% Revenue EBIT Capital employed Carbon footprint 144 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Sectors Insurance Banking and Leasing Stock Broking The business Union Assurance (UA) offers Nations Trust Bank (NTB) offers complete John Keells Stock Brokers (JKSB) is one of within the comprehensive insurance solutions in banking solutions through its network of the leading stock broking companies in Sri sector the Life Insurance segment while General branches for corporate, retail and SME Lanka and has a number of trading tie-ups Insurance solutions are offered through clients and is the sole acquirer and the with leading foreign securities houses its associate Union Assurance General exclusive issuer of the ﬂagship centurion Limited (UAG) product range of American Express cards in Sri Lanka. Nations Leasing is the leasing arm of NTB Key external/ šThe risk based capital framework (RBC) šThe Central Bank of Sri Lanka šThe Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) internal proposed by the Insurance Board of Sri commenced a phased implementation is in the process of executing the variables Lanka became effective from 1 January of the Basel III framework where the minimum risk-based capital adequacy impacting the 2016 liquidity coverage ratio is to reach 100 requirement (CAR) to replace the business per cent by January 2019. This was in minimum net capital requirement for respect of the minimum rupee liquidity stock broking ﬁrms requirement for local and all currency šProposed establishment of an institution operations for the overall operations of to act as a central counterparty (CCP) banks. NTB’s liquidity coverage ratio of for all secondary market transactions 137 per cent as at the calendar year end on the CSE is in line with this requirement šThe All Share Price Index (ASPI) declined 12 per cent for the ﬁnancial year Key š,QWURGXFHG ŗ8QLRQ 6LQJOH 3UHPLXP šExpanded network with a digital centre, šMigration to a new order management developments $GYDQWDJHŘDSURGXFWWDUJHWHGDWFOLHQWV 3 new branches and 22 ATMs system and a broker back office system during the seeking lump sum investments šEntered into a partnership with Diners š5HFRJQLVHGDVWKHŗ%HVW6WRFN%URNLQJ ﬁnancial year šLaunched a mid-year convention to International as an exclusive issuer and 5HVHDUFK7HDPŘDWWKH&)$6UL/DQND motivate and enhance high performing acquirer Capital Market Awards Ceremony held life insurance advisors šIncreased digitisation of operations in July 2015 šConsolidated all CSR activities to facilitate increasing customer XQGHU D FRPPRQ EUDQG ŗ8QLRQ convenience, scalability and reliability 0DQXVK\DWKZD\DŘ šStrengthening of management team through new members to complement the current management and their expertise Key Indicators Inputs (Rs.mn) 2015/16 2014/15 (%) 2013/14 Outputs (Rs.mn) 2015/16 2014/15 (%) 2013/14 Total assets 35,878 37,128 (3) 35,586 Revenue3 11,896 12,989 (8) 12,568 Total equity 7,135 11,698 (39) 9,248 EBIT 2,301 3,076 (25) 1,995 Total debt 106 80 32 175 PBT 1,699 3,076 (45) 1,993 Capital employed1 7,240 11,778 (39) 9,422 PAT 1,718 3,019 (43) 1,636 Employees (number)2 803 718 12 1,527 EBIT per employee 2.9 4.3 (33) 1.3 Carbon footprint (MT) 1,407 1,550 (9) 1,687 1 For associate companies the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity investment in these companies 2 As per the sustainability reporting boundary 3 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue 145 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review FINANCIAL SERVICES External Environment and Operational art website and introduced Sri Lanka’s ﬁrst Review tab based customer application processing platform in pursuing its digital strategy and in This ﬁnancial year marked the ﬁrst full year offering an unparalleled customer experience. of operations for the Life Insurance business The Bank expanded its island-wide reach under Union Assurance PLC (UA) post the with the introduction of 4 new branches and segregation of the Life and General insurance improved on its regional presence by entering businesses as required under the Regulation 8$LQWURGXFHGD2QH6WRSH*XLGH two new markets, Germany and South Korea, of Insurance Industry (Amendment) Act to support digital advisor training to operate in the remittance market whilst No. 3 of 2011. UA continued to demonstrate maintaining strong positions in traditional encouraging growth with gross written The General Insurance business recorded a markets in the Middle East. premiums increasing to Rs.6.96 billion for the marginal increase in gross written premiums calendar year 2015, a growth of 17 per cent to Rs.5.87 billion in the calendar year ending In line with the strategic mapping exercise against the previous calendar year [CY2014: 2015, recording a growth of 12 per cent that was implemented in 2013, NTB continued Rs.5.95 billion]. This growth was below the [CY2014: Rs.5.22 billion]. its focus on lean management initiatives 20 per cent growth in premiums witnessed together with increased automation and across the industry due to the lower than The banking industry recorded healthy growth greater reliance on digital channels. To this expected performance of the unit linked sales during the ﬁnancial year against the backdrop end, the Bank maintained a staff to branch product. Excluding the impact from the unit of strong credit demand stemming from ratio of 8 within new branches, amongst the linked product, UA witnessed a growth of 21 both private and public sectors. However, lowest in the industry. The Bank also pursued per cent in gross written premiums. performance was dampened to an extent due opportunities in extracting value from already to increased pressure on net interest margins existent soft and hard infrastructure, focussed With its focus on providing continuously (NIMs), rising funding costs in the second half on delivering customer centric products and evolving products, UA launched a single of the year, intensiﬁed competitive pressures encouraged cross selling to enhance NTB’s SUHPLXPSURGXFWLQWKHŗ$GYDQWDJHŘSODWIRUP coupled with the uncertainties which prevailed value proposition during the period under targeting customers who seek lump sum around the Parliamentary Elections in 2015. review. LQYHVWPHQW SODQV7KLV SURGXFW WLWOHG ŗ8QLRQ 6LQJOH3UHPLXP$GYDQWDJHŘKDVDQXPEHURI Despite a challenging operating environment, The cost to income ratio increase to 55 per unique features such as the ability to obtain Nations Trust Bank (NTB) delivered strong cent in the calendar year [CY2014: 53 per the plan for any period between ﬁve to thirty growth in loans and advances and deposits. cent] is mainly attributed to the slower growth years, guaranteed life cover and a minimum The growth in loans and advances and in revenue stemming from narrowing NIMs as guaranteed dividend. These features result in deposits during the calendar year was 23 stated previously. the product standing out from more traditional per cent and 16 per cent, above the industry products on account of its ability to generate averages of 21 per cent and 15 per cent, Volatility and uncertainty in the global and higher investment beneﬁts, while providing respectively. The increase in loans and macroeconomic environment posed a for a dependable life insurance cover. During advances was mainly attributable to growth challenge for the Stock Broking business WKH\HDU8$LQWURGXFHGDŗ2QH6WRSH*XLGHŘWR from the small and medium sized enterprise during the year under review. The uncertain support digital advisor training and facilitate (SME) segment and corporate books which economic environment in China and greater access to more resources, thereby contributed towards a better balance of the expectations of interest rate hikes by enhancing operational efficiencies and Bank’s overall portfolio. The growth of the the US Federal Reserve resulted in an customer convenience. current and savings account (CASA) mix to outﬂow of capital from many emerging and 32 per cent of total deposits [CY2014: 30 frontier markets including Sri Lanka. Policy As per the actuarial valuation carried out per cent] had a positive impact on NTB’s uncertainty locally, as well as pressure on during the year, the Life Insurance business funding proﬁle. The Bank recorded higher interest rates and the exchange rate on generated a surplus of Rs.800 million, an NIMs compared to its peers given the higher account of a widening balance of payments increase of 7 per cent against the prior emphasis towards higher margin products deﬁcit, exacerbated the negative performance calendar year [CY2014: Rs.750 million]. such as leasing, credit cards and personal of the Colombo Stock Exchange. Further loans. However, NTB also witnessed pressure details on the overall stock market and its The risk based capital framework proposed on its NIMs due to re-pricing of its liabilities performance can be found in the Share and by the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka (IBSL) given the sharp reduction in overall market Warrant Information section of this Report. came into effect from 1 January 2016. All liquidity, particularly towards the end of the insurance companies are required to comply calendar year. During this challenging operating with the rules with respect to the solvency environment, JKSB focussed on aligning its position and the determination requirements During the year under review, NTB was processes and systems with client needs to ensure the company maintains appropriate appointed as the exclusive franchisee for and introduced efficiency enhancing and cost level of admissible and approved investments Diners Club credit cards. NTB launched the management initiatives. To this end, JKSB in excess of liabilities to meet risks arising Diners Acquiring business in Sri Lanka thereby migrated towards a new order management from unforeseen events. UA meets the enhancing the Bank’s potential fee generation system and a broker back office system requirements of the said framework. in the cards business. The Bank opened its which will complement the delivery versus ﬁrst digital branch, launched a state-of-thepayment (DVP) and the central counterparty 146 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information (CCP) systems to be introduced by the CSE. During the year under review, JKSB was recognised as this gain, the industry group exhibited an WKHŗ%HVW6WRFN%URNLQJ5HVHDUFK7HDPŘDWWKH&)$6UL/DQND&DSLWDO0DUNHW$ZDUGV&HUHPRQ\ EBIT growth of 24 per cent during 2015/16. held in July 2015. The higher EBIT is a result of the steady performance recorded by UAL and NTB. Capital Management Review Further to the review of the external environment and operations, this section reviews the forms Borrowings and Finance Expenses of Capital available for the successful execution of the businesses strategies, the initiatives Total debt as at 31 March 2016 stood at undertaken during the year to create value and also discusses the performance of the sectors Rs.106 million. The industry group recorded within the industry group under each form of Capital. a signiﬁcant increase in ﬁnance expenses to Rs.602 million [2014/15: Rs.0.22 million] Key performance indicators for the industry group, under each of the sectors are summarised below. due to an expense arising from the mark-tomarket losses of the equity portfolio of the Insurance Banking and Leasing Stock Broking life insurance fund of UA which is recorded under ﬁnance expenses. It is pertinent to Financial and Manufactured Capital Rs.7.94 billion, Rs.3.77 billion, an Rs.190 million, QRWH WKDW WKLV LV DQ DGMXVWPHQW UHĲHFWHG LQ revenue and growth a decrease of increase of 2 per cent a decrease of the consolidated books and does not imply a 12 per cent 35 per cent payment made to debt-holders. Financial and Manufactured Capital Rs.1.46 billion, Rs.823 million, an Rs.15 million, a EBIT and growth a decrease of increase of 11 per cent decrease of 83 Return on Capital Employed 35 per cent per cent y ROCE decreased to 24.2 per cent Natural Capital carbon footprint 1,383 MT Not within the boundary 24 MT against the 29.0 per cent recorded in the of sustainability reporting previous year. The ROCE excluding the Human Capital – number of 733 Not within the boundary 30 aforementioned capital gain of Rs.1.22 employees of sustainability reporting billion is 25.9 per cent against 18.6 per cent in the prior year. The overall asset Financial and Manufactured Capital The decline in revenue is mainly attributable base of the industry group decreased As at 1 April 2015, the Financial Services to Union Assurance PLC treating the postdue to the repurchase of shares by Union industry group had total assets of Rs.37.13 segregated general insurance company as Assurance PLC, further facilitating the billion, debt of Rs.80 million and an opening an associate following the sale of the 78 per LQFUHDVHLQDGMXVWHG52&( equity capital of Rs.11.70 billion. cent stake of the General Insurance business LQWKHSULRU\HDU$GMXVWLQJWKHSUHYLRXV\HDUŖV y The EBIT margin decreased to 19.3 per Financial Performance results for this impact, the revenue for the cent from 23.7 per cent recorded in The revenue of the Financial Services industry industry group grew by 20 per cent while the previous ﬁnancial year, mainly on group declined by 21 per cent to Rs.7.14 billion revenue, inclusive of associate company account of the gain recorded at UA in [2014/15: Rs.9.08 billion]. Revenue, inclusive revenue, recorded a growth of 24 per cent. 2014/15. The EBIT margin for last year of associate company revenue, decreased by NTB recorded a 2 per cent growth in revenue, excluding this gain was 14.3 per cent. 8 per cent to Rs.11.90 billion from Rs.12.99 mainly stemming from the growth in the The improved margins are a reﬂection billion recorded in the prior year. SME segment. John Keells Stock Brokers of the performance of the Life Insurance reported a 35 per cent decline in revenue due business, as last year’s performance to the challenging operating environment, as included the General Insurance business. Revenue discussed in the preceding section. It should be noted that the margins of the 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% General Insurance business are lower The industry group EBIT declined by 25 per cent than those of the Life Insurance business. 74 25 1 to Rs.2.30 billion [2014/15: Rs.3.08 billion] on 2013 / 14 y Asset turnover declined to 0.33 times account of the previous year’s results including 69 28 3 from 0.36 times mainly on account of 2014 / 15 the capital gain of Rs.1.22 billion which the decrease in revenue as discussed 67 32 1 materialised following the aforementioned sale previously. 2015 / 16 of the General Insurance business. Excluding EBIT 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% Return on Capital Employed 50 48 2 ROCE 2013 / 14 2015/16: 24.2% 73 24 3 2014/15: 29.0% 2014 / 15 64 35 1 2015 / 16 Insurance Asset turnover EBIT margin Asset/Debt + Equity Banking and Leasing 0.33 19.3% 3.84 Stockbroking 147 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review FINANCIAL SERVICES Natural Capital the users leave the premises leaving their Initiatives: The Financial Services industry group aimed computers powered on y Safety awareness and health awareness to reduce its environmental impact by aligning programmes were conducted by the Life itself with global best practices. Some key y Installation of innovative timer switches Insurance business initiatives implemented during the ﬁnancial in all split and package air conditioners at the UA Head Office and selected branch y A ﬁre evacuation drill was carried out at year are as follows: offices the Union Assurance Head Office y UA implemented a toner recycling process y Aside from training its employees, Union y UA continued replacing traditional in partnership with a third-party supplier Assurance placed added emphasis on the ﬂuorescent lights with LED technology welfare and development of its ﬁeld staff y UA continued the initiative to install key based lighting at the Head Office and has which comprises of over 4,300 persons switches in all water coolers at selected extended this to branches and recorded 190,374 training hours branches to enable automatic shutting down after office hours and a master key The continued effort of the industry group y Focus was also placed on enhancing the switch has been installed on each ﬂoor at to minimise the impact on the environment infrastructure and training for e-learning the Head Office to shut down power once proved fruitful as evident in the table below. and online examinations. To this end, 255 e-learning and distance learning hours Indicators were completed 2015/2016 2014/2015 (%) y UA continued to invest in internal certiﬁcation programmes for all Carbon footprint (MT) 1,407 1,550 (9) categories, with 745 sales force members being certiﬁed Human Capital The material impact identiﬁed for the industry y $GYLVRU DVVHVVPHQW FHQWUHV ZHUH With increasing prominence on worker health group is as follows: launched with the aim of identifying and safety and road accidents, the Financial candidates who are ideally suited to the Services industry group continuously Occupational Union Assurance sales profession conducts awareness and training, especially health and agents account for over for sales agents of Union Assurance. During safety 75 per cent of the John Indicators the year under review, Nations Trust Bank Keells Group’s total The industry group provided an average of strengthened its management team through contractor personnel and 14.2 hours of training per person during new recruitments to complement the are exposed to road side the reporting period, while the total number existing employees and their experience and accidents RI LQMXULHV VDZ D  SHU FHQW UHGXFWLRQ7KH expertise. Staff attrition at the Bank remained total hours of training reduced signiﬁcantly as a key challenge during the year. Indicator The Life Insurance business focussed on 2015/2016 2014/2015 (%) recruitment and improving the productivity of its workforce during the year and is ,QMXULHVGLVHDVHVDQGIDWDOLWLHV QXPEHU 29 49 (41) currently evaluating different recruitment Total hours of training 11,389 21,186 (46) and remuneration models to further improve performance. With employee satisfaction being crucial for consistent customer service, UA also monitors employee satisfaction on a regular basis and utilises the ﬁndings from the ŗ*UHDW3ODFHWR:RUNŘLQLWLDWLYHWRLQFUHDVHWKH level of staff satisfaction. UA was recognised for the third consecutive year as one of the 20 great places to work in Sri Lanka by the Great Place to Work® Institute, secured a Gold award for people development by the Sri Lanka Institute of Training and Development (SLITAD), and was also honoured with a ŗ3ODWLQXPŘDZDUGIRUZLQQLQJWKH*ROGDZDUG for three consecutive years. Employee engagement has been increased by conducting a bottom-up strategic planning process including representatives from all functions to ensure their buy in and FRPPLWPHQWWRGHOLYHUFRUSRUDWHREMHFWLYHV 'LDEHWHVVFUHHQLQJFOLQLFFDUULHGRXWE\8QLRQ$VVXUDQFH 148 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information the training hours of the General Insurance expectations of ethical behaviour at Union Assurance will leverage on its brand business are not collated since it is an induction. The Group has a zero tolerance presence and recognition and focus on associate company and therefore beyond the policy with regards to breaches of its certain key customer segments and channels, reporting boundary. Code of Conduct such as bancassurance, which demonstrate signiﬁcant potential. This will be achieved Social and Relationship Capital y Internal reviews and audits are also through the development of state-of-the-art With regulatory frameworks governing the carried out on a continuous basis as part products and policies. ﬁnancial services industry necessitating that of the management approach business is carried out in accordance with the Nations Trust Bank will focus on optimising highest ethical standards, customer conﬁdence Social Responsibility and Health and Safety the potential of its branch network in the and satisfaction is a key factor for the Financial y The community centric activities of near term and also pursue opportunities in Services industry group. The focus on its Union Assurance are based on creating a new markets within the geographies already Social and Relationship Capital through its healthy community by focussing on and penetrated. NTB will also drive revenue sustainability strategy is based upon these addressing concerns that are gaining through identifying and capitalising on material impacts. As such, the Group focusses prominence within communities. The cross sell prospects within its existing client on strengthening its brand presence among activities are carried out in partnership network. In line with its long term strategy, customers through a commitment to high with the Ministry of Health, Public Health the Bank will continue focussing on the quality products and services, community Department of Colombo Municipal SME segment, which has yielded promising engagement and employee development with Council and the National Thallassemia returns thus far. minimal impact on the environment while Centre in Kurunegala The dynamics of the banking industry are ensuring that its operations are undertaken in y Under the health awareness programmes, expected to continuously evolve, driven by a responsible manner. the Life Insurance business worked disruptive business models and technology together with the above authorities to with customers increasingly adopting such The material impacts for the industry group create awareness of diseases such as new platforms and channels, both globally are: Dengue, Thalassaemia and Diabetes and locally. In order to cater to evolving through approximately 71 workshops customer requirements NTB is currently in Customer Negative impacts on satisfaction key customer accounts, the process of implementing initiatives in Intellectual Capital line with its near and long term strategy. To investor and client The following initiatives were undertaken this end, the Bank hopes to establish a home conﬁdence during the year under review to strengthen loan proposition, introduce corporate internet Community Proactive community processes and product offerings. banking and cash management solutions, engagement engagement contributes develop an early warning system to identify to building trust and y Achieved ISO 27001:2013 Information deteriorating credit quality and launch an promotes brand image Security Management standard ŗ(PSOR\HH /LIH &\FOHŘ WUDLQLQJ FRQFHSW Ethics, Loss of brand reputation y Union Assurance moved to a virtualisation 6WULYLQJ WRZDUGV EHFRPLQJ WKH ŗ3ULPDU\Ř fraud and and possible regulatory platform and cloud based solution which bank through superior use of data analytics, corruption non-compliance resulted in reduced data centre space, lean management and enhanced digital maintenance cost and lower power capabilities are some of the key long term The signiﬁcant suppliers within the industry consumption initiatives of the Bank. group are: y Digitisation of documentation to improve JKSB will continue to pursue tie-ups in order process efficiencies was carried out to strengthen its presence in the international Signiﬁcant Suppliers through the launch of a ‘One Stop eGuide’ arena and carry on the ongoing dialogue and for Digital Advisors, assisting advisors to periodic engagement with clients through get trained on electronic processing and road shows, customer forums and one-onproviding access to more resources one meetings with local corporates, fund managers and high net worth individuals Janitors Security (HNWI). Strategy and Outlook Despite the signiﬁcant growth witnessed in the The broking industry, in liaison with the CSE Initiatives: life insurance industry over the recent years, and SEC, is expected to make further headway Anti-Corruption the growth momentum of the life insurance in upgrading the available infrastructure to y Corruption and unethical behaviour industry in Sri Lanka is expected to continue include facilities that help better manage are covered under the overall risk as life insurance penetration is signiﬁcantly risk, enhance trading and settlement management process of the Group, lower compared to regional markets. Life efficiency. Even though the year under particularly considering the relevance premiums as a percentage of GDP in Sri review was a challenging year for the stock to the Financial Services industry group. Lanka are still below 1 per cent whilst the broking business, operational efficiencies All employees are expected to abide by corresponding comparatives in India and and regulations such as the CAR ratio being the John Keells Group’s Code of Conduct developed countries are approximately 3 per introduced to the market are expected to and new employees are trained on the cent and above 6 per cent respectively. improve the stability of the broking industry. 149 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Our Business Model outsourcing (BPO), software services and North America, Scandinavia and the Far East, information integration to office automation the IT industry group is at the forefront of Vision and Scope by offering end-to-end information and making Sri Lanka an ICT hub in South Asia. The Information Technology industry group communication technology (ICT) services has a vision of providing quality, world class and solutions. Having established a strong information communication technology customer base in Sri Lanka, South Asia, as services ranging from business process well as the United Kingdom, Middle East, 6HUYLFHVUDQJHIURPRĴFH DXWRPDWLRQVRIWZDUHVHUYLFHVDQG LQIRUPDWLRQLQWHJUDWLRQWR%32 IT Services Office IT Enabled Automation Services 154 kg per Rs.Mn revenue Contribution to JKH Group 8% 1% 1% 2% Revenue EBIT Capital employed Carbon footprint 150 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Sectors IT Services Office Automation IT Enabled Services The business within š John Keells Computer Services š John Keells Office Automation š BPO operations, primarily in the the sector (JKCS) offer software products and (JKOA) is the authorised distributor voice vertical through JK BPO, which services to a wide range of clients in for some of the leading office operates approximately 750 seats in Sri Lanka and overseas automation brands in the world India, US and Canada Core focus areas are in software Sole distributor for Toshiba digital š Provider of shared service solutions engineering services and products multi-function printers (MFPs). in the ﬁnance, accounting and targeted at the aviation and leisure National distributor for Samsung payroll verticals to the JKH Group industries Smart phones. Authorised distributor and external clients under InfoMate for Asus, Dell Notebooks, and other office automation products such as Samsung Laser printers, hotel TV’s, large format displays (LFD), RISO digital duplicators, RISO Comcolor printers, the world’s fastest full FRORXU LQNMHW SULQWHU 3RVLĲH[ DQG FEC POS systems, Bixolon receipt and label printers, tabs, accessories, /DYDPRELOHVDQG+LWDFKLSURMHFWRUV Key external/internal š Escalation of salaries and wages for š Exchange rate pressure contributed š The shift of voice processing variables impacting skilled engineers due to the dearth towards increased procurement services from India to on-shore, the business of skilled resources costs near-shore regions š Mandatory requirements of š Increased demand for back office advanced passenger processing and knowledge processes in India (APP) features and advanced passenger information messages for departure control systems in certain international borders Key developments š Two products for aircraft load control š Discontinuation of Toshiba notebooks š JK BPO secured a leading Australian during the ﬁnancial and airport resource planning were š Appointed national distributor for telecom client year developed Lava mobiles š The Software Engineering and š Awarded the diamond award for Products verticals secured 2 and 10 sales and market leadership for new clients, respectively digital multifunction copiers by Toshiba Tec Singapore Key Indicators Inputs (Rs.mn) 2015/16 2014/15 (%) 2013/14 Outputs (Rs.mn) 2015/16 2014/15 (%) 2013/14 Total assets 4,116 3,750 10 3,445 Revenue3 8,262 7,212 15 7,502 Total equity 1,951 2,322 (16) 2,104 EBIT 161 382 (58) 394 Total debt 339 92 268 468 PBT 148 370 (60) 316 1 Capital employed 2,289 2,414 (5) 2,572 PAT 96 280 (66) 245 2 Employees (number) 985 1,224 (20) 1,206 EBIT per employee 0.2 0.3 (48) 0.3 Carbon footprint (MT) 1,269 1,309 (3) 1,428 1 For associate companies the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity investment in these companies 2 As per the sustainability reporting boundary 3 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue 151 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY External Environment and Operational The Group’s BPO operations in India, through Review JK BPO India, continued to service its largest client at a level above expectations and was Consumer purchasing power increased rewarded with additional work during the during the year under review on account of last quarter of 2015/2016. The lack of sales the benign inﬂationary environment and the capabilities dampened the growth of the increase in disposable incomes stemming business. InfoMate, the Sri Lanka based JKOA maintained its market from the measures undertaken subsequent BPO operations, successfully increased its share in the mobile market whilst to the interim Budget in 2015 presented by the external client portfolio through an increase introducing Lava Mobile new Government, where public sector wages of its domestic payroll customers. However, were increased among many other cost relief few overseas clients reverted to on-shore measures. Against this backdrop, the growing operations resulting in a marginal decline inclination towards technology coupled information messages for departure in third party revenue. The business also with consumer preferences to improve control systems enforced by certain Border expanded its services portfolio by entering their lifestyle and convenience resulted in a Control Agencies negatively impacted the the data entry space during the year under continued shift from feature phones to smart performance of the Product vertical given the review. phones. From a regulatory perspective, the high cost of implementation. Various initiatives increase of the port and airport development were also implemented to rationalise the levy (PAL) to 7.5 per cent from 5 per cent on overall cost base of the company. selected products and the reduction to 2.5 per cent on certain electronic and electrical items and the increase in the import license fee for Capital Management Review mobile phones to 1 per cent from 0.2 per cent impacted the industry, with JKOA being no Subsequent to the external environment and the operational review of the Information Technology exception. industry group, the ensuing section elaborates on the forms of Capital deployed to meet the strategic priorities and the performance of the businesses during the period under discussion. JKOA maintained its market position in the mobile market whilst introducing Lava Key performance indicators for the industry group, under each of the sectors, are summarised as Mobile. JKOA witnessed growth in photo follows: copier volumes and maintained its market position in the copier segment. Overall sales volumes in the Notebook vertical decreased Sectors IT Services Office IT Enabled during the year, as JKOA discontinued one Automation Services brand. Subsequently, JKOA introduced the EUDQG ŗ$VXVŘ WR H[SDQG WKH SRUWIROLR XQGHU Financial and Manufactured Capital Rs.411 million, 4 Rs.6.58 billion, 21 Rs.1.27 billion, the Notebook vertical. The product has been revenue and growth per cent increase per cent increase 9 per cent well received by the market and overall sales decrease have been promising. Financial and Manufactured Capital (Rs.10 million), Rs.165 million, (Rs.6 million), EBIT and growth 122 per cent 46 per cent 78 per cent The Software Engineering and Product decrease decrease decrease verticals of the IT Services sector successfully Natural Capital carbon footprint 183 MT 322 MT 763 MT VWUHQJWKHQHG WKH SURMHFW SLSHOLQH ZLWK WKH Human Capital – number of 178 240 567 addition of 2 and 10 new clients respectively. employees However, the mandatory requirements to comply with advanced passenger processing (APP) features and advanced passenger Financial and Manufactured Capital customer account whilst InfoMate witnessed As at 1 April 2015, the Information Technology a marginal decline in revenue due to lower industry group had total assets of Rs.3.75 third party revenue during the year. “Engineering billion, debt of Rs.92 million and an opening The Software equity capital of Rs.2.32 billion. The industry group EBIT decreased by 58 and Product per cent to Rs.161 million [2014/15: Rs.382 Financial Performance million]. This was mainly on account of a verticals of the IT Services Revenue increased by 15 per cent to Rs.8.26 SURıW UHYHUVDO RI WKH VDOH RI ŗ=KDUD +6Ř sector successfully billion [2014/15: Rs.7.21 billion], mainly which is a web based hotel management strengthened the project on account of higher revenue from JKOA software, and an increase in bad debt stemming from increased volumes from the provisions stemming from the BPO business. pipeline with the addition mobile and copier segments together with An increase in promotional and marketing of 2 and 10 new clients revenue from new products. Revenue from expenditure, particularly relating to Samsung ” JK BPO India declined as the business lost a mobiles, under the Office Automation respectively. 152 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information business also contributed towards the Return on Capital Employed decline in EBIT. Similar to the prior year, the Office Automation business remained the ROCE largest contributor to the industry group EBIT. 2015/16: 6.8% 2014/15: 15.3% Increased operational efficiencies and better cost management helped mitigate the decline in revenue from the BPO operations, with the business marginally increasing EBIT against last year. The PBT for the industry decreased Asset turnover EBIT margin Asset/Debt + Equity by 60 per cent to Rs.148 million [2014/15: 2.10 1.9% 1.67 Rs.370 million]. y The asset turnover marginally increased Initiatives: Revenue to 2.10 times from 2.00 times in the y JKOA commenced an initiative which 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% previous year due to the aforementioned rationalises space on particular working increase in revenue. days to conserve electricity 8 74 18 2013 / 14 Natural Capital y Personal computer workstations with 5 75 20 2014 / 15 Businesses within the industry group thin client machines, requiring less 5 80 15 place importance on reducing the negative energy, were installed at InfoMate. This is 2015 / 16 impact on the environment and ensuring expected to reduce the current electricity environmentally friendly outcomes given cost by Rs.150,000 per annum EBIT the high utilisation of Natural Capital when 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% creating value. Adhering to the John Keells y JKCS recorded signiﬁcant savings Group’s Environmental policy, the Information over the recent years through space 12 77 11 2013 / 14 Technology industry group proactively rationalisation and a heat insulation manages its carbon footprint and energy initiative which improved air conditioning 12 80 8 2014 / 15 usage, monitoring usage and seeking low efficiency and reduced energy -6 103 4 energy and energy efficient solutions through consumption. 2015 / 16 new technologies and innovative thinking. Companies are aware of the potential impact y JK BPO initiated a sustainability Software Services from the generation of electronic waste and DZDUHQHVVFDPSDLJQIRFXVVHGRQŗ/LYLQJ Office Automation IT Enabled Services are conscientious in ensuring that such 6XVWDLQDEO\Ř 7KH PRQWK ORQJ FDPSDLJQ waste is disposed of in a responsible manner, was aimed at creating awareness on working with third parties who reuse and the importance of sustainable practices recycle electronic waste. including energy conservation by Borrowings and Finance Expenses encouraging employees to share best Total debt as at 31 March 2016 stood at The material impacts for the industry group practices and sustainable initiatives. Rs.339 million [2014/15: Rs.92 million]. The are classiﬁed as follows: increase in debt is on account of a higher Waste Management overdraft balance at JKOA towards the end of Targets: Energy and Financial implications the year. Finance expenses increased by 6 per y Responsible disposal and reduction in emissions and environmental cent to Rs.13 million [2014/15: Rs.12 million]. generation of e-waste and paper waste management responsibility Return on Capital Employed Waste Environmental and Initiatives: y ROCE declined to 6.8 per cent from 15.3 management social responsibility, y As per the Group’s electronic waste per cent recorded in the previous ﬁnancial especially in terms of policy, businesses responsibly dispose of year. An increase in working capital in disposing e-waste and its electronic waste through the Group’s JKOA contributed to an increase in the paper contracted e-waste disposal partner asset base for the year under review. Energy and Emissions Management y All businesses consciously seeked to y The EBIT margin declined to 1.9 per Targets: minimise paper usage as well as recycle cent from the 5.3 per cent recorded in y Minimising electricity use through energy paper waste the previous year. Depressed margins targets, efficient practices and awareness were on account of the decline in EBIT campaigns primarily from the IT Services and, to an extent, the Office Automation businesses. JK BPO India and InfoMate both witnessed improved margins. 153 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY Performance of the fourth consecutive batch in the year The IT industry group recorded a carbon footprint of 1269 MT this year, a 3 per cent reduction under review. It is very encouraging to compared to the previous year. note that 8 apprentice from the ﬁrst batch were absorbed into Group companies at the end of the three year programme 2015/16 2014/2015 Change % Carbon footprint (MT) 1,269 1,309 (3) Health and Safety Targets: :DWHUXVDJHLVQRWVKRZQDVLWLVQRWPDWHULDOIRUWKHLQGXVWU\JURXS y Strive to ensure a safe and healthy working environment in line with the Group’s Health and Safety Policy Initiatives: y Group companies continuously reviewed Human Capital Talent Management its business continuity plans (BCPs) Given the competitive nature of the Targets: Information Technology industry, sound y Continuous improvement of training y Fire training and ﬁre teams were management of Human Capital is a vital focussed on improving skills and appointed for all companies component of the industry group’s strategy. knowledge Training and development of current staff and y Engagement with local universities to y Transport was provided to all staff in JK employee retention are priorities to ensure build a pool of potential employees with BPO India, given the 24 hour nature of career development and skill enhancement. requisite soft skills operations, to ensure safety of employees Emphasis is also placed on developing a fresh pool of talent from university students by during commute to and from work Initiatives: creating relationships with such institutions, y Employees in the industry group were Indicators via providing learning and internship provided with 58 hours of training per The IT industry group provided a total of opportunities to young people who have the employee 57,348 hours of training to its employees, with potential to be successfully absorbed into the 58 hours of training provided per employee. staff cadre, creating a sustainable solution to y As part of its recruitment strategy, JKCS the challenges in recruitment. continued to engage with local universities and higher education institutes, building Social and Relationship Capital With the nature of the work in the Information its brand presence by providing career The beneﬁts and necessity of an IT literate Technology industry group being largely guidance and soft skills training populace is widely accepted in a constantly office based, businesses make it a priority changing and globalised international y A number of these graduates were economy. Against this backdrop, the IT to ensure such working conditions are of provided with internship opportunities industry group recognises the beneﬁts an acceptable standard for employees. DQG RQWKHMRE WUDLQLQJ E\ -.&6 %DVHG that can be reaped from a strategy that Ergonomic concerns, lighting and air quality on capability and performance, they will strengthens its Social and Relationship Capital are all considered with respect to the working be absorbed into the employee cadre with rural communities whilst providing a environment. In addition, given the 24 hour platform for cost optimisation and a new pool operations of some of the companies in the y $ MRLQW LQLWLDWLYH ZDV ODXQFKHG LQ industry group, provisions are made to ensure of talent for recruitment. The strategy involves partnership with a client to train the safe commute of employees. the outsourcing of IT tasks, the provision graduates on skills that are hard to ﬁnd of industry speciﬁc technical training on in the market. Training for two batches The material impacts for the industry group areas such as accounting, SAP and general commenced during the year which management and soft skills, as elaborated are classiﬁed as follows: SURYLGHG QHZ MRE RSSRUWXQLWLHV ZKLOVW in the ensuing section. Over the years, this reducing the escalating cost of talent has created value for the Group and resulted Talent The need to retain and acquisition in socially desirable outcomes, proving to management continuously upgrade y InfoMate continued with its pioneering be cost-beneﬁcial to the John Keells Group the skills of existing Finance Apprenticeship, the structured whilst empowering rural youth and providing staff and ensure a pool three year programme that envisions them with employment opportunities and of quality potential recruiting and grooming school leavers to marketable skills. recruits given the be complete accountants, with the intake nature of the industry Health and Providing a safe and safety conducive environment 2015/16 2014/2015 Change % given that long hours are spent at work ,QMXULHVGLVHDVHV QXPEHU stations Total hours of training 57,348 84,873 (32) 154 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information In line with Group practices, all signiﬁcant suppliers have been identiﬁed below and have been and performance based reward programmes assessed for any negative impacts on the environment and in terms of labour and human rights in order to attract and retain talent. aspects. *OREDO ,QGXVWU\ $QDO\VWV ,QF SURMHFWV business process outsourcing to reach USD Signiﬁcant Suppliers 220 billion by 2020, driven by the intensifying pressure among companies to rationalise costs, improved operational performance and increased customer satisfaction Outsourced Outsourced through round-the-clock services. Customer Transportation preferences are also trending towards operational support staff Janitors Security providers nearshore and on-shore service delivery functions seasonally with focus on countries such as Canada, United States of America and Mexico. In order to capitalise on this opportunity, JK Impact through CSR initiatives: Strategy and Outlook BPO will look to expand service offerings John Keells Foundation (JKF) and InfoMate, through client satisfaction and improved Increasing disposable incomes, improved in collaboration with the Foundation for operational capabilities. InfoMate will focus network coverage and data connectivity, Advancing Rural Opportunity (FARO), on expanding its third party revenue base by through initiatives such as Google’s balloonFoundation of Goodness (FOG), Spectra Skills pursuing growth opportunities globally whilst powered high speed internet service known (Private) Limited and various Government concurrently expanding the range of services DVŗ3URMHFW/RRQŘZKLFKFRPPHQFHGWHVWLQJ offices, outsource some of the Group’s offered to businesses within the JKH Group. in Sri Lanka in February 2016, are expected accounting functions, thereby creating to drive demand for smart phone usage in sustainable employment opportunities for As discussed in the Group Consolidated the country. JKOA will look to capitalise on rural youth. Review section of this Report, the digitisation this opportunity by expanding its product initiative rolled out across the Group in offering under the mobile phone segment to During the year under review, 50 associates 2015/16 presents a signiﬁcant opportunity supplement its existing range of products. from the BPOs run by InfoMate in for the businesses within this industry group. The company will place added emphasis Mahavillachchiya, Seenigama and Jaffna In order to capitalise on this opportunity, the on increasing customers in the contractual were employed at the centres. Total earnings Group is evaluating cross sale opportunities copier rental service space and managed of the three BPO units increased by 19 per where the businesses are able act in unison, print services to differentiate JKOA from cent while average associate earnings synergising businesses within the IT industry competition. The new range of Toshiba MFP’s increased by 15 per cent during 2015/16. group, rather than operating individually. which will be introduced in the second half This will connect the skills, expertise and In addition to providing work volumes and of the ensuing ﬁnancial year would have infrastructure required to roll out such training, InfoMate supports the BPOs with more emphasis on cloud based solutions initiatives which are already resident within expenses relating to connectivity, generators which would enable focus on document the various verticals of the Group. Strategic and health insurance. Numerous trainings management/workﬂow solutions. Group Information Technology, the Group’s covering technical sessions on SAP, human IT support function, is also expected to The Engineering Services vertical of the resources, administration, accounting, participate in this endeavour. Holistic products Software Services business is anticipated to BPO operations management, quality and and services with end-to-end solutions, as expand its income base by focussing on client housekeeping, among others, were conducted envisioned, are expected to augur well for the opportunities in the Middle East, Sri Lanka for these associates. JKF continues to provide Information Technology industry group in the and the Nordic countries. The Aviation vertical infrastructure support to the BPOs through medium to long term. will work towards consolidating the product the donations of items such as computers portfolio to 3 concentrated areas, namely and office equipment. Two associates of the ŗ(YLQWD'&6Řŗ(YLQWD27$ŘDQGŗ=KDUDŘ-.&6ZLOO BPO centre in Seenigama were absorbed into also focus on a number of training initiatives the permanent cadre of the Group. “2015/16 The digitisation initiative rolled out across the Group in presents a signiﬁcant opportunity for the businesses within this industry group. In order to capitalise on this opportunity, the Group is evaluating cross sale opportunities where the businesses are able act in unison, synergising businesses within the IT industry group, rather than operating individually. ” 155 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review OTHER INCLUDING PLANTATION SERVICES Our Business Model top quality producer of CTC teas in Sri Lanka. Information Technology (SGIT), as well as With over 140 years of experience in the tea several auxiliary companies. John Keells Vision and Scope trade, John Keells PLC is one of the leading tea Capital is the private equity arm of the The Plantation Services sector includes brokers in the country and its warehousing Group and also provides ﬁnancial advisory, the operations of tea factories, tea and facility is the largest for pre-auction produce structuring and capital raising solutions to rubber broking and pre-auction produce in the country. external clients. SGIT supports the Group’s warehousing. information technology requirements, 7KH ŗ2WKHUŘ VHFWRU FRQVLVWV RI -RKQ .HHOOV provides consulting services and SAP Tea Smallholder Factories PLC (TSF PLC) is Holdings PLC including its divisions/Centre implementation services to external clients. among the top manufacturers of orthodox Functions such as John Keells Capital, SGIT is a SAP value added reseller in addition low grown teas and is also recognised as a John Keells Research and Strategic Group to being a SAP services partner. Plantation Other Services 1,228 kg per Rs.Mn revenue Contribution to JKH Group 3% 19% 34% 5% Revenue EBIT Capital employed Carbon footprint 156 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Sectors Plantation Services Other The business within š John Keells PLC – leading tea and rubber broker š JKH and other businesses (Centre Functions/divisions) the sector š John Keells Warehousing operates a state-of-the-art š John Keells Capital, a division of JKH, is the private equity warehouse for pre-auction produce arm of the Group š Tea Smallholder Factories PLC operates 7 tea factories š John Keells Research (JKR), the research and and is a leading manufacturer of low grown teas in the development arm of the Group country, including the CTC variety š The Strategic Group Information Technology (SGIT) supports the Group’s IT requirements, provides consultancy services and SAP implementation services to external companies Key external/internal š Continuing low tea prices due to the lack of demand from š Depreciation of the Rupee had a positive impact on the variables impacting key tea consuming countries valuation of net US dollar holdings of JKH the business š 'HSUHFLDWLRQ RI FXUUHQFLHV RI PDMRU WHD FRQVXPLQJ š Relative inactivity in private equity markets owing to the nations availability of credit, particularly in the ﬁrst half of the year š Drop in crude oil prices, impacting purchasing power of š Lack of SAP resource personnel in the market limiting importing countries SGIT’s expansion capabilities š Unpredictable weather conditions negatively impacted production Key developments š JK PLC automated the client advance system which š SGIT, in partnership with Microsoft and Cisco, established during the ﬁnancial assists in inventory management and supplier cost a full-ﬂedged practice in IT/digital consultancy services, year optimisation predictive analytics and digital services centred around VRFLDOPRELOHDQDO\WLFVFORXGDQGŗVPDUWEXLOGLQJVŘ š JKR made signiﬁcant headway during the year under review through many innovations and initiation of UHVHDUFKSURMHFWV Key Indicators Inputs (Rs.mn) 2015/16 2014/15 (%) 2013/14 Outputs (Rs.mn) 2015/16 2014/15 (%) 2013/14 Total assets 66,370 57,313 16 46,692 Revenue2 2,663 3,468 (23) 4,214 Total equity 61,835 50,910 21 41,428 EBIT 3,907 3,415 14 2,734 Total debt 2,304 3,633 (37) 4,199 PBT 3,772 3,233 17 2,365 Capital employed1 64,140 54,543 18 45,627 PAT 2,343 2,025 16 1,500 Employees (number) 882 941 (6) 1,043 EBIT per employee 4.4 3.6 22 2.6 Carbon footprint (MT) 3,543 3,898 (9) 4,060 1 For associate companies the capital employed is representative of the Group’s equity investment in these companies 2 Revenue is inclusive of the Group’s share of associate company revenue 157 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review OTHER INCLUDING PLANTATION SERVICES External Environment and Operational year in order to further improve connectivity Review between buyers and brokers and to make the auction rooms viewable real-time, from any Global demand for tea continued to weaken part of the world. The Warehousing business on the back of economic uncertainty and recorded a decline in capacity utilisation on implications in some of the key tea importing account of decreased production of tea by its countries, similar to the previous year. Low clients during the year under review. oil prices severely impacted the purchasing JKR is currently in the process of power of many countries importing tea, applying for its ﬁrst patent John Keells Research (JKR), the research and particularly Russia and countries from the development arm of the Group, continued to Middle East. Russia was further impacted by focus on its core areas of research, namely, the depreciation of the Ruble and economic nanotechnology, energy storage, advanced “Information sanctions. Total tea exports during the 2015 materials, renewable energy generation, calendar year and total revenue from tea Strategic Group synthetic biology and biotechnology. JKR is exports were 307 million kilograms and Technology currently in the process of applying for its ﬁrst Rs.182.05 billion respectively, a decline of 6 patent for a novel energy storage material per cent and 14 per cent against the previous (SGIT) continued to grow its developed in collaboration with a research calendar year. The average sales price for market share during the year institute in India. For further details on other low grown teas in Sri Lanka decreased by products and developments within the approximately 15 per cent during the 2015 under review mainly through business, refer the Intellectual Capital section calendar year. an acquisition of 3 strategic of this discussion. The Sri Lanka Tea Board embarked on a programme to assess the green leaf accounts for SAP. ” Strategic Group Information Technology (SGIT) continued to grow its market share standards in order to reduce the production of during the year under review mainly through low quality tea and also subsidised the green an acquisition of 3 strategic accounts for leaf at Rs.80.00 per kilogram, as per the new year. The company automated its clients SAP. In partnership with Microsoft and Cisco, Government’s 100-day programme in March advance system during the year under review, SGIT also established a full-ﬂedged practice 2015. This was applicable for 6 months till which contributed towards better inventory in IT/digital consultancy services, predictive August 2015. management and also facilitated better analytics and digital services centred on decision making throughout the different VRFLDOPRELOHDQDO\WLFVDQGFORXGDQGŗVPDUW The performance of Tea Smallholder management levels. Awareness sessions and EXLOGLQJVŘ7KHEXVLQHVVDFWLYHO\SURPRWHGLWV Factories PLC (TSF PLC) was adversely training on sound manufacturing practices products and services through participation in impacted by the aforementioned decline in tea were also carried out during 2015/16, conferences, both locally and regionally, and prices and extreme weather conditions which sensitising factory officers in order to improve sponsorships. To this end, the SGIT website prevailed during the year, particularly in the WKH TXDOLW\ RI SURGXFH ŗP$XFWLRQŘ D VLQJOH was also redeveloped and relaunched during fourth quarter of the year. The inability of TSF platform which connects tea brokers and the period under review. SGIT was bestowed PLC's clients to sustain their businesses also buyers, which was launched in partnership with the SAP Hana innovation award, impacted the proﬁtability of the sector. TSF with Mobitel (Private) Limited in the prior SAP ace award and SAP partner – gold PLC embarked on a quality drive to improve ﬁnancial year, was enhanced during the accreditation during 2015/16. the standard of the end product during the year under review which proved fruitful with the business being able to command a Capital Management Review premium of approximately 2.5 per cent over the low grown elevational average. Similar Subsequent to an operational review of the sectors, the ensuing section summarises the forms to the prior years, the company adopted a of Capital available for the execution of the business’s near, medium and long term strategies in number of cost saving initiatives in order creating value and also deliberates the Capital-wise performance of the sectors. to improve the productivity of the labour force and better manage the costs. SemiKey indicators under selected forms of Capital are as follows: automation of the manufacturing process and better management of the operational hours of the factories were a few of the initiatives Sectors Plantation Services Other implemented in the year. Financial and Manufactured Capital revenue Rs.2.42 billion, 24 per Rs.247 million,18 per and growth cent decrease cent decrease The performance of John Keells PLC (JK PLC) was below expectations, mainly on account of Financial and Manufactured Capital EBIT and Rs.52 million, 84 per Rs.3.85 billion, 25 per lower demand for tea globally. The impact was growth cent decrease cent increase mitigated to an extent due to the improvement Natural Capital carbon footprint 2,933 MT 609 MT in demand for Sri Lanka’s exclusive range Human Capital – number of employees 706 176 of orthodox black teas in the ﬁrst half of the 158 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Financial and Manufactured Capital per cent in comparison to 7.1 per cent As at 1 April 2015, the Other including in the previous ﬁnancial year. Refer Revenue Plantations Services industry group had total the Strategy, Resource Allocation and 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% assets of Rs.57.31 billion, debt of Rs.3.63 Portfolio Management section of this billion and an opening equity capital of 79 21 Report for a detailed discussion on the Rs.50.91 billion. 2013 / 14 DGMXVWPHQWV 91 9 2014 / 15 y The EBIT margin increased to 146.7 91 9 per cent from 98.5 per cent recorded in Rs. 3.91 Bn 2015 / 16 2014/15. As discussed previously, EBIT for this year includes exchange rate EBIT gains on the Company’s foreign currency 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100% denominated cash holdings whilst the 17 83 EBIT for the previous year included the Other incl. Plantation Services EBIT 2013 / 14 aforementioned capital gains on disposal A growth of 14 per cent 10 90 of stakes/share repurchases, with no 2014 / 15 corresponding revenue for both 2014/15 1 99 and 2015/16. The recurring EBIT margin 2015 / 16 increased to 98.6 per cent from 63.3 per cent in 2014/15. The EBIT margin for the Plantation Services Financial Performance Other Plantation Services sector declined due Total revenue of the industry group primarily to the challenging operating environment consists of the revenue generated from the as stated before. Plantations Services sector since there are no Borrowings and Finance Expenses y The asset turnover ratio decreased to other signiﬁcant operating businesses in this Total debt as at 31 March 2016 stood at Rs.2.30 0.04 times from 0.07 times as a result of cluster. The Plantation Services sector recorded billion [2014/15: Rs.3.63 billion]. The ﬁnance the higher asset base and the decline in revenues of Rs.2.42 billion, a decrease of 24 expense of the industry group decreased by revenue. per cent against last year [2014/15: Rs.3.17 26 per cent to Rs.134 million on account of the billion]. Both TSF PLC and JK PLC recorded repayment of long term debt at the Holding Natural Capital lower revenue on account of the signiﬁcant Company during the year under review. Given the importance of the effective decline in average selling prices of tea, as management of Natural Capital and the vital discussed under the External Environment Return on Capital Employed inputs from natural resources for Sri Lanka’s and Operational Review. JK Warehousing also y ROCE decreased to 6.6 per cent in plantations sectors, sustainability has become recorded a decline in revenue stemming from comparison to the 6.8 per cent recorded increasingly entrenched within the industry the drop in capacity utilisation. in the prior year. The decrease is mainly in recent years. Focus has been placed on on account of an increase in the asset sustainable practices throughout the supply Total EBIT (including the Holding Company) base following investments in short term chain; from cultivation to manufacture to increased by 14 per cent to Rs.3.91 billion ﬁnancial instruments subsequent to the storage and distribution. In addition, there is [2014/15: Rs.3.41 billion]. The growth is Company receiving a sum of Rs.7.97 ongoing collaboration and partnerships with mainly attributable to the increase in ﬁnance ELOOLRQWKURXJKWKHFRQYHUVLRQRIWKHŗ international conservation bodies that help to income on account of exchange gains :DUUDQWŘLQ1RYHPEHU&RQVLGHULQJ disseminate international best practices and recorded at the Company on its foreign WKHORQJJHVWDWLRQSHULRGRIWKHŗ&LQQDPRQ standards, while recognising that international currency denominated cash holdings. These /LIHŘ SURMHFW DQG WKH HTXLW\ UDLVHG DQG buyers are increasingly concerned with funds are available for deployment in to the DYDLODEOH IRU LQIXVLRQ WR WKH SURMHFW WKH seeking eco-friendly and sustainable products. ŗ&LQQDPRQ/LIHŘSURMHFWDVHTXLW\RQDQHHGV capital base of the industry group was Along with the Centre Functions of the Group, basis throughout the development period. DGMXVWHGWRUHĲHFWWKHXVHRIFDSLWDO7KH the industry group seeks to reduce its usage revaluation gain of Rs.24 million from the of energy through process efficiencies It should be noted that this year's results revaluation of a land owned by TSH PLC and monitoring, in meeting the Group’s include a capital gain of Rs.82 million from DQG -. :DUHKRXVLQJ ZDV DOVR DGMXVWHG Environmental and Energy Management Policy. the share repurchase of Asia Power (Private) 2Q WKLV EDVLV WKH DGMXVWHG 52&( LV  Limited. Last year’s results included capital gains amounting to Rs.593 million, Rs.389 Return on Capital Employed million and Rs.28 million from the disposal of stakes in Access Engineering PLC and ROCE Expolanka Holdings PLC and from the share 2015/16: 6.6% repurchase of Asia Power (Private) Limited 2014/15: 6.8% UHVSHFWLYHO\$GMXVWHG(%,7JURZWKH[FOXGLQJ the aforementioned capital gains, was 59 per cent. An impairment stemming from the BPO business in India partially offset the Asset turnover EBIT margin Asset/Debt + Equity aforementioned increase in EBIT. 0.04 146.7% 1.04 159 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review OTHER INCLUDING PLANTATION SERVICES The material impacts for the industry group Performance are classiﬁed as follows: The carbon footprint for the Other, including Plantation Services industry group improved to 3,543 MT for the year under review from the 3,898 MT recorded in the previous year, while waste Energy and Financial and generated reduced to 210,923 kg from 244,739 kg. emissions regulatory implications, management environmental and social responsibility 2015/2016 2014/2015 (%) Waste and Regulatory implications Carbon footprint (MT) 3,543 3,898 (9) effluent and environmental management responsibility Waste generated (kg) 210,923 244,739 (14) Energy and Emissions Management: Carbon footprint Scope 1 and 2 per operational intensity factor Targets: 2015/2016 2014/2015 y Continuously assess existing facilities, machinery and processes for energy TSF PLC CO2 (kg per kg of tea produced) 0.61 0.59 efficiency and carry out improvements as JK PLC and JKW CO2 (kg per square foot of ﬂoor area) 1.2 1.2 required y Continue to seek process improvements Impact through CSR initiatives through innovation and strive to reduce John Keells Foundation and TSF PLC, together with the Carbon Consulting Company (Private) emissions whilst maintaining productivity /LPLWHG DUH LQYROYHG LQ D WUHH SODQWLQJ SURMHFW ZKLFK LV DLPHG DW LQFUHDVLQJ IRUHVW FRYHU LQ DQ Initiatives: HQGDQJHUHGDUHDZLWKDORQJWHUPYLHZWRFUHDWHDELROLQNEHWZHHQWKH.DQQHOL\DDQG6LQKDUDMD y Usage of natural lighting through the rainforests. Of the plants replanted, a 97 per cent survival rate was observed and 200 plants were introduction of transparent rooﬁng sheets replanted in order to replace dead/damaged plants. 3 plant monitoring and 1 casualty replanting resulting in an estimated annual saving sessions were conducted during the reporting period. of 2,940 kWh per annum and increasing efficiency of lighting systems by replacing ﬂuorescent tube lights with LED lights y Usage of energy efficient compressed air by replacing reciprocating air compressors with the installation of screw compressors resulting in an estimated annual saving of 77,000 kWh y Optimisation of the energy requirement for the withering process through the introduction of variable speed drives (VSDs), introduction of aero-foil shaped WURXJKIDQVDQGWKHDGMXVWPHQWRIWURXJK fan blade angles y Utilisation of renewable sources amounting to 66 per cent of the total energy requirement through usage of biomass. Increased combustion efficiency of biomass on account of construction of fast drying UV covered ﬁrewood sheds %LRPDVVXWLOLVDWLRQDVDUHQHZDEOHHQHUJ\VRXUFHE\76)3/& and use of dry, split ﬁrewood with damper control for excess air and ﬂue gas during the drier operations Human Capital Investment in Human Capital is carried out through training and development activities conducted Waste Management on a needs-basis, whilst ensuring that workplace health and safety is a priority. Targets: y Continuously ensure all waste water from During the year under review, SGIT recruited highly qualiﬁed individuals and retained these factory cleaning and waste generated persons through the use of an internship model. This internship is a well-structured programme from biomass generators are disposed that attracts a signiﬁcant number of school graduates, with a focus on developing Human Capital, responsibly, without contaminating the and an added beneﬁt of addressing the shortage of SAP personnel. Post this training, many of environment, and in line with Environmental these trainees/interns are recruited to the permanent cadre or on contract. In addition to this, SGIT Protection License (EPL) requirements continued to maintain strong and healthy relationships with universities such as the Sri Lanka Initiatives: Institute of Information Technology (SLIIT) in order to be a preferred employer in the IT industry. The y Wood ash created through energy material impacts for the industry group are classiﬁed as follows: generation is disposed by way of landﬁll 160 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Social and Relationship Capital Supplier Development and Social Health and The respective Social and Relationship Capital is uniquely Responsibility: safety businesses need important to the Plantations Services sector, Targets: to ensure safe particularly Tea Smallholder Factories PLC y Seek to assist with livelihood development working conditions, (TSF PLC). The surrounding community is an of smallholders through improving yields mainly focussing on integral part of the company’s supply chain, and providing alternative sources of occupational health and providing leaf for manufacture. Building income, while simultaneously improving safety trust through ongoing corporate social agricultural practices and environmental Training and Ensuring functionally responsibility initiatives, such as replanting on conservation Development skilled and motivated XQSURGXFWLYH WHD ODQGV FRPPXQLW\ SURMHFWV staff at the Centre which assist in livelihood development and the y Ensuring business sustainability through Functions is considered dissemination of knowledge and best practices building and maintaining relationships important in facilitating through extension services assists the sector with smallholder communities to ensure Group-wide synergies in solidifying these mutually beneﬁcial a steady supply of green leaf relationships and producing socially desirable Training and Development outcomes. Such activities are carried out both Initiatives: Targets: at a company level and through the John y TSF PLC continued with its tea replanting y Ensure group-wide synergies are created Keells Foundation, particularly with regards SURMHFWWRUHSODQWXQSURGXFWLYHWHDODQGV through continuous enhancement of to the HIV, AIDS and WAVE programmes, totalling 145 acres, with 212 smallholders knowledge and skills reaching these communities through ongoing participating since its inception in 2010. training and awareness sessions at factories 7KH SURMHFW KDV DFKLHYHG DQ DYHUDJH Initiatives: and plantations. replanting percentage of 3 per cent of its y Provided 12,744 hours of training to smallholder base and aims to improve employees in the industry group, with All signiﬁcant suppliers are identiﬁed and supplier livelihood whilst simultaneously 14.4 hours of training per employee assessed for any negative impacts on retaining the company’s supplier bases environmental, labour and human rights and developing its brand image Health and Safety aspects and companies within the sector work Targets: closely with their supply chain to improve the y The sector continues to carry out CSR y Minimising health and safety incidents sustainability practices throughout the value SURMHFWV DQG DZDUHQHVV SURJUDPPHV and provide a safe and healthy working chain. such as eye camps, health clinics, blood environment for staff donation camps and gender-based violence and awareness on serious Initiatives: Signiﬁcant Suppliers diseases such as AIDS. y Staff training on health and safety as well as on ﬁre drills and ﬁre safety y In collaboration with the John Keells Foundation and the Carbon Consulting y Participation in the Ethical Tea Company, TSF PLC continued to Tea smallholder Tea plantations Partnership programme and adherence farmers LPSOHPHQW LWV IRUHVWU\ SURMHFW LQ WKH to labour regulations Galle and Hiniduma regions. The SURMHFW KDV VXSSOLHG  IRUHVW WUHHV y OHSAS ISO 18001 Certiﬁcation obtained The material impacts for the industry group for over 15 acres of land belonging to for 7 out of the 8 factories, with plans to are classiﬁed as follows: VPDOOKROGHUV 7KH DLP RI WKLV SURMHFW LV fully certify all factories to increase forest and environmental Supplier Sharing of knowledge protection while also positively impacting y Enhancement of worker accommodation smallholder livelihoods through long Development and best practices and sanitary facilities at factories term value creation by the provision of and Social in cultivation with Responsibility tea smallholders to cash crops and a monthly allowance Performance paid for maintenance of the plants and is ensure higher yields The industry group provided 12,744 hours of elaborated further in the ensuing section and quality green leaf training to employees in the industry group, which beneﬁts both the compared to 10,623 hours in the previous y Extension services to disseminate tea factories and the year, which was a 20 per cent increase. knowledge on Good Agricultural Practices smallholder community ,QMXULHV DPRXQWHG WR  LQFLGHQWV DOO LQ WKH (GAP) were provided to suppliers through Plantation Services sector. seminars/workshops and ﬁeld advisory visits 2015/2016 2014/2015 (%) y Smallholder welfare societies were formed at all factories to build trust and ,QMXULHVGLVHDVHV QXPEHU 8 3 167 loyalty amongst its suppliers and improve Total hours of training 12,744 10,623 20 leaf quality 161 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Industry Group Review OTHER INCLUDING PLANTATION SERVICES productivity in order to streamline costs “to derive associated with the overall operations. TSF JKR’s continued effort PLC will continue to place signiﬁcance on processing high quality leaf which has the intellectual ability to command premium prices at the property through research auctions. and development The investment banking arm of the Group is expected to yield JK PLC automated its clients is in the process of seeking investors for a advance system during the year few transactions and also is ﬁnalising a few sustainable value in the ” under review mandates which will boost the pipeline of medium and long term. SURMHFWV the Sri Lanka Institute of Nanotechnology SGIT expects to expand its client base through (SLINTEC) in the area of advanced focus on emerging markets, particularly materials and nanotechnology Bangladesh, in addition to capitalising on the Impact through CSR initiatives: strong relationship with Cisco and Microsoft. 7KHWUHHSODQWLQJSURMHFWDVGLVFXVVHGXQGHU y $V DQ H[WHQVLRQ RI WKH SURMHFW UHODWLQJ SGIT expects to position itself as a boutique Natural Capital, has a direct bearing on Social to the sequencing of the entire genome IT/digital strategy consulting entity as well and Relationship Capital as the livelihood RI ŗ*RGD9HHŘ GLVFXVVHG LQ WKH  as delivery organisation in the long term, of the surrounding community is enhanced Annual Report, JKR along with the particularly in South Asia and the Middle East. through the sale of non-timber forest Human Genetics Unit (HGU) of the To facilitate the aforementioned strategies, products such as medicines, fruits, shading Colombo Medical Faculty submitted its SGIT is currently in the process of initiating materials and livestock feed. ﬁrst research publication and is awaiting numerous tactics to source resources with DFFHSWDQFH IURP WKH -RXUQDO ŗ1DWXUH requisite expertise and skills. Establishment Intellectual Capital 6FLHQWLıF5HSRUWVŘ of incubation labs at universities is one of the To complement the business-wise micro focus initiatives towards this end. on developing the Intellectual Capital base of Strategy and Outlook the respective industry groups and sectors by each of the businesses, John Keells Research The demand for tea is expected to remain (JKR), the research and development arm depressed in the near term against the of the Group, strives to create sustainable backdrop of continued pressure on global value through research and development commodities and the uncertain political through its focus on open source innovation. environment in Russia and Ukraine, turmoil JKR’s continued effort to derive intellectual in the Middle Eastern markets, drastic property through research and development currency depreciation in key tea importing is expected to yield sustainable value in the countries and economic sanctions. Extreme medium and long term. Key developments weather conditions, as witnessed in the during the year are discussed in the ensuing past year, attributed to the El Niño weather section. phenomenon, is expected to continue in the near term which could impact the crop y JKR is currently in the process of intake. However, the sanction relief provided applying for its ﬁrst patent for a unique to Iran is expected to augur well for Ceylon energy storage material, developed in Tea and the Group expects an uptick in the collaboration with a Research Institute in demand for low grown tea from Iran in the India near term. China is also expected to be a key market for Ceylon Tea with signiﬁcant y Development of reinforcing material potential to increase exports in the short and using Sri Lankan agricultural waste in medium term. Given its expertise, quality of collaboration with a leading university in produce and recognition, the Group expects the USA to capitalise on the aforementioned growth in tea volumes from Iran and China. y &RPSOHWHG D SURMHFW ZLWK WKH 1DWLRQDO Aquatic Resources Research and JK PLC will focus on reaping the full potential Development Agency (NARA) to of the platform developed in the prior ﬁnancial manufacture value-added products using year and also place emphasis on introducing ﬁsh waste a facility to manage all dispatches online, in order to minimise duplication of work and y Successful conclusion of a proof of improve efficiencies. JK PLC and TSF PLC FRQFHSW SURMHFW XQGHUWDNHQ E\ -.5 DQG will place special emphasis on improving 162 LINKED The Financial Statements provide the reader with a detailed analysis of performance, results and ﬁnancial strength. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 165 Annual Report of the Board of Directors 170 The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility 171 Independent Auditors’ Report 172 Income Statement 173 Statement of Comprehensive Income 174 Statement of Financial Position 175 Statement of Cash Flows 176 Statement of Changes in Equity 181 Notes to the Financial Statements John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Financial Calendar 2015/16 Financial Calendar Date Interim Financial Statements Three months ended 30 June 2015 30 July 2015 Six months ended 30 September 2015 3 November 2015 Nine months ended 31 December 2015 29 January 2016 First interim dividend paid on 15 June 2015 Second interim dividend paid on 19 February 2016 Final dividend proposed to be paid on 13 June 2016 Annual Report 2015/16 30 May 2016 37th Annual General Meeting 24 June 2016 2016/17 Financial Calendar Date Interim Financial Statements Three months ended 30 June 2016 29 July 2016 Six months ended 30 September 2016 4 November 2016 Nine months ended 31 December 2016 27 January 2017 Annual Report 2016/17 On or before 1 June 2017 38th Annual General Meeting 30 June 2017 164 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Annual Report of the Board of Directors The Directors have pleasure in presenting the have been prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRs/LKASs) with the 37th Annual Report of your Company which inclusion of the signatures of the Chairman, Group Finance Director and Group Financial Controller covers the Audited Financial Statements, are given from the page 172 to 258 which form a part of the Integrated Annual Report. Chairman’s Message, Corporate Governance Commentary, Sustainability Integration, Risk FINANCIAL RESULTS AND APPROPRIATIONS Management, Corporate Social Responsibility REVENUE and all the other relevant information for Revenue generated by the Company amounted to LKR 1,108 million (2015 – LKR 926 million), the year ended 31 March 2016. Disclosures whilst Group revenue amounted to LKR 93,282 million (2015 – LKR 91,852 million). Contribution which appear on page 167 form a part of the to Group revenue, from the different business segments is provided in note 7 (page 184) to the Annual Report of the Board of Directors as it ﬁnancial statements. is a requirement of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. PROFIT AND APPROPRIATIONS The proﬁt after tax of the Holding Company was LKR 17,070 million (2015 – LKR 11,139 million) PRINCIPAL ACTIVITIES whilst the Group proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the parent for the year was LKR 14,070 John Keells Holdings PLC. the Group’s holding million (2015 LKR 14,348 million). company, manages a portfolio of holdings consisting of a range of diverse business The holding Company’s total comprehensive income net of tax was LKR 17,029 million (2015 -LKR operations, which together constitute the 10,847 million), and the Group total comprehensive income attributable to parent was LKR 17,848 John Keells Group, and provides function million (2015 -LKR 16,695 million). based services to its subsidiaries and associates and a brief description of its nature DIVIDEND AND RESERVES is mentioned in pages 278 to 284. As required by Section 56(2) of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Board of Directors has conﬁrmed that the Company satisﬁes the solvency test in accordance with Section 57 of the The companies within the Group and its Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, and has obtained a certiﬁcate from the auditors, prior to declaring business activities are described in the all dividends. A ﬁnal dividend will be paid on 13 June 2016 to those shareholders on the register Group Directory under the Supplementary as on 2 June 2016. Information section of the Annual Report. There were no signiﬁcant changes to the Information on dividends and reserves are given below; principal activities of the Company or its subsidiaries during the year. John Keells Holdings PLC. 2016 2015 For the year ended 31 March CORPORATE VISION AND VALUES In LKR '000s A culture of innovation, integrity, excellence, caring and trust has been developed among Proﬁt after tax 17,070,114 11,138,813 the Group and by being aligned with them Other adjustments (283,784) 5,415 the Directors and employees conduct their Balance brought forward from the previous year 30,877,090 23,219,419 activities to achieve the vision, ”Building Amount available for appropriation 47,663,420 34,363,647 businesses that are leaders in the region”. 1 interim dividend of LKR 4.50 per share (2015-LKR 1.00) (5,352,156) (992,884) paid out of dividend received. REVIEW OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS 2nd interim dividend of LKR 1.00 per share (2015-LKR 1.00) (1,189,404) (997,443) A review of the ﬁnancial and operational paid out of dividend received. performance and future business Final dividend declared of LKR 1.50 per share (2015-LKR (1,784,106) (1,496,230) developments of the Group, sectors, and 1.50) to be paid out of the dividend received.* its business units are described in the Balance to be carried forward next year 39,337,754 30,877,090 management discussion and analysis section (page 51 to 162) of the Annual Report. *In accordance with LKAS 10, Events after the reporting period, the ﬁnal dividends has not been Signiﬁcant changes to business combinations recognized as a liability in the ﬁnancial statements. and acquisition of non-controlling interests are provided in note 9 (page 191) to the ACCOUNTING POLICIES (IFRS) as issued by the International ﬁnancial statements. These reports; together All the signiﬁcant accounting policies adopted Accounting Standards Board (IASB). with the audited ﬁnancial statements, reﬂect by the Company and Group are mentioned on the state of affairs of the Company and the the page 182. There have been no changes DONATIONS Group. Segment wise contribution to Group in the accounting policies adopted by the Total donations made by the Company and revenue, results, assets and liabilities are Group during the year under review. For all Group during the year amounted to LKR 24 provided in note 7 (page 184) to the ﬁnancial periods up to and including the year ended million (2015 LKR 12 million) and LKR 24 statements. 31 March 2016, the Group prepared its million (2015 LKR 29 million), respectively. ﬁnancial statements in accordance with Sri Of these, the donations to approved charities FINANCIAL STATEMENTS Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS) were LKR 19 million (2015 – LKR 11 million) Financial Statements of the Group and which have materially converged with the at Company and LKR 19 million (2015 LKR Company for the year ended 31 March 2016 International Financial Reporting Standards 16 million) at Group. These amounts do not 165 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Annual Report of the Board of Directors include contributions on account of corporate Details of Group properties as at 31 March 2016 are disclosed in the Group Real Estate Portfolio social responsibility (CSR) initiatives. section of the Annual Report (page 270 to 271). CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OTHER NON-CURRENT ASSETS The John Keells Foundation, which is funded The value of other non-current assets as at 31 March 2016 amounted to LKR 35,557 million (2015 by JKH and its subsidiaries, handles most of LKR 25,830 million) for the Group, details of the other non-current assets are provided in note 28 the Group’s CSR initiatives and activities. The (page 238) to the ﬁnancial statements. Foundation manages a range of programmes that underpin its key principle of acting INVESTMENTS responsibly towards its stakeholders and Detailed description of the long term investments held as at the reporting date, are given in note 25, to bring about sustainable development 26 and 27 (page 232 to 238) to the ﬁnancial statements. in all areas of business efficiently and effectively. The CSR initiatives, including STATED CAPITAL completed and on-going projects, are detailed The total stated capital of the Company as at 31 March 2016 was LKR 58,702 million (2015 LKR in the Sustainability and Enterprise Risk 50,703 million), as given in note 33 (page 241) to the ﬁnancial statements. Management section in the Annual Report page 67 to 72. During the ﬁnancial year, the number of shares in issue were increased by way of a share subdivision, where by seven (7) existing shares were subdivided into eight (8) increased total In quantifying the Group’s contribution to number of shares by 142,498,429 for nil consideration. 49,254,092 warrants were converted to charities, no account has been taken of inordinary shares during this ﬁnancial year for a total consideration of LKR 7,973 million. house costs or management time. Options in respect of 164,468 shares (2015 – 7,197,351 shares) were exercised during the year PROPERTY PLANT AND EQUIPMENT AND under the employee share option plan, for a total consideration of LKR 27 million (2015 – LKR 954 INTANGIBLE ASSETS million). The Company’s and Group’s capital expenditure on property, plant and equipment The Board of Directors of the Company also resolved to recommend the increase in the number of amounted to LKR 30 million (2015 LKR 39 shares in issue by way of a share subdivision of the Company’s shares whereby seven (7) existing million) and LKR 4,582 million (2015 -LKR shares will be sub divided into eight (8). Accordingly, the price and quantity of the 2016 Warrants 2,999 million) respectively and all other too will be adjusted to reﬂect the aforementioned subdivision of shares. The proposed subdivision related information and movements have is subject to the approval of the Colombo Stock Exchange and shareholders of the Company at an been disclosed in the note 21 (page 221) to extraordinary general meeting. the ﬁnancial statements. SHARE INFORMATION Additions of intangible assets of the Company The distribution and composition of shareholders and the information relating to earnings, dividend, and Group during the year amounted to LKR net assets, market value per share and share trading is given in the Share Information section of 4 million (2015 LKR 18 million) and LKR 163 the Annual Report. As additional disclosure, the JKH’s Board of Directors’ (including their close million (2015 LKR 280 million) respectively family members) shareholdings and warrant holdings and options available under the employee and all other related movements are disclosed share option (ESOP) plans as at 31 March 2016, are given on page 100. under the note 24 (page 228). Also, given below, are the JKH’s Board of Directors’ (including their close family members) other MARKET VALUE OF PROPERTIES shareholdings in Group subsidiaries as at 31 March 2016. MARKET VALUE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT SHAREHOLDINGS IN GROUP COMPANIES All land and buildings owned by Group companies were revalued within the ﬁnancial SHAREHOLDINGS year. All information related to revaluation is GROUP COMPANIES S C Ratnayake AD J R F Peiris given in note 21.3 (page 224). Gunewardene 31-03-2016 31-03-2016 31-03-2016 INVESTMENT PROPERTY CEYLON COLD STORES PLC. 3,344 30,800 668 Investment properties of business units, TRANS ASIA HOTELS PLC. 400 400 400 when signiﬁcantly occupied by Group JOHN KEELLS HOTELS PLC. 550,311 74,806 companies, are classiﬁed as property, plant and equipment in the consolidated ﬁnancial ASIAN HOTELS AND PROPERTIES PLC. 20,000 statements in compliance with LKAS 40. KEELLS FOODS PRODUCTS PLC. 12,750 UNION ASSURANCE PLC. 8,562 The Group revalued all its investment properties as at 31 March 2016 and the MAJOR SHAREHOLDERS carrying value of the Group is LKR 4,878 Details of the twenty largest shareholders of the Company and the percentages held by each of million (2015 -LKR 4,609 million). All them are disclosed in the Share Information section (page 101) of the Annual Report. information related to revaluation of the investment property is provided in note 23 (page 227). 166 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information EQUITABLE TREATMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS INTERESTS REGISTER AND INTERESTS IN CONTRACTS The Company has at all times ensured that all The Company has maintained an Interests Register as contemplated by the Companies Act No. 7 shareholders are treated equitably. of 2007. REVENUE RESERVES This Annual Report also contains particulars of entries made in the Interests Registers of Revenue reserves as at 31 March 2016 for the subsidiaries which are public companies which have not dispensed with the requirement to Company and Group amounted to LKR 41,123 maintain an Interests Register as permitted by Section 30 of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. million (2015 LKR 32,373 million) and LKR 67,565 million (2015 LKR 62,594 million), The Directors have all made a general disclosure relating to share dealings and indemnities and respectively. The movement and composition remuneration to the Board of Directors as permitted by Section 192 (2) of the Companies Act No. of the reserves are disclosed in the statement 7 of 2007 and no additional interests have been disclosed by any Director. The Interest Register of changes in equity (pages 176 and 177). is available at the registered head office of the Company, in keeping with the requirements of the section 119(1) (d) of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board of Directors of the Company as at The particulars of JKH and its subsidiaries’ interest register are given below. 31 March 2016 and their brief proﬁles are given in the Board of Directors section of the SHARE DEALINGS Annual Report (pages 18 to 19). John Keells Holdings PLC. (JKH) No of 2015 warrants Director converted to shares RETIREMENT AND RE-ELECTION OF DIRECTORS S C Ratnayake 320,339 In accordance with Article 84 of the Articles A D Gunewardene 379,896 of Association of the Company, Mr. J R F Peiris J R F Peiris 80,376 and Mr. M A Omar retire by rotation and being E F G Amerasinghe 322 eligible, offer themselves for re-election. Mr. Franklyn Amerasinghe and Mr. Tarun Das, Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Purchase of shares having served the Board for more than nine Director years from the date of their ﬁrst appointment, and being over the age of 70 years have A R Rasiah 1,006 requested that they not be considered M Hamza 500 for re-election. Accordingly Mr. Franklyn Amerasinghe and Mr. Tarun Das will cease to be directors of the Company with effect from Trans Asia Hotels PLC. Sale of shares the close of the Annual General Meeting on Director 24th June 2016. N L Gooneratne 110 REVIEW OF THE PERFORMANCE OF THE BOARD Tea Small Holders Factories PLC. Sale of shares The performance of the Board has been Director appraised through a formalized process of individual appraisal by enabling each member R E Rambukwella 4,600 to self-appraise on an anonymous basis and it is mentioned in page 27. INDEMNITIES AND REMUNERATION The Board approved the payment of remuneration of the following executive Directors for the BOARD COMMITTEES period of 1 April 2015 to 31 March 2016 comprising of; Information relating to members of the Audit Committee, Human Resources & š $QLQFUHPHQWIURP-XO\EDVHGRQWKHLQGLYLGXDOSHUIRUPDQFHUDWLQJREWDLQHGE\WKH Compensation Committee, Nominations executive Directors in terms of the performance management system of the John Keells Committee and the Related Party Transactions Group; Review Committee including reports of each of the committees and attendance of Directors for each of the committee meetings š $ VKRUW WHUP YDULDEOH LQFHQWLYH EDVHG RQ WKH LQGLYLGXDO SHUIRUPDQFH RUJDQL]DWLRQ are disclosed under Corporate Governance in performance and role responsibility based on the results of the ﬁnancial year 2014/2015, pages 28 to 33. and š $ORQJWHUPLQFHQWLYHSODQLQWKHIRUPRIDQHPSOR\HHVKDUHRSWLRQVLQ-RKQ.HHOOV+ROGLQJV PLC. 167 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Annual Report of the Board of Directors John Keells Asian Hotels and Ceylon Cold Trans Asia Hotels John Keells PLC. Cinnamon Hotel Walkers Union Assurance Holdings PLC. Properties PLC. Stores PLC. PLC. Management Ltd. Tours Ltd. PLC. S C Ratnayake R J Karunarajah J R Gunaratne R Karunarajah R S Fernando B J S M Senanayake V Leelananda A D Pereira A D Gunewardene S Rajendra J E P Kehelpannala J R F Peiris The contract of the following Non-Executive Directors has been extended for a further period, at stakeholders such as employees, customers, the standard Non-Executive Director fees. suppliers and the community. These steps have been encapsulated in a Group-wide strategy focused on sustainable development John Keells Holdings Asian Hotels and Trans Asia Hotels PLC. Tea Small Holders which is continuously evolving based on the PLC. Properties PLC. Factories PLC. above mentioned stakeholder engagements. This year, the Group published its third Tarun Das S A Jayasekara E H Wijenaike R Seevaratnam Integrated Annual Report, combining ﬁnancial S K G Senanayake information with sustainability information, M Hamza was appointed as a Non-Executive Director of Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. from 15th May in a bid to provide its stakeholders with 2015 for 3 years at the standard Non-Executive Fees approved by the Board for Non-Executive holistic information relating to all areas of Directors, which fees are commensurate with the market complexities of the Company. the Triple Bottom Line. The Group has sought independent third-party assurance from DNV GL in relation to the non-ﬁnancial information All approvals related to Indemnities and The Directors conﬁrm that the Company has contained in this Report. In addition, the Report Remuneration have been recommended by not granted any funding to employees to also adheres to the Global Reporting Initiative the Human Resources and Compensation exercise options. (GRI) G4 Guidelines and has obtained the ‘GRI Committee having conducted market Materiality Disclosures Service’ check. surveys, spoken to experts and having taken Details of the options granted, options into consideration the speciﬁc management exercised, the grant price and the options EMPLOYMENT complexities associated with the John cancelled or lapsed and outstanding as at The Group has an equal opportunity policy Keells Group and in keeping with the Group the date of the Directors’ report as required and these principles are enshrined in remuneration policy. Fees payable to nonby the Listing Rules of the Colombo Exchange speciﬁc selection, training, development and executive nominee Directors of John Keells are given under the Shares and Warrants promotion policies, ensuring that all decisions Holdings PLC. was paid to John Keells Information section of the Annual Report. are based on merit. The Group practices Holdings PLC. and not to individual Directors. equality of opportunity for all employees The highest, lowest and the closing prices of irrespective of ethnic origin, religion, political DIRECTORS’ REMUNERATION the shares were LKR 206.20, LKR 148.00 and opinion, gender, marital status or physical Details of the remuneration and other beneﬁts LKR 148.00 respectively. disability. Employee ownership in the received by the Directors are set out in note 17 Company is facilitated through the employee (page 213) of the ﬁnancial statements. CORPORATE GOVERNANCE share option plan. The Board of Directors is committed EMPLOYEE SHARE OPTION PLAN (ESOP) towards maintaining an effective Corporate Details of the Group’s human resource At the beginning of the year, the employee Governance Framework and implementing initiatives are detailed in the Employees’ share option plan consisted of the sixth, systems & structures required to ensuring section of the sustainability report seventh and eighth plans approved by best practices in Corporate Governance and (pages 64-67). the shareholders on 6 December 2010, their effective implementation. The table on 7 December 2011 and 28 June 2013 pages 43 to 44 shows the manner in which the The number of persons employed by the respectively. Company has complied with the Section 7.10 Company and Group as at 31 March 2016 was of the Rules of the Colombo Stock Exchange 156 (2015 140) and 12,035 (2015 – 11,890), The Board of Directors of the Company also (CSE) on Corporate Governance. The Risk respectively. resolved to recommend to the shareholders, Management report is given on pages 90 to 94 a ninth ESOP Plan (Plan 9), whereby the and the Corporate Governance Commentary There have been no material issues pertaining maximum number of options offered under report is given from pages 23 to 48. to employees and industrial relations of the the Plan will not exceed 2.25% of the total Company and the Group. issued shares of the Company. From the total SUSTAINABILITY number of options offered under Plan 9, a The Group pursues its business goals based on SUPPLIER POLICY maximum of 0.75% of the total issued shares a model of stakeholder governance. Findings The Group applies an overall policy of agreeing may be offered every year, over three (3) years of the continuous internal stakeholder and clearly communicating terms of payment commencing in July 2016 and ending in July engagements have enabled the Group to focus as part of the commercial agreements 2019. The proposed ESOP Plan is subject to on material issues such as the conservation negotiated with suppliers, and endeavours the approval of the Colombo Stock Exchange of natural resources and the environment as to pay for all items properly charged in and the shareholders of the Company at an well as material issues highlighted by other accordance with these agreed terms. As at extraordinary general meeting. 168 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 31 March 2016 the trade and other payables Division and the risks are further reviewed and Deloitte Haskins & Sells. Details of audit of the Company and Group amounted to LKR each quarter by each business unit. The fees are set out in note 17 (page 213) of the 333 million (2015 LKR 334 million) and LKR headline risks of each listed Company is ﬁnancial statements. The Auditors do not have 12,755 million (2015 LKR 11,267 million), presented to its respective Board Audit any relationship (other than that of an Auditor) respectively. Committee for review by the Business Unit with the Company or any of its subsidiaries. and in the case of John Keells Holdings PLC. The Group strives to integrate principles by the Enterprise Risk Management Division Further details on the work of the Auditor and of sustainable practices and policies in its to the John Keells Board Audit Committee. the Audit Committee are set out in the Audit value chain through extensive stakeholder Committee Report. consultations, the ﬁndings of which are The Board, through the involvement of the integrated into work-plans. During the year, Group Business Process Review Division, COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND a supplier management framework and a takes steps to gain assurance on the REGULATIONS supplier code of conduct was implemented effectiveness over the ﬁnancial, operational To the best of knowledge and belief of the and through various fora and assessments and risk management control systems in directors, the Group/Company has not of sites, suppliers were closely engaged place. The Audit Committee receives regular engaged in any activity, which contravenes with, particularly where the supply is of great reports on the adequacy and effectiveness of laws and regulations of the country. importance to the Group. internal control in the Group, compliance with laws and regulations and established policies ANNUAL REPORT ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION and procedures of the Group. The head of the The Board of Directors approved the The Group complies with the relevant Group Business Process Review Division has consolidated ﬁnancial statements on 25 May environmental laws, regulations and direct access to the chairman of the Audit 2016. The appropriate number of copies of this endeavours to comply with best practices Committee. Reports of the outsourced internal report will be submitted to the Colombo Stock applicable in the country of operation. A auditors are also reviewed by the Committee Exchange and to the Sri Lanka Accounting summary of selected Group activities in the on matters pertaining to the Company. and Auditing Standards Monitoring Board on above area is contained in the Sustainability 30 May 2016. Report. EVENTS AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD There have been no events subsequent to ANNUAL GENERAL MEETING RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT the reporting period, which would have any The annual general meeting will be held The Group has an active approach to research material effect on the Company or on the at the Institute of Chartered Accountants and development and recognizes the Group other than those disclosed in note 48 of Sri Lanka, 30, Malalasekera Mawatha, contribution that it can make to the Group’s (page 258) to the ﬁnancial statements. Colombo 7, on Friday, 24 June 2016 at 10.30 operations. Signiﬁcant expenditure has a.m. The notice of meeting appears in the taken place over the years and substantial GOING CONCERN Supplementary Information section of the efforts will continue to be made to introduce The Directors are satisﬁed that the Company, Integrated Annual Report. new products and processes and develop its subsidiaries and associates, have adequate existing products and processes to improve resources to continue in operational existence This annual report is signed for and on behalf operational efficiency. for the foreseeable future, to justify adopting of the Board of Directors the going concern basis in preparing these STATUTORY PAYMENTS ﬁnancial statements. By Order of the Board The Directors conﬁrm that to the best of their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies INDEPENDENT AUDITORS APPOINTMENT payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, AND REMUNERATION all contributions, levies and taxes payable on Messrs Ernst & Young, Chartered Accountants, behalf of, and in respect of the employees are willing to continue as Auditors of the Director of the Company and its subsidiaries, and all Company, and a resolution proposing their other known statutory dues as were due and reappointment will be tabled at the annual payable by the Company and its subsidiaries general meeting. as at the statement of ﬁnancial position date have been paid or, where relevant provided The Auditors Report is found in the Financial Director for, except as speciﬁed in note 44 (page 256) to Information section of the Annual Report. the ﬁnancial statements, covering contingent liabilities. The Audit Committee reviews the appointment of the Auditor, its effectiveness, ENTERPRISE RISK MANAGEMENT AND its independence and its relationship with the INTERNAL CONTROLS Group, including the level of audit and nonKeells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd. The Board conﬁrms that there is an ongoing audit fees paid to the Auditor. Secretaries process of identifying, evaluating and 25 May 2016 managing any signiﬁcant risks faced by the The Group works with 4 ﬁrms of Chartered Group, where annual risk reviews are carried Accountants across the Group, namely, Ernst out by the Enterprise Risk Management & Young, KPMG, PricewaterhouseCoopers, 169 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 The Statement of Directors’ Responsibility The responsibility of the Directors in relation The Directors are also responsible for taking to the ﬁnancial statements is set out in the reasonable steps to safeguard the assets following statement. The responsibility of the of the Company and of the Group and in auditors, in relation to the ﬁnancial statements this regard to give proper consideration to prepared in accordance with the provision of the establishment of appropriate internal the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, is set out in control systems with a view to preventing and the Report of the Auditors. detecting fraud and other irregularities. The ﬁnancial statements comprise of: The Directors are required to prepare the ﬁnancial statements and to provide the š ,QFRPH VWDWHPHQW DQG VWDWHPHQW RI auditors with every opportunity to take comprehensive income of the Company whatever steps and undertake whatever and its subsidiaries, which present a true inspections that may be considered being and fair view of the proﬁt and loss of the appropriate to enable them to give their audit Company and its subsidiaries for the opinion. ﬁnancial year. Further, as required by Section 56 (2) of the š $ VWDWHPHQW RI ıQDQFLDO SRVLWLRQ ZKLFK Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, the Board of presents a true and fair view of the state of Directors have conﬁrmed that the Company, affairs of the Company and its subsidiaries based on the information available, satisﬁes as at the end of the ﬁnancial year: and the solvency test immediately after the distribution, in accordance with Section 57 The Directors are required to conﬁrm that the of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007, and have ﬁnancial statements have been prepared: obtained a certiﬁcate from the auditors, prior to declaring a ﬁnal dividend of LKR 1.50 per š 8VLQJ DSSURSULDWH DFFRXQWLQJ SROLFLHV share for this year, to be paid on 13 June 2016. which have been selected and applied in a consistent manner, and material The Directors are of the view that they have departures, if any, have been disclosed and discharged their responsibilities as set out in explained; and this statement. š 3UHVHQWHGLQDFFRUGDQFHZLWKWKH6UL/DQND Compliance Report Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS); and The Directors conﬁrm that to the best of that reasonable and prudent judgments their knowledge, all taxes, duties and levies and estimates have been made so that the payable by the Company and its subsidiaries, form and substance of transactions are all contributions, levies and taxes payable properly reﬂected; and on behalf of and in respect of the employees of the Company and its subsidiaries, and all š 3URYLGHV WKH LQIRUPDWLRQ UHTXLUHG E\ DQG other known statutory dues as were due and otherwise comply with the Companies Act payable by the Company and its subsidiaries and the Listing Rules of the Colombo Stock as at the balance sheet date have been paid, Exchange. or where relevant provided for, except as speciﬁed in note 44 to the ﬁnancial statements The Directors are also required to ensure covering contingent liabilities. that the Company has adequate resources to continue in operation to justify applying the going concern basis in preparing these By order of the Board ﬁnancial statements. Further, the Directors have a responsibility to ensure that the Company maintains sufficient accounting records to disclose, with Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd. reasonable accuracy the ﬁnancial position of Secretaries the Company and of the Group. 25 May 2016 170 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Independent Auditors’ Report INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT TO An audit involves performing procedures a) The basis of opinion, scope and limitations THE SHAREHOLDERS OF JOHN KEELLS to obtain audit evidence about the amounts of the audit are as stated above. HOLDINGS PLC. and disclosures in the ﬁnancial statements. The procedures selected depend on the b) In our opinion: Report on the Financial Statements auditor’s judgment, including the assessment We have audited the accompanying ﬁnancial of the risks of material misstatement of the š ZH KDYH REWDLQHG DOO WKH LQIRUPDWLRQ DQG statements of John Keells Holdings PLC., ﬁnancial statements, whether due to fraud or explanations that were required for the (“the Company”), and the consolidated error. In making those risk assessments, the audit and, as far as appears from our ﬁnancial statements of the Company and auditor considers internal controls relevant examination, proper accounting records its subsidiaries (“Group”), which comprise to the entity’s preparation of the ﬁnancial have been kept by the Company, the statement of ﬁnancial position as at statements that give a true and fair view in 31 March 2016, and the income statement order to design audit procedures that are š WKH ıQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ and statement of comprehensive income, appropriate in the circumstances, but not give a true and fair view of its ﬁnancial statement of changes in equity and, cash for the purpose of expressing an opinion position as at 31 March 2016, and of its ﬂow statement for the year then ended, and on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal ﬁnancial performance and cash ﬂows for a summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies control. An audit also includes evaluating the year then ended in accordance with and other explanatory information. the appropriateness of accounting policies Sri Lanka Accounting Standards, and used and the reasonableness of accounting Board’s Responsibility for the Financial estimates made by the Board, as well as š WKH ıQDQFLDO VWDWHPHQWV RI WKH &RPSDQ\ Statements evaluating the overall presentation of the and the Group comply with the The Board of Directors (“Board”) is ﬁnancial statements. requirements of sections 151 and 153 of responsible for the preparation of these the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007. ﬁnancial statements that give a true and fair We believe that the audit evidence we have view in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting obtained is sufficient and appropriate to Standards and for such internal control as provide a basis for our audit opinion. Board determines is necessary to enable the preparation of ﬁnancial statements that are Opinion free from material misstatement, whether In our opinion, the consolidated ﬁnancial 25 May 2016 due to fraud or error. statements give a true and fair view of the Colombo ﬁnancial position of the Group as at 31 Auditor’s Responsibility March 2016, and of its ﬁnancial performance Our responsibility is to express an opinion and cash ﬂows for the year then ended on these ﬁnancial statements based on our in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting audit. We conducted our audit in accordance Standards. with Sri Lanka Auditing Standards. Those standards require that we comply with ethical Report on Other Legal and Regulatory requirements and plan and perform the Requirements audit to obtain reasonable assurance about As required by section 163 (2) of the whether the ﬁnancial statements are free Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, we state the from material misstatement. following: 171 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Income Statement Group Company For the year ended 31 March Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Continuing operations Sale of goods 58,180,108 54,837,835 Rendering of services 35,101,730 37,013,753 1,108,095 926,336 Revenue 13 93,281,838 91,851,588 1,108,095 926,336 Cost of sales (65,057,256) (65,705,352) (541,812) (473,597) Gross proﬁt 28,224,582 26,146,236 566,283 452,739 Dividend income 14 10,260,828 8,843,908 Other operating income 15.1 2,132,239 3,076,893 3,821,890 71,049 Selling and distribution expenses (3,615,527) (3,212,685) Administrative expenses (10,565,233) (10,680,661) (947,588) (1,034,146) Other operating expenses 15.2 (3,608,555) (3,254,598) (566,680) (348,832) Results from operating activities 12,567,506 12,075,185 13,134,733 7,984,718 Finance cost 16 (993,802) (668,174) (81,579) (100,890) Finance income 16 8,010,952 8,122,497 4,640,404 3,772,223 Change in insurance contract liabilities 35.2 (3,430,533) (3,799,000) Change in fair value of investment property 23 262,875 48,666 Share of results of equity accounted investees 26 2,781,233 2,778,323 Proﬁt before tax 17 19,198,231 18,557,497 17,693,558 11,656,051 Tax expense 20.1 (3,406,366) (2,811,960) (623,444) (517,238) Proﬁt for the year 15,791,865 15,745,537 17,070,114 11,138,813 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 14,070,009 14,348,193 Non-controlling interests 1,721,856 1,397,344 15,791,865 15,745,537 LKR. LKR. Earnings per share Basic 18.1 12.12 12.63 Diluted 18.2 12.09 12.41 Dividend per share 19 7.00 3.50 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 181 to 258 form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. 172 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Statement of Comprehensive Income Group Company For the year ended 31 March Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Proﬁt for the year 15,791,865 15,745,537 17,070,114 11,138,813 Other comprehensive income Other comprehensive income to be reclassiﬁed to income statement in subsequent periods Currency translation of foreign operations 3,009,187 489,049 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted 576,177 162,922 investees Net gain/(loss) on available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets (521,015) (255,840) (38,373) (296,763) Net other comprehensive income to be reclassiﬁed to income 3,064,349 396,131 (38,373) (296,763) statement in subsequent periods Other comprehensive income not to be reclassiﬁed to income statement in subsequent periods Revaluation of land and buildings 1,282,978 2,532,225 Share of other comprehensive income of equity accounted 40,947 (1,096) investees Re-measurement gain/(loss) on deﬁned beneﬁt plans 37 (44,627) 43,015 (2,478) 5,415 Net other comprehensive income not to be reclassiﬁed to income 1,279,298 2,574,144 (2,478) 5,415 statement in subsequent periods Income tax on other comprehensive income 20.2 (52,348) (26,548) Other comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 4,291,299 2,943,727 (40,851) (291,348) Total comprehensive income for the period, net of tax 20,083,164 18,689,264 17,029,263 10,847,465 Attributable to : Equity holders of the parent 17,848,337 16,694,869 Non-controlling interests 2,234,827 1,994,395 20,083,164 18,689,264 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 181 to 258 form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. 173 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Statement of Financial Position Group Company As at 31 March Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 21 52,736,375 49,562,595 116,039 126,051 Lease rentals paid in advance 22 10,888,158 8,709,033 Investment property 23 4,878,406 4,608,941 Intangible assets 24 2,337,860 2,719,457 43,820 63,283 Investments in subsidiaries 25 36,384,646 32,813,245 Investments in equity accounted investees 26 16,949,464 16,345,490 8,867,622 8,827,422 Non-current ﬁnancial assets 27 22,635,444 19,708,688 507,405 1,633,119 Deferred tax assets 20.4 129,837 108,585 Other non-current assets 28 35,557,148 25,830,029 12,414 13,807 146,112,692 127,592,818 45,931,946 43,476,927 Current assets Inventories 29 4,664,833 5,588,916 Trade and other receivables 30 9,998,949 10,269,689 169,144 85,566 Amounts due from related parties 43.1 133,031 185,085 595,182 258,270 Other current assets 31 2,303,431 2,398,142 128,353 124,749 Short term investments 32 72,635,070 67,540,668 56,862,236 43,292,579 Cash in hand and at bank 5,127,463 4,510,526 178,193 43,931 94,862,777 90,493,026 57,933,108 43,805,095 Total assets 240,975,469 218,085,844 103,865,054 87,282,022 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Stated capital 33 58,701,977 50,702,701 58,701,977 50,702,701 Revenue reserves 67,564,513 62,593,948 41,121,860 32,373,320 Other components of equity 33.2 28,715,262 24,501,278 1,084,617 727,398 154,981,752 137,797,927 100,908,454 83,803,419 Non-controlling interest 13,498,570 12,278,883 Total equity 168,480,322 150,076,810 100,908,454 83,803,419 Non-current liabilities Insurance contract liabilities 35 27,205,282 23,931,966 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 36 13,706,848 4,899,576 1,325,508 Deferred tax liabilities 20.4 2,029,371 1,625,394 Employee beneﬁt liabilities 37 1,660,880 1,494,711 189,181 160,456 Other deferred liabilities 38 861,802 103,297 371,014 Other non-current liabilities 39 3,095,181 781,967 48,559,364 32,836,911 560,195 1,485,964 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 40 12,755,466 11,267,339 332,506 333,822 Amounts due to related parties 43.2 28,982 26,488 102,135 2,726 Income tax liabilities 20.3 1,873,472 1,592,079 345,555 263,240 Short term borrowings 41 821,243 12,622,740 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 36 2,991,582 4,459,213 1,482,508 1,345,276 Other current liabilities 42 2,234,856 3,251,881 16,289 14,883 Bank overdrafts 3,230,182 1,952,383 117,412 32,692 23,935,783 35,172,123 2,396,405 1,992,639 Total equity and liabilities 240,975,469 218,085,844 103,865,054 87,282,022 I certify that the ﬁnancial statements comply with the requirements of the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. M J S Rajakariar Group Financial Controller The Board of Directors is responsible for the preparation and presentation of these ﬁnancial statements. S C Ratnayake J R F Peiris Chairman Group Finance Director The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 181 to 258 form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. 25 May 2016 Colombo 174 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Statement of Cash Flows Group Company For the year ended 31 March Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Proﬁt/(loss) before working capital changes A 14,577,471 11,387,283 (183,323) (406,540) (Increase)/Decrease in inventories 934,769 1,377,104 (Increase)/Decrease in trade and other receivables 69,939 (71,986) (62,627) (27,111) (Increase)/Decrease in other current assets (176,563) (368,770) 10,017 9,777 (Increase)/Decrease in other non-current assets (6,646,918) (6,120,356) 1,393 2,302 Increase/(Decrease) in trade and other payables 3,551,730 2,244,620 (99,067) 106,155 Increase/(Decrease) in other current liabilities (1,033,059) 1,030,600 1,406 6,067 Increase/(Decrease) in insurance contract liabilities 3,273,316 3,658,957 Cash generated from/(used in) operations 14,550,685 13,137,452 (332,201) (309,350) Finance income received 8,117,933 7,413,741 4,162,732 2,632,685 Finance cost paid (955,839) (654,546) (78,912) (112,218) Dividend received 2,588,485 2,396,850 9,902,966 9,361,361 Tax paid (2,519,947) (1,294,454) (541,130) (218,598) Super Gain Tax paid (1,096,780) (235,746) Gratuity paid (171,100) (144,335) (386) (5,898) Net cash ﬂow from operating activities 20,513,437 20,854,708 12,877,323 11,347,982 CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) INVESTING ACTIVITIES Purchase and construction of property, plant and equipment (4,582,064) (2,999,475) (30,002) (38,763) Purchase of intangible assets (162,608) (280,490) (4,197) (17,676) Addition to investment property (6,590) (3,101) Purchase of lease rights (607,155) (167,000) Acquisition of business, net of cash acquired 9.1 (12,914) Acquisition of associates (115,407) Increase in interest in subsidiaries (5,100,725) (688,835) Increase in interest in associates (40,200) (113,090) (40,200) (113,090) Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 592,421 265,000 8,260 5,803 Proceeds from sale of non-current investments 9.3 3,460,528 5,739,902 48,000 Proceeds from sale of ﬁnancial instruments fair valued through proﬁt or loss 236,082 506,063 Purchase of ﬁnancial instruments fair valued through proﬁt or loss (448,206) (754,733) (Purchase)/disposal of short term investments (net) (39,731) 3,025,319 (2,591,480) 5,085,895 (Purchase)/disposal of other non current ﬁnancial assets (net) (4,506,403) (4,194,367) 106,491 1,205,164 Grants received for investing activities 10,714 Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) investing activities (9,566,654) (1,255,346) (2,027,358) 5,486,498 CASH FLOWS FROM/(USED IN) FINANCING ACTIVITIES Proceeds from issue of shares 7,999,276 953,887 7,999,276 953,887 Direct cost on issue of shares (71,189) (3,139) (45,560) Proceeds to shareholders with non-controlling interest, on share repurchase (23,079) Dividend paid to equity holders of parent (8,037,790) (3,475,947) (8,037,790) (3,475,947) Dividend paid to shareholders with non-controlling interest (1,595,872) (793,276) Proceeds from long term borrowings 409,372 1,014,970 Repayment of long term borrowings (4,623,992) (5,405,012) (1,388,100) (1,311,510) Proceeds from (repayment of) other ﬁnancial liabilities (net) (1,773,958) 2,870,764 Net cash ﬂow from/(used in) ﬁnancing activities (7,717,232) (4,837,753) (1,472,174) (3,833,570) NET INCREASE/(DECREASE) IN CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS 3,229,551 14,761,609 9,377,791 13,000,910 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE BEGINNING 45,169,145 30,407,536 27,757,544 14,756,634 CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS AT THE END 48,398,696 45,169,145 37,135,335 27,757,544 ANALYSIS OF CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS Favourable balances Short term investments 32 46,501,415 42,611,002 37,074,554 27,746,305 Cash in hand and at bank 5,127,463 4,510,526 178,193 43,931 Unfavourable balances Bank overdrafts (3,230,182) (1,952,383) (117,412) (32,692) Total cash and cash equivalents 48,398,696 45,169,145 37,135,335 27,757,544 Cash and cash equivalents in the statement of ﬁnancial position comprise cash at banks and in hand and short-term deposits with a maturity of three months or less. For the purpose of the cash ﬂow statement, cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and short-term deposits as deﬁned above, net of outstanding bank overdrafts. Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 181 to 258 form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. 175 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Statement of Cash Flows Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s A. Proﬁt before working capital changes Proﬁt before tax 19,198,231 18,557,497 17,693,558 11,656,051 Adjustments for: Finance income (8,010,952) (8,122,497) (4,640,404) (3,772,223) Dividend income (10,260,828) (8,843,908) Finance costs 993,802 668,174 81,579 100,890 Share based payment expense 395,592 347,092 128,541 111,092 Change in fair value of investment property (262,875) (48,666) Share of results of equity accounted investees (2,781,233) (2,778,323) (Proﬁt)/loss on sale of non-current investments (1,221,460) (3,792,821) (47,900) Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,782,315 2,767,323 33,415 30,434 Impairment losses of non ﬁnancial assets 215,764 10,561 525,000 311,913 (Proﬁt)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 34,050 (91,935) (1,656) (804) Gain on bargain purchase of subsidiary (note 9.1) (4,088) Amortisation of lease rental paid in advance 738,407 714,115 Amortisation of intangible assets 320,564 234,198 23,660 23,008 Amortisation of other deferred liabilities (14,984) (512) Gratuity provision and related costs 283,900 286,373 26,633 24,907 Unrealised (gain)/loss on foreign exchange (net) 688,978 65,319 Unrealised (proﬁt)/loss on sale of goods to equity accounted investees 24 14,577,471 11,387,283 (183,323) (406,540) Statement of Changes in Equity COMPANY Note Stated Other Available Revenue Total In LKR '000s capital capital for sale reserve equity reserve reserve As at 1 April 2014 49,748,814 215,626 461,443 24,705,039 75,130,922 Proﬁt for the year 11,138,813 11,138,813 Other comprehensive income (296,763) 5,415 (291,348) Total comprehensive income (296,763) 11,144,228 10,847,465 Exercise of share options 953,887 953,887 Share based payments 347,092 347,092 Final dividend paid 2013/14 (1,485,620) (1,485,620) Interim dividends paid 2014/15 (1,990,327) (1,990,327) As at 31 March 2015 50,702,701 562,718 164,680 32,373,320 83,803,419 Charge relating to Super Gain Tax 20.12 (235,746) (235,746) Proﬁt for the year 17,070,114 17,070,114 Other comprehensive income (38,373) (2,478) (40,851) Total comprehensive income (38,373) 17,067,636 17,029,263 Exercise of share warrants 7,972,760 7,972,760 Exercise of share options 26,516 26,516 Direct cost of issue of shares (45,560) (45,560) Share based payments 395,592 395,592 Final dividend paid 2014/15 (1,496,230) (1,496,230) Interim dividends paid 2015/16 (6,541,560) (6,541,560) As at 31 March 2016 58,701,977 958,310 126,307 41,121,860 100,908,454 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 181 to 258 form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. 176 Attributable to equity holders of the parent GROUP Note Stated Revaluation Foreign Other Available Revenue Total Non Total In LKR '000s capital reserve currency capital for sale reserve controlling equity translation reserve reserve interests reserve As at 1 April 2014 49,748,814 17,770,505 3,179,071 215,626 679,488 51,303,646 122,897,150 11,420,940 134,318,090 Proﬁt for the year 14,348,193 14,348,193 1,397,344 15,745,537 Other comprehensive income 1,986,971 591,425 (263,835) 32,115 2,346,676 597,051 2,943,727 Total comprehensive income 1,986,971 591,425 (263,835) 14,380,308 16,694,869 1,994,395 18,689,264 Exercise of share options 953,887 953,887 953,887 Direct cost of issue of shares (2,877) (2,877) (262) (3,139) Share based payments 347,092 347,092 347,092 Realisation of revaluation reserve (5,065) 5,065 Final dividend paid 2013/14 (1,485,620) (1,485,620) (1,485,620) Interim dividends paid 2014/15 (1,990,327) (1,990,327) (1,990,327) Subsidiary dividend to non-controlling interest 351,026 351,026 (1,144,302) (793,276) Acquisition, disposal and changes in non-controlling interest 32,727 32,727 8,112 40,839 As at 31 March 2015 50,702,701 19,752,411 3,770,496 562,718 415,653 62,593,948 137,797,927 12,278,883 150,076,810 Charge relating to Super Gain Tax 20.12 (1,237,546) (1,237,546) (104,567) (1,342,113) 177 Proﬁt for the year 14,070,009 14,070,009 1,721,856 15,791,865 Other comprehensive income 1,093,779 3,310,483 (585,870) (40,064) 3,778,328 512,971 4,291,299 Total comprehensive income 1,093,779 3,310,483 (585,870) 14,029,945 17,848,337 2,234,827 20,083,164 Exercise of share warrants 7,972,760 7,972,760 7,972,760 Exercise of share options 26,516 26,516 26,516 Direct cost of issue of shares (68,255) (68,255) (2,934) (71,189) Statement of Changes in Equity Re purchase of subsidiary shares held by NCI (23,079) (23,079) Share based payments 395,592 395,592 395,592 Restatement of fully depreciated assets 20,482 20,482 3,900 24,382 Final dividend paid 2014/15 (1,496,230) (1,496,230) (1,496,230) Interim dividends paid 2015/16 (6,541,560) (6,541,560) (6,541,560) Subsidiary dividend to non-controlling interest 307,928 307,928 (1,903,800) (1,595,872) Acquisition, disposal and changes in non-controlling interest (44,199) (44,199) 1,015,340 971,141 As at 31 March 2016 58,701,977 20,846,190 7,080,979 958,310 (170,217) 67,564,513 154,981,752 13,498,570 168,480,322 Figures in brackets indicate deductions. The accounting policies and notes as set out in pages 181 to 258 form an integral part of these ﬁnancial statements. Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Performance Highlights Group revenue composition (%) Group revenue LKR 93.28Bn 35% 42% LKR Bn 100 85.41 86.71 91.85 93.28 77.67 80 2015/16 39% 2014/15 33% 60 2% Group revenue 40 26% 25% 20 Consumer food and retail Leisure Others 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Group ﬁnance income composition (%) Group ﬁnance income LKR 8.01Bn 22% 26% LKR Bn 10 8.12 8.01 8 2015/16 78% 2014/15 5.77 6 -1% 4.77 Group ﬁnance income 2.87 74% 4 2 Interest income Others 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Group proﬁt before tax composition (%) Group proﬁt before tax LKR 19.20Bn 51% 57% LKR Bn 20 18.56 19.19 15.67 15.32 16 26% 12.82 2015/16 2014/15 30% 12 3% 23% 13% Group proﬁt before tax 8 Leisure Consumer food and retail Others 4 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Group property plant and equipment composition (%) Group property plant and equipment LKR 52.74Bn LKR Bn 60 52.74 49.56 28% 26% 49.27 47.41 48 72% 2015/16 2014/15 74% 34.29 36 6% Group property plant and equipment 24 Leisure Others 12 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 178 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Group lease rentals paid in advance composition (%) Group lease rentals paid in advance LKR 10.89Bn 3% 1% LKR Bn 12 10.28 10.89 9.51 10 9.1 8.71 97% 8 2015/16 2014/15 99% 25% 6 Group lease rentals paid in advance 4 2 Leisure Others 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Group investment property composition (%) Group investment property LKR 4.88Bn LKR Bn 10 9.29 54% 54% 7.63 8 46% 2015/16 2014/15 46% 4.88 6 6% 4.44 4.61 Group investment property 4 2 Property Others 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Group ﬁnancial assets composition (%) Group ﬁnancial assets LKR 110.53Bn LKR Bn 110.53 102.21 120 93.71 23% 22% 96 77% 2015/16 2014/15 61.94 78% 72 8% 54.16 Group ﬁnancial assets 48 Loans and receivables Others 24 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Group ﬁnancial liabilities composition (%) Group ﬁnancial liabilities LKR 33.53Bn LKR Bn 40 35.01 34.74 35.23 33.53 59% 64% 32 41% 25.73 2015/16 2014/15 36% 24 -5% Group ﬁnancial liabilities 16 8 Interestbearing loans and borrowings Short term borrowings Others Others 0 2011/12 2012/13 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 179 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Index to the Notes Corporate and Group information 21 Property , plant and equipment 221 1 Corporate information 181 22 Leases 226 2 Group information 181 23 Investment property 227 24 Intangible assets 228 Basis of preparation and other signiﬁcant accounting policies 25 Investment in subsidiaries 232 3 Basis of preparation 181 26 Investment in equity accounted investees 234 4 Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies 182 27 Non current ﬁnancial assets 237 5 Signiﬁcant accounting judgements, estimates and 28 Other non current assets 238 assumptions 182 29 Inventories 239 6 Standards issued but not yet effective 183 30 Trade and other receivables 239 31 Other current assets 240 Group business, operations & management 32 Short term investments 240 7 Operating segment information 184 33 Stated capital and other components of equity 241 8 Basis of consolidation and material partly owned 34 Share-based payment plans 242 subsidiaries 188 35 Insurance contract liabilities 244 9 Business combinations and acquisitions of noncontrolling interests 191 36 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 246 10 Financial risk management objectives and policies 193 37 Employee beneﬁt liabilities 250 11 Fair value measurement and related fair value 38 Other deferred liabilities 251 disclosures 202 39 Other non current liabilities 251 12 Financial instruments and related policies 204 40 Trade and other payables 252 41 Short term borrowings 252 Notes to the income statement, statement of comprehensive 42 Other current liabilities 252 income and statement of ﬁnancial position 43 Related party transactions 252 13 Revenue 209 14 Dividend income 210 Other disclosures 15 Other operating income and other operating expenses 211 44 Contingent liabilities 256 16 Net ﬁnance income 212 45 Capital and other commitments 257 17 Proﬁt before tax 213 46 Lease commitments 257 18 Earnings per share 213 47 Assets pledged 258 19 Dividend per share 214 48 Events after the reporting period 258 20 Taxes 214 180 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Notes to the Financial Statements CORPORATE AND GROUP INFORMATION Statements of compliance The ﬁnancial statements which comprise the income 1 Corporate information statement, statement of comprehensive income, statement Reporting entity of ﬁnancial position, statement of changes in equity and John Keells Holdings PLC. is a public limited liability the statement of cash ﬂows, together with the accounting Company incorporated and domiciled in Sri Lanka. The policies and notes (the “ﬁnancial statements”) have registered office and principal place of business of the been prepared in accordance with Sri Lanka Accounting Company is located at 117, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Standards (SLFRS/ LKAS) as issued by the Institute of Mawatha, Colombo 2. Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka (CA Sri Lanka) and in compliance with the Companies Act No. 7 of 2007. Ordinary shares of the Company are listed on the Colombo Stock Exchange. Global depository receipts (GDRs) of John 2 Group information Keells Holdings PLC. are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Subsidiaries , associates and joint ventures Exchange. John Keells Holdings PLC. became the holding The companies within the Group and its business company of the Group during the ﬁnancial year ended 31 activities are described in the Group Directory under the March 1986. Supplementary Information section of the Annual Report. Consolidated ﬁnancial statements There were no signiﬁcant changes in the nature of the The ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016, principal activities of the Company and the Group during the comprise “the Company” referring to John Keells Holdings ﬁnancial year under review. PLC. as the holding Company and “the Group” referring to the companies that have been consolidated therein. BASIS OF PREPARATION & OTHER SIGNIFICANT Approval of ﬁnancial statements ACCOUNTING POLICIES The ﬁnancial statements for the year ended 31 March 2016 3 Basis of preparation were authorised for issue by the Board of Directors on 25 The consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been prepared May 2016. on an accrual basis and under the historical cost convention Principal activities and nature of operations of the holding except for investment properties, land and buildings, Company derivative ﬁnancial instruments, fair value through proﬁt or John Keells Holdings PLC., the Group’s holding Company, loss ﬁnancial assets and available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets manages a portfolio of investments consisting of a range of that have been measured at fair value. diverse business operations, which together constitute the John Keells Group, and provides function based services to Presentation of functional currency its subsidiaries, jointly controlled entities and associates. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR), which is the primary economic Responsibility for ﬁnancial statements environment in which the holding Company operates. The responsibility of the Board of Directors in relation to the Each entity in the Group uses the currency of the primary ﬁnancial statements is set out in the Statement of Directors’ economic environment in which they operate as their Responsibility report in the Annual report. functional currency. The following subsidiaries are using different functional currencies other than Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR): Country of incorporation Functional currency Name of the subsidiary United Kingdom British Pound (GBP) John Keells Computer Services (UK) Ltd. Canada Canadian Dollar (CAD) John Keells BPO Solutions Canada Inc. India Indian Rupee (INR) John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. Singapore Singapore Dollar (SGD) John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd. USA United States Dollar (USD) John keells BPO Solutions US Inc. Republic of Maldives United States Dollar (USD) Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. John Keells Maldivian Resort (Pvt) Ltd. Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd. Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. Mauritius United States Dollar (USD) John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells Holdings Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka United States Dollar (USD) Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 181 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements Each material class of similar items is presented The Group classiﬁes all other liabilities as non-current. cumulatively in the Financial Statements. Items of dissimilar Deferred tax assets and liabilities are classiﬁed as nonnature or function are presented separately unless they current assets and liabilities. are immaterial as permitted by the Sri Lanka Accounting Standard-LKAS 1 on ‘Presentation of Financial Statements’. Foreign currency translation, foreign currency transactions All values are rounded to the nearest rupees thousand (LKR and balances ’000) except when otherwise indicated. The consolidated ﬁnancial statements are presented in Sri Lanka Rupees (LKR), which is the Company’s functional The signiﬁcant accounting policies are discussed with and presentation currency. The functional currency is the relevant individual notes. currency of the primary economic environment in which The indicative US Dollar ﬁnancial statements under the entities of the Group operate. All foreign exchange Supplementary Information section of the Annual Report transactions are converted to functional currency, at the do not form a part of the ﬁnancial statements prepared in rates of exchange prevailing at the time the transactions accordance with SLFRS/LKAS. are effected. Monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currency are retranslated to functional currency Comparative information equivalents at the spot exchange rate prevailing at the The presentation and classiﬁcation of the ﬁnancial reporting date. statements of the previous years have been amended, where relevant including the following for better presentation and Non-monetary items that are measured in terms of historical to be comparable with those of the current year. cost in a foreign currency are translated using the exchange rates as at the dates of the initial transactions. Non monetary The share of results of equity accounted investees in assets and liabilities are translated using exchange rates the income statement and other comprehensive income that existed when the values were determined. The gain or statement are shown net of all related taxes. loss arising on translation of non-monetary items is treated in line with the recognition of gain or loss on changing fair 4 Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies value of the item. Summary of signiﬁcant accounting policies have been disclosed along with the relevant individual notes in the Foreign operations subsequent pages. The statement of ﬁnancial position and income statement of overseas subsidiaries and joint ventures which are deemed Those accounting policies presented with each note, have to be foreign operations are translated to Sri Lanka rupees been applied consistently by the Group. at the rate of exchange prevailing as at the reporting date and at the average annual rate of exchange for the period Other signiﬁcant accounting policies not covered with respectively. individual notes. The exchange differences arising on the translation are Following accounting policies which have been applied taken directly to other comprehensive income. On disposal of consistently by the Group, are considered to be signiﬁcant a foreign entity, the deferred cumulative amount recognised but are not covered in any other sections. in other comprehensive income relating to that particular foreign operation is recognised in the income statement. Current versus non-current classiﬁcation The Group presents assets and liabilities in statement The Group treated goodwill and any fair value adjustments to of ﬁnancial position based on current/non-current the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities arising on the classiﬁcation. An asset as current when it is: acquisition as assets and liabilities of the parent. Therefore,  š ([SHFWHG WR EH UHDOLVHG RU LQWHQGHG WR EH VROG RU those assets and liabilities are non-monetary items already consumed in normal operating cycle expressed in the functional currency of the parent and no  š +HOGSULPDULO\IRUWKHSXUSRVHRIWUDGLQJ further translation differences occur.  š ([SHFWHGWREHUHDOLVHGZLWKLQWZHOYHPRQWKVDIWHUWKH reporting period, or 5 Signiﬁcant accounting judgements, estimates and  š &DVK RU FDVK HTXLYDOHQW XQOHVV UHVWULFWHG IURP EHLQJ assumptions exchanged or used to settle a liability for at least twelve The preparation of the ﬁnancial statements of the Group months after the reporting period require the management to make judgments, estimates All other assets are classiﬁed as non-current. and assumptions, which may affect the amounts of A liability is current when: income, expenditure, assets, liabilities and the disclosure of  š ,WLVH[SHFWHGWREHVHWWOHGLQQRUPDORSHUDWLQJF\FOH contingent liabilities, at the end of the reporting period.  š ,WLVKHOGSULPDULO\IRUWKHSXUSRVHRIWUDGLQJ  š ,W LV GXH WR EH VHWWOHG ZLWKLQ WZHOYH PRQWKV DIWHU WKH reporting period, or  š 7KHUHLVQRXQFRQGLWLRQDOULJKWWRGHIHUWKHVHWWOHPHQWRI the liability for at least twelve months after the reporting period 182 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Uncertainty about these assumptions and estimates could SLFRS 14 Regulatory Deferral Accounts result in outcomes that require a material adjustment to the SLFRS 14 is an interim standard which provides relief for carrying amount of assets or liabilities affected in future ﬁrst time -adopters of SLFRS in relation to the accounting periods. In the process of applying the Group’s accounting for certain balances that arise from rate-regulated activities policies, management has made various judgements. (‘regulatory deferral accounts’). The standard permits these Those which management has assessed to have the entities to continue to apply their previous GAAP accounting most signiﬁcant effect on the amounts recognised in the policies for the recognition, measurement, impairment and consolidated ﬁnancial statements have been discussed in derecognition of regulatory deferral accounts. SLFRS 14 is the individual notes of the related ﬁnancial statement line effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January items. 2016. The key assumptions concerning the future and other key SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers sources of estimation uncertainty at the reporting date, that SLFRS 15 establishes a comprehensive framework for have a signiﬁcant risk of causing a material adjustment to determining whether, how much and when revenue the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next is recognised. It replaces existing revenue recognition ﬁnancial year, are also described in the individual notes to guidance, including LKAS 18 Revenue, LKAS 11 Construction the ﬁnancial statements. The Group based its assumptions Contracts and IFRIC 13 Customer Loyalty Programmes. and estimates on parameters available when the ﬁnancial statements were prepared. Existing circumstances and SLFRS 15 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning assumptions about future developments, however, may on or after 1 January 2018, with early adoption permitted. change due to market changes or circumstances arising Mangagement believes that the SLFRS 14 would not be that are beyond the control of the Group. Such changes are applicable for the Group,as it is an existing IFRS preparer/ reﬂected in the assumptions when they occur. does not involve in rate regulatory activities. Pending the completion ofthe detailed impact analysis, possible Impact The line items which have most signiﬁcant effect on from SLFRS 9 and SLFRS 15 is not reasonably estimable as accounting, judgements, estimate and assumptions are as of the reporting date. follows; a) Valuation of property, plant and equipment and investment Deferring Application Of IFRIC 15 -Agreements for the property. construction on real state This interpretation clariﬁes whether LKAS 18, ‘Revenue’ b) Impairment of non-ﬁnancial assets or LKAS 11 ‘Construction contracts’ should be applied to c) Share based payments particular transactions. It also explains the point at which revenue and related expenses from a sale of real estate d) Taxes unit should be recognised, if an agreement between a e) Employee beneﬁt liability developer and a buyer is reached before the construction of the real estate unit is completed. Considering the latest f) Valuation of insurance contract liabilities developments in revenue recognition (the ﬁve-step model ), the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka has 6 Standards issued but not yet effective decided to grant an option for entities to defer application The following SLFRS have been issued by the Institute of of IFRIC 15 until SLFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka that have an effective Customers comes into effect. date in the future and have not been applied in preparing these ﬁnancial statements. Those SLFRS’s will have an The Group has not adopted IFRIC 15 which is related to effect on the accounting policies currently adopted by the recognition of revenue of construction of real estate. The Group and may have an impact on the future ﬁnancial Group has deferred application of this IFRIC based on the statements. ruling issued by CA Sri Lanka. SLFRS 9 Financial Instruments The following amendments and improvements are not SLFRS 9 replaces the existing guidance in LKAS 39 expected to have a signiﬁcant impact on the Group's and the Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement. Company's ﬁnancial statements. SLFRS 9 includes revised guidance on the classiﬁcation Accounting for Acquisitions of Interests in Joint Operations and measurement of ﬁnancial instruments, a new expected (Amendments to SLFRS 11). Clariﬁcation of Acceptable credit loss model for calculating impairment on ﬁnancial Methods of Depreciation and Amortisation (Amendments to assets, and new general hedge accounting requirements. LKAS 16 and LKAS 38). Equity Method in Separate Financial It also carries forward the guidance on recognition and Statements (Amendments to LKAS 27). Sale or Contribution derecognition of ﬁnancial instruments from LKAS 39. SLFRS of Assets between an Investor and its Associate or Joint 9 is effective for annual reporting periods beginning on or Venture (Amendments to SLFRS 10 and LKAS 28). Annual after 1 January 2018, with early adoption permitted. Improvements to SLFRSs 2012–2014 Cycle – various standards. Investment Entities: Applying the Consolidation Exception (Amendments to SLFRS 10, SLFRS 12 and LKAS 28). Disclosure Initiative (Amendments to LKAS 1). 183 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements GROUP BUSINESS,OPERATIONS & MANAGEMENT Transportation Business of the transportation operating segment offers 7 Operating segment information an array of transportation related services in Sri Lanka Accounting policy and the region and these operations comprise of South The Group’s internal organisation and management is Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. in the port of Colombo, structured based on individual products and services which a marine bunkering business, joint ventures/associations are similar in nature and process and where the risks and with leading shipping and air transportation multinationals returns are similar. The operating segments represent this and logistics, travel and airline services in Sri Lanka, India business structure. and the Maldives. In addition, segments are determined based on the Group’s Leisure geographical spread of operations as well. The geographical The leisure operation segment encompasses two ﬁve star analysis of turnover and proﬁts are based on location of city hotels in Colombo and eight resort hotels spread in customers and assets respectively. prime tourist locations all over Sri Lanka and three resorts in Maldives offering beaches, mountains, wildlife and The activities of each of the operating business segments cultural splendour under the ‘Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts’ of the Group are detailed in the Group directory in the brand. The leisure operating segment also has destination Supplementary section of the Annual report. management businesses in Sri Lanka and India. Property As such for management purposes, the Group is organised The property operating segment concentrates primarily on into business units based on their products and services and development and sale of residential apartments has seven operating business segments as follows: 7.1 Business segments Transportation Leisure Property For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s External revenue 10,342,226 13,340,234 24,072,746 23,307,420 4,341,714 5,689,160 Inter segment revenue 278,657 431,615 34,540 44,275 197,500 198,102 Total segment revenue 10,620,883 13,771,849 24,107,286 23,351,695 4,539,214 5,887,262 Elimination of inter segment revenue Net revenue Segment results 560,242 304,238 5,028,273 5,425,961 1,620,032 1,527,750 Finance cost (21,813) (53,088) (165,587) (231,617) (32,162) (122,249) Finance income 90,903 128,648 309,305 319,420 172,055 242,019 Change in fair value of investment property 148,250 4,823 Share of results of associates 1,868,769 2,004,403 52,110 12,262 Eliminations/adjustments (2,940) (25,000) (255,771) (20,651) (265,213) (136,554) Proﬁt/(loss) before tax 2,495,161 2,359,201 4,968,330 5,505,375 1,642,962 1,515,789 Tax expense (40,738) (24,178) (601,123) (650,007) (57,793) (88,730) Proﬁt/ (loss) for the year 2,454,423 2,335,023 4,367,207 4,855,368 1,585,169 1,427,059 Purchase and construction of PPE* 95,190 84,414 2,757,569 1,707,795 43,055 199,529 Addition to IA* 2,398 6,000 103,373 248,332 1,386 Depreciation of PPE* 87,953 96,801 1,546,807 1,440,358 14,395 10,490 Amortisation of IA* 1,278 817 54,764 1,211 Amortisation of LRPA* 712,950 712,940 24,282 Gratuity provision and related costs 12,020 11,245 102,066 90,999 2,939 1,069 In addition to segment results, information such as ﬁnance costs/income, tax expenses have been reﬂected under the segments for better presentation. * PPE Property, plant and equipment, IA Intangible assets, LRPA Lease rentals paid in advance 184 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Consumer Foods and Retail Segment information has been prepared in conformity with The consumer foods and retail operating segment competes the accounting policies adopted for preparing and presenting in the two major categories namely manufacturing and the consolidated ﬁnancial statements of the Group. retailing. No operating segments have been aggregated to form Financial Services the above reportable operating segments. An individual The ﬁnancial services operating segment offer a complete segment manager is determined for each operating range of ﬁnancial solutions including commercial banking, segment and the results are regularly reviewed by the insurance, stock broking, debt trading, fund management Board of Directors. The Board of Directors monitors the and leasing. operating results of its business units separately for the Information Technology purpose of making decisions about resource allocation The information technology operating segment comprises and performance assessment. Segment performance from BPO, software services and information integration to is evaluated based on operating proﬁt or loss which in office automation which offers end-to-end ICT services and certain respects, as explained in the operating segments’ solutions information, is measured differently from operating proﬁt or loss in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements. However, Others except for Financial Services segment, other segments’ This operating segment includes plantation services sector ﬁnancing activities are managed on a Group basis and which operates tea factories, tea and rubber broking and preare not allocated to operating segments. Transfer prices auction produce warehousing. This segment also consists between operating segments are carried out in the ordinary of John Keells Holdings PLC. including its divisions/centre course of business. functions such as John Keells Capital and Strategic Group IT (SGIT), as well as other companies providing ancillary services. Consumer Foods & Retail Financial Services Information Technology Others Group Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 36,458,144 29,757,094 7,142,880 9,077,133 8,261,542 7,212,451 2,662,586 3,468,096 93,281,838 91,851,588 290,419 337,800 1 108,548 193,315 173,906 700,966 478,977 1,695,398 1,773,223 36,748,563 30,094,894 7,142,881 9,185,681 8,454,857 7,386,357 3,363,552 3,947,073 94,977,236 93,624,811 (1,695,398) (1,773,223) 93,281,838 91,851,588 4,322,498 2,486,755 1,319,404 972,866 (334,221) 352,617 (1,681,060) (767,588) 10,835,168 10,302,599 (25,026) (67,849) (602,274) (215) (12,657) (11,947) (134,283) (181,209) (993,802) (668,174) 159,956 74,869 121,088 119,932 43,588 31,735 4,652,409 3,779,319 5,549,304 4,695,942 16,947 8,975 97,678 34,868 262,875 48,666 860,354 761,658 2,781,233 2,778,323 (1,925) (4,585) 1,221,460 451,588 (2,541) 837,714 368,012 763,453 1,400,141 4,472,450 2,498,165 1,698,572 3,075,701 148,298 369,864 3,772,458 3,233,402 19,198,231 18,557,497 (1,243,488) (693,973) 19,264 (56,586) (52,572) (90,269) (1,429,916) (1,208,217) (3,406,366) (2,811,960) 3,228,962 1,804,192 1,717,836 3,019,115 95,726 279,595 2,342,542 2,025,185 15,791,865 15,745,537 1,454,411 708,555 25,470 103,726 113,369 96,248 93,000 99,208 4,582,064 2,999,475 1,929 1,486 29,239 20,088 6,996 4,195 17,676 162,608 280,490 736,013 779,190 89,363 152,408 179,518 171,012 128,266 117,064 2,782,315 2,767,323 11,892 11,616 217,437 188,263 10,323 10,494 23,659 23,008 320,564 234,198 1,175 1,175 738,407 714,115 73,365 73,118 24,110 41,624 18,594 19,006 50,806 49,312 283,900 286,373 185 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 7 Operating segment information (Contd.) 7.2 Business segments Transportation Leisure Property As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Property, plant and equipment 477,027 503,117 34,059,483 32,758,685 2,308,494 1,836,385 Lease rentals paid in advance 9,330,503 8,667,094 248,040 Investment property 425,000 425,000 1,905,000 1,778,900 4,853,668 4,571,836 Intangible assets 6,871 5,750 441,284 402,036 363 Non-current ﬁnancial assets 48,539 41,296 5,507,782 4,739,670 224,930 102,633 Other non-current assets 5,892 6,037 14,673 13,899 35,451,293 25,804,080 Segment non-current assets 963,329 981,200 51,258,725 48,360,284 43,086,788 32,314,934 Investments in equity accounted investees 11,263,337 11,153,883 474,364 334,192 Deferred tax assets Goodwill Eliminations/adjustments Total non-current assets Inventories 161,484 102,673 307,040 300,391 294,659 1,764,234 Trade and other receivables 1,028,910 1,485,618 3,144,535 2,947,519 1,435,139 2,852,536 Short term investments 1,943,880 2,417,409 5,734,333 7,338,354 339,545 3,477,734 Cash in hand and at bank 741,739 128,287 2,310,577 2,184,796 1,046,241 1,285,332 Segment current assets 3,876,013 4,133,987 11,496,485 12,771,060 3,115,584 9,379,836 Other current assets Eliminations/adjustments Total current assets Total assets Insurance contract liabilities Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 7,376,034 7,597,031 11,360,684 360,057 Employee beneﬁt liabilities 73,018 64,749 562,241 492,510 44,788 36,198 Other deferred liabilities 84,401 77,926 560,220 Other non-current liabilities 78,418 67,919 2,884,834 595,461 Segment non-current liabilities 73,018 64,749 8,101,094 8,235,386 14,850,526 991,716 Deferred tax liabilities Eliminations/adjustments Total non-current liabilities Trade and other payables 1,198,528 788,206 3,341,897 3,273,014 1,604,938 2,100,506 Short term borrowings 830,648 1,153,137 2,051,370 2,664,655 11,478,414 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,208,978 1,243,738 145,778 1,686,388 Bank overdrafts 56,533 120,565 1,217,688 629,053 843,340 498,452 Segment current liabilities 2,085,709 2,061,908 7,819,933 7,810,460 2,594,056 15,763,760 Income tax liabilities Other current liabilities Eliminations/adjustments Total current liabilities Total liabilities Total segment assets 4,839,342 5,115,187 62,755,210 61,131,344 46,202,372 41,694,770 Total segment liabilities 2,158,727 2,126,657 15,921,027 16,045,846 17,444,582 16,755,476 186 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Consumer Foods & Retail Financial Services Information Technology Others Group Total 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 7,283,463 6,517,850 1,514,336 1,222,723 246,979 307,939 1,317,211 1,288,843 47,206,993 44,435,542 41,854 43,029 9,620,397 8,710,123 111,404 94,457 3,215,185 3,000,300 10,510,257 9,870,493 80,504 40,968 999,848 1,237,546 25,553 18,991 44,841 63,282 1,599,264 1,768,573 165,973 129,850 21,441,579 17,657,947 30,666 29,050 546,718 1,659,248 27,966,187 24,359,694 376,324 281,061 51,369 64,707 5,496 6,243 17,727 19,628 35,922,774 26,195,655 8,017,668 7,064,186 24,007,132 20,182,923 308,694 362,223 5,183,536 6,074,330 132,825,872 115,340,080 5,211,763 4,857,415 16,949,464 16,345,490 129,837 108,585 738,596 950,884 (4,531,077) (5,152,221) 146,112,692 127,592,818 2,996,410 2,602,934 8,672 6,196 701,831 602,420 208,408 243,793 4,678,504 5,622,641 2,268,819 1,891,132 731,550 531,051 2,044,672 1,664,841 1,012,242 498,312 11,665,867 11,871,009 2,350,084 993,708 6,496,141 11,639,146 726,511 841,128 57,095,945 43,534,137 74,686,439 70,241,616 241,991 262,966 272,029 265,880 235,716 218,528 276,798 151,527 5,125,091 4,497,316 7,857,304 5,750,740 7,508,392 12,442,273 3,708,730 3,326,917 58,593,393 44,427,769 96,155,901 92,232,582 2,303,431 2,398,142 (3,596,555) (4,137,698) 94,862,777 90,493,026 240,975,469 218,085,844 27,205,282 23,931,966 27,205,282 23,931,966 98,793 217,972 9,621 43,128 192,458 1,337,508 19,037,590 9,555,696 463,598 436,219 129,058 115,039 91,931 85,093 296,246 264,903 1,660,880 1,494,711 26,336 24,908 191,516 1,147 862,473 103,981 131,929 118,441 146 3,095,181 781,967 720,656 797,540 27,334,340 24,047,005 101,552 128,221 680,220 1,603,704 51,861,406 35,868,321 2,029,371 1,625,394 (5,331,413) (4,656,804) 48,559,364 32,836,911 4,503,394 3,571,821 1,254,729 1,244,157 1,694,604 1,244,100 734,477 530,702 14,332,567 12,752,506 26,690 12,074 22,074 2,894,092 15,344,970 119,073 151,264 35,244 29,403 1,482,508 1,348,418 2,991,581 4,459,211 594,225 553,576 105,834 80,093 293,649 19,582 118,912 51,063 3,230,181 1,952,384 5,216,692 4,276,661 1,360,563 1,324,250 2,023,497 1,319,775 2,347,971 1,952,257 23,448,421 34,509,071 1,873,472 1,592,079 2,234,856 3,251,881 (3,620,966) (4,180,908) 23,935,783 35,172,123 72,495,147 68,009,034 15,874,972 12,814,926 31,515,524 32,625,196 4,017,424 3,689,140 63,776,929 50,502,099 228,981,773 207,572,662 5,937,348 5,074,201 28,694,903 25,371,255 2,125,049 1,447,996 3,028,191 3,555,961 75,309,827 70,377,392 187 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 7 Operating segment information (Contd.) 7.3 Geographical segments, based on the location of assets Sri Lanka Asia (excluding Others Group Total Sri Lanka) 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Segment assets 202,856,785 182,375,759 23,161,826 21,902,671 2,963,162 3,294,232 228,981,773 207,572,662 Segment liabilities 65,998,619 61,006,204 9,271,496 9,338,343 39,712 32,845 75,309,827 70,377,392 Investments in equity 16,949,464 16,345,490 16,949,464 16,345,490 accounted investees Segment revenue 79,195,946 78,276,865 9,676,692 9,117,936 4,409,200 4,456,787 93,281,838 91,851,588 Segment results 10,257,713 8,344,847 756,822 1,147,832 (179,367) 809,920 10,835,168 10,302,599 Purchase and 3,415,006 2,753,930 1,167,058 245,545 4,582,064 2,999,475 construction of property, plant and equipment Purchase and 162,608 280,490 162,608 280,490 construction of intangible assets Depreciation of property, 2,294,367 2,335,260 484,523 429,270 3,425 2,793 2,782,315 2,767,323 plant and equipment Amortisation of 320,564 234,198 320,564 234,198 intangible assets Amortisation of lease 40,854 16,986 697,553 697,129 738,407 714,115 rental paid in advance Gratuity provision and 280,784 283,097 3,116 3,276 283,900 286,373 related costs 8 Basis of consolidation and material partly owned subsidiaries  š 5LJKWV DULVLQJ IURP RWKHU FRQWUDFWXDO DUUDQJHPHQWV Accounting policy and Basis of consolidation  š 7KH*URXSŖVYRWLQJULJKWVDQGSRWHQWLDOYRWLQJULJKWV The consolidated ﬁnancial statements comprise the ﬁnancial statements of the Group and its subsidiaries as at the end of Subsidiaries that are consolidated have been listed in the reporting period. Control over an investee is achieved when Group directory under Supplementary section of the annual the Group is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from report. its involvement with the investee and has the ability to affect The following companies, with equity control equal to or less those returns through its power over the investee. than 50%, have been consolidated as subsidiaries based on above criteria. Control over an investee Speciﬁcally, the Group controls an investee if, and only if, the % Holding Group has:  š 3RZHURYHUWKHLQYHVWHH LHH[LVWLQJULJKWVWKDWJLYHLW Rajawella Holdings Ltd. 49.85 the current ability to direct the relevant activities of the Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 50.00 investee) Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd. 49.00  š ([SRVXUH RU ULJKWV WR YDULDEOH UHWXUQV IURP LWV Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. 37.62 involvement with the investee  š 7KHDELOLW\WRXVHLWVSRZHURYHUWKHLQYHVWHHWRDĳHFWLWV The Group re-assesses whether or not it controls an investee, returns if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control. Consolidation Consolidation of entities in which the Group holds less than a of a subsidiary begins when the Group obtains control over majority of voting rights the subsidiary and ceases when the Group loses control When the Group has less than a majority of the voting or of the subsidiary. Assets, liabilities, income and expenses similar rights of an investee, the Group considers all relevant of a subsidiary acquired or disposed during the year are facts and circumstances in assessing whether it has power included in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements from the over an investee, including: date the Group gains control until the date the Group ceases  š 7KHFRQWUDFWXDODUUDQJHPHQWZLWKWKHRWKHUYRWHKROGHUV to control the subsidiary. of the investee; 188 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Proﬁt or loss and each component of other comprehensive The total proﬁts and losses for the year of the Company and income (OCI) are attributed to the equity holders of the of its subsidiaries included in consolidation are shown in the parent of the Group and to the non-controlling interests, consolidated income statement and consolidated statement even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a of comprehensive income and all assets and liabilities of the deﬁcit balance. The ﬁnancial statements of the subsidiaries Company and of its subsidiaries included in consolidation are prepared for the same reporting period as the parent are shown in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial Company, which is 12 months ending 31 March, using position. consistent accounting policies. Non-controlling interest (NCI) Transactions eliminated on consolidation Non-controlling interest which represents the portion of All intra-group assets, liabilities, equity, income, expenses proﬁt or loss and net assets not held by the Group, are shown and cash ﬂows relating to transactions between members as a component of proﬁt for the year in the consolidated of the Group are eliminated in full on consolidation. A change income statement and statement of comprehensive income in the ownership interest of a subsidiary, without a loss of and as a component of equity in the consolidated statement control, is accounted for as an equity transaction. of ﬁnancial position, separately from equity attributable to the shareholders of the parent . Loss of control If the Group loses control over a subsidiary, it derecognises The consolidated statement of cash ﬂow includes the cash the related assets (including goodwill), liabilities, nonﬂows of the Company and its subsidiaries. controlling interest and other components of equity while any resultant gain or loss is recognised in the income statement. Any investment retained is recognised at fair value. 8.1 Material partly-owned subsidiaries Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (NCI) are provided below: Leisure Consumer foods & retail For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Summarised income statement for the period ending 31 March Revenue 27,160,159 25,981,311 37,366,674 30,571,846 Operating cost (20,951,501) (19,011,715) (32,754,290) (28,091,749) Finance cost (307,424) (363,975) (25,026) (80,132) Finance income 470,807 555,613 159,423 62,591 Change in fair value of investment property 224,665 28,792 16,947 8,975 Share of results of equity accounted investees Proﬁt before tax 6,596,706 7,190,026 4,763,728 2,471,531 Tax expense (615,157) (687,191) (1,243,942) (680,567) Proﬁt for the year 5,981,549 6,502,835 3,519,786 1,790,964 Other comprehensive income 690,444 2,032,479 70,066 26,771 Total comprehensive income 6,671,993 8,535,314 3,589,852 1,817,735 Proﬁt/(loss) allocated to material NCI 682,779 784,211 574,321 308,434 Dividend paid to NCI 906,513 837,883 400,602 206,400 189 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 8.1 Material partly-owned subsidiaries (Contd.) Financial information of subsidiaries that have material non-controlling interests (NCI) are provided below (Contd.) Leisure Consumer foods & retail As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Summarised statement of ﬁnancial position as at 31 March Current assets 11,368,244 12,260,899 8,098,607 6,061,026 Non-current assets 66,812,284 63,879,761 14,829,369 13,922,206 Total assets 78,180,528 76,140,660 22,927,976 19,983,232 Current liabilities 8,360,308 8,530,725 6,570,597 5,030,420 Non-current liabilities 8,586,091 8,675,553 1,656,754 1,455,343 Total liabilities 16,946,399 17,206,278 8,227,351 6,485,763 Accumulated balances of material NCI 11,022,992 10,997,799 2,287,966 1,908,954 Summarised cash ﬂow information for year ending 31 March Cash ﬂows from operating activities 5,750,329 5,377,694 5,175,631 3,094,950 Cash ﬂows from/(used in) investing activities (2,154,749) (1,767,639) (1,415,285) (553,180) Cash ﬂows from/(used in) ﬁnancing activities (4,067,811) (4,986,087) (2,465,962) (1,383,090) Net increase/(decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (472,231) (1,376,032) 1,294,384 1,158,680 The above information is based on amounts before inter-company eliminations. Names of material partly-owned subsidiaries and effective (2015 20.22%) holding % owned by non-controling interest: Walkers Tours Ltd. 1.49% (2015 1.49%) John Keells Hotels PLC. 19.68% (2015 19.68%) Leisure Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. 19.68% (19.68%) Ahungalle Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 19.68% John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd. 19.68% (2015 19.68%) (2015 19.68%) Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 19.68% Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. 24.67% (2015 24.67%) (2015 19.68%) Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. 20.97% (2015 20.97%) Asian Hotels & Properties PLC. 21.44% (2015 21.44%) Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd. 19.68% (2015 19.68%) Consumer foods & retail Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 20.22% Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 18.64% (2015 18.64%) (2015 20.22%) JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 18.64% Resort Hotels Ltd. 20.75% (2015 20.75%) (2015 18.64%) Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. 20.76% (2015 20.76%) Keells Food Products PLC. 10.35% (2015 9.83%) Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. 1.26% (2015 1.26%) Cinnamon Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. 19.68% (2015 0%) Accounting judgements,estimates and assumptions Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. 19.68% (2015 19.68%) Consolidation of entities in which the Group holds less than a Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. 19.68% majority of voting right (de facto control). (2015 19.68%) Tinco Walk Inn Ltd. 19.68% (2015 19.68%) The Group considers that it controls some subsidiaries even though Habarana Lodge Ltd. 21.01% (2015 21.01%) it owns less than 50% of the voting rights. This is because the Group Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 17.26% (2015 17.26%) is the single largest shareholder of those subsidiaries with equity Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. 20.66% (2015 20.66%) interest. The remaining equity shares in those subsidiaries are Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. 19.68% (2015 19.68%) widely held by many other shareholders, and there is no history Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 20.76% of the other shareholders collaborating to exercise their votes (2015 20.76%) collectively or to outvote the Group. Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 19.68% (2015 19.68%) International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd. 20.22% 190 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Considering the Group balances, none of the individual For the purpose of impairment testing, goodwill acquired partly-owned subsidiaries have material non-controlling in a business combination is, from the acquisition date, interest. However, the above information has been presented allocated to each of the Group’s cash generating units that on the aggregated interests in similar entities namely, the are expected to beneﬁt from the combination, irrespective Leisure and Consumer Foods and Retail (CFR) segment, of whether other assets or liabilities of the acquiree are based on the nature and risks of the products and services. assigned to those units. 9 Business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling Impairment is determined by assessing the recoverable interests amount of the cash-generating unit to which the goodwill Accounting policy relates. Where the recoverable amount of the cash generating Business combinations and goodwill unit is less than the carrying amount, an impairment loss is Business combinations are accounted for using the recognised. The impairment loss is allocated ﬁrst to reduce acquisition method of accounting. The Group measures the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and goodwill at the acquisition date as the fair value of the then to the other assets pro-rata to the carrying amount of consideration transferred including the recognised amount each asset in the unit. of any non-controlling interests in the acquiree, less the net recognised amount (generally fair value) of the identiﬁable Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition assets acquired and liabilities assumed, all measured as of of a foreign operation are treated as assets and liabilities of the acquisition date. the foreign operation and translated at the closing rate. When the fair value of the consideration transferred including Where goodwill forms part of a cash-generating unit and part the recognised amount of any non-controlling interests in the of the operation within that unit is disposed of, the goodwill acquiree is lower than the fair value of net assets acquired, a associated with the operation disposed of is included in the gain is recognised immediately in the income statement. The carrying amount of the operation when determining the gain Group elects on a transaction-by-transaction basis whether or loss on disposal of the operation, goodwill disposed in to measure non-controlling interests at fair value, or at this circumstance is measured based on the relative values their proportionate share of the recognised amount of the of the operation disposed of and the portion of the cashidentiﬁable net assets, at the acquisition date. Transaction generating unit retained. costs, other than those associated with the issue of debt or equity securities, that the Group incurs in connection with Impairment of goodwill a business combination are expensed as incurred. When Goodwill is tested for impairment annually (as at 31 March) the Group acquires a business, it assesses the ﬁnancial and when circumstances indicate that the carrying value assets and liabilities assumed for appropriate classiﬁcation may be impaired. Impairment is determined for goodwill and designation in accordance with the contractual terms, by assessing the recoverable amount of each casheconomic circumstances and pertinent conditions as at the generating unit (or group of cash-generating units) to which acquisition date. If the business combination is achieved the goodwill relates. Where the recoverable amount of the in stages, the acquisition date fair value of the acquirer’s cash generating unit is less than their carrying amount, an previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured impairment loss is recognised. Impairment losses relating to fair value at the acquisition date through proﬁt or loss. Any to goodwill cannot be reversed in future periods. contingent consideration to be transferred by the acquirer will be recognised at fair value at the acquisition date. 9.1 Acquisitions in 2015/16 Contingent consideration which is deemed to be an asset or Acquisition of Rajawella Holdings Ltd. liability, which is a ﬁnancial instrument and within the scope In September 2015, the Group has increased its of LKAS 39, is measured at fair value with changes in fair shareholdings in Rajawella Holdings Ltd. (RHL) from 16.9% value either in the income statement or as a change to other to 49.85% with a total investment of LKR 1,044 Mn over a comprehensive income. If the contingent consideration is three year period. Total investment comprises a partial classiﬁed as equity, it will not be remeasured. Subsequent buyout from existing shareholders, an infusion into RHL and settlement is accounted within equity. In instances where release of an existing sublease of land held by the Group. the contingent consideration does not fall within the scope of LKAS 39, it is measured in accordance with the appropriate SLFRS/LKAS. After initial recognition, goodwill is measured at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment, annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value may be impaired. 191 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 9 Business combinations and acquisitions of non-controlling interests (Contd.) 9.1 Acquisitions in 2015/16 (Contd.) The fair value of net assets acquired of Rajawella Holdings Ltd. were as follows; Fair value recognised In LKR'000s on acquisition ASSETS Cash 145,588 Inventories 10,675 Trade and other receivables 38,767 Other current assets 3,498 Intangible Assets 484 Lease hold land rights* 1,507,818 Property, plant and equipment 460,706 LIABILITIES Bank overdrafts (43,501) Deferred Tax Liabilities (954) Other Deferred Liabilities (564,181) Employee beneﬁt liabilities (8,435) Other current liabilities (14,125) Trade and other payables (145,045) Total identiﬁable net assets at fair value 1,391,295 Non-controlling interest measured at fair value (971,141) Gain on bargain purchase of a subsidiary (4,088) Total purchase consideration 416,066 Deferred purchase consideration (301,065) Cash and cash equivalents acquired (102,087) Net cash outﬂow on acquisition of the subsidiary 12,914 * This represents the fair value on the date of acquisition of the leasehold land right held by Rajawella Holdings Ltd. The Fair value has been determined by an external independent chartered valuer. Investment in Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 9.2 Disposals in 2015/16 John Keells Holdings PLC. (JKH) further invested in LKR Share buy back Union Assurance PLC. (UA) 4,732 Mn in Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. a subsidiary of In May 2015, the Board of Directors of UA, a subsidiary of JKH involving the developing, owning, managing, operating, the Group, resolved that up to a maximum of 26,785,714 selling, leasing and renting of a luxury multi/mixed use of its Ordinary Shares be repurchased at a price of LKR Integrated Resort. 167.80 per share on a Pro Rata basis of ten (10) shares for every thirty two (32) shares held. John Keells Holdings 9.1 Acquisitions in 2014/15 PLC. (the Company) exercised its buy back option of UA and Investment in Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. the resultant gain of LKR3.10 Bn has been reported under John Keells Holdings PLC. (JKH) further invested LKR 525 Other Operating Income in the income statement of the John Mn in Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. a subsidiary of JKH Keells Holdings PLC. (the Company). involving the developing, owning, managing, operating, selling, leasing and renting of a luxury multi/mixed use 9.3 Disposals in 2014/15 Integrated Resort. Disposal of Union Assurance General Ltd. In compliance with the requirements of the Regulation Investment in John Keells Properties Ja-ela (Pvt) Ltd. of Insurance Industry Act No. 3 of 2011, Union Assurance John Keells Holdings PLC. (JKH) further invested LKR 100 PLC. (UAPLC), a subsidiary of the Group has completed the Mn in John Keells Properties Ja-ela (Pvt) Ltd., a subsidiary segregation of its long term and general insurance business of JKH which is involved in property development and by the transfer of the general insurance business to a newly management of mall operations. formed company, Union Assurance General Limited (UAGL) on 01 January 2015. After the aforesaid segregation, UAPLC disposed of 78% of its stake in UAGL to Fairfax Asia Ltd. 192 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Value recognised In LKR'000s on disposal ASSETS Property, plant and equipment 112,944 Other non current ﬁnancial assets 5,338,016 Trade and other receivables 2,471,880 Deferred tax assets 29,204 Deferred acquisition cost 167,017 Cash in hand and at bank 274,694 LIABILITIES Insurance contract liability (3,653,048) Trade and other payables (1,158,820) Deferred Revenue (130,328) Employee beneﬁt liabilities (106,561) Current tax liabilities (141,518) Bank overdraft (70,842) Total identiﬁable net assets 3,132,638 Transferred to investments in equity accounted investees (689,718) Proﬁt on disposal of general insurance business 1,221,460 Cash consideration received 3,664,380 Cash and cash equivalents disposed (203,852) Net cash inﬂow on disposal of non current investments 3,460,528 10 Financial risk management objectives and policies The Group trades only with recognised, creditworthy third The Group has loans and other receivables, trade and other parties. It is the Group’s policy that all clients who wish receivables and cash and short-term deposits that arise to trade on credit terms are subject to credit veriﬁcation directly from its operations. The Group also holds other procedures. In addition, receivable balances are monitored ﬁnancial instruments such as available for sale and fair on an ongoing basis with the result that the Group’s exposure value through proﬁt or loss ﬁnancial instruments and may to bad debts is not signiﬁcant. enter into derivative transactions. The Group’s principal ﬁnancial liabilities, comprise of loans and borrowings, trade With respect to credit risk arising from the other ﬁnancial and other payables and ﬁnancial guarantee contracts. The assets of the Group, such as cash and cash equivalents, main purpose of these ﬁnancial liabilities is to ﬁnance the available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments, investments, and Group’s operations and to provide guarantees to support certain derivative instruments, the Group’s exposure to its operations. The ﬁnancial risk governance framework credit risk arises from default of the counterparty. The Group provides assurance to the Group’s senior management manages its operations to avoid any excessive concentration that the Group’s ﬁnancial risk activities are governed by of counterparty risk and the Group takes all reasonable appropriate policies and procedures and that ﬁnancial steps to ensure the counterparties fulﬁll their obligations. risks are identiﬁed, measured and managed in accordance with the Group’s policies and risk objectives. The Group is exposed to market risk, credit risk and liquidity risk. 10.1 Credit risk Credit risk is the risk that a counterparty will not meet its obligations under a ﬁnancial instrument or customer contract, leading to a ﬁnancial loss. The Group is exposed to credit risk from its operating activities (primarily trade receivables) and from its ﬁnancing activities, including deposits with banks and ﬁnancial institutions, foreign exchange transactions and other ﬁnancial instruments. 193 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 10 Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd.) 10.1.1 Risk exposure The maximum risk positions of ﬁnancial assets which are generally subject to credit risk are equal to their carrying amounts (without consideration of collateral, if available). Following table shows the maximum risk positions. 2016 Notes Non Cash in Trade and Short term Amounts Total % of current hand and other investdue from allocation As at 31 March ﬁnancial at bank receivables ments related In LKR '000s assets parties Group Government securities 10.1.2 15,287,098 26,149,799 41,436,897 38% Corporate debt securities 10.1.3 4,939,118 856,498 5,795,616 5% Deposits with bank 10.1.4 568,198 42,621,898 43,190,096 40% Loans to executives 10.1.5 618,850 167,940 786,790 2% Loans to life policyholders 10.1.6 783,373 783,373 1% Preference shares 10.1.7 254,024 254,024 0% Trade and other receivables 10.1.8 9,482,865 9,482,865 9% Reinsurance receivables 10.1.9 132,298 132,298 0% Premium receivable 10.1.10 215,846 215,846 0% Amounts due from related 10.1.11 133,031 133,031 0% parties Cash in hand and at bank 10.1.12 5,127,463 5,127,463 5% Total credit risk exposure 22,450,661 5,127,463 9,998,949 69,628,195 133,031 107,338,299 100% Financial assets at fair value 10.3.3.1 3,006,875 through P&L Available-for-sale investments 10.3.3.2 184,783 Total equity risk exposure 184,783 3,006,875 Total 22,635,444 5,127,463 9,998,949 72,635,070 133,031 Company Government securities 10.1.2 18,066,890 18,066,890 32% Corporate debt securities 10.1.3 268,366 268,366 0% Deposits with bank 10.1.4 38,795,346 38,795,346 66% Loans to executives 10.1.5 72,980 19,823 92,803 0% Trade and other receivables 10.1.8 149,321 149,321 0% Amounts due from related 10.1.11 595,182 595,182 2% parties Cash in hand and at bank 10.1.12 178,193 178,193 0% Total credit risk exposure 341,346 178,193 169,144 56,862,236 595,182 58,146,101 100% Available-for-sale investments 10.3.3.2 166,059 Total equity risk exposure 166,059 Total 507,405 178,193 169,144 56,862,236 595,182 194 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 2015 Non Cash in Trade and Short Amounts Total % of current hand other term due from allocation ﬁnancial and at receivables investrelated assets bank ments parties 11,148,295 37,494,803 48,643,098 49% 5,430,430 753,218 6,183,648 6% 1,649,700 25,858,590 27,508,290 28% 538,211 161,119 699,330 1% 682,095 682,095 1% 9,873,475 9,873,475 10% 89,854 89,854 0% 145,241 145,241 0% 185,085 185,085 0% 4,510,526 4,510,526 5% 19,448,731 4,510,526 10,269,689 64,106,611 185,085 98,520,642 100% 3,434,057 259,957 259,957 3,434,057 19,708,688 4,510,526 10,269,689 67,540,668 185,085 22,993,018 22,993,018 51% 268,306 268,306 1% 1,059,116 20,299,561 21,358,677 47% 64,462 17,980 82,442 0% 67,586 67,586 0% 258,270 258,270 1% 43,931 43,931 0% 1,391,884 43,931 85,566 43,292,579 258,270 45,072,230 100% 241,235 241,235 1,633,119 43,931 85,566 43,292,579 258,270 195 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 10 Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd.) 10.1.3 Corporate debt securities As at 31 March 2016, corporate debt securities comprise 10.1.2 Government securities 5% (2015-6%) of the total investments in debt securities, As at 31 March 2016 as shown in table above, 39% (2015out of which 94% (2015 – 84%) were rated “A” or better, or 50%) of debt securities comprise investments in government guaranteed by a banking institution with a rating of “A” or securities consist of treasury bonds, bills and reverse repo better. investments. Government securities are usually referred to as risk free due to the sovereign nature of the instrument. Group As at 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR ’000s Rating % of In LKR ’000s Rating % of Fitch ratings total total AA+ 615,672 11% 0% AA 77,505 1% 698,192 11% AA2,988,097 52% 2,065,816 33% A+ 1,132,347 20% 2,198,843 36% A 562,794 10% 251,381 4% A398,424 6% 763,297 12% BBB+ 20,777 0% 22,469 0% Not rated 0% 183,650 4% Total 5,795,616 100% 6,183,648 100% 10.1.4 Deposits with bank Deposits with bank mainly consist of ﬁxed and call deposits . As at 31 March 2016, ﬁxed and call deposits comprise 93% (201598%) and 93% (2015100%) for the Group and Company respectively were rated “A+” or better. Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In Rating % In Rating % In Rating % In Rating % Fitch ratings* LKR ’000s of total LKR ’000s of total LKR ’000s of total LKR ’000s of total AAA 1,003,763 2% 253,220 1% 870,038 2% 0% AA+ 10,200,822 24% 8,607,634 31% 9,382,100 24% 7,536,580 35% AA 5,110,419 12% 1,209,219 4% 5,097,422 13% 1,209,219 6% AA20,978,876 48% 16,886,019 61% 18,737,328 48% 12,612,878 59% A+ 2,966,941 7% 232,307 1% 2,140,013 6% 0% A 2,929,284 7% 319,891 2% 2,568,445 7% 0% Total 43,190,096 100% 27,508,290 100% 38,795,346 100% 21,358,677 100% * rating agencies 10.1.5 Loans to executives 10.1.6 Loans to life policyholders Loans to executives portfolio is largely made up of vehicle The surrender value of insurance policies considered as the loans which are given to staff at assistant manager level collateral for the loans given to life policy holders by Union and above. The respective business units have obtained Assurance PLC. the necessary promissory notes as collateral for the loans granted. 10.1.7 Preference Shares Cumulative preference share investment which has lien over assets, redeemable at the option of shareholder. 196 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 10.1.8 Trade and other receivables As at 31 March Group Company In LKR '000s 2016 2015 2016 2015 Neither past due nor impaired 4,974,544 6,715,696 96,094 47,017 Past due but not impaired 0-30 days 2,083,677 1,260,056 10,089 10,340 31–60 days 958,904 866,170 16,506 1,684 61–90 days 299,605 316,115 > 91 days 1,166,135 715,438 26,632 8,545 Impaired 1,035,892 706,906 3,817 Gross carrying value 10,518,757 10,580,381 149,321 71,403 Less: impairment provision Individually assessed impairment provision (564,864) (607,537) (3,817) Collectively assessed impairment provision (471,028) (99,369) Total 9,482,865 9,873,475 149,321 67,586 The Group has obtained customer deposits from major prior to settling claims. customers by reviewing their past performance and credit  š 8QWLOSUHPLXPLVVHWWOHGDWHPSRUDU\FHUWLıFDWHIRU worthiness, as collateral. days issued for motor policies. The requirement for an impairment is analysed at each 10.1.11 Amounts due from related parties reporting date on an individual basis for major customers. The Group's amounts due from related parties mainly Additionally, a large number of minor receivables are consists of associates and other venture partners' balances grouped into homogeneous groups and assessed for from joint ventures. The Company balance consists of the impairment collectively. The calculation is based on actual balances from affiliate companies. incurred historical data. 10.1.12 Credit risk relating to cash and cash equivalents 10.1.9 Reinsurance receivables In order to mitigate the concentration, settlement and As part of its overall risk management strategy, Union operational risks related to cash and cash equivalents, Assurance PLC. (UA) cedes insurance risk through the Group consciously manages the exposure to a single proportional, non-proportional and speciﬁc risk reinsurance counterparty taking into consideration, where relevant, the treaties. While these mitigate insurance risk, the recoverable rating or ﬁnancial standing of the counterparty, where the from reinsurers and receivables arising from ceded position is reviewed as and when required, the duration of reinsurance exposes UA to credit risk. the exposure in managing such exposures and the nature of the transaction and agreement governing the exposure. Reinsurance is placed in line with policy guidelines approved by the Board of Directors on an annual basis in 10.2 Liability risk line with the guidelines issued by the Insurance Board of Sri The Group’s policy is to hold cash and undrawn committed Lanka and concentration of risk is managed by reference facilities at a level sufficient to ensure that the Group to counterparties’ limits that are set each year and are has available funds to meet its short and medium term subject to regular reviews. On a regular basis management capital and funding obligations, including organic growth assesses the creditworthiness of reinsurers to update the and acquisition activities, and to meet any unforeseen reinsurance strategy and ascertain the suitable allowance obligations and opportunities. The Group holds cash and for impairment of reinsurance assets. undrawn committed facilities to enable the Group to manage its liquidity risk. 10.1.10 Premium receivable UA has a credit risk exposure to receivables where the The Group monitors its risk to a shortage of funds using a policyholder or the intermediary cannot settle their dues to daily cash management process. This process considers UA. In life insurance, credit risk is minimal, since premium the maturity of both the Group’s ﬁnancial investments and is collected before the policy is issued. The following steps ﬁnancial assets (e.g. accounts receivable, other ﬁnancial have also been taken to further minimise credit risk; assets) and projected cash ﬂows from operations.  š &XVWRPHUV DUH UHJXODUO\ UHPLQGHG RQ WKH SUHPLXP warranty clause. The Group’s objective is to maintain a balance between  š 2XWVWDQGLQJFUHGLWLVIROORZHGXSRQDGDLO\EDVLV continuity of funding and ﬂexibility through the use of  š 3ROLFLHV QRW VHWWOHG ZLWKLQ D UHDVRQDEOH SHULRG DUH multiple sources of funding including debentures, bank monitored and cancelled. loans, loan notes, overdrafts and ﬁnance leases over a broad  š 2XWVWDQGLQJ UHFHLYDEOHV DUH FKHFNHG DQG FRQıUPHG spread of maturities. 197 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 10 Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd.) 10.2 Liquidity risk (Contd.) 10.2.1 Net debt/(cash) As at 31 March Group Company In LKR '000s 2016 2015 2016 2015 Short term investments 72,635,070 67,540,668 56,862,236 43,292,579 Cash in hand and at bank 5,127,463 4,510,526 178,193 43,931 Adjustments to liquid assets (5,163,192) (4,893,704) Total liquid assets 72,599,341 67,157,490 57,040,429 43,336,510 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 13,706,848 4,899,576 1,325,508 Short term borrowings 821,243 12,622,740 Current portion of interest-bearing loans and borrowings 2,991,582 4,459,213 1,482,508 1,345,276 Bank overdrafts 3,230,182 1,952,383 117,412 32,692 Total liabilities 20,749,855 23,933,912 1,599,920 2,703,476 Net debt/(cash) (51,849,486) (43,223,578) (55,440,509) (40,633,034) 10.2.2 Liquidity risk management The mixed approach combines elements of the cash ﬂow matching approach and the liquid assets approach. The business units attempt to match cash outﬂows in each time bucket against a combination of contractual cash inﬂows plus other inﬂows that can be generated through the sale of assets, repurchase agreement or other secured borrowing. Maturity analysis The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 March 2016 based on contractual undiscounted (principal plus interest) payments. Group Within Between Between Between Between More than Total In LKR '000s 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Interest-bearing loans and 3,687,083 1,985,299 1,475,617 827,071 720,891 11,773,215 20,469,176 borrowings Trade and other payables 12,755,466 12,755,466 Amounts due to related parties 28,982 28,982 Short term borrowings 821,243 821,243 Bank overdrafts 3,230,182 3,230,182 20,522,956 1,985,299 1,475,617 827,071 720,891 11,773,215 37,305,049 The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities at 31 March 2015 based on contractual undiscounted (principal plus interest) payments. Group Within Between Between Between Between More than Total In LKR '000s 1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years Interest-bearing loans and 4,459,213 3,687,083 1,985,299 1,475,617 827,071 720,891 13,155,174 borrowings Trade and other payables 11,267,339 11,267,339 Amounts due to related parties 26,488 26,488 Short term borrowings 12,622,740 12,622,740 Bank overdrafts 1,952,383 1,952,383 30,328,163 3,687,083 1,985,299 1,475,617 827,071 720,891 39,024,124 198 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Maturity analysis The table below summarises the maturity proﬁle of the Company's ﬁnancial liabilities as at 31 March 2016 based on contractual undiscounted (principal plus interest) payments. As at 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Within Within Between Total Company 1 year 1 year 1-2 years Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 1,482,508 1,345,276 1,325,508 2,670,784 Trade and other payables 332,506 333,822 333,822 Amounts due to related parties 102,135 2,726 2,726 Bank overdrafts 117,412 32,692 32,692 2,034,561 1,714,516 1,325,508 3,040,024 10.3 Market risk  š 7KHVWDWHPHQWRIıQDQFLDOSRVLWLRQVHQVLWLYLW\UHODWHVWR Market risk is the risk that the fair value of future cash ﬂows derivatives and available-for-sale debt instruments of a ﬁnancial instrument will ﬂuctuate because of changes  š 7KHVHQVLWLYLW\RIWKHUHOHYDQWLQFRPHVWDWHPHQWLWHPLV in market prices. the effect of the assumed changes in respective market risks. Market risk comprise of the following types of risk:  š 7KLV LV EDVHG RQ WKH ıQDQFLDO DVVHWV DQG ıQDQFLDO * Interest rate risk liabilities held at 31 March 2016 and 2015. * Currency risk * Equity price risk 10.3.1 Interest rate risk * Commodity price risk Interest rate risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash ﬂows of a ﬁnancial instrument will ﬂuctuate because of The objective of market risk management is to manage changes in market interest rates. The Group’s exposure to and control market risk exposures within acceptable the risk of changes in market interest rates relates primarily parameters, while optimising the return. to the Group’s long-term debt obligations with ﬂoating interest rates. The sensitivity analyses in the following sections relate to the position as at 31 March in 2016 and 2015. Most lenders grant loans under ﬂoating interest rates. To manage this, based on the market condition and outlook of The analysis excludes the impact of movements in market the interest rate, the Group takes mitigating action such as variables on the carrying values of other post-retirement interest rate swaps ,caps, etc. obligations, provisions, and the non-ﬁnancial assets and liabilities. The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in interest rates, with all other The following assumptions have been made in calculating variables held constant, of the Group’s and Company's proﬁt the sensitivity analysis: before tax (through the impact on ﬂoating rate borrowings). Increase/ (decrease) in Effect on proﬁt before tax basis points LKR '000s Rupee Other Group Company borrowings currency borrowings 2016 +189 +52 (119,511) (7,709) -189 -52 119,679 7,709 2015 +30 +07 (16,369) (18,695) -30 -07 16,369 18,695 The assumed spread of basis points for the interest rate sensitivity analysis is based on the currently observable market environment changes to base ﬂoating interest rates. 199 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 10 Financial risk management objectives and policies (Contd.) decisions on whether to hold, sell, or make forward bookings of foreign currency as per decision rights given by Board of 10.3.2 Foreign currency risk Directors. Foreign currency risk is the risk that the fair value or future cash ﬂows of a ﬁnancial instrument will ﬂuctuate because of 10.3.2.1 Effects of currency transaction on forward contract changes in foreign exchange rates. The Group has exposure The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a to foreign currency risk where it has cash ﬂows in overseas reasonably possible change in the USD/LKR exchange operations and foreign currency transactions which are rate, with all other variables held constant, of the Group’s affected by foreign exchange movements. Group treasury proﬁt before tax due to changes in the fair value of the analyses the market condition of foreign exchange and Group’s forward exchange contracts. Currently these provides market updates to the Group Executive Committee ﬁnancial instruments are categorised under trade and other (GEC), with the use of external consultants' advice. Based receivables. on the suggestions made by Group treasury the GEC takes For the year ended 31 March Increase/(decrease) in Effect on proﬁt before tax basis points USD LKR '000s Group Company 2016 +10% (42,282) -10% 42,282 2015 +2% (23,677) -2% 23,677 The assumed spread of the exchange rate is based on the current observable market environment. 10.3.2.2 Effects of currency translation For purposes of the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, the income and expenses and the assets and liabilities of subsidiaries located outside Sri Lanka are converted into Sri Lankan Rupees (LKR). Therefore, period-to-period changes in average exchange rates may cause currency translation effects that have a signiﬁcant impact on, for example, revenue, segment results (Earnings Before Interest and Taxes –EBIT) and assets and liabilities of the Group. Unlike exchange rate transaction risk, exchange rate translation risk does not necessarily affect future cash ﬂows. The Group’s equity position reﬂects changes in book values caused by exchange rates. The Group’s exposure to foreign currency changes for all other currencies is not material. Group Company Increase/(decrease) Effect on proﬁt Effect on equity Effect on proﬁt in exchange rate USD before tax LKR '000s LKR '000s before tax LKR '000s 2016 +10% 3,242,566 3,329,445 1,817,315 -10% (3,242,566) (3,329,445) (1,817,315) 2015 +2% 481,123 217,727 309,923 -2% (481,123) (217,727) (309,923) Assumptions The assumed spread of the exchange rate is based on the current observable market environment. 10.3.3 Equity price risk The Group’s listed and unlisted equity securities are susceptible to market price risk arising from uncertainties about future values of the investment securities. 10.3.3.1 Financial assets at fair value through Proﬁt and loss The Group manages the equity price risk through diversiﬁcation and by placing limits on individual and total equity instruments. Reports on the equity portfolio are submitted to the Group’s senior management on a regular basis. The Board of Directors reviews and approves all equity investment decisions. 200 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Group As at 31 March 2016 2015 LKR ’000s % LKR ’000s % Banks ﬁnance and insurance 1,849,371 62% 1,919,688 56% Beverage food and tobacco 364,221 12% 380,447 11% Construction & engineering 53,844 2% 67,600 2% Diversiﬁed holdings 360,216 12% 466,865 14% Manufacturing 273,713 9% 358,007 10% Motors 12,128 0% 13,899 0% Power and energy 16,058 1% 140,961 4% Other services 6,651 0% 8,408 0% Telecommunications 64,641 2% 78,182 3% Healthcare 6,032 0% 0% 3,006,875 100% 3,434,057 100% 10.3.3.2 Available-for-sale investments All unquoted equity investments are made after obtaining Board of Directors approval. 10.3.3.3 Sensitivity analysis The following table demonstrates the sensitivity to a reasonably possible change in the market index, with all other variables held constant, of the Group and the Company's proﬁt before tax and equity due to changes in the fair value of the listed equity securities. Group Company Change in year-end Effect on proﬁt Effect on equity Effect on proﬁt Effect on equity market price index before tax LKR '000s LKR '000s before tax LKR '000s LKR '000s 2016 +10% 300,688 32 -10% (300,688) (32) 2015 +14% 480,768 55 -14% (480,768) (55) 10.4 Capital management The primary objective of the Group’s capital management is to ensure that it maintains a strong ﬁnancial position and healthy capital ratios in order to support its business and maximise shareholder value. The Group manages its capital structure, and makes adjustments to it, in the light of changes in economic conditions. To maintain or adjust the capital structure, the Group may issue new shares, have a rights issue or buy back of shares. As at 31 March Group Company In LKR '000s 2016 2015 2016 2015 Debt/Equity 12.3% 15.9% 1.6% 3.2% 201 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 11 Fair value measurement and related fair value disclosures  š /HYHO  Š 4XRWHG XQDGMXVWHG  PDUNHW SULFHV LQ DFWLYH Fair value measurement markets for identical assets or liabilities Fair value related disclosures for ﬁnancial instruments  š /HYHOŠ9DOXDWLRQWHFKQLTXHVIRUZKLFKWKHORZHVWOHYHO and non-ﬁnancial assets that are measured at fair value input that is signiﬁcant to the fair value measurement is or where fair values are only, disclosed are reﬂected in directly or indirectly observable this note. Aside from this note, additional fair value related  š /HYHOŠ9DOXDWLRQWHFKQLTXHVIRUZKLFKWKHORZHVWOHYHO disclosures, including the valuation methods, signiﬁcant input that is signiﬁcant to the fair value measurement is estimates and assumptions are also provided in: unobservable  š ,QYHVWPHQWLQXQTXRWHGHTXLW\VKDUHV 1RWH   š 3URSHUW\SODQWDQGHTXLSPHQWXQGHU For assets and liabilities that are recognised in the ﬁnancial revaluation model Note 21.3 statements on a recurring basis, the Group determines  š ,QYHVWPHQWSURSHUWLHV 1RWH  whether transfers have occurred between levels in the  š )LQDQFLDO,QVWUXPHQWV LQFOXGLQJWKRVH hierarchy by re-assessing categorisation (based on the carried at amortised cost) Note 27 lowest level input that is signiﬁcant to the fair value measurement as a whole) at the end of each reporting Accounting policy period. Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction The Group determines the policies and procedures for both between market participants at the measurement date. The recurring fair value measurement, such as investment fair value measurement is based on the presumption that properties and unquoted AFS ﬁnancial assets, and for nonthe transaction to sell the asset or transfer the liability takes recurring measurement, such as assets held for sale in place either: discontinued operations.  š ,QWKHSULQFLSDOPDUNHWIRUWKHDVVHWRUOLDELOLW\RU  š ,Q WKH DEVHQFH RI D SULQFLSDO PDUNHW LQ WKH PRVW External valuers are involved for valuation of signiﬁcant advantageous market for the asset or liability assets, such as land and building and investment properties, and signiﬁcant liabilities, such as insurance The principal or the most advantageous market must be contracts. Selection criteria for external valuers include accessible by the Group. market knowledge, reputation, independence and whether professional standards are maintained. The Group decides, The fair value of an asset or a liability is measured using after discussions with the external valuers, which valuation the assumptions that market participants would use techniques and inputs to use for individual assets and when pricing the asset or liability, assuming that market liabilities. participants act in their economic best interest. For the purpose of fair value disclosures, the Group has A fair value measurement of a non-ﬁnancial asset takes into determined classes of assets and liabilities on the basis of account a market participant's ability to generate economic the nature, characteristics and risks of the asset or liability beneﬁts by using the asset in its highest and best use or by and the level of the fair value hierarchy as explained above. selling it to another market participant that would use the asset in its highest and best use. The Group uses valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimising the use of unobservable inputs. All assets and liabilities for which fair value is measured or disclosed in the ﬁnancial statements are categorised within the fair value hierarchy, described as follows, based on the lowest level input that is signiﬁcant to the fair value measurement as a whole: 202 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Fair value hierarchy 11.1 Financial assets by fair value hierarchy Group The Group held the following ﬁnancial instruments carried at fair value in the Statement of Financial Position: FINANCIAL ASSETS Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Financial assets held for trading 1,395,201 1,326,906 Designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss 2,253,716 2,107,151 21,160 429,847 Foreign exchange forward contracts 26,732 24,396 Available for sale 7,018,665 3,670,400 301,134 3,048,759 184,456 259,633 Total 10,667,582 7,104,457 349,026 3,503,002 184,456 259,633 NON FINANCIAL ASSETS Note Assets measured at fair value Land and buildings 21.1 29,953,873 28,508,863 Buildings on leasehold land 21.1 11,541,882 10,179,676 Investment property 23 4,878,406 4,608,941 Total 46,374,161 43,297,480 In determining the fair value, highest and best use of the property has been considered including the current condition of the properties, future usability and associated redevelopment requirements have been considered. Also, the valuers have made reference to market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties, with appropriate adjustments for size and location. The appraised fair values are rounded within the range of values. 11.2 Financial assets by fair value hierarchy Company FINANCIAL ASSETS Level 3 As at 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Available for sale 166,059 241,235 11.3 Reconciliation of fair value measurements of level 3 ﬁnancial instruments The Group and Company carries unquoted equity shares as available-for-sale ﬁnancial instruments classiﬁed as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy. A reconciliation of the beginning and closing balances including movements is summarised below: In LKR '000s Available-for-sale Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets ﬁnancial assets Group Company As at 1 April 2015 259,633 241,235 Sales (12,266) (27,488) Total losses recognised in OCI (62,911) (47,688) As at 31 March 2016 184,456 166,059 Fair valuation carried at 31 March 2016 for all unquoted equity shares classiﬁed as Level 3 within the fair value hierarchy using discounted cash ﬂow valuation methodology. Fair value would not signiﬁcantly vary if one or more of the inputs were changed. 203 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 12 Financial instruments and related policies of the asset. This evaluation does not affect any ﬁnancial Accounting policy assets designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss using Financial instruments — initial recognition and subsequent the fair value option at designation. measurement Financial assets initial recognition and measurement Loans and receivables Financial assets within the scope of LKAS 39 are classiﬁed Loans and receivables are non-derivative ﬁnancial assets as ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss, loans with ﬁxed or determinable payments that are not quoted in and receivables, held-to-maturity investments, availablean active market. After initial measurement, such ﬁnancial for-sale ﬁnancial assets, or as derivatives designated as assets are subsequently measured at amortised cost using hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. the effective interest rate method (EIR), less impairment. The Group determines the classiﬁcation of its ﬁnancial Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any assets at initial recognition. discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortisation All ﬁnancial assets are recognised initially at fair value plus, is included in ﬁnance income in the income statement. in the case of assets not at fair value through proﬁt or loss, The losses arising from impairment are recognised in the directly attributable transaction costs. Purchases or sales of income statement in ﬁnance costs. ﬁnancial assets that require delivery of assets within a time frame established by regulation or convention in the market Held-to-maturity investments place (regular way trades) are recognised on the trade date, Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative ﬁnancial i.e., the date that the Group commits to purchase or sell the assets with ﬁxed or determinable payments and ﬁxed asset. maturities are classiﬁed as held-to-maturity when the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold them The Group’s ﬁnancial assets include cash and short-term to maturity. After initial measurement, held-to-maturity deposits, trade and other receivables, loans and other investments are measured at amortised cost using the receivables, quoted and unquoted ﬁnancial instruments and effective interest method, less impairment. Amortised cost derivative ﬁnancial instruments. is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that are an integral part of Financial assets subsequent measurement the EIR. The EIR amortization is included in ﬁnance income in The subsequent measurement of ﬁnancial assets depends the income statement. The losses arising from impairment on their classiﬁcation. For purposes of subsequent are recognised in the income statement in ﬁnance costs. measurement ﬁnancial assets are classiﬁed in four categories: Available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments Available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments include equity and  š )LQDQFLDODVVHWVDWIDLUYDOXHWKURXJKSURıWRUORVV debt securities. Equity investments classiﬁed as available š /RDQVDQGUHFHLYDEOHV for-sale are those, which are neither classiﬁed as held for  š +HOGWRPDWXULW\LQYHVWPHQWV trading nor designated at fair value through proﬁt or loss.  š $YDLODEOHIRUVDOHıQDQFLDODVVHWV Debt securities in this category are those which are intended to be held for an indeﬁnite period of time and which may Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss be sold in response to needs for liquidity or in response to Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss include changes in the market conditions. ﬁnancial assets held for trading and ﬁnancial assets designated upon initial recognition at fair value through After initial measurement, available-for-sale ﬁnancial proﬁt or loss. Financial assets are classiﬁed as held for investments are subsequently measured at fair value trading if they are acquired for the purpose of selling or with unrealised gains or losses recognised in other repurchasing in the near term. comprehensive income under the available-for-sale reserve until the investment is derecognised, at which time the Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss are cumulative gain or loss is recognised in other operating carried in the statement of ﬁnancial position at fair value income, or determined to be impaired, at which time the with changes in fair value recognised in ﬁnance income or cumulative loss is reclassiﬁed to the income statement ﬁnance costs in the income statement. in ﬁnance costs and removed from the available-forsale reserve. Interest income on available-for-sale debt The Group evaluates its ﬁnancial assets held for trading, securities is calculated using the effective interest method other than derivatives, to determine whether the intention and is recognised in the income statement. to sell them in the near term is still appropriate. When the Group is unable to trade these ﬁnancial assets due The Group evaluates its available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets to to inactive markets and management’s intention to sell determine whether the ability and intention to sell them in them in the foreseeable future signiﬁcantly changes, the the near term is still appropriate. When the Group is unable Group may elect to reclassify these ﬁnancial assets in rare to trade these ﬁnancial assets due to inactive markets and circumstances. The reclassiﬁcation to loans and receivables, management’s intention to do so signiﬁcantly changes in the available-for-sale or held to maturity depends on the nature foreseeable future, the Group may elect to reclassify these 204 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information ﬁnancial assets in rare circumstances. Reclassiﬁcation there is objective evidence of impairment as a result of one to loans and receivables is permitted when the ﬁnancial or more events that has occurred after the initial recognition assets meet the deﬁnition of loans and receivables and the of the asset (an incurred ‘loss event’) and that loss event has Group has the intent and ability to hold these assets for an impact on the estimated future cash ﬂows of the ﬁnancial the foreseeable future or until maturity. Reclassiﬁcation to asset or the group of ﬁnancial assets that can be reliably the held-to-maturity category is permitted only when the estimated. entity has the ability and intention to hold the ﬁnancial asset accordingly. Evidence of impairment may include indications that the debtors or a group of debtors is experiencing signiﬁcant For a ﬁnancial asset reclassiﬁed out of the available-forﬁnancial difficulty, default or delinquency in interest or sale category, any previous gain or loss on that asset that principal payments, the probability that they will enter has been recognized in equity is amortised to the income bankruptcy or other ﬁnancial reorganisation and where statement over the remaining life of the investment using observable data indicate that there is a measurable decrease the EIR. Any difference between the new amortised cost in the estimated future cash ﬂows, such as changes in and the expected cash ﬂows is also amortised over the arrears or economic conditions that correlate with defaults. remaining life of the asset using the EIR. If the asset is subsequently determined to be impaired, then the amount Financial assets carried at amortised cost recorded in equity is reclassiﬁed to the income statement. For ﬁnancial assets carried at amortised cost, the Group ﬁrst assesses whether objective evidence of impairment Financial assets derecognition exists individually for ﬁnancial assets that are individually A ﬁnancial asset (or, where applicable a part of a ﬁnancial signiﬁcant, or collectively for ﬁnancial assets that are not asset or part of a group of similar ﬁnancial assets) is individually signiﬁcant. If the Group determines that no derecognised when: objective evidence of impairment exists for an individually assessed ﬁnancial asset, whether signiﬁcant or not, it  š 7KH ULJKWV WR UHFHLYH FDVK ĲRZV IURP WKH DVVHW KDYH includes the asset in a Group of ﬁnancial assets with similar expired credit risk characteristics and collectively assesses them for impairment. Assets that are individually assessed  š 7KH*URXSKDVWUDQVIHUUHGLWVULJKWWRUHFHLYHFDVKĲRZV for impairment and for which an impairment loss is, or from the asset or has assumed an obligation to pay continues to be, recognised are not included in a collective the received cash ﬂows in full without material delay assessment of impairment. to a third party under a ‘pass-through’ arrangement; and either (a) the Group has transferred substantially If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss has all the risks and rewards of the asset, or (b) the Group been incurred, the amount of the loss is measured as the has neither transferred nor retained substantially all difference between the assets carrying amount and the the risks and rewards of the asset, but has transferred present value of estimated future cash ﬂows (excluding control of the asset. future expected credit losses that have not yet been incurred). The present value of the estimated future cash ﬂows is When the Group has transferred its rights to receive cash discounted at the ﬁnancial asset’s original effective interest ﬂows from an asset or has entered into a pass-through rate. If a loan has a variable interest rate, the discount rate arrangement, and has neither transferred nor retained for measuring any impairment loss is the current effective substantially all of the risks and rewards of the asset nor interest rate. transferred control of it, the asset is recognised to the extent of the Group’s continuing involvement in it. The carrying amount of the asset is reduced through the use of an allowance account and the amount of the loss In that case, the Group also recognises an associated is recognised in the income statement. Interest income liability. The transferred asset and the associated liability are continues to be accrued on the reduced carrying amount measured on a basis that reﬂects the rights and obligations and is accrued using the rate of interest used to discount that the Group has retained. the future cash ﬂows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss. The interest income is recorded as part Continuing involvement that takes the form of a guarantee of ﬁnance income in the income statement. Loans together over the transferred asset is measured at the lower of the with the associated allowance are written off when there is original carrying amount of the asset and the maximum no realistic prospect of future recovery and all collateral has amount of consideration that the Group could be required to been realised or has been transferred to the Group. If, in a repay. subsequent year, the amount of the estimated impairment loss increases or decreases because of an event occurring Impairment of ﬁnancial assets after the impairment was recognised, the previously The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there recognised impairment loss is increased or reduced by is any objective evidence that a ﬁnancial asset or a group adjusting the allowance account. If a future write-off is later of ﬁnancial assets is impaired. A ﬁnancial asset or a group recovered, the recovery is credited to ﬁnance costs in the of ﬁnancial assets is deemed to be impaired if, and only if, income statement. 205 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 12 Financial instruments and related policies (Contd.) for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss. The interest income is recorded as part of ﬁnance income. If, AFS ﬁnancial assets in a subsequent year, the fair value of a debt instrument For available-for-sale ﬁnancial investments, the Group increases and the increase can be objectively related to an assesses at each reporting date whether there is objective event occurring after the impairment loss was recognised evidence that an investment or a group of investments is in the income statement, the impairment loss is reversed impaired. through the income statement. In the case of equity investments classiﬁed as availableFinancial liabilities – initial recognition and measurement for-sale, objective evidence would include a signiﬁcant or Financial liabilities within the scope of LKAS 39 are prolonged decline in the fair value of the investment below classiﬁed as ﬁnancial liabilities at fair value through proﬁt or its cost. ‘Signiﬁcance’ is evaluated against the original cost loss, loans and borrowings, or as derivatives designated as of the investment and ‘prolonged’ against the period in which hedging instruments in an effective hedge, as appropriate. the fair value has been below its original cost. Where there The Group determines the classiﬁcation of its ﬁnancial is evidence of impairment, the cumulative loss measured liabilities at initial recognition. as the difference between the acquisition cost and the current fair value (less any impairment loss) is removed All ﬁnancial liabilities are recognised initially at fair value from other comprehensive income. Impairment losses on and, in the case of loans and borrowings, carried at amortised equity investments are not reversed through the income cost. This includes directly attributable transaction costs. statement; increases in their fair value after impairment are recognised directly in other comprehensive income. The Group’s ﬁnancial liabilities include trade and other payables, bank overdrafts, loans and borrowings, ﬁnancial In the case of debt instruments classiﬁed as available-forguarantee contracts, and derivative ﬁnancial instruments. sale, impairment is assessed based on the same criteria as ﬁnancial assets carried at amortised cost. However, the Financial liabilities subsequent measurement amount recorded for impairment is the cumulative loss The subsequent measurement of ﬁnancial liabilities measured as the difference between the amortised cost depends on their classiﬁcation. For purposes of subsequent and the current fair value, less any impairment loss on that measurement ﬁnancial liabilities are classiﬁed in two investment previously recognised in the income statement. categories:  š /RDQVDQGERUURZLQJV Future interest income continues to be accrued based  š )LQDQFLDOJXDUDQWHHFRQWUDFWV on the reduced carrying amount of the asset, using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash ﬂows 12.1 Financial assets and liabilities by categories Financial assets and liabilities in the tables below are split into categories in accordance with LKAS 39. Group Loans and receivables Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 LKR '000s Financial instruments in non-current assets/non-current liabilities Other non-current ﬁnancial assets 2,492,810 3,215,789 50,452 24,919 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Financial instruments in current assets/current liabilities Trade and other receivables/ Payables 9,998,949 10,269,689 Amounts due from/due to related parties 133,031 185,085 Short term investments 67,404,837 61,468,200 3,619,625 3,838,985 Cash in hand and at bank 5,127,463 4,510,526 Short term borrowings Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Bank overdrafts Total 85,157,090 79,649,289 3,670,077 3,863,904 206 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information After initial recognition, interest bearing loans and Offsetting of ﬁnancial instruments borrowings are subsequently measured at amortised cost Financial assets and ﬁnancial liabilities are offset and the net using the effective interest rate method. Gains and losses amount reported in the consolidated statement of ﬁnancial are recognised in the income statement when the liabilities position if, and only if, there is a currently enforceable legal are derecognised as well as through the effective interest right to offset the recognised amounts and there is an rate method (EIR) amortization process. intention to settle on a net basis, or to realise the assets and settle the liabilities simultaneously. Amortised cost is calculated by taking into account any discount or premium on acquisition and fees or costs that Derivative ﬁnancial instruments initial recognition and are an integral part of the EIR. The EIR amortization is subsequent measurement included in ﬁnance costs in the income statement. The Group uses derivative ﬁnancial instruments such as forward currency contracts, interest rate swaps and forward Financial guarantee contracts issued by the Group are those commodity contracts to hedge its foreign currency risks, contracts that require a payment to be made to reimburse interest rate risks and commodity price risks, respectively. the holder for a loss it incurs because the speciﬁed debtor Such derivative ﬁnancial instruments are initially recognised fails to make a payment when due in accordance with the at fair value on the date on which a derivative contract is terms of a debt instrument. Financial guarantee contracts entered into and are subsequently remeasured at fair value. are recognised initially as a liability at fair value, adjusted for Derivatives are carried as ﬁnancial assets when the fair transaction costs that are directly attributable to the issuance value is positive and as ﬁnancial liabilities when the fair of the guarantee. Subsequently, the liability is measured at value is negative. the higher of the best estimate of the expenditure required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date and the The fair value of commodity contracts that meet the deﬁnition amount recognised less cumulative amortisation. of a derivative as deﬁned by LKAS 39 are recognised in the income statement in cost of sales. Financial liabilities derecognition A ﬁnancial liability is derecognised when the obligation Any gains or losses arising from changes in the fair value of under the liability is discharged or cancelled or expires. derivatives are taken directly to the income statement. When an existing ﬁnancial liability is replaced by another Foreign exchange forward contracts from the same lender on substantially different terms, or the Foreign exchange forward contracts are fair valued at each terms of an existing liability are substantially modiﬁed, such reporting date. Gains and losses arising from changes in fair an exchange or modiﬁcation is treated as a derecognition value are included in the income statement in the period in of the original liability and the recognition of a new liability, which they arise. and the difference in the respective carrying amounts is recognised in the income statement. Financial assets by Financial liabilities by categories categories Available-for-sale Held-to-maturity Total Financial liabilities ﬁnancial assets investments measured at amortised cost 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 6,987,250 5,898,900 13,104,932 10,569,080 22,635,444 19,708,688 13,706,848 4,899,576 9,998,949 10,269,689 12,755,466 11,267,339 133,031 185,085 28,982 26,488 517,005 1,079,892 1,093,603 1,153,591 72,635,070 67,540,668 5,127,463 4,510,526 821,243 12,622,740 2,991,582 4,459,213 3,230,182 1,952,383 7,504,255 6,978,792 14,198,535 11,722,671 110,529,957 102,214,656 33,534,303 35,227,739 207 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 12 Financial instruments and related policies (Contd.) Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an For ﬁnancial assets both at fair value through proﬁt and loss asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction and available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets the carrying amount between market participants at the measurement date. and fair value are equal. The following methods and assumptions were used to The fair value of loans and receivables is not signiﬁcantly estimate the fair values: different from the value based on amortised cost Fair value of quoted equities, debentures and bonds is based methodology. Fair value of held to maturity investments on price quotations in an active market at the reporting date. amounts to LKR 15,160 Mn (2015 LKR 13,194 Mn) for the Group. The fair value of unquoted instruments, loans from banks and other ﬁnancial liabilities, obligations under ﬁnance The Group has designated ﬁnancial assets amounting to leases, as well as other non-current ﬁnancial liabilities LKR 4,010 Mn (2015 LKR 4,005 Mn) upon initial recognition, is estimated by discounting future cash ﬂows using rates as fair value through proﬁt or loss. currently available for debt on similar terms, credit risk and remaining maturities. The management assessed that, cash and short-term deposits, trade receivables, trade payables, bank overdrafts Fair value of the unquoted ordinary shares has been and other current ﬁnancial liabilities approximate their estimated using a Discounted Cash Flow (DCF) model. carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities The valuation requires management to make certain of these instruments. assumptions about the model inputs, including forecast cash ﬂows, the discount rate, credit risk and volatility. The probabilities of the various estimates within the range can be reasonably assessed and are used in management’s estimate of fair value for these unquoted equity investments. 12.2 Financial assets and liabilities by categories Financial assets and liabilities in the tables below are split into categories in accordance with LKAS 39. Financial assets by categories Financial liabilities by categories Company Loans and receivables Available-for-sale Total Financial liabilities ﬁnancial assets measured at amortised cost As at 31 st March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Financial instruments in non-current assets/ non-current liabilities Other non-current 341,346 1,391,884 166,059 241,235 507,405 1,633,119 ﬁnancial assets Interest-bearing loans 1,325,508 and borrowings Financial instruments in current assets/current liabilities Trade and other 169,144 85,566 169,144 85,566 332,506 333,822 receivables/payables Amounts due from/ due 595,182 258,270 595,182 258,270 102,135 2,726 to related parties Short term investments 56,862,236 43,292,579 56,862,236 43,292,579 Cash in hand and at bank 178,193 43,931 178,193 43,931 Interest-bearing loans 1,482,508 1,345,276 and borrowings Bank overdrafts 117,412 32,692 Total 58,146,101 45,072,230 166,059 241,235 58,312,160 45,313,465 2,034,561 3,040,024 208 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Both carrying amount and fair value of available-for-sale Rendering of services ﬁnancial assets are equal. Revenue from rendering of services is recognised by reference to the stage of completion. Where the contract The fair value of loans and receivables is not signiﬁcantly outcome cannot be measured reliably, revenue is recognised different from the value based on amortised cost only to the extent that the expenses incurred are eligible to methodology. be recovered. The management assessed that cash and short-term Rental income deposits, trade receivables, trade payables, bank overdrafts Rental income arising from operating leases on investment and other current ﬁnancial liabilities approximate their properties is accounted for on a straight-line basis over the carrying amounts largely due to the short-term maturities lease terms. of these instruments. General insurance business gross written premium Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an Gross written premium is generally recognized as written asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction upon inception of the policy. Upon inception of the contract, between market participants at the measurement date. premiums are recorded as written and are earned primarily on a pro-rata basis over the term of the related policy Accounting judgements,estimates and assumptions coverage. However, for those contracts for which the Fair value of ﬁnancial instruments period of risk differs signiﬁcantly from the contract period, Where the fair value of ﬁnancial assets and ﬁnancial premiums are earned over the period of risk in proportion to liabilities recorded in the statement of ﬁnancial position the amount of insurance protection provided. cannot be derived from active markets, their fair value is determined using valuation techniques including the Life insurance business gross written premium discounted cash ﬂow model. The inputs to these models are Premiums from traditional life insurance contracts, including taken from observable markets where possible. participating contracts and non-participating contracts, are recognised as revenue when cash is received from the policy Where this is not feasible, a degree of judgment is holder. required in establishing fair values. The judgments include considerations of inputs such as liquidity risk, credit risk and Turnover based taxes volatility. Companies in the Group pay turnover based taxes including value added tax in accordance with the respective statutes. 13 Revenue Accounting policy Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the Group, and the revenue and associated costs incurred or to be incurred can be reliably measured. Revenue is measured at the fair value of the consideration received or receivable, net of trade discounts and value added taxes, after eliminating sales within the Group. The following speciﬁc criteria are used for recognition of revenue: Sale of goods Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when the signiﬁcant risk and rewards of ownership of the goods have passed to the buyer with the Group retaining neither a continuing managerial involvement to the degree usually associated with ownership, nor an effective control over the goods sold. 209 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 13 Revenue (Contd.) Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 13.1 Revenue Gross revenue 93,387,566 92,019,552 1,108,095 926,336 Turnover tax (105,728) (167,964) Net revenue 93,281,838 91,851,588 1,108,095 926,336 Group For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Sale of Rendering of Total Sale of Rendering of Total goods services revenue goods services revenue 13.2 Business segment analysis Transportation 9,660,391 681,835 10,342,226 12,673,385 666,849 13,340,234 Leisure 24,072,746 24,072,746 23,307,420 23,307,420 Property 3,758,466 583,248 4,341,714 5,175,333 513,827 5,689,160 Consumer Foods & Retail 36,458,144 36,458,144 29,681,441 75,653 29,757,094 Financial Services 7,142,880 7,142,880 9,077,133 9,077,133 Information Technology 6,390,265 1,871,277 8,261,542 4,789,859 2,422,592 7,212,451 Others 1,912,842 749,744 2,662,586 2,517,817 950,279 3,468,096 Group revenue 58,180,108 35,101,730 93,281,838 54,837,835 37,013,753 91,851,588 Group For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 13.3 Geographical segment analysis (by location of customers) Sri Lanka 79,195,946 78,276,865 Asia (excluding Sri Lanka) 9,676,692 9,117,936 Europe 3,939,393 3,415,503 Others 469,807 1,041,284 Total Group external revenue 93,281,838 91,851,588 14 Dividend income Accounting policy Dividend Dividend income is recognised when the Group’s right to receive the payment is established. Company For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Dividend income from investments in subsidiaries 10,260,828 8,843,908 210 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 15 Other operating income and other operating expenses a group of similar transactions, which are not material are Accounting policy aggregated, reported and presented on a net basis. Gains and losses Net gains and losses of a revenue nature arising from the Any losses arising from guaranteed rentals are accounted, disposal of property, plant and equipment and other nonfor, in the year of incurring the same. A provision is current assets, including investments in subsidiaries, joint recognised if the projection indicates a loss. ventures and associates, are accounted in the income statement, after deducting the proceeds on disposal, the Other income and expenses carrying amount of such assets and the related selling Other income and expenses are recognised on an accrual expenses. basis. Gains and losses arising from activities incidental to the main revenue generating activities and those arising from Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 15.1 Other operating income Exchange gains 236,421 168,716 Proﬁt on sale of property, plant and equipment 48,542 1,656 804 Proﬁt on sale of non current investments 1,221,460 3,792,821 47,900 Promotional income and commission fee 1,287,334 982,653 Write back of dealer deposits 12,410 28,238 Sundry income 596,074 627,284 27,413 22,345 2,132,239 3,076,893 3,821,890 71,049 Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 15.2 Other operating expenses Nation building tax 1,029,657 865,364 22,533 18,903 Loss on sale of property, plant and equipment 34,050 Impairment losses of non ﬁnancial assets 215,764 10,561 525,000 311,913 Other overheads 2,329,084 2,378,673 19,147 18,016 3,608,555 3,254,598 566,680 348,832 Other overheads mainly comprise of expense items such as heat, light and power. 211 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 16 Net ﬁnance income of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets, fair value losses Accounting policy on ﬁnancial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss, Finance income impairment losses recognised on ﬁnancial assets (other Finance income comprises interest income on funds than trade receivables) that are recognised in the income invested (including available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets), statement. dividend income, gains on the disposal of available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets, fair value gains on ﬁnancial assets at fair Interest expense is recorded as it accrues using the effective value through proﬁt or loss, gains on the remeasurement to interest rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly discounts fair value of any pre-existing interest in an acquiree that are the estimated future cash payments through the expected recognised in the income statement. life of the ﬁnancial instrument or a shorter period, where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the ﬁnancial Interest income is recorded as it accrues using the effective liability. interest rate (EIR), which is the rate that exactly discounts the estimated future cash receipts through the expected Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, life of the ﬁnancial instrument or a shorter period, where construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the ﬁnancial a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use asset. Interest income is included in ﬁnance income in the or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the respective income statement. assets. All other borrowing costs are expensed in the period they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other Finance costs costs that the Group incurs in connection with the borrowing Finance costs comprise interest expense on borrowings, of funds. unwinding of the discount on provisions, losses on disposal Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Net ﬁnance income Finance income Interest income 6,226,155 5,985,668 2,935,026 2,427,665 Dividend income on Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss 102,328 101,617 Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 8,724 56,458 8,724 55,972 Investment related expenses (22,909) (27,329) Net gain on Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss 709,379 Available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 82,406 1,018,535 82,406 1,010,417 Exchange gains 1,614,248 278,169 1,614,248 278,169 Total ﬁnance income 8,010,952 8,122,497 4,640,404 3,772,223 Finance cost Interest expense on borrowings (391,721) (668,174) (81,579) (100,890) Net loss on Financial assets at fair value through proﬁt or loss (602,081) Total ﬁnance cost (993,802) (668,174) (81,579) (100,890) Net ﬁnance income 7,017,150 7,454,323 4,558,825 3,671,333 212 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 17 Proﬁt before tax Accounting policy Expenditure recognition Expenses are recognised in the income statement on the basis of a direct association between the cost incurred and the earning of speciﬁc items of income. All expenditure incurred in the running of the business and in maintaining the property, plant and equipment in a state of efficiency has been charged to the income statement. For the purpose of presentation of the income statement, the “function of expenses” method has been adopted, on the basis that it presents fairly the elements of the Company’s and Group’s performance. Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Proﬁt before tax Proﬁt before tax is stated after charging all expenses including the following; Remuneration to executive directors 375,934 393,540 163,099 170,297 Remuneration to non executive directors 51,698 48,212 22,320 21,010 Costs of deﬁned employee beneﬁts Deﬁned beneﬁt plan cost 283,900 286,373 26,633 24,907 Deﬁned contribution plan cost EPF and ETF 775,679 702,507 29,316 27,029 Staff expenses 10,135,789 9,633,062 561,849 524,317 Auditors’ remuneration Audit 47,505 50,286 6,943 6,469 Non-audit 8,065 4,301 2,753 1,272 Depreciation of property, plant and equipment 2,782,315 2,767,323 33,415 30,434 Amortisation of intangible assets 320,564 234,198 23,660 23,008 Amortisation of lease rentals paid in advance 738,407 714,115 Impairment losses of non ﬁnancial assets 215,764 10,561 525,000 311,913 Operating lease payments 1,068,459 1,040,168 (Proﬁt)/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment and intangible 34,050 (91,935) (1,656) (804) assets Donations 24,361 29,207 23,510 11,755 18 Earnings per share Accounting policy Basic EPS is calculated by dividing the proﬁt for the year attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year. Diluted EPS is calculated by dividing the proﬁt attributable to ordinary equity holders of the parent (after adjusting outstanding share option scheme and warrants) by the weighted average number of ordinary shares outstanding during the year plus the weighted average number of ordinary shares that would be issued on conversion of all the dilutive potential ordinary shares into ordinary shares. Group For the year ended 31 March Note 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 18.1 Basic earnings per share Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the parent 14,070,009 14,348,193 Weighted average number of ordinary shares 18.3 1,160,601 1,135,812 Basic earnings per share 12.12 12.63 18.2 Diluted earnings per share Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the parent 14,070,009 14,348,193 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 18.3 1,163,388 1,156,368 Diluted earnings per share 12.09 12.41 213 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 18 Earnings per share (Contd.) Group For the year ended 31 March Note 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 18.3 Amount used as denominator Ordinary shares at the beginning of the year 997,486 990,289 Bonus element on share split 142,498 142,498 Effect of share options and warrants exercised 20,617 3,025 Weighted average number of ordinary shares in issue before dilution 1,160,601 1,135,812 Effects of dilution from: Employee share option plan 928 3,661 Share warrants 2015 9,383 Share warrants 2016 1,859 7,512 Adjusted weighted average number of ordinary shares 1,163,388 1,156,368 19 Dividend per share Company For the year ended 31 March LKR 2016 LKR 2015 In LKR '000s Equity dividend on ordinary shares Declared and paid during the year Final dividend* 1.50 1,496,230 1.50 1,485,620 Interim dividend 5.50 6,541,560 2.00 1,990,327 Total dividend 7.00 8,037,790 3.50 3,475,947 * Previous year’s ﬁnal dividend paid in the current year 20 Taxes Deferred tax Accounting policy Deferred tax is provided using the liability method on Current tax temporary differences at the reporting date between the tax Current tax assets and liabilities for the current and prior bases of assets and liabilities and their carrying amounts for periods are measured at the amount expected to be ﬁnancial reporting purposes. recovered from or paid to the taxation authorities. The tax rates and tax laws used to compute the amount are those Deferred tax liabilities are recognised for all taxable that are enacted or substantively enacted, at the reporting temporary differences, except: date in the countries where the Group operates and  š :KHUH WKH GHIHUUHG WD[ OLDELOLW\ DULVLQJ IURP WKH LQLWLDO generates taxable income. recognition of goodwill or of an asset or liability in a transaction that is not a business combination and, at the Current income tax relating to items recognised directly in time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting equity is recognised in equity and for items recognised in proﬁt nor taxable proﬁt or loss; and other comprehensive income shall be recognised in other comprehensive income and not in the income statement.  š ,QUHVSHFWRIWD[DEOHWHPSRUDU\GLĳHUHQFHVDVVRFLDWHG Management periodically evaluates positions taken in the with investments in subsidiaries, associates and tax returns with respect to situations in which applicable interests in joint ventures, where the timing of the tax regulations are subject to interpretation and establishes reversal of the temporary differences can be controlled provisions where appropriate. and it is probable that the temporary differences will not reverse in the foreseeable future. Management has used its judgment on the application of tax laws including transfer pricing regulations involving Deferred tax assets are recognised for all deductible identiﬁcation of associated undertakings, estimation of the temporary differences, and unused tax credits and tax respective arm’s length prices and selection of appropriate losses carried forward, to the extent that it is probable that pricing mechanism. taxable proﬁt will be available against which the deductible temporary differences and the unused tax credits and tax losses carried forward can be utilised except: 214 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information  š :KHUH WKH GHIHUUHG LQFRPH WD[ DVVHWV UHODWLQJ WR WKH realized or liability is settled, based on the tax rates and tax deductible temporary difference arises from the initial laws that have been enacted or substantively enacted as at recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that the reporting date. is not a business combination and, at the time of the transaction, affects neither the accounting proﬁt nor Deferred tax relating to items recognised outside the taxable proﬁt or loss; and income statement is recognised outside the income statement. Deferred tax items are recognised in correlation  š ,Q UHVSHFW RI GHGXFLEOH WHPSRUDU\ GLĳHUHQFHV to the underlying transaction either in other comprehensive associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates income or directly in equity. and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the Deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are offset, if a temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable legally enforceable right exists to set off current tax assets future and taxable proﬁt will be available against which against current tax liabilities and when the deferred taxes the temporary differences can be utilised. relate to the same taxable entity and the same taxation  š :KHUH WKH GHIHUUHG LQFRPH WD[ DVVHWV UHODWLQJ WR WKH authority. deductible temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of an asset or liability in a transaction that No deferred tax asset or liability has been recognised in is not a business combination and, at the time of the the companies which are enjoying the Board of Investment transaction, affects neither the accounting proﬁt nor (BOI) Tax Holiday period, if there are no qualifying assets or taxable proﬁt or loss; and liabilities beyond the BOI period.  š ,Q UHVSHFW RI GHGXFLEOH WHPSRUDU\ GLĳHUHQFHV Sales tax associated with investments in subsidiaries, associates Revenues, expenses and assets are recognised net of the and interests in joint ventures, deferred tax assets are amount of sales tax except: recognised only to the extent that it is probable that the temporary differences will reverse in the foreseeable  š :KHUHWKHVDOHVWD[LQFXUUHGRQWKHSXUFKDVHRIDQDVVHW future and taxable proﬁt will be available against which or service is not recoverable from the taxation authority, the temporary differences can be utilised. in which case the sales tax is recognised as part of the cost of acquisition of the asset or as part of the expense The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed item as applicable; and at each reporting date and reduced to the extent that it is  š :KHUH UHFHLYDEOHV DQG SD\DEOHV DUH VWDWHG ZLWK WKH no longer probable that sufficient taxable proﬁt will be amount of sales tax included. available to allow all or part of the deferred tax asset to be utilised. Unrecognised deferred tax assets are reassessed at The net amount of sales tax recoverable from, or payable to, each reporting date and are recognised to the extent that it the taxation authority is included as part of receivables or has become probable that future taxable proﬁt will allow the payables in the statement of ﬁnancial position. deferred tax asset to be recovered. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured at tax rates that are expected to apply to the year when the asset is Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 20.1 Tax expense Current income tax Current tax charge 20.5 2,294,854 1,805,792 578,959 424,466 (Over)/under provision of current tax of previous years 23,357 137,386 44,485 92,772 Irrecoverable economic service charge 20.7 445 247 10% Withholding tax on inter company dividends 754,194 603,747 Deferred tax charge/(reversal) Relating to origination and reversal of temporary differences 20.2 333,516 264,788 20.6 3,406,366 2,811,960 623,444 517,238 215 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 20 Taxes (Contd.) Group For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 20.2 Deferred tax expense Income statement Deferred tax expense arising from; Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes 102,019 206,769 Revaluation of investment property to fair value 6,134 1,798 Retirement beneﬁt obligations (1,030) (18,581) Beneﬁt arising from tax losses 156,990 42,131 Others 69,403 32,671 Deferred tax charged directly to income statement 333,516 264,788 Other comprehensive income Deferred tax expense arising from; Actuarial losses on deﬁned beneﬁt obligations 9,710 8,258 Revaluation of land and building to fair value 20,796 18,290 Net gain/loss on available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 21,842 Total deferred tax charged/(credited) directly to OCI 52,348 26,548 Deferred tax has been computed at 28% for all standard rate companies (including listed companies), and at 12% for leisure Group companies and at rates as disclosed in notes 20.10 and 20.11. Temporary differences associated with the undistributed reserves in subsidiaries for which a deferred tax liability has not been recognised, amounts to LKR 4,384 Mn (2015 LKR 2,986 Mn). The deferred tax effect on undistributed reserves of subsidiaries has not been recognised since the parent can control the timing of the reversal of ,these temporary differences. Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 20.3 Income tax liabilities At the beginning of the year 1,592,079 908,100 263,240 Charge for the year 2,318,211 1,943,178 623,444 517,238 Payments and set off against refunds (2,036,818) (1,259,199) (541,129) (253,998) At the end of the year 1,873,472 1,592,079 345,555 263,240 Group ASSETS LIABILITIES As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 20.4 Deferred tax At the beginning of the year 108,585 131,683 1,625,394 1,328,479 Charge and release 26,598 32,219 412,462 323,555 Acquisition/(disposal) of subsidiary 955 29,204 Transfers/exchange translation difference (5,346) (55,317) (9.440) (55,844) At the end of the year 129,837 108,585 2,029,371 1,625,394 The closing deferred tax asset and liability balances relate to the following; Revaluation of land and building to fair value (642) (642) 397,497 377,935 Revaluation of investment property to fair value (13,670) (4,704) 31,188 34,511 Accelerated depreciation for tax purposes (15,028) (56,302) 1,755,586 1,612,293 Employee beneﬁt liability 72,680 79,388 (182,131) (185,595) Losses available for offset against future taxable income 83,596 92,465 (215,730) (364,031) Net gain/loss on available-for-sale ﬁnancial assets 21,842 Others 2,901 (1,620) 221,119 150,281 129,837 108,585 2,029,371 1,625,394 216 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information The Group has tax losses amounting to LKR 7,166 Mn (2015 of existing contractual agreements, differences arising LKR 7,572 Mn) that are available indeﬁnitely to offset between the actual results and the assumptions made, or against future taxable proﬁts of the companies in which the future changes to such assumptions, could necessitate tax losses arose. future adjustments to tax income and expense already recorded. Where the ﬁnal tax outcome of such matters is Deferred tax liability amounting to LKR 220 Mn (2015 LKR different from the amounts that were initially recorded, 150 Mn) for the Group recognised on the impact pertaining such differences will impact the income and deferred tax to the current year on declared dividends of subsidiaries amounts in the period in which the determination is made. and the Group's portion of distributable reserves of equity accounted investees. The Group has tax losses relating to subsidiaries that have a history of losses that do not expire and may not be used Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions to offset other tax liabilities and where the subsidiaries The Group is subject to income tax and other taxes including have no taxable temporary differences nor any tax planning VAT. Signiﬁcant judgment was required to determine the opportunities available that could partly support the total provision for current, deferred and other taxes due to recognition of these losses as deferred tax assets. uncertainties that exist with respect to the interpretation of the applicability of tax laws, at the time of the preparation of The Group has contingent liabilities amounting to LKR 2,123 these ﬁnancial statement. Mn (2015 – LKR 1,680 million). These have been arrived at after discussing with independent and legal tax experts Uncertainties also exist with respect to the interpretation and based on information available. All assumptions are of complex tax regulations and the amount and timing of revisited at the reporting date. Further details on contingent future taxable income. Given the wide range of business liabilities are disclosed in note 44 in the ﬁnancial statement. relationships and the long-term nature and complexity Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 20.5 Reconciliation between current tax charge and the accounting proﬁt Proﬁt before tax 19,198,231 18,557,497 17,693,558 11,656,051 Dividend income from Group companies 12,252,499 10,709,344 Share of results of equity accounted investees (2,781,233) (2,778,323) Other consolidation adjustments 3,357,687 (178,683) Proﬁt after adjustment 32,027,184 26,309,835 17,693,558 11,656,051 Exempt proﬁts (2,555,264) (4,153,308) (639,902) (679,562) Income not liable for income tax (4,545,016) (1,078,827) (3,875,227) (1,058,317) Resident dividend (12,285,025) (9,962,993) (10,269,552) (8,899,879) Adjusted accounting proﬁt chargeable to income taxes 12,641,879 11,114,707 2,908,877 1,018,293 Disallowable expenses 9,206,717 8,196,638 875,071 895,585 Allowable expenses (6,024,919) (6,000,971) (1,694,336) (387,428) Utilization of tax losses (366,929) (127,615) 4XDOLI\LQJSD\PHQWGHGXFWLRQV (227,614) (225,884) (21,900) (10,500) Taxable income 15,229,134 12,956,875 2,067,712 1,515,950 Income tax charged at Standard rate of 28% 1,842,728 1,297,461 578,959 424,466 Other concessionary rates 452,126 508,331 Current tax charge 2,294,854 1,805,792 578,959 424,466 217 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 20 Taxes (Contd.) Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 20.6 Reconciliation between tax expense and the product of accounting proﬁt Adjusted accounting proﬁt chargeable to income taxes 12,641,879 11,114,707 2,908,877 1,018,293 Tax effect on chargeable proﬁts 2,803,964 2,249,501 814,486 285,123 Tax effect on non deductible expenses 425,968 331,711 221,625 228,825 Tax effect on deductions claimed (645,311) (490,208) (467,508) (96,323) Net tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets for the year 19,774 (20,317) 10,356 6,841 Net tax effect of unrecognised deferred tax assets for prior years (46,025) (30,107) Under/(over) provision for previous years 23,357 137,386 44,485 92,772 Other income based taxes Irrecoverable economic service charge 445 247 10% Withholding tax on inter company dividends 754,194 603,747 Deferred tax on withholding tax of inter company dividends 70,000 30,000 Tax expense 3,406,366 2,811,960 623,444 517,238 Group tax expense is based on the taxable proﬁt of individual companies within the Group. At present the tax laws of Sri Lanka do not provide for Group taxation. Group For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 20.7 Economic service charge (ESC) Irrecoverable economic service charge 445 247 445 247 Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 20.8 Tax losses carried forward Tax losses brought forward 7,572,469 7,914,453 1,230,471 1,230,471 Adjustments on ﬁnalisation of liability (39,409) (215,132) Tax losses arising during the year 319,789 225,808 Utilisation of tax losses (686,718) (352,660) 7,166,131 7,572,469 1,230,471 1,230,471 Year of Cost of approved Relief investment investment claimed/forgone on investments 20.9 Details of investment relief John Keells Holdings PLC. (JKH) 1999/2000 579,036 579,036 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. (CCS) 2011/2012 256,702 256,702 2012/2013 167,091 167,091 2013/2014 72,801 54,601 Keells Food Products PLC. (KFP) 2012/2013 457,732 457,732 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. (TAH) 2011/2012 81,522 81,522 218 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information JKH is eligible for qualifying payment relief granted under now fully claimed the relief. CCS has carried forward the Section 31(2)(s) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 28 of 1979 unclaimed investment relief to set off in future years. and the transitional provisions at Section 218 of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006. The Company has now fully 20.10 Applicable rates of income tax claimed the relief. The tax liability of resident companies are computed at the standard rate of 28% except for the following companies CCS, KFP and TAH are eligible for qualifying payment relief which enjoy full or partial exemptions and concessions. granted under Section 34(2)(s) of the Inland Revenue Act No. 10 of 2006 and amendments thereto. TAH and KFP have Company/Sector Basis Exemptions or Period concessions Exemptions/concessions granted under the Inland Revenue Act Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Off-shore activities for payment in Exempt Open-ended foreign currency John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. do do do John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. do do do Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd. do do do (formerly known as Keells Hotel Management Services Ltd.) John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. On-shore activities for payment in do do foreign currency John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd. do do do InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. do do do John Keells Holdings PLC. do do do Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd. Export consignment sales of Petroleum do do Products John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd. New Undertaking engaged in do 9 years from 1st year construction of commercial buildings of proﬁt or 2 years from operations South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Operation of any port terminal in do Exemption will continue Sri Lanka even after the expiry of the BOI exemption Sancity Hotels & Properties Ltd. Construction and operation of a tourist do 12 years from 1st year hotel of proﬁt or 2 years from operations John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. Operation and maintenance of facilities 10% Open-ended for storage John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (sites which do do do are not covered by the BOI agreement) Leisure sector Promotion of tourism 12% do Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. do do do Consumer Foods and Retail sector 4XDOLıHGH[SRUWSURıWV do do Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd. do do do Mackinnons Mackenzie Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. Provision of services to foreign ships do do 219 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 20 Taxes (Contd.) 20.10 Applicable rates of income tax (Contd.) Company/Sector Basis Exemptions or Period concessions Exemptions/concessions granted under the Board of Investment Law Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Construction and operation of a Exempt 8 years from 1 year of proﬁt tourist hotel or 2 years from operations Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. Domestic Airline do 8 years from 1 year of proﬁt or 2 years from operations John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd. Infrastructure development do 8 years from April 2011 Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. For upgrading and do 10 years from 1 year of refurbishment of a hotel in the proﬁt or 2 years from Eastern Province operations South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. 3RUW6HUYLFHV DW4XHHQ do 20 years from September ŗ(OL]DEHWK4XD\ 1999 British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd. Infrastructure Development do 9 years from 1 year of proﬁt or 2 years from operations Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. Integrated super luxury tourist do 10 years from 1 year of resort proﬁt or 3 years from operations Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. Construction and operation of 2% of turnover 15 years from 1 April 2014 office,apartment complex and a hotel John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. Integrated supply chain 10% 2 years from April 2014 management Other miscellaneous concessions Exemption on interest income earned from foreign currency denominated accounts. Capital gains from sale of shares is excluded from chargeability to income tax. Income/proﬁts from offshore dividends and interest is exempt from income tax. 220 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 20.11 Income tax rates of off-shore subsidiaries Country of incorporation Company Rate India John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. 30.9% John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd. 30.9% John Keells Air Services India (Pvt) Ltd. 30.9% Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. 30.9% Mauritius John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. 3%(Effective) John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd. 3%(Effective) John Keells Holdings Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd. 3%(Effective) Republic of Maldives Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. 15% Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. 15% Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. 15% John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd. 15% Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd. 15% Singapore John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd. 17% (Max) United Kingdom John Keells Computer Services (UK) Ltd. 30% USA John Keells BPO Solutions US (Pvt) Inc. 35%(Max) Canada John Keells BPO Solutions Canada (Pvt) Inc. 26.5% 20.12 Super gain tax replacement if the recognition criteria are satisﬁed. All other As per the provisions of Part III of the Finance Act No. 10 repair and maintenance costs are recognised in the income of 2015, the Group and the Company was liable for Super statement as incurred. Gain Tax of LKR 1,342 Mn and LKR 236 Mn respectively . According to the Act, the Super Gain Tax shall be deemed Land and buildings are measured at fair value less to be an expenditure in the ﬁnancial statements relating accumulated depreciation on buildings and impairment to the year of assessment which commenced on 1 April charged subsequent to the date of the revaluation. 2013.The Act supersedes the requirements of the Sri Lanka Accounting Standards and hence the expense of Super Gain The carrying values of property, plant and equipment Tax is accounted in accordance with the requirements of the are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in said Act as recommended by the Statement of Alternative circumstances indicate that the carrying value may not be Treatment (SoAT) on Accounting for Super Gain Tax issued recoverable. by the Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, dated 24 November 2015. Any revaluation surplus is recognised in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity in the asset revaluation 21 Property , plant and equipment reserve, except to the extent that it reverses a revaluation Accounting policy decrease of the same asset previously recognised in the Basis of recognition income statement, in which case the increase is recognised Property, plant and equipment are recognized if it is probable in the income statement. A revaluation deﬁcit is recognised that future economic beneﬁts associated with the asset will in the income statement, except to the extent that it offsets ﬂow to the Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably an existing surplus on the same asset recognised in the measured. asset revaluation reserve. Basis of measurement Accumulated depreciation as at the revaluation date is Plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated eliminated against the gross carrying amount of the asset depreciation and any accumulated impairment loss. Such and the net amount is restated to the revalued amount of cost includes the cost of replacing component parts of the the asset. Upon disposal, any revaluation reserve relating plant and equipment and borrowing costs for long-term to the particular asset being sold is transferred to retained construction projects if the recognition criteria are met. earnings. Where land and buildings are subsequently When signiﬁcant parts of plant and equipment are required revalued, the entire class of such assets is revalued at fair to be replaced at intervals, the Group derecognises the value on the date of revaluation. The Group has adopted a replaced part, and recognizes the new part with its own policy of revaluing assets by professional valuers at least associated useful life and depreciation. Likewise, when every 5 years, except for properties held for rental and a major inspection is performed, its cost is recognized occupied mainly by group companies, which are revalued by in the carrying amount of the plant and equipment as a professional valuers at least every 3 years. 221 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 21 Property , plant and equipment (Contd.) Borrowing costs Borrowing costs directly attributable to the acquisition, Derecognition construction or production of an asset that necessarily takes An item of property, plant and equipment is derecognised a substantial period of time to get ready for its intended use upon replacement, disposal or when no future economic or sale are capitalised as part of the cost of the asset. All beneﬁts are expected from its use. Any gain or loss arising other borrowing costs are expensed in the period in which on derecognition of the asset is included in the income they occur. Borrowing costs consist of interest and other statement in the year the asset is derecognised. costs that an entity incurs in connection with the borrowing of funds. Depreciation Depreciation is calculated by using a straight-line method Group as a lessee on the cost or valuation of all property, plant and equipment, Finance leases which transfer to the Group substantially all other than freehold land, in order to write off such amounts the risks and beneﬁts incidental to ownership of the leased over the estimated useful economic life of such assets. item, are capitalised at the commencement of the lease at The estimated useful life of assets is as follows: the fair value of the leased property or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. Lease payments are Assets Years apportioned between ﬁnance charges and reduction of the Buildings (other than hotels’) 50 lease liability so as to achieve a constant rate of interest on * Hotel buildings upto 60 the remaining balance of the liability. Finance charges are Plant and machinery 10 20 recognised in ﬁnance costs in the income statement. Equipment 3 15 A leased asset is depreciated over the useful life of the Furniture and ﬁttings 2 15 asset. However, if there is no reasonable certainty that the Motor vehicles 4 10 Group will obtain ownership by the end of the lease term, Returnable containers 10 the asset is depreciated over the shorter of the estimated Vessels 10 25 As at 31 March Land and Buildings on Plant and Equipment, LKR '000s buildings leasehold machinery furniture land and ﬁttings 21.1 Property , plant and equipment Group Cost or valuation At the beginning of the year 29,201,566 11,855,481 7,605,459 8,552,185 Additions 116,132 1,007,794 510,730 978,408 Acquisition/(disposal) of subsidiary 447,984 48,807 33,028 Disposals (159) (80,556) (137,207) (544,559) Revaluations 1,109,558 152,556 Transfers (From revaluation adjustment) (249,481) (44,912) Impairment/Derecognition Transfers 467,099 19,137 186,047 14,794 Exchange translation difference 270,141 49,377 96,444 At the end of the year 30,644,715 13,627,625 8,263,213 9,130,300 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At the beginning of the year (692,703) (1,675,805) (3,075,459) (4,795,923) Charge for the year (270,576) (384,540) (571,359) (1,096,619) (Acquisition)/disposal of subsidiary (41,210) (20,164) (18,492) Disposals 31,397 122,958 484,137 Revaluations 262,015 53,242 Impairment/derecognition Transfers 10,422 44,997 (10,542) 21,135 Exchange translation difference (113,824) (22,923) (59,724) At the end of the year (690,842) (2,085,743) (3,577,489) (5,465,486) Carrying value As at 31 March 2016 29,953,873 11,541,882 4,685,724 3,664,814 As at 31 March 2015 28,508,863 10,179,676 4,530,000 3,756,262 222 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information useful life of the asset and the lease term. Operating lease and equipment previously revalued are recognized against payments are recognised as an operating expense in the the revaluation reserve through the statement of other income statement on a straight-line basis over the lease comprehensive income to the extent that it reverses a term. previous revaluation surplus. Impairment of property plant and equipment An assessment is made at each reporting date as to whether The Group assesses at each reporting date whether there there is any indication that previously recognised impairment is an indication that an asset may be impaired. If any such losses may no longer exist or may have decreased. If such indication exists, or when annual impairment testing for indication exists, the recoverable amount is estimated. A an asset is required, the Group makes an estimate of the previously recognised impairment loss is reversed only if asset’s recoverable amount. An asset’s recoverable amount there has been a change in the estimates used to determine is the higher of an asset’s or cash generating unit’s fair value the asset’s recoverable amount since the last impairment less costs to sell and its value in use and is determined for loss was recognised. If that is the case, the carrying amount an individual asset, unless the asset does not generate cash of the asset is increased to its recoverable amount. That inﬂows that are largely independent of those from other increased amount cannot exceed the carrying amount assets or groups of assets. Where the carrying amount that would have been determined, net of depreciation, had of an asset exceeds its recoverable amount, the asset is no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior considered impaired and is written down to its recoverable years. Such reversal is recognised in the income statement amount. In assessing value in use, the estimated future cash unless the asset is carried at revalued amount, in which ﬂows are discounted to their present value using a pre-tax case the reversal is treated as a revaluation increase. After discount rate that reﬂects current market assessments of such a reversal, the depreciation charge is adjusted in future the time value of money and the risks speciﬁc to the asset. periods to allocate the asset’s revised carrying amount, less any residual value, on a systematic basis over its remaining Impairment losses are recognised in the income statement, useful life. except that, impairment losses in respect of property, plant Motor vehicles Freehold Leasehold Returnable Others Vessels Capital Total Total containers work in 2016 2015 progress 586,332 13,292 799,963 3,718,815 453,800 355,675 63,142,568 60,885,664 50,168 112,589 415,605 50,687 1,339,951 4,582,064 2,999,475 13,324 4,812 547,955 (609,711) (46,772) (64,423) (180,435) (453,249) (1,507,360) (1,364,799) 1,262,114 2,532,225 (294,393) (819,645) (43,547) 2,256 (13,118) (739,017) (62,802) (518,885) 4,456 3,230 423,648 81,791 609,764 13,292 848,129 3,940,867 504,487 511,402 68,093,794 63,142,568 (315,478) (6,857) (457,686) (2,449,015) (111,047) (13,579,973) (13,479,372) (64,153) (81,966) (276,911) (36,191) (2,782,315) (2,767,323) (7,383) (87,249) 496,767 35,807 44,964 170,686 889,949 1,167,870 315,257 819,645 39,240 (911) 21,088 86,189 186,096 (2,806) (199,277) (42,896) (354,924) (6,857) (494,688) (2,534,152) (147,238) (15,357,419) (13,579,973) 254,840 6,435 353,441 1,406,715 357,249 511,402 52,736,375 270,854 6,435 342,277 1,269,800 342,753 355,675 49,562,595 223 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 21 Property , plant and equipment (Contd.) In LKR '000s Plant and Equipment, Motor Total Total machinery furniture vehicles 2016 2015 21.2 Property , plant and equipment Company Cost At the beginning of the year 3,598 340,655 71,012 415,265 407,494 Additions 106 4,896 25,000 30,002 38,763 Disposals (12,951) (18,500) (31,451) (30,992) At the end of the year 3,704 332,600 77,512 413,816 415,265 Accumulated depreciation and impairment At the beginning of the year (3,201) (258,833) (27,180) (289,214) (284,772) Charge for the year (121) (23,896) (9,398) (33,415) (30,434) Disposals 12,601 12,251 24,852 25,992 At the end of the year (3,322) (270,128) (24,327) (297,777) (289,214) Carrying value As at 31 March 2016 382 62,472 53,185 116,039 As at 31 March 2015 397 81,822 43,832 126,051 21.3 Revaluation of land and buildings Accounting judgements,estimates and assumptions The Group uses the revaluation model of measurement of land and buildings. The Group engaged independent expert valuers, to determine the fair value of its land and buildings. Fair value is determined by reference to market-based evidence of transaction prices for similar properties. Valuations are based on open market prices, adjusted for any difference in the nature, location or condition of the speciﬁc property. These valuation techniques that are appropriate in the circumstances and for which sufficient data are available to measure fair value, maximising the use of relevant observable inputs and minimizing the use of unobservable inputs. The date of the most recent revaluation was carried out on 31 March 2016. The changes in fair value recognised in other comprehensive income and in the statement of equity. The valuer has used valuation techniques such as market values and discounted cash ﬂow methods where there was lack of comparable market data available based on the nature of the property. Details of Group's land, building and other properties stated at valuation are indicated below; Signiﬁcant unobservable inputs Property Name of the Method of Estimated price Estimated price per Estimated Correlation chartered valuation* per perch square foot discount to fair valuation rate value surveyor Land Ahungalla Holiday S Fernando DCC LKR265,500 Positive Resort (Pvt ) Ltd. Resort Hotels Ltd. -doOMV LKR115,000 Positive Nuwara Eliya Holiday -doIM 6% Negative Resort (Pvt) Ltd Land & Building Asian Hotels & P B Kalugalagedara OMV/M LKR8,000,000-LKR9,500,000 LKR2,000-LKR9,000 Positive Properties PLC. Beruwala Holiday P B Kalugalagedara OMV LKR500,000-LKR600,000 LKR3,000-LKR10,500 Positive Resorts (Pvt ) Ltd. Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. -doOMV/DCC LKR110,000-LKR130,000 LKR500-LKR3,500 Positive 224 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Signiﬁcant unobservable inputs Property Name of the Method of Estimated price Estimated price per Estimated Correlation chartered valuation* per perch square foot discount to fair valuation rate value surveyor Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. S Fernando OMV/DCC LKR850,000 LKR850-LKR8,000 Positive Keells Food Products PLC. P B Kalugalagedara OMV/DCC LKR5,000-LKR275,000 LKR400-LKR7,000 Positive Keells Realtors Ltd. -doOMV/DCC LKR1,200,000 LKR500-LKR1,000 Positive (Ferguson Road,Colombo 15. Lot A IN,SP 2016) Mackinnons Keells Ltd. -doOMV/DCC LKR6,600,000 LKR1,500 Positive Tea Smallholder K T D Tissera CM LKR2,500-LKR6,250 LKR700-LKR1,000 Positive Factories PLC. Transware Logistics K T D Tissera IM 6% Negative (Pvt) Ltd. Trinco Holiday Resort P B Kalugalagedara OMV/DCC LKR170,000 LKR1,000-LKR7,000 Positive (Pvt) Ltd. Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. -doOMV/DCC LKR120,000 Positive Union Assurance PLC. -doOMV LKR10,000,000 LKR500-LKR4,000 Positive Whittal Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. -doOMV/DCC LKR4,750,000 LKR1,000-LKR2,000 Positive 199, Union Place, Colombo 2 Whittal Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. -doOMV/DCC LKR4,250,000 LKR1,000-LKR4,000 Positive 148,Vauxhall Street,Colombo 2 Whittal Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. -doDCC LKR1,250,000 LKR500-LKR1,400 Positive Ulex Villa , Badulla Road, Nuwara Eliya Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. S Fernando IM 8% Negative Building on leasehold land Ceylon Holiday Resorts P B Kalugalagedara DCC LKR1,000-LKR3,500 Positive LTD. Habarana Lodge Ltd. S Fernando DCC LKR500-LKR10,250 Positive Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. -doDCC LKR2,500-LKR7,500 Positive Hikkaduwa Holiday P B Kalugalagedara DCC LKR1,000-LKR5,400 Positive Resort (Pvt) Ltd. Jaykay Marketing -doIM 6% Positive Service(Pvt) Ltd. John Keells K T D Tissera CM LKR1,500-LKR2,500 Positive Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. Rajawella Holdings Ltd. S Fernando DCC LKR 3,245-LKR 48,000 Positive Trans Asia Hotels PLC. P B Kalugalagedara DCC LKR350-LKR7,000 Positive Yala Village (Pvt ) Ltd. S Fernando DCC LKR1,000-LKR6,750 Positive Effective date of valuations were as at 31 March 2016 except for Union Assurance PLC. which was valued at 31 December 2015. * Summary description of valuation methodologies can be found in next page. 225 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 21 Property , plant and equipment (Contd.) Contractors method (CM) The replacement cost (contractor's) method is used to value Summary description of valuation methodologies; properties which do not generally exchange on the open Open market value method (OMV) market and for which comparable evidence therefore does Open market value method uses prices and other relevant not exist. The valuations are based on two components: the information generated by market transactions involving depreciated cost of the building element and the market identical or comparable assets, liabilities or a group of value of the land. Current build costs and often the land price assets and liabilities, such as a business. will be established by comparison. Direct capital comparison method (DCC) Investment method (IM) This method may be adopted when the rental value is The investment method is used to value properties which not available from the property concerned, but there are are let to produce an income for the investor. Conventionally, evidences of sale price of properties as a whole. In such investment value is a product of rent and yield. Each of these cases, the capitalized value of the property is ﬁxed by direct elements is derived using comparison techniques. comparison with capitalized value of similar property in the locality. Group As at 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 21.4 The carrying amount of revalued land and buildings if they were carried at cost less depreciation and impairment, would be as follows; Cost 12,279,223 12,203,504 Accumulated depreciation and impairment (2,099,601) (2,032,096) Carrying value 10,179,622 10,171,408 Group land and buildings with a carrying value of LKR 6,925 inception date, whether fulﬁllment of the arrangement is Mn (2015 LKR 6,959 Mn) have been pledged as security for dependent on the use of a speciﬁc asset or assets or the term loans obtained,details of which are disclosed in note arrangement conveys a right to use the asset, even if that 35.3. right is not explicitly speciﬁed in an arrangement. Group property, plant and equipment with a cost of LKR For arrangements entered prior to 1 April 2011, the date of 6,517 Mn (2015 LKR 4,212 Mn) have been fully depreciated inception is deemed to be 1 April 2011 in accordance with the and continue to be in use by the Group. The cost of fully SLFRS 1. depreciated assets of the Company amounts to LKR 268 Mn (2015 LKR 577 Mn). Lease rentals paid in advance Prepaid lease rentals paid to acquire land use rights, are 22 Leases amortised over the lease term and assessed for impairment Accounting Policy whenever there is an indication that the asset may be Leases impaired. The determination of whether an arrangement contains a lease is based on the substance of the arrangement at the Group As at 31 March Note 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 22.1 Lease rentals paid in advance At the beginning of the year 8,709,033 9,096,488 Addition for the year 607,155 167,000 Acquisition of subsidiary (lease hold right) 9.1 1,507,818 Amortisation for the year (738,407) (714,115) Exchange gain/(loss) 802,559 159,660 At the end of the year 10,888,158 8,709,033 Prepaid lease rentals paid in advance to acquire land use rights have been classiﬁed as lease rentals paid in advance and are amortised over the lease term in accordance with the pattern of beneﬁts provided. 226 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Amount Property Land extent Lease period 2016 2015 (in acres) In LKR '000s In LKR '000s 22.2 Details of lease rentals paid in advance John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. Muthurajawela 6.00 50 years from 19-09-2001 38,024 39,113 Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd. 10.00 95 years and 10 months from 02-02-2000 33,354 Rajawella Holdings Ltd. 517.09 99 years from 02-12-1996 1,516,890 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. Karawita Tea Factory 4.98 50 years from 15-08-1997 2,741 2,826 Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Island Dhonveli, Republic of Maldives 18.62 18 years from 26-08-2010 6,917,044 6,756,921 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. Colombo 7.65 99 years from 07-08-1981 793,856 806,260 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Republic of Maldives 13.75 14 years from 27-11-2006 1,230,540 867,385 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. 11.00 30 years from 27-11-1997 61,625 64,619 Kirinda Fantasea World Investment (Pte) Ltd. 13.42 25 years from 27-08-2022 327,438 138,555 Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa, Republic of Maldives 10,888,158 8,709,033 23 Investment property economic beneﬁts are expected. Any gains or losses Accounting policy on retirement or disposal are recognised in the income Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including statement in the year of retirement or disposal. transaction costs. The carrying value of an investment property includes the cost of replacing part of an existing Transfers are made to or from investment property only investment property, at the time that cost is incurred if the when there is a change in use for a transfer from investment recognition criteria are met, and excludes the costs of dayproperty to owner occupied property or inventory (WIP), the to-day servicing of the investment property. Subsequent to deemed cost for subsequent accounting is the fair value initial recognition, the investment properties are stated at fair at the date of change in use. If owner occupied property values, which reﬂect market conditions at the reporting date. becomes an investment property or inventory (WIP), the Group accounts for such property in accordance with the Gains or losses arising from changes in fair value are policy stated under property, plant and equipment up to the included in the income statement in the year in which they date of change in use. Where Group companies occupy a arise. Fair values are evaluated at least every 3 years by an signiﬁcant portion of the investment property of a subsidiary, accredited external, independent valuer. such investment properties are treated as property, plant and equipment in the consolidated ﬁnancial statements, and Investment properties are derecognised when disposed, accounted using Group accounting policy for property, plant or permanently withdrawn from use because no future and equipment. Group As at 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Carrying value At the beginning of the year 4,608,941 4,440,227 Additions 6,590 3,101 Transfers 116,947 Change in fair value during the year 262,875 48,666 At the end of the year 4,878,406 4,608,941 Freehold property 4,752,406 4,482,941 Leasehold property 126,000 126,000 4,878,406 4,608,941 Rental income earned 517,821 480,527 Direct operating expenses incurred 172,132 157,563 227 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 23 Investment property (Contd.) and associated re-development requirements have been Accounting judgements,estimates and assumptions considered. Also, the valuers have made reference to Fair value of the investment property is ascertained by market evidence of transaction prices for similar properties, independent valuations carried out by Chartered valuation with appropriate adjustments for size and location. The surveyors, who have recent experience in valuing properties appraised fair values are rounded within the range of values. of akin location and category. Investment property is appraised in accordance with LKAS 40, SLFRS 13 and the The changes in fair value recognised in the income statement. 8th edition of International Valuation Standards published The determined fair values of investment properties, using by the International Valuation Standards Committee (IVSC), investment method, are most sensitive to the estimated by the independent valuers. In determining the fair value, yield as well as the long term occupancy rate. the current condition of the properties, future usability Description of valuation techniques used and key inputs to valuation on investment properties: Signiﬁcant unobservable inputs Property Name of the * Method of valuation Estimated price Estimated Estimated Correlation Chartered Valuation per perch price per discount to Fair Surveyor square foot rate Value Freehold property Asian Hotels and P B Kalugalagedara Investment method 6.25% Negative Properties PLC. Crescat Boulevard, Colombo 3 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. P B Kalugalagedara Open market value/ LKR 550,000 LKR 50 Positive Inner Harbour Road, direct capital Trincomalee comparison method John Keells Properties P B Kalugalagedara Direct capital 6.50% Negative Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd, comparison method Kapuwatte Keells Realtors Ltd. P B Kalugalagedara Open market value/ LKR 1,500,000 LKR 1,000 Positive Ferguson Road, direct capital Colombo 15. comparison method John Keells PLC.17/1, P B Kalugalagedara Market comparable LKR 300,000 LKR Positive Temple Road, Ekala, method 500,000 Ja-Ela. Facets (Pvt) Ltd. S Fernando Investment method 9.00% Negative Ahungalla. Leasehold property Tea Smallholder P B Kalugalagedara, Open market value/ LKR 750,000 LKR 1,100 Positive Factories PLC. Stores direct capital Complex, Peliyagoda comparison method * Summary description of valuation methodologies can be found in property, plant and equipment note no 21.3. 24 Intangible assets acquired in a business combination is the fair value as at the Accounting policy date of acquisition. Basis of recognition An Intangible asset is recognised if it is probable that future Following initial recognition, intangible assets are carried economic beneﬁts associated with the asset will ﬂow to the at cost less any accumulated amortisation and any Group and the cost of the asset can be reliably measured. accumulated impairment losses. Basis of measurement Internally generated intangible assets, excluding capitalised Intangible assets acquired separately are measured on development costs, are not capitalised, and expenditure initial recognition at cost. The cost of intangible assets 228 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information is charged to income statement in the year in which the Purchased software expenditure is incurred. Purchased software is recognised as an intangible asset and is amortised on a straight line basis over its useful life. Useful economic lives, amortisation and impairment The useful lives of intangible assets are assessed as either Software license ﬁnite or indeﬁnite lives. Intangible assets with ﬁnite lives Software license costs are recognised as an intangible asset are amortised over the useful economic life and assessed and amortised over the period of the related license. for impairment whenever there is an indication that the intangible asset may be impaired. Research and development costs Research costs are expensed as incurred. An intangible The amortisation period and the amortization method for asset arising from development expenditure on an individual an intangible asset with a ﬁnite useful life is reviewed at project is recognised as an intangible asset, when the Group least at each ﬁnancial year-end and treated as accounting can demonstrate: estimates. The amortization expense on intangible assets with ﬁnite lives is recognised in the income statement.  š WKH WHFKQLFDO IHDVLELOLW\ RI FRPSOHWLQJ WKH LQWDQJLEOH asset so that it will be available for use or sale, Intangible assets with indeﬁnite useful lives and Goodwill  š LWVLQWHQWLRQWRFRPSOHWHDQGLWVDELOLW\WRXVHRUVHOOWKH are not amortised but tested for impairment annually, or assets, more frequently when an indication of impairment exists  š KRZWKHDVVHWVZLOOJHQHUDWHIXWXUHHFRQRPLFEHQHıWV either individually or at the cash-generating unit level.  š WKHDYDLODELOLW\RIUHVRXUFHVWRFRPSOHWHWKHDVVHWVDQG The useful life of an intangible asset with an indeﬁnite life  š WKH DELOLW\ WR PHDVXUH UHOLDEO\ WKH H[SHQGLWXUH GXULQJ is reviewed annually to determine whether indeﬁnite life development. assessment continues to be supportable. If not, the change in the useful life assessment from indeﬁnite to ﬁnite is made Following initial recognition of the development expenditure on a prospective basis. of an asset, the cost model is applied requiring the asset to be carried at cost less any accumulated amortisation and Present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB) accumulated impairment losses. The present value of future proﬁts on a portfolio of long term life insurance contracts as at the acquisition date is Amortisation of the asset begins when development is recognised as an intangible asset based on a valuation complete and the asset is available for use. It is amortised carried out by an independent actuary. Subsequent to initial over the period of expected future beneﬁt from the use or recognition, the intangible asset is carried at cost less expected future sales from the related project. During the accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment period of development, the asset is tested for impairment losses. annually. The PVIB is amortised over the average useful life of the A summary of the policies applied to the Group’s intangible related contracts in the portfolio. The amortisation charge assets is as follows. and any impairment losses would be recognised in the consolidated income statement as an expense. Intangible assets Useful life Type Impairment testing PVIB 12 When indicators of impairment exists. The amortization method is Purchased software 5 Acquired reviewed at each ﬁnancial year end Software license 5 Developed software 5 Internally Annually for assets which are not yet in use and more frequently generated when indicators of impairment arise. Assets in use, when indicators of impairment arise. The amortization method is reviewed at each ﬁnancial year end. Gains or losses arising from derecognition of an intangible asset are measured as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the asset and are recognised in the income statement when the asset is derecognised. 229 24 Intangible assets (Contd.) Intangible assets Group Company Software Software licenses As at 31 March Note Developed Purchased Licenses WIP PVIB Goodwill Other 2016 2015 2016 2015 LKR '000s Cost/carrying value At the beginning of the year 441,707 145,159 584,164 7,657 2,249,000 950,884 49,500 4,428,071 3,964,500 486,885 469,209 Additions 112,054 32,951 6,403 11,200 162,608 280,490 4,196 17,676 Transfers 12,268 (1,386) 8,770 (12,268) 7,384 215,842 Disposal (10,400) (10,400) (25,906) Acquisition/(disposal) of 9.1 4,523 4,523 subsidiary Impairment (3,476) (212,288) (215,764) (6,855) At the end of the year 552,153 181,247 599,337 6,589 2,249,000 738,596 49,500 4,376,422 4,428,071 491,081 486,885 Accumulated amortisation and impairment At the beginning of the year (28,996) (83,015) (472,106) (1,124,497) (1,708,614) (1,492,246) (423,602) (400,594) 230 Amortisation (64,463) (28,960) (39,725) (187,416) (320,564) (234,198) (23,659) (23,008) John Keells Holdings PLC Transfers 981 (7,366) (6,385) Disposal 1,040 1,040 17,229 (Acquisition)/disposal of 9.1 (4,039) (4,039) subsidiary Impairment 601 At the end of the year (92,419) (115,033) (519,197) (1,311,913) (2,038,562) (1,708,614) (447,261) (423,602) Notes to the Financial Statements Annual Report 2015/16 Carrying value As at 31 March 2016 459,734 66,214 80,140 6,589 937,087 738,596 49,500 2,337,860 43,820 As at 31 March 2015 412,711 62,144 112,058 7,657 1,124,503 950,884 49,500 2,719,457 63,283 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Present value of acquired in-force business (PVIB) insurance contracts, known as the present value of acquired Upon acquiring a controlling stake in Union Assurance PLC. in-force business (PVIB) at the acquisition date. Further, PVIB (UA), the Group has recognised in the consolidated ﬁnancial recognised at the acquisition date will be amortised over statements an intangible asset representing the present the estimated life of the business acquired and reviewed value of future proﬁts on UA’s portfolio of long term life annually for any impairment in value. 24.1 Goodwill Net carrying value of goodwill As at 31 March 2016 In LKR '000s Goodwill acquired through business combinations have been allocated to 5 cash generating units (CGU's) for impairment testing as follows; Airlines Services 5,054 Cinnamon Hotels and Resorts 166,248 Consumer Foods and Retail 299,293 Financial Services 265,360 Logistics, Ports and Shipping 2,641 738,596 The recoverable amount of all CGUs have been determined based on the fair value, less cost to sell or the value in use (VIU) calculation. Accounting judgements,estimates and assumptions Impairment of goodwill Gross margins Impairment exists when the carrying value of an asset or The basis used to determine the value assigned to the cash generating unit exceeds its recoverable amount, which budgeted gross margins is the gross margins achieved in is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value the year preceding the budgeted year adjusted for projected in use (VIU). The fair value less costs to sell calculation is market conditions. based on available data from an active market, in an arm’s length transaction, of similar assets or observable market Discount rates prices less incremental costs for disposing of the asset. The The discount rate used is the risk free rate, adjusted by the value in use calculation is based on a discounted cash ﬂow addition of an appropriate risk premium. model. The cash ﬂows are derived from the budget for the next ﬁve years and do not include restructuring activities Inﬂation that the Group is not yet committed to or signiﬁcant future The basis used to determine the value assigned to the investments that will enhance the asset’s performance budgeted cost inﬂation, is the inﬂation rate, based on of the cash generating unit being tested. The recoverable projected economic conditions. amount is most sensitive to the discount rate used for the discounted cash ﬂow model as well as the expected future Volume growth cash inﬂows and the growth rate used for extrapolation Volume growth has been budgeted on a reasonable and purposes. The key assumptions used to determine the realistic basis by taking into account the growth rates of one recoverable amount for the different cash generating units, to four years immediately subsequent to the budgeted year are as follows; based on Industry growth rates. Cash ﬂows beyond the ﬁve year period are extrapolated using 0% growth rate. 231 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 25 Investment in subsidiaries Accounting policy Investment In subsidiaries are initially recognised at cost in the ﬁnancial statements of the Company. Any transaction cost relating to acquisition of investment in subsidiaries are immediately recognised in the income statement. Following initial recognition, Investment In subsidiaries are carried at cost less any accumulated impairment losses. Company As at 31 March Note 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Investment in subsidiaries 25.1 Carrying value Investments in subsidiaries  4XRWHG 25.2 19,101,303 20,043,167 Unquoted 25.3 17,283,343 12,770,078 36,384,646 32,813,245 Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Number of Effective Number of Effective Cost Cost shares holding % shares holding % 25.2 Cost Group quoted investments Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 347,824,190 78.56 347,824,190 78.56 5,278,888 5,254,670 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 77,321,208 81.36 67,109,128 70.61 1,396,691 1,352,824 John Keells Hotels PLC. 1,169,598,478 80.32 1,169,598,478 80.32 7,102,140 7,102,140 John Keells PLC. 52,834,784 86.90 52,834,784 86.90 444,745 424,876 Keells Food Products PLC. 23,350,658 89.65 19,110,399 74.94 1,040,298 1,033,365 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. 11,286,000 37.62 11,286,000 37.62 63,466 63,466 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 184,107,284 82.74 97,284,256 48.64 1,601,482 1,600,636 Union Assurance PLC. 55,344,310 93.92 50,981,538 86.51 2,173,593 3,211,190 19,101,303 20,043,167 Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Market Value Group quoted investments Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 16,625,996 21,912,924 16,625,996 21,912,924 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 33,248,119 23,041,719 28,856,925 20,011,942 John Keells Hotels PLC. 14,035,182 16,725,258 14,035,182 16,725,258 John Keells PLC. 3,698,435 4,860,800 3,698,435 4,860,800 Keells Food Products PLC. 2,528,876 2,528,876 3,248,768 2,069,656 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. 220,077 445,797 220,077 445,797 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 14,710,172 17,306,085 7,773,012 9,144,720 Union Assurance PLC. 8,849,555 12,831,298 8,151,948 12,776,149 93,916,412 99,652,757 82,610,343 87,947,246 232 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Number of Effective Number of Effective Cost Cost shares holding % shares holding % 25.3 Group unquoted investments Ahungalla Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd. 13,200,000 80.32 Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt ) Ltd. 219,725,653 79.78 1,192 677 British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd. 61 61.00 61 61.00 57,001 57,001 Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. 12,119,739 79.24 1,707 845 Cinnamon Hotels Management Services Ltd. 1,000,000 100.00 1,000,000 100.00 101,313 64,965 Facets (Pvt) Ltd. 15,000 100.00 15,000 100.00 Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. 7,299 80.32 1,196 715 Habarana Lodge Ltd. 12,981,548 78.99 2,705 1,464 Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. 4,321,381 79.34 1,135 646 Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. 107,596,700 79.24 974 646 InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. 2,000,000 100.00 2,000,000 100.00 26,568 23,895 International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd. 38,490,901 79.78 J K Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. 1,450,000 100.00 1,450,000 100.00 JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 282,239,025 81.36 73,648 42,525 John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. 19,000,000 100.00 John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd. 1,500,000,000 100.00 John Keells BPO Investments (Pvt) Ltd. 14,700 100.00 John Keells BPO Investments (Pvt) Ltd. 57,200,000 Preference A John Keells BPO Solutions Canada (Pvt) Ltd. 5,000 100.00 John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. 34,131,306 100.00 John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 32,843,578 100.00 John Keells BPO Solutions US (Pvt) Ltd. 5,000 100.00 John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Ltd. 9,650,000 100.00 9,650,000 100.00 111,664 105,507 John Keells Computer Services (UK) Ltd. 100 100.00 100 100.00 9 9 John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd. 8,999,990 89.65 John Keells Holdings Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd. 2,303,225 100.00 2,303,225 100.00 38,007 38,007 John Keells Hotels Mauritius (Pvt) Ltd. 34,100 80.32 John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd. 199,160,000 100.00 199,160,000 100.00 1,473,635 1,997,122 John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 19,999,998 100.00 19,999,998 100.00 205,652 204,699 John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd. 49,044,238 80.32 6,666 4,509 John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. 500,000 100.00 500,000 100.00 30,928 19,310 John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 24,000,000 100.00 24,000,000 100.00 192,169 192,169 John Keells Properties Ja-ela (Pvt) Ltd. 95,436,000 100.00 95,436,000 100.00 954,360 954,360 John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 2,081,698 100.00 2,081,698 100.00 20,817 925,200 John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd. 160,000 80.00 160,000 80.00 4,209 4,209 John Keells Software Technologies (Pvt) Ltd. 800,000 100.00 800,000 100.00 John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. 750,000 90.04 180,000 24.00 23,162 12,971 John Keells Teas Ltd. 12,000 100.00 12,000 100.00 7,895 4,463 John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. 12,000,000 86.90 1,803 1,062 Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. 6,165,484 79.03 1,637 983 Keells Consultants (Pvt) Ltd. 16,000 100.00 16,000 100.00 2,554 2,065 Keells Realtors Ltd. 7,500,000 100.00 3,000,000 40.00 30,000 30,000 Keells Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. 50,000 100.00 50,000 100.00 502 502 Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd. 34,805,470 99.44 34,805,470 99.44 1,338,947 1,332,709 Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd. 499,998 100.00 499,998 100.00 50,221 32,595 Mack Air Services Maldives (Pvt) Ltd. 4,900 49.00 4,700 47.00 2,021 2,021 Mackinnon Keells Ltd. 1,080,000 100.00 972,000 90.00 11,912 11,912 233 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 25 Investment in subsidiaries (Contd.) Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Number of Effective Number of Effective Cost Cost shares holding % shares holding % Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company 500,000 100.00 (Shipping) Ltd. Mackinnon Mackenzie and Company of 9,000 100.00 6,000 73.33 (Ceylon) Ltd. Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. 499,996 100.00 499,996 100.00 16,490 14,459 Mortlake (Pvt) Ltd. 300 100.00 300 100.00 327,240 327,240 Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd 24,556,232 80.32 Rajawella Holdings Ltd. 25,615,561 49.85 11,573,339 45.18 801,707 Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd. 3,101,384 80.32 Resort Hotels Ltd. 81,107 79.24 Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. 800,000 98.74 Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. 637,499 80.32 2,011 980 Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 11,000,007 50.00 11,000,007 50.00 114,577 114,577 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. 29,059 80.32 1,593 819 Trinco Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd 8,120,005 80.32 1,167 634 Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. 3,000,007 80.32 Walkers Tours Ltd. 4,925,577 98.51 4,925,577 98.51 153,359 143,140 Waterfront properties (Pvt) Ltd. 1,857,003,123 93.23 1,066,186,962 57.41 10,661,871 5,930,055 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. 9,918,880 100.00 7,258,263 73.18 137,790 124,389 Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd. 25,014,000 100.00 24,966,000 99.70 288,259 43,345 Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. 1,616,750 80.32 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. 28,268,000 75.33 1,070 677 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd.Non voting preference 10,000,000 80.32 shares 17,283,343 12,770,078 26 Investment in equity accounted investees Accounting policy Joint ventures incorporated in Sri Lanka entered into by An associate is an entity over which the Group has signiﬁcant the Group, which have been accounted for using the equity inﬂuence. Signiﬁcant inﬂuence is the power to participate in method, are: the ﬁnancial and operating policy decisions of the investee, DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd. but is not control or joint control over those policies. NDO Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd. Associate companies incorporated in Sri Lanka of the Group which have been accounted for under the equity method of The considerations made in determining signiﬁcant accounting are: inﬂuence or joint control are similar to those necessary to Capitol Hotel Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. determine control over subsidiaries. Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Nations Trust Bank PLC. The Group’s investments in its associate and joint venture Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. are accounted for using the equity method. South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Union Assurance General Ltd. Under the equity method, the investment in an associate or a joint venture is initially recognised at cost. The carrying A joint venture is a type of joint arrangement whereby amount of the investment is adjusted to recognise changes the parties that have joint control of the arrangement in the Group’s share of net assets of the associate or joint have rights to the net assets of the joint venture. Joint venture since the acquisition date. Goodwill relating to control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an the associate or joint venture is included in the carrying arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the amount of the investment and is not tested for impairment relevant activities require unanimous consent of the parties individually. sharing control. 234 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information The income statement reﬂects the Group’s share of the between the recoverable amount of the associate or joint results of operations of the associate or joint venture. Any venture and its carrying value, and then recognises the loss change in OCI of those investees is presented as part of as ‘Share of results of equity accounted investees' in the the Group’s OCI. In addition, when there has been a change income statement. recognised directly in the equity of the associate or joint venture, the Group recognises its share of any changes, Upon loss of signiﬁcant inﬂuence over the associate or joint when applicable, in the statement of changes in equity. control over the joint venture, the Group measures and Unrealised gains and losses resulting from transactions recognises any retained investment at its fair value. Any between the Group and the associate or joint venture are difference between the carrying amount of the associate eliminated to the extent of the interest in the associate or or joint venture upon loss of signiﬁcant inﬂuence or joint joint venture. control and the fair value of the retained investment and proceeds from disposal is recognised in income statement. The aggregate of the Group’s share of proﬁt or loss of an associate and a joint venture is shown on the face of the The accounting policies of associate companies and joint statement of proﬁt or loss outside operating proﬁt and ventures conform to those used for similar transactions represents proﬁt or loss after tax and non-controlling of the Group. Accounting policies that are speciﬁc to the interests in the subsidiaries of the associate or joint venture. business of associate companies are discussed below. After application of the equity method, the Group determines Equity method of accounting has been applied for associate whether it is necessary to recognise an impairment loss and joint ventures using their corresponding/matching 12 on its investment in its associate or joint venture. At each month ﬁnancial period. In the case of associates, where reporting date, the Group determines whether there is the reporting dates are different to Group reporting dates, objective evidence that the investment in the associate or adjustments are made for any signiﬁcant transactions or joint venture is impaired. If there is such evidence, the Group events up to 31 March. calculates the amount of impairment as the difference Investment in equity accounted investees Group Company As at 31 March Number of Effective 2016 2015 Number of Effective 2016 2015 In LKR '000s shares Holding % shares Holding % 26.1 Investments in joint ventures NDO Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 7,800,000 60.00 63,041 63,041 7,800,000 60.00 Sentinel Reality (Pvt) Ltd. 5,828,800 40.16 58,288 58,288 DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd. 1,000,000 50.00 10,000 10,000 1,000,000 50.00 10,000 10,000 26.2 Investments in associates Quoted Nations Trust Bank PLC. 68,951,695 29.90 1,561,355 1,561,355 46,121,532 20.00 1,011,052 1,011,052 Unquoted Capitol Hotel Holdings (Pvt) 3,254,832 19.47 325,483 325,483 3,254,832 19.47 325,483 325,483 Ltd. Union Assurance General 68,902,870 20.66 689,718 689,718 Ltd. Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 30,000 30.00 150 150 30,000 30.00 150 150 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. 24,887,160 40.00 248,872 248,872 24,887,160 40.00 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. 17,457,000 174,570 134,370 17,457,000 174,570 134,370 preference shares South Asia Gateway 159,826,750 42.19 7,346,367 7,346,367 159,826,750 42.19 7,346,367 7,346,367 Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Cumulative proﬁt accruing 3,886,868 3,939,446 to the Group net of dividend Share of net assets of equity 2,584,752 1,968,400 accounted investees 16,949,464 16,345,490 8,867,622 8,827,422 235 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 26 Investment in equity accounted investees (Contd.) 26.2 Investments in associates (Contd.) Group's shareholding in Nations Trust Bank PLC. The JKH Group currently holds 29.9% in Nations Trust Bank PLC. (NTB). The Monetary Board had previously directed that the Group reduces its share holdings in NTB to 15% or below by April 2012. The founder shareholders including JKH had written to the Central Bank of Sri Lanka (CBSL) requesting an extension of the deadline and a response is awaited. Market Value Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 4XRWHG Nations Trust Bank PLC. 5,116,216 6,902,065 3,422,218 4,616,765 South Asia Gateway Other associates Joint ventures Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 26.3 Summarised ﬁnancial information of equity accounted investees Group share of; Revenue 4,336,078 4,561,807 5,703,083 4,615,498 1,433,929 1,623,364 Operating expenses including cost of (2,680,375) (2,801,432) (4,327,546) (3,309,400) (1,302,963) (1,476,172) sales Net ﬁnance income 23,599 52,720 130,769 26,698 5,402 3,056 Tax expense (3,720) (15,382) (495,148) (458,103) (41,875) (44,331) Share of results of equity accounted 1,675,582 1,797,713 1,011,158 874,693 94,493 105,917 investees Group share of; Total assets 7,036,483 6,357,057 58,297,554 49,245,831 491,455 642,628 Total liabilities (1,298,074) (654,625) (52,089,069) (43,642,944) (218,877) (332,423) Net assets 5,738,409 5,702,432 6,208,485 5,602,887 272,578 310,205 Goodwill 4,674,278 4,674,278 55,712 55,712 Unrealised proﬁts (24) 10,412,687 10,376,710 6,246,197 5,658,575 272,578 310,205 Contingent liabilities Capital and other commitments 32,042,386 29,602,849 Dividend received from 2,341,686 2,251,895 171,799 144,799 75,000 50,000 The share of results of equity accounted investees in the income statement and in the other comprehensive income statement are shown net of all related taxes. The Group and the Company have neither contingent liabilities nor capital and other commitments towards its associates and joint ventures. Signiﬁcant accounting policies that are speciﬁc to the business of equity accounted investees Nations Trust Bank PLC. Revenue recognition Revenue is recognised to the extent that it is probable that the economic beneﬁts will ﬂow to the bank and the revenue can be reliably measured. The following speciﬁc recognition criteria must also be met before revenue is recognised. 236 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Interest income and expense arrangement of the acquisition of shares or other securities For all ﬁnancial instruments interest income or expense is or the purchase or sale of businesses, are recognised on recorded using the EIR. EIR is the rate that exactly discounts completion of the underlying transaction. estimated future cash payments or receipts through the Fees or components of fees that are linked to a certain expected life of the ﬁnancial instrument or a shorter period, performance are recognised after fulﬁlling the corresponding where appropriate, to the net carrying amount of the ﬁnancial criteria. asset or ﬁnancial liability. The calculation takes into account all contractual terms of the ﬁnancial instrument (for example, Net trading income prepayment options) and includes any fees or incremental Results arising from trading activities include all gains and costs that are directly attributable to the instrument and are losses from changes in fair value. an integral part of the EIR, but not future Impairment losses. South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. The carrying amount of the ﬁnancial asset or ﬁnancial liability Revenue recognition is adjusted if the Group revises its estimates of payments Stevedoring revenue is recognised on the berthing time of or receipts. The adjusted carrying amount is calculated the vessel. Storage revenue is recognised on the issue of based on the original EIR and the change in carrying amount delivery advice. is recorded as ‘Interest Income’ for ﬁnancial assets and ‘Interest Expense’ for ﬁnancial liabilities. South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. uses United States Once the recorded value of a ﬁnancial asset or a group Dollar (USD) as their functional currency. of similar ﬁnancial assets has been reduced due to an impairment loss, interest income continues to be recognised Union Assurance General Ltd. using the rate of interest used to discount the future cash Revenue recognition ﬂows for the purpose of measuring the impairment loss. General insurance business-gross written premium Gross written premium is generally recognised as written Fee and commission income upon inception of the contract, premiums are recorded as The Group earns fee and commission income from a diverse written and are earned primarily on a pro-rata basis over range of services it provides to its customers. Fee income the term of the related policy coverage. However for those can be divided into the following two categories: contracts for which the period of risk in proportion to the amount of insurance protection provided. Fee income earned from services that are provided over a certain period of time Insurance contract liabilities general Fees earned for the provision of services over a period Insurance provision comprises of reserve for the net of time are accrued over that period. These fees include unearned premium, reserve or the deferred acquisition cost commission income and asset management, custody and (net), reserve for gross outstanding claims and the Incurred other management and advisory fees. Credit related fees are But Not Reported (IBNR) provision. deferred and recognised as an adjustment to the EIR of the loan. Unearned premium, deferred acquisition cost and the reserve for gross outstanding claims are stated according Fee income from providing transaction services to the industry practices whereas the IBNR reserve is Fees arising from negotiating or participating in the decided by an independent external actuary to estimate the negotiation of a transaction for a third party, such as the outstanding liabilities as of reporting date. 27 Non current ﬁnancial assets Group Company As at 31 March Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Other quoted equity investments 327 324 Other unquoted equity investments 27.1 184,456 259,633 166,059 241,235 Other non equity investments 27.2 22,450,661 19,448,731 341,346 1,391,884 22,635,444 19,708,688 507,405 1,633,119 Group Company As at 31 March Number of 2016 2015 Number of 2016 2015 In LKR '000s shares shares 27.1 Other unquoted equity investments Asia Power (Pvt) Ltd. 388,527 166,059 231,920 388,527 166,059 231,920 Other equity instruments 18,397 27,713 9,315 184,456 259,633 166,059 241,235 237 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 27 Non current ﬁnancial assets (Contd.) Group Company As at 31 March Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 27.2 Other non equity investments Bank deposits 515,657 1,534,365 1,059,116 Debentures 4,939,118 5,430,430 268,366 268,306 Preference shares 254,024 Government securities 15,287,098 11,148,295 Loans to executives 27.3 618,850 538,211 72,980 64,462 Loans to life policyholders 783,373 682,095 Deposits 52,541 115,335 22,450,661 19,448,731 341,346 1,391,884 Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 27.3 Loans to executives At the beginning of the year 699,330 963,344 82,442 79,913 Loans granted/transfers 433,303 384,919 55,949 32,150 Recoveries (345,843) (648,933) (45,588) (29,621) At the end of the year 786,790 699,330 92,803 82,442 Receivable within one year 167,940 161,119 19,823 17,980 Receivable between one and ﬁve years 618,850 538,211 72,980 64,462 786,790 699,330 92,803 82,442 28 Other non current assets Group Company As at 31 March Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Pre paid staff cost 124,364 141,038 12,414 13,807 Work-in-progress Waterfront project 28.1 35,082,711 25,435,340 Non current advances 350,073 253,651 35,557,148 25,830,029 12,414 13,807 28.1 Work-in-progress Cinnamon Life project Freehold property* 8,258,633 8,258,633 Leasehold property* 3,062,325 3,062,325 Other constructions in progress 17,463,940 7,930,916 Contractor advances 6,297,813 6,183,466 35,082,711 25,435,340 * The freehold and leasehold properties are located at the address, Glennie Street and Justice Akbar Mawatha, Colombo 2. Other Non-Current Assets, represents the construction work in progress, which mainly consists of Freehold Land, advance paid on obtained Lease Land and other project cost incurred. Freehold land included under other non-current asset is carried at cost. Lease prepaid in advance consist of the prepayment made to obtaining the lease land rights for 99 years. Other project cost includes advances paid to contractors, directly attributable cost incurred on the project and borrowing cost capitalised. 238 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Details of the Waterfront Integrated Resort Project 29 Inventories The company is engaged in the development and Accounting policy construction of an integrated complex with an approximate Inventories are valued at the lower of cost and net realisable area of 4,500,000 square feet, comprising of offices, value. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price residential units, service apartments, a hotel and conference less estimated costs of completion and the estimated costs centre, retail and associate facilities and a car park. necessary to make the sale. Details of Freehold Property The costs incurred in bringing inventories to its present Freehold property: Land Occupied Extent: location and condition, are accounted for as follows: 7A0R -16.63P  š 5DZPDWHULDOV2QDZHLJKWHGDYHUDJHEDVLV Details of Leasehold Property  š )LQLVKHG JRRGV DQG ZRUNLQSURJUHVV  $W WKH FRVW Leased property: Land Occupied Extent: of direct materials, direct labour and an appropriate 3A0R -6.35P proportion of ﬁxed production overheads based on Lessor: Board of Investment normal operating capacity but excluding borrowing of Sri Lanka costs Period: 99 years from  š 2WKHULQYHQWRULHVş$WDFWXDOFRVW 12/02/2014 Lease commitment: Upfront Lease rental of USD 3.03Bn Group As at 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Inventories Raw materials 463,186 339,787 Finished goods 2,964,930 2,664,639 Produce stocks 207,349 220,433 Other stocks 1,029,368 604,051 WIP-Apartments 1,760,006 Total inventories at the lower of cost & net realisable value 4,664,833 5,588,916 30 Trade and other receivables Group Company As at 31 March Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Trade and other receivables 9,482,865 9,873,475 149,321 67,586 Reinsurance receivables 30.1 132,298 89,854 Premiums receivable 30.2 215,846 145,241 Loans to executives 27.3 167,940 161,119 19,823 17,980 9,998,949 10,269,689 169,144 85,566 Group As at 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 30.1 Reinsurance receivables Reinsurance receivables on outstanding claims 83,873 61,069 Reinsurance receivables on settled claims net of dues 48,425 28,785 Total assets arising from reinsurance contracts 132,298 89,854 30.2 Premiums receivable Premium receivable 215,846 145,241 215,846 145,241 239 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 31 Other current assets Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Prepayments and non cash receivables 962,316 1,186,907 89,212 85,608 Tax refunds 1,341,115 1,211,235 39,141 39,141 2,303,431 2,398,142 128,353 124,749 32 Short term investments Group Company As at 31 March Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 4XRWHGHTXLWLHVDWPDUNHWYDOXH 32.1 3,006,875 3,434,057 Debentures 631,846 753,218 Bank deposits (more than 3 months and less than 1 year) 17,338,169 13,066,852 15,312,664 10,022,703 Government securities (more than 3 months and less than 1 year) 5,156,765 7,675,539 4,475,018 5,523,571 26,133,655 24,929,666 19,787,682 15,546,274 Debentures (less than 3 months) 224,652 Bank deposits (less than 3 months) 25,283,729 12,791,738 23,482,684 10,276,858 Government securities (less than 3 months) 20,993,034 29,819,264 13,591,870 17,469,447 Reported in statement of cash ﬂow 46,501,415 42,611,002 37,074,554 27,746,305 72,635,070 67,540,668 56,862,236 43,292,579 Number of shares Cost Market value As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 32.1 Quoted equities at market value Access Engineering PLC. 1,124,524 1,092,524 33,898 33,114 23,390 20,976 Aitken Spence Hotel Holdings PLC. 490,393 490,393 34,934 34,934 25,991 32,856 Aitken Spence PLC. 650,890 650,690 76,951 76,931 47,840 64,744 Asiri Hospital Holdings PLC. 251,297 5,805 6,032 Cargills (Ceylon) PLC. 180,968 174,976 27,335 26,229 27,145 23,972 Carsons Cumberbatch PLC. 229,714 100,513 84,167 Central Finance Company PLC. 285,871 285,871 54,445 54,445 60,033 71,497 Ceylinco Insurance PLC. 5,530 7,669 8,284 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 8,133 3,278 3,497 Ceylon Tobacco Company PLC. 68,889 66,536 69,125 66,812 69,709 66,503 Chevron Lubricants Lanka PLC. 367,677 367,677 80,777 80,777 112,141 144,460 Colombo Dockyard PLC. 281,715 281,715 60,500 60,500 30,454 46,624 Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 654,287 645,924 47,645 47,645 73,935 84,745 (Non voting) Commercial Bank of Ceylon PLC. 2,233,929 2,211,789 238,932 238,932 280,358 365,830 DFCC Bank PLC. 973,984 754,147 143,891 110,931 133,436 152,941 Dialog Axiata PLC. 6,337,348 6,333,740 59,806 59,765 64,641 65,871 Diesel and Motor Engineering PLC. 22,062 22,062 33,340 33,340 12,128 13,899 Distilleries Company of Sri Lanka PLC. 1,090,930 809,459 233,803 152,251 224,949 194,675 Hatton National Bank PLC. 2,896,275 2,485,784 409,681 329,781 544,433 486,923 Hemas Holdings PLC. 839,729 622,975 37,446 20,271 67,682 45,913 240 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Number of shares Cost Market value As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s HNB Assurance PLC. 336,266 336,266 23,645 23,645 18,158 28,583 John Keells Holdings PLC. 1,522,660 1,167,695 271,431 238,112 225,354 232,838 Lanka ORIX Finance Company PLC. 275,713 275,379 20,852 20,820 19,851 21,094 National Development Bank PLC. 1,544,335 1,254,091 281,314 228,799 260,683 311,014 Nestle Lanka PLC. 19,188 19,138 34,282 34,167 38,921 43,922 People's Insurance PLC. 482,500 7,238 8,155 Peoples Leasing and Finance PLC. 5,866,532 5,758,261 112,788 110,384 93,865 127,257 Piramal Glass PLC. 2,680,100 2,680,100 21,502 21,501 13,669 15,278 Sampath Bank PLC. 1,540,618 1,070,229 330,543 215,917 348,180 269,804 Softlogic Holdings PLC. 1,117,806 32,416 14,755 Sri Lanka Telecom PLC. 270,573 13,334 12,311 Textured Jersey Lanka PLC. 1,941,200 1,941,200 31,534 31,534 61,536 46,783 The Bukit Darah PLC. 45,881 207,907 32,017 145,125 16,058 140,961 The Lion Brewery Ceylon PLC. 85,610 37,735 51,375 Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC. 640,777 640,777 7,817 7,817 23,709 35,179 Tokyo Cement Company (Lanka) PLC. (Non voting) 1,939,895 3,109,810 48,859 78,326 62,658 116,307 2,883,083 2,766,803 3,006,875 3,434,057 Above list mainly comprises of the investments made by Union Assurance PLC. (UA) under the unit linked equity tracker fund, which invests in the companies that comprise the S&P Price Index. 33 Stated capital and other components of equity holders of ordinary shares are entitled to receive dividends Accounting policy as declared from time to time , and are eligible for one vote The ordinary shares of John Keells Holdings PLC. are quoted per share at General Meetings of the Company. The Group in the Colombo Stock Exchange and the Global Depository has in place an Employee Share Option Plan. Please refer Receipts are listed on the Luxembourg Stock Exchange. The note 34 for further details. 2016 2015 As at 31 March Number of Value of shares Number of Value of shares shares In LKR '000s shares In LKR '000s 33.1 Stated capital Fully paid ordinary shares At the beginning of the year 997,486 50,702,701 990,289 49,748,814 Share options exercised 165 26,516 7,197 953,887 Subdivision of shares 142,498 Exercise of share warrants 49,255 7,972,760 At the end of the year 1,189,404 58,701,977 997,486 50,702,701 The number of shares in issue as at 31-03-2016, include global depository receipts (GDRs) of 1,282,364 (2015 1,122,069). Further information on the composition of shares in issue is given under the share information section of the annual report. 29,959,331 shares (2015 25,675,211) have been reserved to be issued under the employee share option plan as at 31 March 2016. Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 33.2 Other components of equity Revaluation reserve 20,846,190 19,752,411 Foreign currency translation reserve 7,080,979 3,770,496 Other capital reserve 958,310 562,718 958,310 562,718 Available for sale reserve (170,217) 415,653 126,307 164,680 28,715,262 24,501,278 1,084,617 727,398 241 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 33 Stated capital and other components of equity (Contd) No expense is recognised for awards that do not ultimately Revaluation reserve consists of the net surplus on the vest, except for equity-settled transactions where vesting is revaluation of property, plant and equipment and present conditional upon a market or non-vesting condition, which value of acquired in-force business (PVIB). are treated as vesting irrespective of whether or not the market or non-vesting condition is satisﬁed, provided that Foreign currency translation reserve comprises the net all other performance and service conditions are satisﬁed. exchange movement arising on the currency translation of foreign operations and equity accounted investees into Sri Where the terms of an equity-settled transaction award are Lankan rupees. modiﬁed, the minimum expense recognised is the expense The other capital reserve is used to recognise the value as if the terms had not been modiﬁed, if the original terms of equity-settled share-based payments provided to of the award are met. An additional expense is recognised employees, including key management personnel, as part of for any modiﬁcation that increases the total fair value of the their remuneration. share-based payment transaction, or is otherwise beneﬁcial to the employee as measured at the date of modiﬁcation. Available for sale reserve includes changes of fair value of ﬁnancial instruments designated as available for sale The dilutive effect of outstanding options is reﬂected as ﬁnancial assets. additional share dilution in the computation of diluted earnings per share (further details are given in note 18.2). 34 Share-based payment plans Accounting Policy Employee Share Option Scheme Employee share option plan Equity-settled transactions Under the John Keells Group’s Employees share option Employees of the Group receive remuneration in the form scheme (ESOP), share options of the parent are granted to of share-based payment transactions, whereby employees executives of the Group generally with more than 12 months render services as consideration for equity instruments of service. The exercise price of the share options is equal (equity-settled transactions). to the 30 day volume weighted average market price of the underlying shares on the date of grant. The share options The Group applies SLFRS 2 Share Based Payments in vest over a period of four years and is dependent on a accounting for employee remuneration in the form of shares performance criteria and a service criteria. The performance from 1 April 2013 onwards. criteria being a minimum performance achievement of Met Expectations and service criteria being that the employee The cost of equity-settled transactions is recognised, has to be in employment at the time the share options vest. together with a corresponding increase in other capital The fair value of the share options is estimated at the grant reserves in equity, over the period in which the performance date using a binomial option pricing model, taking into and service conditions are fulﬁlled. The cumulative expense account the terms and conditions upon which the share recognised for equity-settled transactions at each reporting options were granted. date until the vesting date reﬂects the extent to which the vesting period has expired and the Group’s best estimate The contractual term for each option granted is ﬁve years. of the number of equity instruments that will ultimately There are no cash settlement alternatives. The Group does vest. The income statement expense or credit for a period not have a past practice of cash settlement for these share represents the movement in cumulative expense recognised options. as at the beginning and end of that period and is recognised in employee beneﬁts expense. Share-based payment plans Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Total expense arising from share-based payment transactions 395,592 347,092 128,541 111,092 Movements in the year The following table illustrates the number (No.) and weighted average exercise prices (WAEP) of, and movements in, share options during the year; 242 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Group Company 2016 2015 2016 2015 As at 31 March No. WAEP No. WAEP No. WAEP No. WAEP In LKR '000s Outstanding at the beginning of the year 14,015,893 241.42 7,273,616 253.16 4,508,542 241.42 2,284,208 253.16 Granted during the year 6,781,282 171.25 7,428,128 229.93 1,957,332 171.25 2,306,366 229.93 Transfers 206,837 207.75 Adjustment due to sub division of shares 2,963,779 198.05 953,197 199.40 Adjustment due to share warrants 324,455 219.03 110,200 219.03 Exercised during the year Expired during the year (712,883) 202.02 (685,851) 245.60 (234,124) 206.87 (82,032) 245.30 Outstanding at the end of the year 23,372,526 197.46 14,015,893 241.22 7,501,984 198.60 4,508,542 241.42 Exercisable at the end of the year 6,119,220 211.98 1,818,404 253.16 1,910,954 212.82 571,052 253.16 Accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions The expected life of the share options is based on historical The Group measures the cost of equity-settled transactions data and current expectations and is not necessarily with employees by reference to the fair value of the indicative of exercise patterns that may occur. The expected equity instruments at the date at which they are granted. volatility reﬂects the assumption that the historical volatility Estimating fair value for share-based payment transactions over a period similar to the life of the options is indicative requires determination of the most appropriate valuation of future trends, which may not necessarily be the actual model, which is dependent on the terms and conditions of outcome either. the grant. This estimate also requires determination of the most appropriate inputs to the valuation model including the expected life of the share option, volatility and dividend yield and making assumptions about them. The following information were used and results were generated using binomial model for ESOP. As at 31 March 2016 2015 2014 Plan no 8 Plan no 8 Plan no 8 award 3 award 2 award 1 Dividend yield (%) 1.44 1.42 2.07 Expected volatility (%) 19.19 19.34 27.50 Risk free interest rate (%) 8.13 8.70 11.26 Expected life of share options (Years) 5.00 5.00 5.00 Weighted average share price at the grant date (LKR) 171.25 229.93 253.16 Weighted average remaining contractual life for the share options outstanding (Years) 3.00 3.00 3.00 Weighted average fair value of options (LKR) 64.62 61.93 81.54 Exercise price for options outstanding at the end of the year (LKR) 171.25 229.93 253.16 Exercise price for options outstanding at the end of the year (LKR) (adjusted as at 31-03-2016) 171.25 201.19 219.03 35 Insurance contract liabilities Accounting policy Insurance contract liabilities life The Directors agree to the long term and unit link insurance business provisions on the recommendation of the actuary following annual valuation of the life insurance business. The actuarial valuation takes into account all liabilities including contingent liabilities and is based on assumptions recommended by the independent external actuary. 243 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 35 Insurance contract liabilities (Contd.) share of net income that is required to be allocated by the insurance contract or by insurance regulations. Group The valuation of conventional life insurance fund as at 31 As at 31 March 2016 2015 December 2015 was conducted by Mr. M. Poopalanathan In LKR '000s (AIA) of Actuarial & Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd, who recommended a sum of LKR 760 Mn to be transferred from conventional life insurance fund to the shareholders fund for 35.1 Insurance contract liabilities the year 2015. Subsequent to the transfer the conventional Insurance contract liabilities 26,704,512 23,532,872 life fund stands as LKR 23,124 Mn, including the liability Unclaimed beneﬁts 500,770 399,094 in respect of bonuses and dividends declared up to and 27,205,282 23,931,966 including for the year 2015 of UA. Long duration contract liabilities included in the life insurance Similarly the non unit fund of linked long term business fund, result primarily from traditional participating and valuation was made by Mr. M. Poopalanathan (AIA) of Actuarial non participating life insurance products. Short duration & Management Consultants (Pvt) Ltd, who recommended a contract liabilities are primarily group term, accident and sum of LKR 40 Mn to be transferred from the non unit fund health insurance products. of the linked long term fund to shareholders fund for the year 2015. Subsequent to the transfer the fund stands at The actuarial reserves have been established based on the LKR 143 Mn as at 31 December 2015 of UA. following;  š ,QWHUHVWUDWHVZKLFKYDU\E\SURGXFWDQGDVUHTXLUHGE\ Union Assurance PLC (UAPLC), has engaged the services regulations issued by the Insurance Board of Sri Lanka of Towers Watson India Private Limited (a Willis Towers (IBSL). Watson entity) as their external actuary, and has obtained  š 0RUWDOLW\ UDWHV EDVHG RQ SXEOLVKHG PRUWDOLW\ WDEOHV conﬁrmation that UAPLC has adequate provisions to cover adjusted for actual experience as required by regulations the policy holders’ liabilities as at 31st March 2016. The issued by the IBSL. external actuary has also conﬁrmed that the policy holders’  š 6XUUHQGHUUDWHVEDVHGRQWKHDFWXDOH[SHULHQFH liabilities has been computed in accordance with the Solvency Margin (Risk Based Capital) Rules issued by the The amount of policy holder dividend to be paid is determined Insurance Board of Sri Lanka (IBSL), which became effective annually by the UA. The dividend includes life policy holders’ from 1st January 2016. Group As at 31 December 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Conventional life insurance Balance as at 1 January 20,308,965 17,408,645 Increase in life insurance fund before surplus transfer to share holders 3,927,534 3,534,879 Transfer to shareholders (760,000) (710,000) Net change in unclaimed beneﬁts 105,468 75,441 Balance as at 31 December Conventional life insurance 23,581,967 20,308,965 Non unit fund of linked life insurance contracts Balance as at 1 January 126,911 109,371 Increase in non unit fund of linked life insurance before surplus transfer to share holders 60,986 58,063 Transfer to shareholders (40,000) (40,000) Net change in unclaimed beneﬁts 1,374 (523) Balance as at 31 December Non unit fund of linked life insurance 149,271 126,911 23,731,238 20,435,876 35.2 Change in life insurance contract liabilities The results of Union Assurance PLC’s (UA) life business segment is consolidated into the Group's consolidated income statement. The change in life insurance contract liabilities represents the transfer to the Life Fund, the difference between all income and expenditure attributable to life policy holders during the year. 244 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Group Insurance and investment contracts are further classiﬁed as being either with or without discretionary participating For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 features (“DPF”). In LKR '000s Life insurance contract liabilities Revenue 6,952,717 5,788,214 These liabilities are measured by using the net premium Cost of sales (2,740,644) (2,730,511) method. The liability is determined as the sum of the Gross proﬁt 4,212,073 3,057,703 discounted value of the expected future beneﬁts, claims Operating expenses (2,021,615) (1,598,295) handling and policy administration expenses, policyholder including distribution and options and guarantees and investment income from administration expenses assets backing such liabilities, which are directly related Net ﬁnance income 2,044,301 3,075,368 to the contract, less the discounted value of the expected Proﬁt attributable to (804,226) (735,776) premiums that would be required to meet the future cash shareholders of UA outﬂows based on the valuation assumptions used. The Change in insurance contract 3,430,533 3,799,000 liability is either based on current assumptions or calculated liabilities using the assumptions established at the time the contract was issued, in which case, a margin for risk and adverse Accounting judgements , estimates and assumptions deviation is generally included. Adjustments to the liabilities Valuation of insurance contract liabilities and investment at each reporting date are recorded in the income statement contract liabilities – Union Assurance PLC. (UA) Insurance in ‘Increase in life insurance contract liabilities’. operations Product classiﬁcation SLFRS 4 requires contracts written by insurers to be The liability is de-recognised when the contract expires, is classiﬁed as either “insurance contracts” or “investment discharged or is cancelled. contracts” depending on the level of insurance risk At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether transferred. the recognised life insurance liabilities are adequate, by using an existing liability adequacy test in accordance with Insurance contracts are contracts under which one party SLFRS 4. (the Insurer) accepts signiﬁcant insurance risk from another party (the policyholder) by agreeing to compensate the For products containing discretionary participating features policyholder if a speciﬁed uncertain future event (the insured (DPF) the amount of the DPF is deemed to be the investment event) adversely affects the policyholder. return on all related assets where the apportionment between the shareholder and the policyholder has not yet Signiﬁcant insurance risk exists if an insured event could been determined. The liability includes certain elements cause an insurer to pay signiﬁcant additional beneﬁts in of net unrealized gains/(losses) and retained earnings any scenario, excluding scenarios that lack commercial attributable to the DPF, based on the mandated rates applied substance (i.e. have no discernible effect on the economics to these gains and earnings on the assumption that they had of the transaction). The classiﬁcation of contracts identiﬁes been realised as of the statement of ﬁnancial position date. both the insurance contracts UA issues and reinsurance The minimum mandated amounts, which are to be paid contracts holds by UA. to policyholders plus any declared/undeclared additional beneﬁts, are recorded in liabilities. Contracts where UA does not assume a signiﬁcant insurance risk is classiﬁed as investment contracts. Liability adequacy test (LAT) Life insurance At each reporting date, an assessment is made of whether Investment contracts are those contracts that transfer the recognised life insurance liabilities are adequate by signiﬁcant ﬁnancial risk and no signiﬁcant insurance risk. using an existing liability adequacy test as laid out under Financial risk is the risk of a possible future change in one or SLFRS 4. The liability value is adjusted to the extent that more of a speciﬁed interest rate ﬁnancial instrument price, it is insufficient to meet future beneﬁts and expenses. commodity price, foreign exchange rate, index of price or In performing the adequacy test, current best estimates rates, credit rating or credit index or other variable, provided of future contractual cash ﬂows, including related cash in the case of a non ﬁnancial variable that the variable is not ﬂows such as claims handling and policy administration speciﬁc to a party to the contract. expenses, policyholder options and guarantees, as well as investment income from assets backing such liabilities, are Once a contract has been classiﬁed as an insurance used. A number of valuation methods are applied, including contract, it remains an insurance contract for the remainder discounted cash ﬂows to the extent that the test involves of its lifetime, even if the insurance risk reduces signiﬁcantly discounting of cash ﬂows, the interest rate applied based during this period, unless all rights and obligations are on management’s prudent expectation of current market extinguished or expire. Investment contracts can, however, interest rates. be reclassiﬁed as insurance contracts after inception if insurance risk becomes signiﬁcant. Any deﬁciencies shall be recognized in the income statement by setting up a provision for liability adequacy. 245 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 36 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 36.1 Movement At the beginning of the year 9,358,789 13,633,045 2,670,784 3,920,482 Loans obtained 409,372 1,014,970 Loans transferred 10,027,539 Repayments (4,623,992) (5,405,012) (1,388,100) (1,311,510) Amortization of transaction cost 37,962 13,629 13,629 13,629 Exchange difference 1,488,760 102,157 186,195 48,183 At the end of the year 16,698,430 9,358,789 1,482,508 2,670,784 Repayable within one year 2,991,582 4,459,213 1,482,508 1,345,276 Repayable after one year Repayable between one and ﬁve years 13,706,848 4,808,576 1,325,508 Repayable after ﬁve years 91,000 13,706,848 4,899,576 1,325,508 16,698,430 9,358,789 1,482,508 2,670,784 Group interest bearing borrowings include ﬁnance lease obligations amounting to LKR 45 Mn (2015 LKR 76 Mn), details of which are disclosed in following note. In LKR '000s Lending institution Nature of Interest rate and security facility 36.3 Security and repayment terms John Keells Holdings PLC. International Finance Term Loan 6 months LIBOR + 2.75%, 331 Mn shares of Asian Hotels & Corporation Properties PLC., 862 Mn shares of John Keells Hotels PLC., Group companies Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. HNB Term loan 1 Month SLIBOR with a cap of 12.5% Primary ﬂoating mortgage bond over hotel property SCB Term Loan 1 month LIBOR+2.25% Corporate Guarantee from John Keells Hotels PLC. Sampath Bank Term Loan 3 months LIBOR +3.15% Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. DFCC Project loan AWPLR -0.5% Kaduwela land, building and machinery DFCC Project loan AWPLR +2.5% Kaduwela land, building and machinery of soft drink plant DFCC Project loan AWDR +4.50% Kaduwela land, building and machinery of soft drink plant. Fantasea World Investments (Pte) HNB Term Loan 3 months LIBOR + 3.25%, revised quarterly leasehold right Ltd. of Hakuraa huraa Island resort 246 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Group As at 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 36.2 Finance leases At the beginning of the year 75,674 107,974 Leases obtained Repayments (32,397) (30,449) Adjustments/transfers 1,590 (1,851) At the end of the year 44,867 75,674 Finance lease obligations repayable within one year Minimum lease payments 37,740 43,496 Finance charges (3,689) (11,052) Present value of minimum lease payments 34,051 32,444 Finance lease obligations repayable between one and ﬁve years Minimum lease payments 10,928 47,018 Finance charges (112) (3,788) Present value of minimum lease payments 10,816 43,230 Repayment terms Carrying Value of 2016 2015 Collaterals Bi-annual repayments commencing from December 26,171,605 1,482,508 2,670,784 2009 74 monthly installments commencing April 2013 3,229,000 559,683 681,599 4XDUWHUO\,QVWDOOPHQWVZKLFK&RPPHQFHGRQ 442,950 478,423 March 2014 20 quarterly installments 132,885 173,567 48 monthly installments commencing August 2011 2,529,220 19,166 60 equal monthly installments commencing January 39,073 91,171 2012 60 monthly installments commencing October 2012 45,000 75,000 Repayment over 5 years commencing September 793,856 170,406 2011 247 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements In LKR '000s Lending institution Nature of Interest rate and security facility 36.3 Security and repayment terms Habarana Lodge Ltd. Sampath Bank Term loan 3 months LIBOR +3.15% Corporate guarantee of John Keells Hotel PLC. of USD 2 Mn Habib Bank Limited Term loan 1 month LIBOR+2.80%, revised monthly Corporate guarantee of John Keells Hotels PLC. of USD 0.9 Mn Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) DFCC Term loan AWPLR 1% Primary mortgage over lease rights of land, Ltd. movable property, plant and equipment Sampath bank Term loan 3 months LIBOR +3.15% Corporate guarantee of John Keells Hotels PLC. for the LKR equivalent of USD 4 Mn. John Keells Hotels PLC. Habib bank Term loan AWPLR -0.5% John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) HSBC Term loan 3 months LIBOR + 2.65% Ltd. John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Commercial Bank Term loan AWPLR +0.5% General terms and conditions for LKR150 Ltd. Mn signed in relation to the term loan Commercial Bank Term loan AWPLR +0.5% John Keells Residencies (Pvt) Ltd. HSBC Term loan 3 months cost of funds + 1.5%, revised quarterly Keells Food Products PLC. DFCC Project loan AWDR + 4.5% Primary mortgage bond on the building and assets at Pannala. Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. HSBC Term loan 1 month LIBOR+2.45% Trans Asia Hotels PLC. HNB Term loan 2.85% (annually reviewed) Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. HSBC -Male Term loan 3 months LIBOR+2.65% Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Sampath Bank 3 months LIBOR+3.15% Sampath Bank 3 months LIBOR+3.15% Waterfront Properties Ltd. Syndicated loan Project loan Freehold and leasehold Land of the company. 1,857 Mn through SCB shares of Waterfront Properties Ltd. pledged by John Keells Holdings PLC. being the parent for sponsor support. Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. Habib Bank Term loan 1 month AWPLR-0.5% Sampath Bank PLC. Term loan 3 months LIBOR+3.15% Corporate guarantee of John Keells Hotels PLC. of USD 1.5 Mn JK BPO Solution India (Pvt) Ltd. DLF Assets (Pvt) Ltd. Finance lease DLF Assets (Pvt) Ltd. Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. Central Finance PLC. 248 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Repayment terms Carrying Value of 2016 2015 Collaterals Capital repayment in 20 equal quarterly installments 132,885 172,932 Capital repayment in 48 monthly installments 32,483 78,703 66 monthly installments commencing November 1,000,000 568,495 715,907 2013 4XDUWHUO\,QVWDOOPHQWV 295,300 373,660 23 monthly installments commencing August 2013 33,441 45 equal monthly installments commencing 77,846 November 2011 Repayable in 60 equal monthly instalments 125,000 150,000 commencing after 12 months from the ﬁrst disbursement Repayable in 60 equal monthly instalments 253,393 320,076 commencing from April 2014 Option 1 repay in full as a bullet payment in June 1,576,369 2015 Option 2 repay in full between March 2015 and June 2015 60 equal monthly instalments after a grace period of 166,667 133,793 183,898 1 Year 48 monthly installments after 12 months grace period 252,933 368,675 16 quarterly installments commencing from 442,951 September 2016 8 quarterly installments commencing December 2014 99,663 270,236 20 quarterly installments commencing April 2014 102,588 123,720 83 monthly installments commencing June 2014 216,500 224,908 13 quarterly installments commencing from 18,581,355 11,128,070 September 2019 49 monthly installments 67,748 121,333 20 quarterly installments 99,664 131,295 16,653,565 9,283,115 Finance lease 44,865 72,531 Hire purchase 3,143 44,865 75,674 16,698,430 9,358,789 249 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 37 Employee beneﬁt liabilities Employee deﬁned beneﬁt plan gratuity Accounting Policy The liability recognised in the statement of ﬁnancial position Employees are eligible for Employees’ Provident Fund is the present value of the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation at the contributions and Employees’ Trust Fund contributions in reporting date using the projected unit credit method. line with respective statutes and regulations. The companies contribute the deﬁned percentages of gross emoluments Any actuarial gains or losses arising are recognised of employees to an approved Employees’ Provident Fund immediately in other comprehensive income this was and to the Employees’ Trust Fund respectively, which are previously recognized in income statement. externally funded. Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Employee beneﬁt liabilities At the beginning of the year 1,494,711 1,502,246 160,456 146,862 Current service cost 133,665 121,126 10,587 8,752 Acquisitions 8,435 Transfers 5,695 21 Acquisition/(disposal) of subsidiary (106,561) Interest cost on beneﬁt obligation 150,235 165,247 16,046 16,155 Payments (171,100) (144,335) (6,081) (5,919) (Gain)/loss arising from changes in assumptions 44,627 (43,015) 2,478 (5,415) Exchange translation difference 307 3 At the end of the year 1,660,880 1,494,711 189,181 160,456 The expenses are recognised in the income statement in the following line items; Cost of sales 140,319 126,063 10,890 10,810 Selling and distribution expenses 18,484 16,747 Administrative expenses 125,097 143,563 15,743 14,097 283,900 286,373 26,633 24,907 Accounting judgements , estimates and assumptions All assumptions are reviewed at each reporting date. Employee beneﬁt liability The principal assumptions used in determining the cost of The employee beneﬁt liability of the Group is based on the employee beneﬁts were: actuarial valuation carried out by Independent actuarial specialists. The actuarial valuations involve making As at 31 March 2016 2015 assumptions about discount rates and future salary increases. The complexity of the valuation, the underlying assumptions and its long term nature, the deﬁned beneﬁt obligation is Discount rate 10.50% 10.00% highly sensitive to changes in these assumptions. Future salary increases 6% 9% 6% 8% 37.1 Sensitivity of assumptions used A one percentage change in the assumptions would have the following effects: Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Discount rate: 1% Increase (76,569) (78,689) (6,040) (4,968) 1% Decrease 68,440 68,807 6,538 5,292 Salary Increment rate: 1% Increase 72,446 73,713 7,235 5,919 1% Decrease (81,420) (82,359) (6,797) (5,637) 250 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 37.2 Maturity analysis of the payments The following payments are expected on employee beneﬁt liabilities in future years Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Within the next 12 months 236,306 248,927 23,236 25,222 Between 1 and 2 years 418,173 387,355 111,308 53,354 Between 2 and 5 years 466,695 385,286 16,948 60,741 Between 5 and 10 years 386,856 329,977 24,863 16,225 Beyond 10 years 152,850 143,166 12,826 4,914 Total expected payments 1,660,880 1,494,711 189,181 160,456 Weighted average duration (years) of deﬁne beneﬁt obligation 4.91 5.46 3.67 3.51 38 Other deferred liabilities Where the Group receives non-monetary grants, the asset Accounting policy and the grant are recorded gross at nominal amounts Government grants and released to the income statement over the expected Government grants are recognised where there is useful life and pattern of consumption of the beneﬁt of the reasonable assurance that the grant will be received and all underlying asset by equal annual installments. attached conditions will be complied with. When the grant relates to an expense item, it is recognised as income over Deferred revenue the period necessary to match to the costs, that it is intended Deferred revenue is the money received for goods or services to compensate. Where the grant relates to an asset, the which have not yet been delivered. According to the revenue fair value is credited to a deferred income account and is recognition principle, it is recorded as a liability until delivery released to the income statement over the expected useful is made, at which time it is converted to revenue. life of the relevant asset by equal annual installments. Group Company As at 31 March Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Government grants 960 1,412 Deferred revenue 670,286 101,885 Deferred purchase consideration 190,556 190,556 Amounts due to related parties 43.5 180,458 861,802 103,297 371,014 39 Other non current liabilities Accounting policy Group classiﬁes all non ﬁnancial non current liabilities under other current liabilities which include non refundable advances and deposits. Group As at 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Advances received 2,963,252 603,191 Deposits 131,929 178,776 3,095,181 781,967 251 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 40 Trade and other payables Accounting policy Trade payables are the aggregate amount of obligations to pay for goods or services, that have been acquired in the ordinary course of business. Trade payable are classiﬁed as current liabilities if payment is due within one year. Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Trade and other payables Trade and other payables 12,392,889 10,744,017 332,506 333,822 Reinsurance payables 140,358 223,650 Advances and deposits 222,219 299,672 12,755,466 11,267,339 332,506 333,822 Trade and other payables are normally non-interesting bearing and settled within one year. Reinsurance payables normally settled within one year. For further explanation on the Group's liquidity risk management process refer note 10.2.2. 41 Short term borrowings Group As at 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Bank loans 821,243 12,622,740 821,243 12,622,740 42 Other current liabilities Accounting policy Group classiﬁes all non ﬁnancial current liabilities under other current liabilities. These include non refundable deposits and other tax payables. These liabilities are recorded at amounts expected to be set-off at the reporting date. Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Other current liabilities Non refundable deposits 1,706,292 2,201,887 2,566 2,566 Other tax payables 528,564 1,049,994 13,723 12,317 2,234,856 3,251,881 16,289 14,883 43 Related party transactions Non-recurrent related party transactions Terms and conditions of transactions with related parties There were no any non-recurrent related party transactions The Group and Company carried out transactions in the which aggregate value exceeds 10% of the equity or 5% of ordinary course of business with the following related the total assets which ever is lower of the Company as per entities. The list of Directors at each of the subsidiary, joint 31 March 2015 audited ﬁnancial statements, which required venture and associate companies have been disclosed in additional disclosures in the 2015/16 Annual Report under the Group directory under the Supplementary Information Colombo Stock Exchange listing Rule 9.3.2 and Code of Best section of the Annual Report. Practices on Related Party Transactions under the Security Exchange Commission Directive issued under Section 13(c ) Transactions with related parties are carried out in the of the Security Exchange Commission Act. ordinary course of the business. Outstanding current account balances at year end are unsecured, interest free and settlement occurs in cash. 252 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Recurrent related party transactions 2015/16 Annual Report under Colombo Stock Exchange There were no any recurrent related party transactions listing Rule 9.3.2 and Code of Best Practices on Related Party which in aggregate value exceeds 10% of the consolidated Transactions under the Security Exchange Commission revenue of the Group as per 31 March 2015 audited ﬁnancial Directive issued under Section 13(c) of the Security Statements, which required additional disclosures in the Exchange Commission Act. Group Company As at 31 March Note 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 43.1 Amounts due from related parties Subsidiaries 43.5 412,187 119,457 Equity accounted investees 43.6 133,031 185,085 182,995 138,813 Key management personnel Post employment beneﬁt plan 133,031 185,085 595,182 258,270 43.2 Amounts due to related parties Subsidiaries 43.5 102,135 2,726 Equity accounted investees 28,982 26,488 Key management personnel Post employment beneﬁt plan 28,982 26,488 102,135 2,726 43.3 Transactions with related parties Subsidiaries (Purchases)/Sales of goods (3,631) (1,280) (Receiving)/Rendering of services 43.5 586,183 582,664 Rent received/(paid) (34,292) (34,759) Equity accounted investees (Purchases)/Sales of goods 45,096 24,063 (Receiving)/Rendering of services 43.6 277,493 98,539 225,464 218,967 Interest received/(paid) 43.4 33,271 57,975 29,589 69 Key management personnel (KMP) (Purchases)/Sales of goods Close family members of KMP (Purchases)/Sales of goods Companies controlled/jointly controlled/signiﬁcantly Inﬂuenced by KMP and their close family members (Purchases)/Sales of goods Post employment beneﬁt plan Contributions to the provident fund 242,678 232,437 54,999 50,077 43.4 Transactions with related parties Associates Interest received/(Interest paid) Nations Trust Bank PLC. 33,271 57,975 29,589 69 The Group and Company held interest bearing deposits of LKR 2,929 Mn (2015 205 Mn) and LKR 2,568 Mn (2015 nil) respectively, at Nations Trust Bank PLC. as at 31 March 2016. 253 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 43 Related party transactions (Contd.) Company Amounts due from Amounts due to Transactions with related parties Subsidiaries (Receiving)/ Rendering of services As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s 43.5 Subsidiaries Current Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 3,338 2,950 27,544 26,111 Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. 4,030 5,268 45,867 44,302 Cinnamon Hotel Management Ltd. 5,154 65,626 94,328 151,343 InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. 576 1,179 13,567 14,111 JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. 3,997 6,754 66,395 43,257 John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. 6,724 4,375 3,733 John Keells Logistics Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 2,314 4,241 15,281 13,155 John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. 4,577 1,717 34,199 16,708 John Keells PLC. 1,472 1,833 16,350 15,525 John Keells Teas Ltd. 3,064 325 3,499 3,519 Keells Food Products PLC. 2,339 2,058 20,938 20,158 Lanka Marine Services Ltd. 362,781 1,009 8,462 8,105 Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd. 1,248 716 11,069 8,612 Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. 1,574 (12,886) (7,295) Rajawella Holdings Ltd 90,300 420 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. 2,205 15,251 18,834 Transware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. 154 9,405 1,029 3,071 Union Assurance PLC. 3,164 5,592 31,376 33,123 Walkers Tours Ltd. 615 1,165 31,046 28,168 Waterfront properties (Pvt) Ltd. 4,638 831 34,596 4,471 Other subsidiaries 8,726 8,788 1,332 2,726 123,477 133,653 412,187 119,457 102,135 2,726 586,183 582,664 Non-current Rajawella Holdings Ltd. 180,458 180,458 43.6 Equity accounted investees Joint ventures DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd. 92,839 49,768 218,563 208,675 NDO Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. 1,592 535 1,448 6,228 Associates Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Nations Trust Bank PLC. 88,385 88,040 Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. 129 210 2,210 1,302 South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. 50 260 3,243 2,762 182,995 138,813 225,464 218,967 254 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 43.7 Compensation of key management personnel Key management personnel include members of the Board of Directors of John Keells Holdings PLC. and its subsidiary companies. Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Short-term employee beneﬁts 427,632 441,752 185,419 191,307 Post employment beneﬁts Other long-term beneﬁts Termination beneﬁts Share based payments 145,481 148,941 65,688 67,113 573,113 590,693 251,107 258,420 Directors' interest in the employee share option plan of the Company As at 31 March 2016, the executive members of the Board of Directors held options to purchase ordinary shares under the employee share option plan as follows; 2016 2015 Expiry date Adjusted exercise Outstanding at Exercisable at Outstanding at Exercisable at price the end of period the end of period the end of period the end of period LKR 08.12.2015 1,258,096 1,258,096 06.12.2016 151.39 1,517,847 1,517,847 1,273,365 1,273,365 30.06.2018 219.03 1,548,202 769,187 1,298,829 324,706 30.06.2019 201.19 1,392,774 348,193 1,218,678 24.06.2020 171.25 1,025,984 No share options have been granted to the non-executive members of the Board of Directors under the employee share option plan. 255 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 44 Contingent liabilities š Post privatization turnover tax levied by the Western Accounting policy Provincial Council Provisions, contingent assets and contingent liabilities The Company has disputed this on the basis that its business Provisions are recognised when the Group has a present activity is that of an export. An appeal has been made by the obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, Company to the Western Provincial Council. it is probable that an outﬂow of resources embodying economic beneﬁts will be required to settle the obligation š ,QFRPHWD[DVVHVVPHQWUHODWLQJWR\HDURIDVVHVVPHQW and a reliable estimate can be made of the amount of 2001/02 the obligation. Where the Group expects some or all of a Assessment was received by the Company based on provision to be reimbursed, for example under an insurance normal tax rates. The company has appealed against this contract, the reimbursement is recognised as a separate assessment on the grounds that the sale of bunker to asset but only when the reimbursement is virtually certain. foreign ships is an export, which is liable to concessionary The expense relating to any provision is presented in the rates of taxes, but this has been disputed by the Department income statement net of any reimbursement. of Inland Revenue. The appeal made by the company is currently with the Court of Appeal of Sri Lanka. If the effect of the time value of money is material, provisions are discounted using a current pre-tax rate that reﬂects, š ,QFRPH7D[$VVHVVPHQWVUHODWLQJWR\HDUVRIDVVHVVPHQWV where appropriate, the risks speciﬁc to the liability. Where 2002/03, 2003/04 and 2004/05 discounting is used, the increase in the provision due to the Assessments were received in January 2009, once again passage of time is recognised as a ﬁnance cost. based on normal tax rates. It is the view of the Company, based on opinions from independent legal counsel and All contingent liabilities are disclosed as a note to the tax consultants, that the subject years were statutorily ﬁnancial statements unless the outﬂow of resources is time barred as provided in the Inland Revenue Act. The remote. A contingent liability recognised in a business appeals made by the Company to the Board of Review were combination is initially measured at its fair value. transferred to the Tax Appeals Commission (TAC). The TAC determined that the assessments raised were time barred. Subsequently, it is measured at the higher of: The amount A case stated has been ﬁled with the Court of Appeal by an that would be recognised in accordance with the general application made by the CGIR. guidance for provisions above (LKAS 37) or The amount initially recognised less, when appropriate, cumulative š ,QFRPH7D[$VVHVVPHQWVUHODWLQJWR\HDUVRIDVVHVVPHQWV amortisation recognised in accordance with the guidance 2005/06, 2006/07, 2007/08 and 2008/09 for revenue recognition (LKAS 18). Contingent assets are Assessments were received in August 2008,October disclosed, where inﬂow of economic beneﬁt is probable. 2009 and March 2011, consequent to the Supreme Court judgement, whereby the original BOI concessions granted The contingent liability of the Group and the Company as at were annulled. Although the assessments were based on 31 March 2016, relates to the following; normal tax rates the company computed and paid income taxes at concessionary rates of taxes, based on opinions John Keells Holdings PLC. (JKH) from independent legal counsel and tax consultants, The contingent liability of JKH as at 31 March 2016, relates that the supply of bunkers to foreign vessels is an export to the following; and therefore eligible to concessionary rates of taxes as provided in the Inland Revenue Act. Appeals were lodged š *67 9$7$VVHVVPHQWVIRUWKH\HDURIDVVHVVPHQW against the balance taxes assessed and penalties charged The company has ﬁled appeals against these assessments by the Inland Revenue and the status of each of the appeals and these are currently pending at the Court of Appeal. are as follows: š ,QFRPHWD[DVVHVVPHQWUHODWLQJWR\HDURIDVVHVVPHQW 2005/06 and 2006/07 The Tax Appeals Commission 2006/07 determined that it has no jurisdiction in respect of appeals The company has ﬁled an appeal against this assessment relating to these two years and a case stated has been ﬁled and it is currently pending at the Court of Appeal. with the Court of Appeal by an application made by the CGIR. Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts 2007/08 – The appeal was determined in favour of the CGIR and based on information available, the contingent liability by the Tax Appeals Commission, and a case stated has been as at 31 March 2016 is estimated at LKR123Mn. ﬁled with the Court of Appeal by an application made by the company. LANKA MARINE SERVICES (PVT) LIMITED (LMS) The contingent liability of LMS as at 31 March 2016, relates 2008/09 – An appeal made by the Company is currently with to the following : the Tax Appeals Commission. 256 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information š ,QFRPH7D[$VVHVVPHQWVUHODWLQJWR\HDUVRIDVVHVVPHQWV and upheld the position that the company is entitled to claim 2009/10, 2010/2011 and 2011/2012 zero rated status on its taxable supplies The Department of Assessments were received based on normal tax rates. Inland Revenue is currently awaiting the case stated from Appeals have been lodged with the Department of Inland the Tax Appeals Commission to make an application to the Revenue within the stipulated time period for assessments Court of Appeal. raised for these years of assessment. All the above three assessments were conﬁrmed by the Commissioner General Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts of Inland Revenue and the company being aggrieved by the and based on information available, the contingent liability decision has appealed to the Tax Appeals Commission. as a 31 March 2016 is estimated at LKR 26Mn. š ,QFRPH7D[$VVHVVPHQWVUHODWLQJWR\HDUVRIDVVHVVPHQWV UNION ASSURANCE PLC. (UA PLC) 2012/2013 and 2013/2014 The contingent liability of UA PLC as at 31 March 2016, Assessments were received based on normal tax rates. relates to the following; Appeals have been lodged with the Department of Inland Revenue within the stipulated time period for both these š ,QFRPH7D[$VVHVVPHQWVUHFHLYHGIRU\HDUVRIDVVHVVPHQWV years of assessment. 2010/11, 2011/2012 and 2012/13 The Department of Inland Revenue has raised assessments Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts on Union Assurance PLC. for the years of assessment 2010/ and based on information available, the contingent liability 11, 2011/12 and 2012/13, assessing the Life insurance as at 31 March 2016 is estimated at LKR 1,019 Mn. business to pay income taxes of LKR 13 Mn, LKR 475 Mn and LKR 466 Mn respectively. The company has ﬁled valid MACKINNONS TRAVELS (PVT) LTD (MTL) appeals against these assessments. The contingent liability of MTL as at 31 March 2016, relates to the following; Having discussed with independent legal and tax experts and based on information available, the Directors are of the š 9$7$VVHVVPHQWVUHFHLYHGIRU\HDUVRIDVVHVVPHQWV view that the Company has followed due process and acted and 2010/2011 in accordance with the prevailing laws in its tax submissions The company has ﬁled appeals against these assessments for years of assessment 2010/11, 2011/12, and 2012/13, with the Inland Revenue Department. The Tax Appeals and therefore, the above assessments have no rationale or Commission determined the appeal in favour of the company basis in law. 45 Capital and other commitments Group Company As at 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Capital commitments approved but not provided for 64,837,411 62,451,268 Guarantees 217,290 10,008,750 217,290 12,083,750 65,054,701 72,460,018 217,290 12,083,750 46 Lease commitments Group As at 31 March 2016 2015 In LKR '000s Lease rentals due on non-cancellable operating leases; Within one year 285,016 563,306 Between one and ﬁve years 1,160,578 817,851 After ﬁve years 3,947,029 2,392,234 5,392,623 3,773,391 257 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes to the Financial Statements 46 Lease commitments (Contd.) Company Lessor Leased properties Details of leases Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. CISCO Speciality Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. Pet Bottle Plant Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. Sri Lanka Tourist board Land occupied. Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka Tourist board Land occupied. Fantasea World Investment (Pte) Ltd. Government of Maldives Land occupied. Habarana Lodge Ltd. Kekirawa Divisional Secretariat Land occupied. Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. Kekirawa Divisional Secretariat Land occupied. Jaykay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. Land owners Land occupied. Keells Food Products PLC. Pannala Divisional Secretariat Land occupied. Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. Government of Maldives and a sub lease with Land occupied. Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. Government of Maldives Land occupied. Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. Sri Lanka Tourist board Land occupied. Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. Board of Investment of Sri Lanka Land occupied. Extent of lease hold land is given in the Group real estate portfolio in the Supplementary section of the Annual Report. 47 Assets pledged Subdivision of shares Assets pledged for facilities obtained is given in note 36.3 to The Board of Directors of the Company also resolved to the ﬁnancial statements. recommend the increase in the number of shares in issue by way of a share subdivision of the Company’s shares whereby 48 Events after the reporting period seven (7) existing shares will be sub divided into eight (8). Final dividend Accordingly, the price and quantity of the 2016 Warrants too The Board of Directors of the Company has declared a will be adjusted to reﬂect the aforementioned subdivision of ﬁnal dividend of LKR 1.50 per share for the ﬁnancial year shares. The proposed subdivision is subject to the approval ended 31 March 2016. As required by section 56 (2) of the of the Colombo Stock Exchange and shareholders of the Companies Act No. 07 of 2007, the Board of Directors has Company at an extraordinary general meeting. conﬁrmed that the Company satisﬁes the solvency test in accordance with section 57 of the Companies Act No.07 of Employee Share Options (ESOP) 2007,and has obtained a certiﬁcate from auditors, prior to The Board of Directors of the Company also resolved to declaring a ﬁnal dividend which is to be paid on the 13 June recommend to the shareholders, a ninth ESOP Plan (Plan 9), 2016. whereby the maximum number of options offered under the Plan will not exceed 2.25% of the total issued shares of the In accordance with LKAS 10, Events after the reporting Company. From the total number of options offered under period, the ﬁnal dividend has not been recognised as a Plan 9, a maximum of 0.75% of the total issued shares may liability in the ﬁnancial statements as at 31 March 2016. be offered every year, over three (3) years commencing in July 2016 and ending in July 2019. The proposed ESOP Plan is subject to the approval of the Colombo Stock Exchange and the shareholders of the Company at an extraordinary general meeting. 258 UNITED This section entails additional Group related information. SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION 260 Economic Value Statement 262 History of the John Keells Group 264 Decade at a Glance 266 Indicative US Dollar Financial Statements 268 Sri Lankan Economy 270 Group Real Estate Portfolio 272 Memberships Maintained by the Industry Groups 275 Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting 278 Group Directory 285 GRI G4 Content Index 291 Corporate Social Responsibility 294 Glossary of Financial Terms 295 Notice of Meeting 296 Corporate Information 297 Proxy Form John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Economic Value Statement Transportation Leisure Property Consumer Foods and Financial Services Retail For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 Rs.mn Direct economic value generated Revenue 10,725 13,567 26,829 25,688 4,677 6,004 37,367 30,664 7,146 9,190 Finance income 188 140 1,588 2,094 476 433 451 93 2,665 3,546 Share of results of associates 1,869 2,004 52 12 860 762 Proﬁt on sale of assets and other income 138 32 93 124 (276) 77 1,543 1,177 55 1,418 Valuation gain on IP 148 5 17 9 12,920 15,743 28,562 27,918 5,025 6,519 39,378 31,943 10,726 14,916 Economic value distributed Operating costs 9,030 12,799 10,653 13,853 1,087 4,439 27,034 24,316 6,622 9,806 Employee wages and beneﬁts 409 386 4,069 3,794 251 210 3,531 3,007 822 1,284 Payments to providers of funds 863 65 6,588 2,790 2,337 471 2,914 394 1,256 102 Payments to government 57 43 1,199 1,206 132 117 2,467 1,919 41 441 Community investments 24 18 54 51 3 29 20 14 25 10,383 13,311 22,563 21,694 3,807 5,240 35,975 29,656 8,755 11,658 Economic value retained Depreciation 88 97 1,547 1,440 14 10 736 779 89 152 Amortisation 1 1 768 713 25 12 12 217 188 Proﬁt after dividends 2,448 2,334 3,684 4,071 1,179 1,269 2,655 1,496 1,665 2,918 Retained for reinvestment/ growth 2,537 2,432 5,999 6,224 1,218 1,279 3,403 2,287 1,971 3,258 Above data has been derived from the audited Financial Statements that were prepared based on Sri Lanka Accounting Standards (SLFRS/LKAS). 260 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Information Others Total Eliminations/ Group Total Technology Adjustments 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 2015 2016 (%) 2015 (%) 8,463 7,395 3,397 3,996 98,604 96,504 (5,322) (4,652) 93,282 87.62 91,852 86.75 45 36 15,014 12,696 20,427 19,038 (12,416) (10,916) 8,011 7.52 8,122 7.67 2,781 2,778 2,781 2.61 2,778 2.62 113 84 (3,655) 165 (1,989) 3,077 4,121 2,132 2.00 3,077 2.91 98 35 263 49 263 0.25 49 0.05 8,621 7,515 14,854 16,892 120,086 121,446 (13,617) (15,568) 106,469 100.00 105,878 100.00 6,302 5,447 2,079 (251) 62,807 70,409 6,585 (1,176) 69,392 65.18 69,233 65.39 1,461 1,425 1,080 1,074 11,623 11,180 11,623 10.92 11,180 10.56 439 16 8,530 12,619 22,927 16,457 (12,164) (10,916) 10,763 10.11 5,541 5.23 129 157 669 1,220 4,694 5,103 4,694 4.40 5,103 4.82 4 9 108 125 234 125 0.12 234 0.22 8,335 7,054 12,358 14,770 102,176 103,383 (5,579) (12,092) 96,597 90.73 91,291 86.22 180 171 128 117 2,782 2,766 2,782 2.61 2,766 2.61 10 10 25 24 1,058 948 1,058 0.99 948 0.90 96 280 2,343 1,981 14,070 14,349 (8,038) (3,476) 6,032 5.67 10,873 10.27 286 461 2,496 2,122 17,910 18,063 (8,038) (3,476) 9,872 9.27 14,587 13.78 261 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 History of the John Keells Group 1870 1999 2007-2008 The foundation was laid for the corporate Nations Trust Bank (NTB) was established The Group’s ﬁrst ‘‘Cinnamon’’ resort in journey of John Keells Holdings, when two in a joint venture with the International the Maldives, ‘‘Cinnamon Island Alidhoo’’, English brothers, George and Edwin John Finance Corporation (IFC) and Central commenced operations. IFC, a member of set up E. John & Co., a ﬁrm of produce and Finance Co. Ltd. Fortune magazine named the World Bank group, signed a long term exchange brokers. JKH “One of the ten best Asian stocks to funding arrangement amounting to USD 75 1948 buy”. South Asia Gateway Terminals (SAGT) million to support the Group’s expansion the largest private sector investment in Sri plans. The ﬁrm merged with two London based Lanka at that time commenced operations 2008-2009 tea brokers, William Jas and Hy Thompson WR RZQ RSHUDWH DQG GHYHORS WKH 4XHHQ & Co., and GeoWhite & Co., thereby evolving (OL]DEHWK4XD\DWWKH3RUWRI&RORPER JKH acquired a further 8.4 per cent in SAGT into a private liability company in the name and also increased stakes in UA, CCS, JKL 2000 of E. John, Thompson, White & Company and KFPL. The stake in AMW was divested. Ltd. JKH was rated among the best 300 small JKH further acquired a 44 per cent stake in 1960 companies in the world by Forbes Global 4XDWUUR)LQDQFHDQG$FFRXQWLQJ6ROXWLRQV magazine. JKH also became the ﬁrst 2009-2010 The ﬁrm amalgamated with Keell and company in Sri Lanka to obtain the SL Waldock Ltd., another long established AAA rating from Fitch Rating Ltd. JKH was The market capitalisation exceeded produce, share and freight broking admitted as a full member of the World USD 1 billion. JKH was ranked ﬁrst by company thus changing its name to John Economic Forum.1870 the Business Today magazine’s ’Top 10’ Keell Thompson White Ltd. award. Trans Asia Hotel was re-branded 2003-2004 1973 and re-launched as Cinnamon Lakeside JKH acquired Asian Hotels and Properties, Colombo. The Group released its ﬁrst stand The company acquired a controlling stake an acquisition that brought with it 40 alone Sustainability Report for 2008/09 in in Walkers Tours and Travels (Ceylon) Ltd., per cent of the ﬁve star room capacity in adherence to the Global Reporting Initiative one of the country’s leading inbound tour Colombo. (GRI-G3) framework. operators. 2004-2005 2010-2011 1974 John Keells Hotels Limited (KHL) was JKH was ranked ﬁrst in the LMD Magazine’s The ﬁrm became a Rupee quoted public created as a holding company for all Group “Most Respected Entities in Sri Lanka” for company and took the name of John Keells resorts. JKH acquired a controlling stake in the 5th consecutive time. The head lease Ltd. Mercantile Leasing Limited (MLL). The John of Alidhoo island was divested while the 1986 Keells Social Responsibility Foundation, Group acquired the head lease of Dhonveli the Group’s CSR arm, was established as island for a period of 18 years. Rebranding A newly incorporated John Keells Holdings a charitable company and registered as a and re-launching of Chaaya Tranz formerly Ltd. (JKH) acquired a controlling stake voluntary social service organisation. known as Coral Gardens Hotel Hikkaduwa in John Keells Limited and obtained a took place. The Group acquired 6.3 million 2005-2006 quotation on the Colombo Stock Exchange shares of Nations Trust Bank through the (CSE) amidst a heavily over-subscribed The Group entered into a MOU to develop conversion of warrants and effectively public share issue. a third resort in the Maldives on Alidhoo maintained its stake. JKH also acquired 1991 Island. JKH acquired 80 per cent of Yala 5.6 million shares of Union Assurance PLC, Village Hotel. With the sale of Keells and increased its stake to 95.6 per cent. JKH was involved in the biggest ever Plantations, the Group exited from the Ceylon Cold Stores added “KIK” as its cola deal at the time, when Whittalls group of ownership of plantations. JKH entered into brand in its portfolio of soft drinks. JKH’s companies was acquired thus gaining the BPO space through a joint venture with property arm commenced construction controlling stakes in Ceylon Cold Stores, Raman Roy Associates. The Group also of “OnThree20”, a 475 unit apartment Ceylon Holiday Resorts and a stake in launched its new hotel brands ‘‘Cinnamon complex in the heart of Colombo. Walkers Union Assurance. Hotels & Resorts’’ and ‘‘Chaaya Hotels & Tours and Whitall Boutstead became the 1994 Resorts’’. NTB merged with Mercantile only destination management companies Leasing Limited. to obtain both ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 JKH became the ﬁrst Sri Lankan company 2006-2007 certiﬁcations. to obtain a listing abroad, and issued Global Depository Receipts (GDRs) that The Group acquired a lease on Dhonveli were quoted on the Luxembourg Stock Beach and Spa and Ellaidhoo Tourist Resort Exchange. in the Maldives. Furthermore, JKH acquired 1996 20 per cent of Associated Motorways PLC. (AMW). JKH increased its stake in SAGT Velidhu Resort Hotel, an 80 roomed island by 8 per cent to 34 per cent. John Keells resort in the Maldives, was acquired making Holdings Ltd was renamed as John Keells it JKH’s ﬁrst major overseas investment. Holdings PLC. 262 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 2011-2012 2014-2015 “The Emperor” apartment project at The ﬁrst lean luxury hotel in Sri Lanka, Crescat City, Colombo was completed. Cinnamon red was launched. The Chaaya Tranz Hikkaduwa and Chaaya Wild “Onthree20” residential development Yala were re-opened after refurbishment. project was successfully completed. JKH JKH was ranked number one in the LMD was ranked ﬁrst in LMD Magazine’s “Most Magazine’s “Top 50” of Sri Lanka’s leading Respected Entities in Sri Lanka”. Union companies for 2010/11 and number one Assurance completed the segregation of in the Business Today magazine’s “Top 20” its Life and General Insurance businesses rankings for the 7th time since 1999. complying with the IBSL stipulated regulations and sold a 78 per cent stake of 2012-2013 the General Life Insurance business. JayKay The 200 room ﬁve star resort hotel Marketing Services (Private) Limited Cinnamon Bey was launched and Cinnamon merged with Nexus Networks (Private) Citadel was opened following an extensive Limited, with JMSL being the surviving refurbishment. Keells Food Products PLC, entity. Divested stakes in Expo Lanka successfully raised Rs.1.02 billion via a Holdings PLC and Access Engineering PLC. rights issue in order to fund the acquisition 2015-2016 and expansion of the meat processing plant in Pannala. Union Assurance Please refer “Year at a Glance” section of PLC,successfully concluded a one for seven the JKH Annual Report. rights issue and raised Rs.720 million. The 140,000 square foot “K-Zone” mall was opened in Ja-ela, Colombo. JKH was ranked number one in LMD Magazine’s “Most Respected Entities in Sri Lanka” survey for 2012 and also ranked number one in Business Today Magazine’s “Top 20” rankings. 2013-2014 The market capitalisation of JKH exceeded USD 2 billion for the ﬁrst time in history. JKH announced the development of the luxury mixed use integrated resort project, “Waterfront”. JKH was ranked ﬁrst in the LMD Magazine’s “Most Respected Entities in Sri Lanka” for the eighth consecutive time and Business Today Magazine’s list of Sri Lanka’s Top 25 companies and was also recognized as one of the 15 great places to work in Sri Lanka through a survey conducted by the Great Place to Work Institute. Union Assurance launched Sri Lanka’s ﬁrst ever fully ﬂedged customer portal for life policy holders. Divested the stakes in Central Hospital (Private) Limited and Information Systems Associates (ISA). 263 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Decade at a Glance 31 March 2016* 2015* 2014* 2013* 2012* LKR Millions OPERATING RESULTS Group revenue 93,282 91,852 86,706 83,262 75,924 EBIT 20,192 19,226 16,537 16,677 14,192 Finance cost (994) (668) (1,217) (1,081) (1,416) Share of results of equity accounted investees 2,781 2,778 3,089 3,440 2,809 Proﬁt before tax 19,198 18,557 15,320 15,595 12,778 Tax expense (3,406) (2,812) (2,362) (2,162) (1,827) Proﬁt after tax 15,792 15,745 12,958 13,433 10,951 Extra ordinary item Proﬁt for the year 15,792 15,745 12,958 13,433 10,951 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent Equity holders of the parent 14,070 14,348 11,721 12,113 9,689 Non-controlling interests 1,722 1,397 1,237 1,320 1,262 15,792 15,745 12,958 13,433 10,951 CAPITAL EMPLOYED Stated capital 58,702 50,703 49,749 26,480 25,111 Capital reserves and other components of equity 28,715 24,501 21,845 20,635 13,226 Revenue reserves 67,565 62,594 51,304 42,704 33,001 154,982 137,798 122,898 89,819 71,338 Non-controlling interest 13,499 12,279 11,421 11,152 8,624 Total equity 168,481 150,077 134,319 100,971 79,962 Total debt 20,750 23,934 26,139 20,107 20,054 189,231 174,011 160,458 121,078 100,016 ASSETS EMPLOYED Property, plant and equipment (PPE) 52,736 49,563 47,406 49,200 34,246 Non-current assets other than PPE 93,376 78,030 71,969 59,787 52,397 Current assets 94,863 90,493 82,206 49,934 47,412 Liabilities net of debt (51,745) (44,075) (41,123) (37,843) (34,039) 189,230 174,011 160,458 121,078 100,016 CASH FLOW Net cash ﬂows from operating activities 20,513 20,855 8,041 14,568 16,476 Net cash ﬂows from/(used in) investing activities (9,567) (1,255) (19,710) (16,199) (9,003) Net cash ﬂows from/(used in) ﬁnancing activities (7,717) (4,838) 25,446 (1,320) 496 Net increase/(decrease) incash and cash equivalents 3,229 14,762 13,777 (2,951) 7,969 KEY INDICATORS Basic earnings per share (Rs.) 12.1 12.6 12.4 10.7 9.5 Interest cover (no. of times) 20.3 28.8 13.6 15.4 10.0 Net assets per share** (Rs.) 130.30 115.85 103.33 75.52 59.98 Enterprise value 124,182 155,675 193,614 203,615 166,143 EV/EBITDA 5.0 6.8 10.0 10.0 13.1 ROE (%) 9.6 11.0 11.0 15.0 14.7 Debt/equity ratio (%) 12.3 15.9 19.5 19.9 25.0 TSR (%) (12.2)*** (12.0)*** (0.4)*** 21.7 57.8 Dividend payout (Rs.millions) 8,038 3,476 3,267 2,982 2,314 Current ratio (no. of times) 4.0 2.6 2.4 2.0 2.0 Market price per share unadjusted (Rs.) 148.0 199.4 227.0 247.0 206.0 Market price per share diluted (Rs.) 148.0 174.5 198.6 238.1 174.4 Revenue growth rate (%) 1.56 5.93 4.14 9.66 25.49 USD closing rate 147.65 133.45 130.70 126.75 128.10 USD average rate 139.18 131.24 130.09 129.91 112.56 * The ﬁgures are derived from ﬁnancial statements prepared in accordance with SLFRS/LKAS. Figures for the remaining periods are derived from ﬁnancial statements prepared in accordance with previous SLASs. ** Net assets per share has been calculated, for all periods, based on the net assets of the Group and number of shares in issue as at 31 March 2016. *** Includes the proportionate impact arising from the ownership of warrants. 264 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 60,500 47,980 41,023 41,805 32,855 11,425 7,908 7,986 8,197 6,115 (796) (1,370) (1,695) (1,618) (1,314) 2,641 2,556 2,340 2,243 1,701 10,629 6,538 6,291 6,579 4,801 (1,566) (986) (1,326) (1,054) (852) 9,063 5,552 4,965 5,525 3,949 9,063 5,552 4,965 5,525 3,949 8,245 5,201 4,733 5,119 3,540 818 351 232 406 409 9,063 5,552 4,965 5,525 3,949 24,612 23,322 22,525 22,464 22,246 9,560 7,574 7,437 6,019 3,137 25,415 18,936 15,545 14,914 13,087 59,587 49,832 45,507 43,397 38,470 7,608 6,430 4,960 4,770 3,696 67,195 56,262 50,467 48,167 42,166 14,641 17,453 21,596 12,667 15,363 81,836 73,715 72,063 60,834 57,529 28,628 29,989 29,965 28,381 19,688 47,436 34,104 33,456 19,128 17,730 34,228 34,566 28,718 23,440 27,759 (28,456) (24,944) (20,076) (10,115) (7,648) 81,836 73,715 72,063 60,834 57,529 8,501 9,485 4,146 6,914 2,523 (4,469) (5,823) (3,972) (4,359) (10,088) (6,791) (636) 2,332 (6,262) 18,422 (2,759) 3,026 2,506 (3,707) 10,857 8.2 5.2 4.7 5.1 3.7 14.4 5.8 4.7 5.1 4.7 50.10 41.90 38.26 36.49 32.34 175,672 109,548 42,815 76,713 95,962 13.1 10.9 4.3 7.8 13.0 15.1 10.9 10.6 12.3 11.4 21.8 31.0 42.8 26.3 36.4 203.2 (43.7) 14.5 23.8 33.8 1,844 1,883 3,176 1,412 1,197 1.8 2.1 1.8 1.9 1.2 285.6 184.0 62.8 119.8 155.0 39.5 75.4 70.8 60.1 47.6 26.09 16.96 (1.87) 27.24 11.51 110.40 114.00 115.53 107.78 109.20 112.13 115.02 109.83 110.30 105.51 265 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Indicative US Dollar Financial Statements Income Statement for Information Purposes Only Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In USD'000s Continuing operations Sale of goods 394,041 410,924 Rendering of services 237,736 277,360 7,505 6,941 Revenue 631,777 688,284 7,505 6,941 Cost of sales (440,618) (492,359) (3,670) (3,549) Gross proﬁt 191,159 195,925 3,835 3,392 Dividend income 69,494 66,272 Other operating income 14,441 23,057 25,885 532 Selling and distribution expenses (24,487) (24,074) Administrative expenses (71,556) (80,035) (9,974) (10,087) Other operating expenses (24,440) (24,388) (282) (277) Results from operating activities 85,117 90,485 88,958 59,832 Finance cost (6,731) (5,007) (553) (756) Finance income 54,256 60,865 31,428 28,267 Change in insurance contract liabilities (23,234) (28,468) Change in fair value of investment property 1,780 365 Share of results of equity accounted investees 18,837 20,819 Proﬁt before tax 130,025 139,059 119,833 87,343 Tax expense (23,071) (21,071) (4,222) (3,876) Proﬁt for the year 106,954 117,988 115,611 83,467 Attributable to: Equity holders of the parent 95,292 107,518 Non-controlling interests 11,662 10,470 106,954 117,988 Basic earnings per share 0.08 0.09 Diluted earnings per share 0.08 0.09 This information does not constitute a full set of ﬁnancial statements in compliance with SLFRS/LKAS. The above should be read together with the Auditors' opinion and the notes to the ﬁnancial statements. Exchange rates prevailing at year end USD/LKR 147.65 (2014/15 : 133.45) have been used to convert the income statement and statement of ﬁnancial position. 266 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Statement of Financial Position for Information Purposes Only Group Company For the year ended 31 March 2016 2015 2016 2015 In USD'000s ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant and equipment 357,170 371,396 786 945 Lease rentals paid in advance 73,743 65,261 Investment property 33,040 34,537 Intangible assets 15,834 20,378 297 474 Investments in subsidiaries 246,424 245,884 Investments in equity accounted investees 114,795 122,484 60,058 66,148 Non-current ﬁnancial assets 153,305 147,686 3,437 12,238 Deferred tax assets 879 814 Other non-current assets 240,821 193,556 84 103 989,587 956,112 311,086 325,792 Current assets Inventories 31,594 41,880 Trade and other receivables 67,720 76,955 1,146 641 Amounts due from related parties 901 1,387 4,031 1,935 Other current assets 15,601 17,970 869 935 Short term investments 491,941 506,112 385,115 324,410 Cash in hand and at bank 34,727 33,799 1,207 329 642,484 678,103 392,368 328,250 Total assets 1,632,071 1,634,215 703,454 654,042 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Equity attributable to equity holders of the parent Stated capital 397,575 379,938 397,575 379,938 Revenue reserves 457,599 469,044 278,509 242,588 Other components of equity 194,482 183,599 7,346 5,451 1,049,656 1,032,581 683,430 627,977 Non-controlling interest 91,423 92,011 Total equity 1,141,079 1,124,592 683,430 627,977 Non-current liabilities Insurance contract liabilities 184,255 179,333 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 92,833 36,715 9,933 Deferred tax liabilities 13,744 12,180 Employee beneﬁt liabilities 11,249 11,201 1,281 1,202 Other deferred liabilities 5,837 774 2,513 Other non-current liabilities 20,963 5,860 328,881 246,063 3,794 11,135 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 86,390 84,431 2,252 2,501 Amounts due to related parties 196 198 692 20 Income tax liabilities 12,689 11,930 2,340 1,973 Short term borrowings 5,562 94,588 Interest-bearing loans and borrowings 20,261 33,415 10,041 10,081 Other current liabilities 15,136 24,368 110 112 Bank overdrafts 21,877 14,630 795 243 162,111 263,560 16,230 14,930 Total equity and liabilities 1,632,071 1,634,215 703,454 654,042 This information does not constitute a full set of ﬁnancial statements in compliance with SLFRS/LKAS. The above should be read together with the Auditors' opinion and the notes to the ﬁnancial statements. Exchange rates prevailing at year end USD/LKR 147.65 (2014/15 : 133.45) have been used to convert the income statement and statement of ﬁnancial position. 267 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Sri Lankan Economy Summary Indicator Units 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 GDP Growth (2010 base) % 8.4 9.1 3.4 4.9 4.8 GDP Growth (2002 base) % 3.5 8.0 8.2 6.3 7.2 7.4 5.7 GDP(current prices: 2010 base) Rs. Billion 6,414 7,219 8,732 9,592 10,448 11,183 GDP(current prices: 2002 base) Rs. Billion 4,835 5,604 6,543 7,579 8,674 9,785 10,660 GDP(current prices: 2010 base) USD Billion 56.7 65.3 68.4 74.3 80.0 82.3 GDP(current prices: 2002 base) USD Billion 42.1 49.6 59.2 59.4 67.2 74.9 78.4 GDP per Capita (USD) Growth : 2010 base % 14.0 7.1 7.7 6.7 1.9 GDP per Capita (USD) Growth : 2002 base % 2.1 16.7 18.3 3 12 11 8 GDP per capita (market prices: 2010 base) Rs.000 310 346 428 466 503 533 GDP per capita (market prices: 2002 base) Rs.000 236 271 314 371 422 471 508 GDP per capita (market prices: 2010 base) USD 2,744 3,129 3,351 3,610 3,853 3,925 GDP per capita (market prices: 2002 base) USD 2,057 2,400 2836 2,908 3,265 3,608 3894 Inﬂation (CCPI 2006/07=100) annual average % 3.5 6.2 6.7 7.6 6.9 3.3 0.9 Inﬂation (NCPI 2013=100) annual average % N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A 3.8 Current Account Balance USD Billion -0.2 -1.1 -4.6 -4.0 -2.6 -2.0 -2.0 Current Account % of GDP* % -0.5 -1.9 7.1 -5.8 -3.4 -2.5 -2.4 Population Million 20.5 20.7 20.9 20.4 20.6 20.8 21.0 Exchange Rate (Annual Average) Rs/USD 114.9 113.1 110.6 127.6 129.1 130.6 135.9 Exchange Rate Change (Annual Average) % 6.1 -1.6 -2.2 15.4 1.2 1.1 4.1 12m T-Bill yield (year end) % 9.3 7.6 9.3 11.7 8.3 6.0 7.3 Prime Lending Rate (year end) % 10.9 9.3 10.8 14.4 10.1 6.3 7.5 M2b Money supply growth % 18.6 15.8 19.1 17.6 16.7 13.4 17.8 Exports USD Billion 7.1 8.6 10.6 9.8 10.4 11.1 10.5 Imports USD Billion 10.2 13.5 20.3 19.2 18.0 19.4 18.9 Balance of Payments* Per cent of GDP 6.5 1.6 -1.6 0.2 1.3 1.7 -1.8 Budget Deﬁcit* Per cent of GDP -9.9 -7.0 -6.2 -5.6 -5.4 -5.7 -7.4 Unemployment Rate % 5.8 4.9 4.2 4.0 4.4 4.3 4.6 All Share Index (year end) Points 3,386 6,636 6,074 5,643 5,913 7,299 6,895 Tourist Arrivals No.' 000 448 655 856 1,006 1,275 1,527 1,798 * Uses rebased GDP (2010 base) from 2010 onwards Sri Lanka's economic growth moderated The CBSL maintained loose monetary policy While seeing considerable volatility in 2015, increasing by 4.8 per cent (2010 stance throughout most of 2015, reducing the throughout the year, the Average Weighted base) compared to the 4.9 per cent growth Standing Lending Facility Rate (SLFR) and Prime Lending Rate (AWPLR) settled 124 recorded in 2014. Growth decelerated across Standing Deposit Facility Rate (SLDR) by 50 basis points higher at 7.5 per cent by the end all three segments of the economy in the basis points each in April. The CBSL stated of 2015 from 6.26 per cent at end 2014. The second half of 2015, resulting in a slow 2.5 this was to address concerns over growth Average Weighted Deposit Rate (AWDR), on per cent growth in the fourth quarter. This and investments, as well as to adjust rising the other hand, was unchanged at 6.2 per was despite almost muted levels of inﬂation market interest rates to being more in line cent. persisting throughout the year, with the CCPI with the low inﬂation environment. During averaging at a 0.9 per cent in 2015, as well the latter part of the year, however, the CBSL Broad money supply accelerated in 2015, up as a signiﬁcant pickup in domestic demand sounded a cautionary note due to continued 17.8 per cent compared to the 13.4 per cent conditions. Numerous price revisions of acceleration in private sector credit and growth in 2014. Net Domestic Assets rose 26 essential food items as well as reductions in import growth. In an effort to curb this growth per cent over the year, led by growth in private fuel prices implemented through the Interim and bring about monetary and price stability, sector credit which saw an absolute growth of Budget in early 2015 and favourable supply the CBSL began a tightening cycle increasing Rs.691.4 billion during the year, in comparison conditions were the key reasons for the the Statutory Reserve Ratio by 150 basis to a Rs.17.3 billion increase in 2014. Net credit near-zero levels of inﬂation seen throughout points in December, and thereafter raising to Government also recorded an increase of the year. However, an upward trend in core key policy rates by 50 basis points each in 22.5 per cent over the year. inﬂation through most of the year hinted February 2016. concerns over underlying inﬂation. 268 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Global market volatility highlighted by fears GDP from 5.7 per cent in the previous year. Despite a moderation in overall economic of Greece exiting the Euro and speculations of This was despite an improvement in Total growth, domestic consumption demand US rate hikes resulted in sell-offs in equities Revenue which rose to 13.1 per cent of GDP, in real terms grew by 6.9 per cent in 2015 and bond markets, particularly in Emerging compared to 11.5 per cent in 2014, which from 5.7 per cent in the previous year (2010 market assets. The impact of these riskwas attributed to implementation of one-off base). Aggregate Domestic savings had a averse sell-offs was evident in Sri Lanka as taxes as well as improved revenue collection growth of 1.1 per cent during the year, while well, with foreign holdings of Government from excise duties as vehicle imports surged National savings growth recorded a 1.0 per securities seeing a decline of Rs.153billion during the year. Higher expenditure on cent rise; lower than the 6.0 per cent and 7.5 during the year. In addition to this, record salaries and wages and interest payments per cent growth (2010 base) recorded in 2014 debt outﬂows of USD 5.7billion in 2015, weak lead to an increase in Recurrent Expenditure, respectively. The deceleration of investments export performance and a strengthening while Capital Expenditure also grew to 5.3 per resulted in the contraction of the savings to USD saw the LKR coming under pressure cent of GDP. Total Expenditure for the year investment gap to 2.2 per cent of GDP from during the second half of the year. This led was 20.5 per cent of GDP in 2015, above the 2.5 per cent of GDP in 2014 (2010 base). to the CBSL allowing the LKR to be market 17.2 per cent seen in the prior year. determined as it removed its daily reference Headline inﬂation slowed down during rate in September. During the year the LKR The Year That Was 2015, reaching a record low annual average depreciated by 9.9 per cent. The GDP growth for the full year of 2015 was of 0.9 per cent in 2015 from 3.3 per cent in recorded at 4.8 per cent. The three major 2014. During the ﬁrst 3 quarters of the year, In 2015, Sri Lanka recorded a Balance of sub sectors of GDP; Agriculture, Industry and headline inﬂation was on a downward trend, Payments (BOP) deﬁcit of USD 1.5billion, Services recorded growth rates of 5.5 per reaching negative growth in July 2015 for the a deterioration from the surplus of USD cent, 3.0 per cent and 5.3 per cent respectively. ﬁrst time since 20 years. This was due to the 1.4 billion seen in 2014. This was due to effects of administrative price revisions and poor performance on the ﬁnancial account, The Agriculture sector experienced a positive tariff revisions implemented from end 2014, while the Current Account also saw a growth in 2015, primarily due to the growth including adjustments at the January 2015 marginal increase in the deﬁcit, in absolute in rice and vegetables sub-segments during interim budget. Base effects of relatively terms. The external trade deﬁcit grew in the year which increased by 23.3 per cent higher inﬂation in 2014 also contributed to the 2015, to USD 8.4billion, above the deﬁcit and 24.9 per cent YOY respectively. The downtrend in headline inﬂation. of USD 8.3billion seen the previous year. sector grew by 5.5 per cent in 2015, higher Despite low international oil prices aiding than the growth of 4.9 per cent in 2014. The Sri Lanka’s trade account widened marginally a 41 per cent reduction in the fuel import performance of the Tea industry declined by during 2015 largely on account of weak export bill, an acceleration in Consumer goods 2.7 per cent year-on-year in 2015 owing to performance throughout the year, despite low imports limited the decline in overall import lower levels of tea production and reduced oil prices supporting lower import growth. expenditure, which contracted 2.5 per cent demand from export markets. Tea prices at Export earnings declined continuously over the year. Subdued demand conditions in the Colombo Tea Auction continued to decline from March 2015 reﬂecting subdued global Sri Lanka's main export markets saw export over the year hitting its lowest price since demand and lower commodity prices, earnings decline 5.6 per cent in 2015, leading February 2012 in September 2015. particularly on Tea and rubber exports. As to the widening of the trade deﬁcit. Expenditure on consumer goods continued The Industrial sector grew at 3.0 per cent to grow signiﬁcantly rising by 22.3 per cent Foreign Direct Investments saw a reduction to in 2015, lower than the 3.5 per cent growth in 2015 as a result of growth in Nonfood USD 1.16billion from USD 1.64billion seen last recorded in 2014. This growth was driven consumer goods imports such as Vehicles, year. Tourist arrivals picked up 17 per cent by Food, Beverages and Tobacco sub-sector and Medical and Pharmaceutical imports, to 1.8million during the year, while tourism which witnessed a 5.6 per cent YOY rise, while Food and Beverages imports declined income accelerated 22.6 per cent to USD 2.98 along with Electricity, gas, steam and air by a 0.4 per cent year-on-year. Growth in billion in 2015. conditioning supply sub-categories which expenditure on investment goods reversed showed 7.8 per cent growth. Construction, the from its downward trend seen in previous Sri Lanka's gross official reserves saw a largest driver of Industrial growth, contracted years as it rose by 10.0 per cent mainly due downtrend in 2015, standing at USD 7.3billion by 0.9 per cent in 2015, compared to 6.6 per to increases in imports of machinery and at the end of the year, in comparison to USD cent growth seen in the previous year. equipment, building materials and Transport 8.2 billion at end 2014. The reserve position equipment. depleted on account of debt repayments The Services sector, continued to see positive throughout the year as well as defence of growth as the sector grew 5.3 per cent in 2015, The Colombo Stock Exchange (CSE) during the LKR. Sri Lanka raised a total of USD 2.15 improving from the previous year’s growth 2015 recorded a net foreign inﬂow of USD billion through sovereign bond issuances in of 5.2 per cent. Financial service activities, 4.0 million, compared to inﬂows of USD 162.6 May and October, while raising USD 1.7 billion Real estate activities, including ownership of million in 2014. The Government securities in Sri Lanka Development Bonds (SLDBs) dwellings and Transportation categories lead market saw notable outﬂows during the year, throughout the year. the growth in the Services sector, recording recording a net outﬂow of USD 1,093.4 million growths of 15.9 per cent, 9.6 per cent and 5.5 during 2015 in comparison to a net outﬂow of According to the Central Bank's most recent per cent respectively. Wholesale and retail USD 113.1 million during 2014. Annual Report, Sri Lanka's budget deﬁcit for trade maintained steady growth at 4.7 per 2015 widened signiﬁcantly to 7.4 per cent of cent in 2015. 269 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Real Estate Portfolio Net book value Buildings Land in acres 2016 2015 Owning company and location in (Sq. Ft) Freehold Leasehold LKR '000s LKR '000s PROPERTIES IN COLOMBO John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. No.90 ,Union Place, Colombo 2. 9,100 76 2,212 John Keells PLC. 56/1, 58, 58 1/1 Kirulapone Avenue, Colombo 5. 0.08 1,249 1,250 Keells Realtors Ltd. 427 & 429, Ferguson Road, Colombo 15. 27,750 1.22 298,192 278,344 Mackinnon Keells Ltd. Leyden Bastian Road, York Street, Colombo 01. 31,656 0.45 475,258 403,760 Union Assurance PLC. No 20, St. Michaels' Road, Colombo 03. 57,916 0.58 1,128,379 839,335 Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. No.199 ,Union Place, Colombo 2. 14,014 0.50 406,800 347,000 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. 97,128 3.06 2,281,523 2,180,942 237,564 5.89 4,591,477 4,052,843 PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. Kaduwela. 312,042 27.35 1,118,853 1,071,862 Trincomalee. 23,840 1.14 111,404 94,457 Facets (Pvt) Ltd. Ahungalla. 6.31 367,385 342,000 John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. Floor 8, Tower B &C, Building No.6, DLF SEZ Cyber City, Phase III, Gurgaon, Haryana. 48,659 50,217 60,651 John Keells PLC. 17/1, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela. 3.64 181,170 135,878 JK Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd. No 525, Colombo Road, Kapuwatta, Ja-Ela. 143,714 6.60 1,633,000 1,591,000 John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. Muthurajawela. 142,489 6.00 323,024 324,113 Keells Food Products PLC. 41, Temple Road, Ekala, Ja-Ela. 86,117 3.00 5.00 401,550 389,753 Rajawella Holdings Ltd. Mahaberiatenna, Kandy. 3,700 367.83 1,925,345 Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. Broadlands. 56,478 4.14 63,000 63,000 Halwitigala. 48,747 9.61 52,500 49,000 Hingalgoda. 63,676 17.00 84,000 82,000 Karawita. 80,364 4.98 83,741 83,826 Kurupanawa. 51,410 11.80 57,000 55,000 Neluwa. 48,888 5.27 60,000 56,000 New Panawenna. 44,568 10.59 42,000 42,000 Pasgoda. 40,091 7.24 33,000 32,000 Peliyagoda. 31,629 0.98 153,000 126,000 270 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Net book value Buildings Land in acres 2016 2015 Owning company and location in (Sq. Ft) Freehold Leasehold LKR '000s LKR '000s PROPERTIES OUTSIDE COLOMBO (Contd.) Transware-Logistics (Pvt) Ltd., Tudella, Ja-Ela. 63,670 18.67 417,292 420,232 Union Assurance PLC. No 06,Rajapihilla Road, Kurunegala. 27,904 0.20 221,767 164,000 Whittall Boustead Ltd. 150, Badulla Road, Nuwara Eliya. 4,343 0.46 97,368 88,083 1,322,329 133.02 384.79 7,476,616 5,270,855 HOTEL PROPERTIES Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. Cinnamon Grand Premises, Colombo 2. 648,793 7.91 15,910,277 15,502,733 Crescat Boulevard, Colombo 2. 145,196 2,260,000 2,156,608 Ahungalla Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd., Ahungalla. 6.50 148,000 148,850 Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Cinnamon Bey, Beruwala. 336,110 11.39 3,229,000 3,148,991 Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd. Bentota Beach Hotel, Bentota. 236,524 2.32 11.02 642,042 638,614 Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Lagoon Hakuraa Huraa, Republic of 150,412 13.42 1,155,217 899,359 Maldives. Habarana Lodge Ltd., Cinnamon Lodge, Habarana. 202,999 25.47 669,900 681,800 Habarana Walk Inn Ltd., Chaaya Village, Habarana. 121,767 9.34 291,755 293,455 Hikkaduwa Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd. Chaaya Tranz, Hikkaduwa. 233,965 0.29 4.36 1,194,996 1,224,718 Kandy Walk Inn Ltd., Cinnamon Citadel, Kandy. 160,550 5.79 1,293,567 1,224,254 Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resort (Pvt) Ltd, Nuwara Eliya. 2.66 259,396 199,367 Resort Hotels Ltd., Medway Estate, Nilaveli. 4,485 44.37 767,740 700,980 Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd. Mahaberiatenna, Kandy. 38,347 Trans Asia Hotels PLC. Cinnamon Lake Side, Colombo 2. 448,791 7.65 5,519,905 5,033,024 Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Island Dhonveli, Republic of Maldives. 246,358 18.62 7,414,527 7,134,834 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo, Republic of Maldives. 170,877 13.75 1,564,499 1,197,720 Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Chaaya Blu, Trincomalee. 120,910 13.24 980,796 938,445 Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. Club Oceanic, Trincomalee. 14.64 197,605 163,650 Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. Randunukelle Estate, Wirawila. 25.15 86,886 86,888 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. Cinnamon Wild, Tissamaharama. 110,248 11.00 485,569 472,659 3,337,985 134.26 114.63 44,071,677 41,885,296 Improvements to Keells Super outlets on leased hold properties 1,122,549 797,519 Consolidated Value of Land and Buildings 4,897,878 273.17 499.42 57,262,319 52,006,513 271 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Memberships Maintained by the Industry Groups Senior management personnel of the Group, hold positions of membership on the following professional and governance bodies and participate in various sub committees and projects initiated by such bodies. The Group views these memberships as a vital part of business given the ability of such bodies to recommend policy changes, address industry concerns and carry out necessary lobbying for the betterment of the industry as a whole. The Group’s senior management are involved in the following bodies as active members. Thus the members of Group Executive Committee hold positions such as: š (PSOR\HUV)HGHUDWLRQRI&H\ORQ š 0HPEHUV RI &RPPLWWHHV RI WKH &KDPEHU RI &RPPHUFH VXFK DV /HJLVODWLRQ 6WHHULQJ &RPPLWWHH &R&KDLU RI WKH 1DWLRQDO $JHQGD Committee on Logistics & Transport, Sub committees on Economic, Fiscal and Policy Planning, Investment Ease of Doing business and Young Leaders š &RXQFLO0HPEHURIWKH&KDUWHUHG,QVWLWXWHRI/RJLVWLFV 7UDQVSRUW š 0HPEHURIWKH$GYLVRU\&RXQFLORIWKH6UL/DQND/RJLVWLFV )UHLJKW)RUZDUGHUV$VVRFLDWLRQ š 7KH1DWLRQDO/DERXU$GYLVRU\&RPPLWWHH š 9LFH3UHVLGHQWRIWKH,QGR/DQND&KDPEHURI&RPPHUFH š 0HPEHURIWKH([HFXWLYH&RPPLWWHHRIWKH&RXQFLOIRU%XVLQHVVZLWK%ULWDLQ š $VVRFLDWHPHPEHURI&KDUWHUHG,QVWLWXWHRI0DQDJHPHQW$FFRXQWDQWV š 0HPEHURIWKH6UL/DQNDDQG1HZ=HDODQG%XVLQHVV&RXQFLO š 0HPEHURI)RRG %HYHUDJH6WHHULQJ&RPPLWWHH Industry Group Memberships Industry Group Memberships Transportation Accredited Agent of International Air Transport Transportation Italian Business Council Association Lanka Association of Ship Owners Air Promoters Group Logistics and Transportation Faculty Industry American Chamber of Commerce Committee of the University of Moratuwa Association of Licensed Bunker Operators of Ship Chandlers Association of Sri Lanka Bombay Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Belgium Business Association Certiﬁcate of Corporate Partnership with The Sri Lanka India Business Association Chartered Institute of Logistics & Transport Sri Lanka Korea Business Association Ceylon Association of Ships Agents Sri Lanka Airline Cargo Association Civil Aviation Authority Sri Lanka Association of Airline Representatives Employers Federation of Ceylon Sri Lanka France Business Council European Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka Freight Forwarders Association Freight Forwarders Association of India Sri Lanka Tourism Board International Air Transport Association Agents Travel Agents Association of Sri Lanka Association of Sri Lanka World Cargo Alliance Membership International Air Transportation Agents Association Information American Chamber of Commerce Technology International Air Transportation Agents Employers' Federation of Ceylon Association European Chamber of Commerce International Bunker Industry Association Gold partnership of Microsoft Italian Business Council Leading Edge Alliance 272 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Industry Group Memberships Industry Group Memberships Information Ministerial Advisory Committee on IT/BPO Leisure Harvard Management Communications Ltd Technology exports convened by the EDB Indian Association of Tour Operators Nordic Business Council Indo-Lanka Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Association of Software and Service International Association of Travel & Tourism Companies Professionals Sri Lanka Germany Business Council Japan Association of Travel Agents Sri Lanka Institute of Directors Kandy Hoteliers Association Consumer Ceylon Chamber of Commerce La Chaine des Rotisseurs Foods and Consumer Goods Forum Retail Lanka Business Coalition on HIV & AIDS Employers' Federation of Ceylon Maldives Association of Tourism Industry Export Development Board Natural Disaster Management of Palugaswewa Lanka Confectionery Manufacturers Association Division National Chamber of Commerce Paciﬁc Asia Travel Association National Chamber of Exporters Paciﬁc Asia travel association (Sri Lanka) chapter Sri Lanka Maldives Bilateral Business Council Paciﬁc Leisure Group Sri Lanka Association of Testing Laboratories RateGain It solutions Pvt Ltd Leisure American Chamber of Commerce Responsible Tourism Partnership Bentota/Beruwela Hotelier’s Association Signature Travel Network Bird Friendly Concept Network SKAL International Colombo Business with Britain SL Africa and Middle east business council Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Australia Business Council Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka British Business Council Ceylon Hotel School Graduates Association Sri Lanka Canada Business Council Chef Guild of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka France Business Council Compost Production Membership -Ministry of Agriculture Sri Lanka Germany Business Council Compost Production Membership -Ministry of Sri Lanka Italy Business Council Agriculture Sri Lanka Japan Business Council Cultural Triangle Hoteliers Association Sri Lanka Japan Business Council Dutch Burger Union Sri Lanka Malaysia Business Council Employers' Federation of Ceylon Sri Lanka Maldives Bilateral Business Council European Business Council Sri Lanka Netherland Business Council European Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka New Zealand Business Council Federation of Information Technology in Sri Lanka Poland Business Council Field Ornithology Group of Sri Lanka Sri Lanka Russia Business Council Field Ornithology Group of Sri Lanka – Nature Odyssey Sri Lanka Singapore Business Council Friends of Sri Lanka Association, UK Sri Lanka – China Business Council 273 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Memberships Maintained by the Industry Groups Industry Group Memberships Industry Group Memberships Leisure Sri Lanka – Pakistan Business Council Financial American Chamber of Commerce in Sri Lanka Services Sri Lanka – Vietnam Business Council Association of Insurers and Reinsurers of Developing Countries Sri Lanka Association of Inbound Tour Operation Colombo Stock Brokers Association Sri Lanka Association of Inbound Tour Operators Colombo Stock Exchange Sri Lanka Association of Professional Insurance Association of Sri Lanka Conference Exhibition & Event Organizer National Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Association Of Professional Other Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Conference Exhibition & Event Organizers Colombo Brokers Association Sri Lanka business and biodiversity platform Colombo Rubber Traders Association Sri Lanka Conventions Bureau Colombo Stock Exchange Sri Lanka Conventions Bureau Employers' Federation of Ceylon Sri Lanka Institute of Directors European Chamber of Commerce Sri Lanka Institute of Tourism and Hotel Management Federation of Information Technology in Sri Lanka Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority Harvard Business Review Sri Lanka Tourism Development Authority Harvard Management Communications Ltd Sri Lanka Tourism Promotions Bureau International Tea Committee Sri LankaBenelux Business Council Lanka Business Coalition on HIV & AIDS SWITCH-ASIA National Chamber of Commerce The hotels association of Sri Lanka National Chamber of Commerce of Sri Lanka The Sri Lanka Institute of Directors NuwaraEliya Golf Club Tourism Development Committee of Hambantota District under Hambantota District Planters' Association of Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Rubber Dealers’ License – Director of Rubber Tourist Hotels Association Development Department Tourist Hotels Association of Sri Lanka SAP Services Partner in Sri Lanka Travel Agents Association of India Sri Lanka Association of Software and Service Companies Travel Agents Association of India Sri Lanka Institute of Directors Travel Trade Sports Club Sri Lanka Tea Board Wild Life and Nature Protection Society Sri Lanka Tea Factory Owners Association Wild Life Focus Group of the Sri Lanka Tourism Promotions Bureau Tea Research Board of Sri Lanka Property Ceylon Chamber of Commerce Chamber of Construction Industry of Sri Lanka Employers' Federation of Ceylon 274 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting Introduction Scope, Boundary and Limitations of inﬂuence i.e. the legal entities for which DNV GL represented by DNV GL Business Assurance the JKH Group remains accountable and Assurance Lanka (Private) Limited has The scope of assurance included the review has direct control (seven industry groups been commissioned by the management of Economic, Environment and Social (i.e. Transportation, Leisure, Property, of John Keells Holdings PLC (JKH or the information in the Report. In particular the Consumer Foods and Retail, Financial Company) to carry out an independent assurance engagement included: Services, Information Technology and assurance engagement (Type 2, moderate Plantations)) in Sri Lanka, Maldives and level) for the non-ﬁnancial qualitative š 7KH YHULıFDWLRQ RI WKH TXDOLWDWLYH DQG India, including the selected supply chain and quantitative information (sustainability quantitative sustainability performance activities as set out in the Report. performance) prepared ‘in accordance‘– reported in the Integrated Annual Report Core option based on GRI G4 guidelines, prepared by John Keells Holdings The Report excludes companies in which the Integrated Reporting Framework of the PLC based on the GRI G4 guidelines, the Group does not exercise signiﬁcant International Integrated Reporting Council covering economic, environmental and management control, non-operational and reported in the Integrated Annual social performance for the activities companies, investment companies and Report – 2015/16 (the Report). undertaken by the Company over the companies owning assets such as land. reporting period 1st April 2015 to 31st During the assurance process, we did not This engagement focused on veriﬁcation of March 2016 and reported in this Report; come across limitations to the scope of non-ﬁnancial – qualitative and quantitative the agreed assurance engagement. The information (sustainability performance) š 5HYLHZ RI WKH SROLFLHV LQLWLDWLYHV reported data on economic performance disclosed in the Report, and underlying practices and performance described is based on audited ﬁnancial statements management systems and reporting in the non-ﬁnancial – qualitative and by the Company’s statutory auditors. No processes. The engagement was carried quantitative information (sustainability external stakeholders were interviewed as out against AccountAbility’s AA 1000 performance) reported as well as part of this assurance engagement. Assurance Standard 2008 ((AA 1000AS external references made in the Report; (2008)) and the DNV GL Protocol for Veriﬁcation Methodology Veriﬁcation of Sustainability Reporting š (YDOXDWLRQ ZLWK UHVSHFW WR WKH This assurance engagement was planned (‘VeriSustain’ www.dnvgl.com ; available AccountAbility principles and speciﬁed and carried out in accordance with on request) and adherence to Reporting performance information, for a Type AccountAbility’s AA1000 Assurance Principles and Standard Disclosures of the 2, moderate level of assurance, in Standard 2008 ((AA1000AS (2008)) and Global Reporting Initiative G4 Sustainability accordance with the requirements of VeriSustain. The Report has been evaluated Reporting Guidelines (GRI G4). AA1000AS (2008): against the principles of Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness as set out The intended user of this assurance š LQIRUPDWLRQ UHODWLQJ WR WKH LVVXHV in AA1000AS (2008) and the Reliability statement is the Management of the responses, performance data, case of speciﬁed sustainability performance Company. The Management of the studies and underlying systems for information, as required for a Type 2, Company is responsible for all information the management of such information moderate level assurance engagement, provided in the Report as well as the and data; and adherence to the additional principles processes for collecting, analyzing and of Completeness and Neutrality as set out reporting the information presented in the š LQIRUPDWLRQ UHODWLQJ WR PDWHULDOLW\ in VeriSustain. Report. Our responsibility in performing assessment and stakeholder this work is regarding the veriﬁcation of the engagement processes; During the Assurance Engagement, we non-ﬁnancial qualitative and quantitative adopted a risk based approach, meaning information (sustainability performance) š (YDOXDWLRQ RI WKH GLVFORVHG LQIRUPDWLRQ we concentrated our veriﬁcation efforts reported in the Integrated Annual Report – in the Report, both General and Speciﬁc on the issues of high material relevance to 2015/16 only, in accordance with the scope Standard Disclosures for ‘in accordance’ JKH PLC business and its key stakeholders. of work agreed with the Management of As part of the veriﬁcation, we visited the Company. The assurance engagement Core reporting requirements covering the JKH PLC Corporate Office at Colombo, is based on the assumption that the data systems and the processes the Company operational sites in Sri Lanka i.e. (i) Keells and information provided to us is complete, has in place for reporting; Food Products PLC at Ja-Ela (Consumer sufficient and authentic. We disclaim Foods sector); (ii) JKH Tea Warehouse any liability or responsibility to a third š &RQıUPDWLRQ RI 6XVWDLQDELOLW\ at Muthurajawela (Plantations sector) party for decisions, whether investment Disclosures related to GRI G4 – ‘in (iii) Cinnamon Dhonveli, Maldives (Maldivian or otherwise, based on this assurance accordance’ Core as declared by Resort sector) and (iv) Farms Pride (Pvt) statement. Our assurance engagement Company. Ltd in Gampola, Kandy (Supplier). was planned and carried out from March to May 2016. The reporting aspect boundary is based As part of the engagement, we have on the internal and external materiality veriﬁed the statements and claims made in assessment covering the operations of the Report. In doing so, we have: companies in its sphere of control and 275 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Independent Assurance Statement on Non-Financial Reporting š 5HYLHZHG WKH &RPSDQ\ŖV DSSURDFK Disclosures of Management Approach key stakeholders (internal and external) to stakeholder engagement and its and performance indicator for identiﬁed across the seven industry groups in materiality determination process; material aspects as below: a formal and systematic manner. The stakeholder engagement frequency, modes š 9HULıHG WKH VXVWDLQDELOLW\UHODWHG Economic of engagement and concerns are well statements and claims made in the š (FRQRPLF3HUIRUPDQFH*(&(& identiﬁed and reported. In our opinion, the Report and assessed the robustness š ,QGLUHFW(FRQRPLF,PSDFW*(& level at which the Report adheres to this of the data management system, data š 3URFXUHPHQW3UDFWLFHV*(& principle is ‘Good’. accuracy, information ﬂow and controls; Environmental Materiality: The process of materiality š ([DPLQHGDQGUHYLHZHGGRFXPHQWVGDWD š (QHUJ\*(1 assessment was carried out on a sectorial and other information made available by š :DWHU*(1 basis to ascertain material issues at Group the Company; š (PLVVLRQV*(1(1 and sectorial level based on inputs from š (ĵXHQWV DQG:DVWH  *  (1 (1 its signiﬁcant stakeholders. The material š &RQGXFWHG LQSHUVRQ LQWHUYLHZV ZLWK EN24 issues identiﬁed were reviewed by JKH middle and senior management team š &RPSOLDQFH*(1 management team based on internal and and other representatives, including š 6XSSOLHU (QYLURQPHQWDO $VVHVVPHQWV  external environment and sustainability data owners and decision-makers from G4 EN32 context. JKH has reported that there were different functions of the Company no signiﬁcant change in identiﬁed material during corporate and site visits; Social aspects and aspect boundary from the Labour Practices and Decent Work previous reporting period. In our opinion, š 3HUIRUPHG VDPSOHEDVHG UHYLHZV RI š (PSOR\PHQW*/$ the level at which the Report adheres to the mechanisms for implementing š 2FFXSDWLRQDO+HDOWKDQG6DIHW\ this principles is ‘Good’. the Company’s sustainability related G4 LA6 policies, as described in the Report; š 7UDLQLQJDQG(GXFDWLRQ*/$ Responsiveness: The materiality of the G4 LA11 aspects are well explained in the report š 3HUIRUPHG VDPSOHEDVHG FKHFNV RI š 'LYHUVLW\DQG(TXDO2SSRUWXQLW\ along with the management approach and the processes for generating, gathering G4 LA12 monitoring systems. We consider that the and managing the quantitative data and š 6XSSOLHU$VVHVVPHQWRI/DERXU3UDFWLFHV response to key stakeholder concerns, qualitative information included in the G4 LA14 through Companies strategies, policies Report. and management systems including Human Rights governance are fairly reﬂected in the Conclusions š )UHHGRP RI $VVRFLDWLRQ DQG &ROOHFWLYH Report. However the Report may further In our opinion, based on the scope of this Bargaining G4 HR4 strengthen the disclosures on outcomes assurance engagement, the non-ﬁnancial š &KLOG/DERXU*+5 related to key sectorial material issues and qualitative and quantitative information š )RUFHG DQG &RPSXOVRU\ /DERXU  *  link the outcomes to overall value creation (sustainability performance) reported in HR6 of reported capitals as per Integrated the John Keells Holdings PLC Integrated Reporting Framework. In our opinion, the Annual Report 2015/16 and referenced Society level at which the Report adheres to this information in the Report, provides a š /RFDO&RPPXQLWLHV*62 principle is ‘Good’. fair representation of the sustainability š $QWLFRUUXSWLRQ*6262 related strategies, management system š &RPSOLDQFH*62 Reliability: The systems and procedures and performance and meets the general for performance reporting are well content and quality requirements of the Product Responsibility established with internal controls. The GRI G4, i.e. š 3URGXFWDQG6HUYLFH/DEHOOLQJ*35 majority of data and information veriﬁed š 0DUNHWLQJ&RPPXQLFDWLRQV*35 at Corporate office and selected sites were š *HQHUDO 6WDQGDUG 'LVFORVXUHV :H š &RPSOLDQFH*35 found to be fairly accurate, however some are of the opinion that the reported of the data inaccuracies identiﬁed during disclosures on General Standard We have evaluated the Report’s adherence the veriﬁcation process were found to be Disclosures generally meet the reporting to the following principles on a scale of attributable to transcription, interpretation requirement for ‘in accordance’– Core ‘Good’, ‘Acceptable’ and ‘Needs Improvement’ and aggregation errors and the errors have based on GRI G4. been corrected. In our opinion, the level at AA1000AS (2008) Principles which the Report adheres to this principle š 6SHFLıF 6WDQGDUG 'LVFORVXUHV :H DUH Inclusivity: The process of stakeholder is ‘Good’. of the opinion that the following reported identiﬁcation and engagement is well disclosures on Speciﬁc Standard established to identify sustainability Disclosures meets the reporting challenges and concerns through different requirement for ‘in accordance’ – Core channels and includes engagements with based on GRI G4 covering Generic 276 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Speciﬁc evaluation of the information on Neutrality: The disclosures related to š )XUWKHU VWUHQJWKHQ LWV PDQDJHPHQW sustainability performances sustainability issues and performances systems to effectively manage material We consider the methodology and process are reported in a neutral tone, in terms of aspects and include material aspects for gathering information developed by content and presentation, however report from sector disclosure in the existing JKH, for its sustainability performance could further bring out responses related management systems; reporting is appropriate; the qualitative and to the challenges faced during the reporting quantitative data included in the Report, period at group and sectorial level. In š 6WUHQJWKHQ GLVFORVXUHV UHODWHG WR was found to be identiﬁable and traceable; our opinion, the level at which the Report capitals as per Integrated Reporting the personnel responsible was able to adheres to the principle of Neutrality is Framework and reported capitals may demonstrate the origin and interpretation of ‘Acceptable’. be consolidated at sectorial level for the data and its reliability. We observed that sustainability management. the Report presents a faithful description of Opportunities for Improvement the reported sustainability activities for the The following are an excerpt from the DNV GL’s Competence and Independence reporting period. observations and opportunities for DNV GL is a global provider of sustainability improvement reported to the management services, with qualiﬁed environmental Additional principles as per DNV GL’s of the Company and are not considered for and social assurance specialists working protocol drawing our conclusions on the Report; in over 100 countries. DNV GL states Completeness: The Report has fairly however they are generally consistent with its independence and impartiality with attempted to disclose the General the management’s objectives: regard to this assurance engagement. and Speciﬁc Standard disclosures We did not conduct other third party including the disclosure on management š )XWXUHUHSRUWVPD\IXUWKHUEULQJRXWWKH audits work with JKH PLC in 2015approach and performance indicators for impacts of material aspects in the value 16, hence in our judgement this does identiﬁed material aspects for GRI G4 – chain i.e. re-evaluate materiality in the not compromise the independence or ‘in accordance’ – Core option. The reporting value chain for the sectors to further impartiality of our assurance engagement of performance and data is comprehensive identify and manage the emerging or associated ﬁndings, conclusions and except for the value chain impacts. In material issues of respective sectors; recommendations. We were not involved in our opinion, the level at which the Report the preparation of any statements or data adheres to this principle is ‘Good’. š ,QWHJUDWH ULVN PDQDJHPHQW SURFHVV included in the Report, with the exception with its sustainability strategy through of this Assurance Statement. We maintain consistent tracking and reporting of complete impartiality toward any people key performance indicators to achieve interviewed. sustainable performance across sectors; For DNV GL, Rathika De Silva Ramesh Rajamani Prasan Kundu Country Head Project Manager Assurance Reviewer, DNVGL Business DNVGL Business Assurance Lanka (Private) DNVGL Business Assurance India Assurance India Private Limited, Limited, Sri Lanka Private Limited, India. India. 25 May 2016 Colombo, Sri Lanka 277 G4-17 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Directory 2015/16 John Keells Holdings PLC. has business interests across six industry groups, namely, Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Transportation, Leisure, Property, Consumer Foods and Retail, Financial Services, Information A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, Technology and Other including Plantation Services. The Group consists of subsidiaries and R M David, C.K. Cheng, H G Wieske associates companies with signiﬁcant business operations in Sri Lanka, India and the Maldives. (Resigned w.e.f 21/9/2015), The holding company is located at 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2. D C Alagarathnam (Resigned w.e.f The Group has considered all its subsidiary and associate companies in capturing its ﬁnancial 1/8/2015), K N J Balendra, performance. For the purpose of reporting on its sustainability performance, the Group has P Sondergaard, P M English, considered the companies which are the legal entities and for which the Group is accountable T Hougaard (Resigned w.e.f 21/9/2015) and has direct control. The companies not included for reporting on Sustainability Performance S S Jakobsen, Mr R M W B C Rajapaksa, are companies in which the Group does not exercise signiﬁcant management control, and Capt. A S Wijesekera (Resigned w.e.f companies which are non-operational, are investment entities, land only holding companies, 26/02/2015), I A Gunasekera (Resigned investment holding companies, managing companies and rental of office spaces, which do not w.e.f 6/11/2015), A Z Hashim (Appointed carry out any operations. Such companies have been clearly identiﬁed below. w.e.f 1/8/2015), D C Smith (Appointed w.e.f 21/9/2015), W L P Perera While all core business activities are carried out in-house, the use of outsourced products and (Appointed w.e.f 6/11/2015), services by Group companies are limited to activities where in it as industry practice to do so, it D Ranatunga (Appointed w.e.f has been proven to be an efficient and effective business model or a non-core business activity. 6/11/2015) R S A Soomar (Appointed w.e.f 9/2/2016) The customer base serviced by the John Keells Group of companies can be classiﬁed primarily Stated capital: Rs. 3,788,485,900 into three sections as illustrated below: Logistics Individuals Businesses and Corporates Government DHL Keells (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 1307) (50%)** Consumer Foods and Retail, IT, Transportation, Leisure, Other IT Express courier services Property, Leisure, Financial Services (Plantation Services), Financial Services Incorporated in 1986 No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. * The company is a non-operational company/ investment company/ holding company or owner Tel: 2304304/4798600 of real estate Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman ** The company has not been considered for sustainability reporting as the Group does not exercise R M David , Y B A Khan,S P Wall management control over the entity alt. A Z Hashim (Appointed w.e.f 1/8/2015) Stated capital: Rs. 20,000,020 TRANSPORTATION Maersk Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 2550) John Keells Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 318) (30%)** (100%) Ports and Shipping Shipping agency representation & freight Integrated supply chain management Keells Shipping (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 1272) Incorporated in 2006 forwarding services (100%) No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Incorporated in 1992 Shipping agency representation & Mawatha, Colombo 2. Level 16, Park Land , 33, Park Street, logistics services Tel: 2475574 Colombo 02. Incorporated in 1996 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Tel: 0114794800 No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1 A D Gunewardene, R M David, Directors: W T Ellawala, Dinesh Lal, Tel: 2475200 A Z Hashim (Appointed w.e.f 1/8/2015) R M David,Hariharan Iyer (Resigned Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman, Stated capital: Rs. 200,000,000 w.e.f 1/7/2009), Robert Janvan Trooijen R M David, J R Gunaratne (Resigned (Resigned w.e.f 1/9/2012), Rizwan Lanka Marine Services (Pvt) Ltd. w.e.f 1/8/2015) , A Z Hashim (Appointed Sultan Ali (Resigned w.e.f 1/7/2014) (PV 475) (99.44%) w.e.f 1/8/2015) Marc Eugene C Gijsbrechts (Appointed Importer & supplier of heavy marine fuel oils Stated capital: Rs. 500,000 w.e.f 1/8/2014), Franck Dedenis Incorporated in 1993 Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co (Shipping) (Appointed w.e.f 30/6/2014), Arjun Arun 4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 Ltd. (PB 359) (100%) Maharaj (Appointed w.e.f 1/7/2014) Tel: 2475410-421 Shipping agency representation & Stated capital: Rs.10,000,000 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman logistics services A D Gunewardene, R M David, South Asia Gateway Terminals (Pvt) Ltd. Incorporated in 1973 R S Fernando (Resigned w.e.f 1/8/2015), (PV 326) (42.19%)** 4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 A Z Hashim (Appointed w.e.f 1/8/2015) Ports & shipping services Tel: 2307526 Stated capital: Rs. 350,000,000 Incorporated in 1998 Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman Port of Colombo, P.O. Box 141, Colombo 1. R M David, J R Gunaratne (Resigned Tel: 24575509 w.e.f1/8/2015), A Z Hashim (Appointed w.e.f 1/8/2015) Stated capital: Rs. 5,000,000 278 G4-17 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Mackinnon Mackenzie & Co of Ceylon Air Lines Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman Ltd. (PB 348) (100%)* Mack Air (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 868) (100%) A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, Foreign recruitment agents & consultants General sales agents for airlines in Sri Lanka J E P Kehelpannala, R T Wijesinha, B J S Incorporated in 1975 Incorporated in 1980 M Senanyake, N B Weerasekera, No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1 No. 11 , York Street, Colombo 1 T L F W Jayasekara Tel: 2475200 Tel: 2475375/2475335 Stated capital: Rs.9,500,246,939 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Sentinel Realty (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 80706) R M David R M David, C N Lawrence, A Z Hashim (40.16%)** Stated capital: Rs. 90,000 (Appointed w.e.f 1/8/2015) Investment company for Hotel N D O Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 831) (60%)** Stated capital: Rs. 12,500,000 Development land International freight forwarding and Mack Air Services Maldives (Pte) Ltd. Incorporated in 2011 clearing & forwarding (C/I 35-2000) (49%)* No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner Incorporated in 1980 General sales agents for airlines in the Mawatha,Colombo 02 No. 11, York Street, Colombo 1 Maldives Tel: 2306000 Tel: 7671671 Incorporated in 2000 Directors : A D Gunewardene, Directors: 4th Floor, STO Aifaanu Building, S Rajendra, B A B Goonettileke, R M David, H C K Hewamallika Boduthakurufaanu Magu, Male 20-05 K Balasundaram J R Gunarathne (Resigned w.e.f Republic of Maldives Stated capital: Rs.116,390,620 23/7/2015), A Z Hashim (Appointed w.e.f Tel: +9603334708 09 23/7/2015) , C Besset(Appointed w.e.f Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman City Hotels 3/9/2014) A D Gunewardene (Resigned w.e.f Stated capital: Rs.130,000,000 Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. 1/8/2015), R M David, S Hameed, -Cinnamon Grand. (PQ 2) (78.56%) Saffron Aviation (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 84728) A Shihab, A Z Hashim (Appointed Owner & operator of the ﬁve star city hotel (40%)** w.e.f.1/8/2015) Cinnamon Grand Domestic air line operations Stated capital: Rs. 677,892 Incorporated in 1993 Incorporated in 2012 Mackinnons Travels (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 1261) 77, Galle Road, Colombo 3 No.11, York Street, Colombo 01 (100%) Tel: 2437437 /2497442 Tel: 2475502 IATA accredited travel agent and travel Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Directors: A D Gunewardene, related services A D Gunewardene Managing Director, R M David, J R Gunaratne (Resigned Incorporated in 1971 J R F Peiris, R J Karunarajah, w.e.f 23/7/2015), B A B Goonetilleke, No. 99 Dharmapala Mawatha, Colombo 7 S Rajendra, S K G Senanayake, K Balasundaram, F Omar, Tel: 2318600 S A Jayasekara, C J L Pinto R T Abeyasinghe, A Z Hashim (Appointed Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Stated capital: Rs.3,345,118,012 w.e.f 23/7/2015) A D Gunawardene, R S Fernando Stated capital: Rs. 674,981,000 Capitol Hotel Holdings Ltd. (PB 5013) Stated capital: Rs. 5,000,000 (19.47%)** Trans-ware Logistics (Pvt) Ltd. (PV Developer of City Business Hotels 3134) (50%)* LEISURE Incorporated in 2012 Renting of storage space Hotel Management No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner Incorporated in 1994 Mawatha, Colombo 02 No. 117, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Cinnamon Hotel Management Services Tel: 2306000 Mawatha, Colombo 2. Ltd. (PB 7) (100%) Directors: M S Weerasekera Chairman Tel: 2475537-9 Operator & marketer of resort hotels A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra, Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Incorporated in 1974 W R K Wannigama, D A Kannangara, A D Gunawardene (Resigned w.e.f No.117 Chittampalam A. Gardiner M D R Gunatilleke, L C H Leow, 1/8/2015) A Z Hashim (Appointed w.e.f Mawatha, Colombo 02 A J Pathmarajah 1/8/2015), R M David, A A Miskon Tel: 2306600, 2421101-8 Stated capital: Rs. 1,168,800,100 (Alt. N A Latif), Y K Boo, T H Pang Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman Stated capital: Rs. 220,000,080 A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala, Trans Asia Hotels PLC. (PQ 5) (82.74%) B J S M Senanayake, R J Karunarajah Owner & operator of the ﬁve star city hotel Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd. Cargo (Appointed W.E.F 1/4/2015) Cinnamon Lakeside Division. (PV 31) (100%) Stated capital: Rs. 19,520,000 Incorporated in 1981 International freight forwarder & logistics No. 115, Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner services John Keells Hotels PLC. (PQ 8) (80.32%)* Mawatha, Colombo 2. Incorporated in1958 Holding company of group resort hotel Tel: 2491000 No.148, Vauxhall Street Colombo 2 companies in Sri Lanka & Maldives Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Tel: 2475509 Incorporated in 1979 A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner N L Gooneratne, C J L Pinto, J C Ponniah A D Gunewardene, R M David (Resigned Mawatha, Colombo 02 E H Wijenaike, R J Karunaraj (Appointed w.e.f.1/8/2015), S Rajendra Tel: 2306600 w.e.f 1/5/2015) Stated capital: Rs. 99,188,800 Stated capital: Rs.1,112,879,750 279 G4-17 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Directory Resort Hotels Sri Lanka Hikkaduwa Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Resort Hotels Ltd. (PB 193) (79.24%)* Ahungalle Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. (PV (PV 71747) (79.24%) Owner of real estate 85046) (80.32%)* Owner & operator of Chaaya Tranz in Incorporated in 1978 Owner of real estate Hikkaduwa No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner Incorporated in 2012 Incorporated in 2010 Mawatha, Colombo 02 No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner P.O Box 1, Galle Road, Hikkaduwa Tel: 2306780, 2421101-8 Mawatha,Colombo 02 Tel: 091 2298000 Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman Tel: 2306000 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala Stated capital: Rs. 7,189,150 A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala (Resigned w.e.f 1/8/2015) Trinco Holiday Resorts (Pte) Ltd.(PV (Resigned w.e.f 1/8/2015) B J S M Senanayake 69908) (80.32%) B J S M Senanayake Stated capital: Rs.1,062,635,460 Owner & Operator of Chaaya Blu in Stated capital: Rs. 132,000,000 Kandy Walk Inn Ltd. (PB 395) (79.03%) Trincomalee Beruwala Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd. Owner & operator of Cinnamon Citadel Incorporated in 2009 (PV 69678) (79.78%) in Kandy Alles Garden, Uppuvelli, Sampathiv Post Owner & operator of Cinnamon Bey in Incorporated in 1979 Tel: 026 2222307/026 2221611 Beruwala No.124, Srimath Kuda Ratwatte Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Incorporated in 2009 Mawatha, Kandy A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala Moragolla Beruwala. Tel: 081 2234365-6/ 081 2237273-4 (Resigned w.e.f 1/8/2015), Tel: 2306600, 034 2297000 Directors: S C RatnayakChairman B J S M Senanayake Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala Stated Capital: Rs.357,000,000 A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala (Resigned w.e.f 1/8/2015), R T Molligoda Trinco Walk Inn Ltd. (PB 168) (80.32%)* (Resigned w.e.f 1/8/2015), (Resigned w.e.f 8/12/2015), Owner of Real Estate B J S M Senanayake B J S M Senanayake Incorporated in 1984 Stated Capital: Rs. 2,338,150,000 Stated capital: Rs. 115,182,009 Alles Garden, Uppuveli, Sampathiv Post, Ceylon Holiday Resorts Ltd.*-Bentota International Tourists and Hoteliers Ltd. Trincomalee Beach Hotel. (PB 40) (79.24%) (PB 17) (79.78%)* Tel: 026 2222307/011 2306600 Owner & operator of Bentota Beach Owner of real estate Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman Hotel in Bentota Incorporated in 1973 A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala Incorporated in 1966 No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner (Resigned w.e.f1/8/2015) Galle Road, Bentota Mawatha, Colombo 02 B J S M Senanayake Tel: 034 2275176/034 2275266 Tel: 2306600, 2421101-8 Stated capital: Rs.119,850,070 Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman, Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman Wirawila Walk Inn Ltd. (PB 89) (80.32%)* A D Gunewardene,J E P A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala Owner of real estate Kehelpannala(Resigned (Resigned w.e.f 1/8/2015), Incorporated in 1994 w.e.f1/8/2015),B.J.S.M.Senanayake D C Alagaratnam (Resigned w.e.f No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner Stated capital: Rs. 744,517,303 1/8/2015), B J S M Senanayake Mawatha,Colombo 02 Stated capital: Rs. 1,939,760,925 Tel: 2306780, 2421101-8 Habarana Lodge Ltd. (PB 38) (78.99%) Owner & operator of Cinnamon Lodge in Nuwara Eliya Holiday Resorts (Pvt) Ltd.* Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman Habarana (PV98357) (80.32%) A D Gunewardene, D C Alagaratnam Incorporated in 1978 owner of real estate (Resigned w.e.f 1/8/2015) P.O Box 2, Habarana Incorporated in 2014 B J S M Senanayake (Appointed w.e.f Tel: 066 2270011-2/ 066 2270072 No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner 1/8/2015) Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Mawatha, Colombo 02 Stated capital: Rs. 18,374,150 A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala Tel: 2306000 Yala Village (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 2868) (Resigned w.e.f 1/8/2015), Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman (75.33%) B J S M Senanayake A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake Owner & operator of Cinnamon Wild in Yala Stated capital: Rs.341,555,262 (Appointed w.e.f 1/8/2015) Incorporated in 1999 Stated Capital: Rs.275,562,520 P.O Box 1, Kirinda, Tissamaharama Habarana Walk Inn Ltd. (PB 33) (79.34%) Owner & operator of Chaaya Village in Rajawella Hotels Company Ltd. (PB 92) Tel: 047 2239449-52 Habarana (80.32%)* Directors: M A Perera Chairman Incorporated in 1973 Owner of real estate S C Ratnayake Deputy Chairman P.O Box 1, Habarana Incorporated in 1992 A D Gunewardene, J A Davis, Tel: 066 2270046-7/ 066 2270077 No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner J E P Kehelpannala (Resigned w.e.f Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Mawatha,Colombo 02 1/8/2015), B J S M Senanayake A D Gunewardene, J E P Kehelpannala Tel: 2306000 Stated capital: Rs.419,427,600 (Resigned w.e.f 1/8/2015) Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman B J S M Senanayake A D Gunewardene, J R Gunaratne Stated capital: Rs. 126,350,000 Stated capital: Rs.34,451,762 280 G4-17 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Resort Hotels Maldives Destination Management PROPERTY Fantasea World Investments (Pte) Ltd. Cinnamon Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. Property Development (C 143/97) (80.32%) (PV101005) – 100% Asian Hotels and Properties PLC. Owner & operator of Chaaya Lagoon Service providers of Inbound and Crescat Hakuraa Huraa in Maldives outbound Tours Boulevard, The Monarch, The Emperor. Incorporated in 1997 Incorporated in 2015 (PQ 2) (78.56%) 2nd Floor, H Maizan Building, 117, Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Developer and manager of integrated Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives Mawatha, Colombo 02. properties Tel: 00960 6720014/00960 Tel: 0112306000 Incorporated in 1993 6720064/00960 6720065 Directors : S C Ratnayake Chairman No.77, Galle Road, Colombo 3 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, K N J Balendra Tel: 5540404 A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake , Stated Capital : Rs.200,000 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman S A S Perera, J E P Kehelpannala Serene Holidays (Pvt) Ltd. A D Gunewardene Managing Director, Stated capital: Rs. 341,573,190 (U63040MH2006PTC164985) (98.74%) J R F Peiris, R J Karunarajah, S Rajendra John Keells Maldivian Resorts (Pte) Ltd. Tour operators S K G Senanayake, S A Jayasekara, (C 208/96) (80.32%) Incorporated in 2006 C J L Pinto Hotel holding company in the Maldives 204, Accord Complex Stated capital: Rs. 3,345,118,012 Incorporated in 1996 Opp. Goregaon Station, Goregaon (East), British Overseas (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 80203) 2nd Floor, H.Maizan Building, Mumbai 400 063 ,India (61%) Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives Tel: 091-22 42105210 99 Developer of 7th Sense Project Tel: 00960 3329083/00960 Directors: A D Gunewardene Chairman Incorporated in 2011 3304601/00960 3313738 V Leelananda, N S H A Rehmanjee No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman (Appointed w.e.f 1/1/2015 & Resigned Mawatha,Colombo 02 A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake, w.e.f 31/12/2015 ), C Somasunderam Tel: 2306000 S A S Perera, J E P Kehelpannala (Appointed w.e.f 1/1/2016) Directors : A D Gunewardene, Stated capital: Rs.3,978,671,681 Stated capital: Rs.25,967 K N J Balendra, D C Alagaratnam, Tranquility (Pte) Ltd. (C 344/2004) Walkers Tours Ltd. (PB 249) (98.51%) S Rajendra, S P G N Rajapakse (80.32%) Inbound tour operators Stated capital: Rs.1,000 Owner and operator of Chaaya Island Incorporated in 1969 John Keells Properties Ja-Ela (Pvt) Ltd. Dhoinveli in Maldives No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner (PV 76068) (100%) Incorporated in 2004 Mawatha, Colombo 02 Developer & Manager of Mall operations 2nd Floor, H Maizan Building, Tel: 2306306 Incorporated in 2010 Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner Tel: 00960 6640055/00960 6640012 A D Gunewardene, V Leelananda Mawatha, Colombo 02 Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman Stated capital: Rs. 51,374,200 Tel: 2306000 A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake, Whittall Boustead (Travel) Ltd. (PB 112) Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman S A S Perera, J E P Kehelpannala (100%) A D Gunawardene, S Rajendra Stated capital: Rs.552,519,608 Inbound tour operators Stated capital: Rs.954,360,000 Travel Club (Pte) Ltd. (C 121/92) (80.32%) Incorporated in 1977 John Keells Residential Properties (Pvt) Operator of Chaaya Reef Ellaidhoo in No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner Ltd. (PV 75050) (100%) Maldives Mawatha, Colombo 02 Developer of On320 Project Incorporated in 1992 Tel: 2306384 Incorporated in 2010 2nd Floor, H Maizan Building, Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner Sosun Magu, Male, Republic of Maldives A D Gunewardene, V Leelananda Mawatha, Colombo 02 Tel: 00960 6660839/00960 Stated capital: Rs. 250,410,000 Tel: 2300065 6660663/00960 6660664 Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra, A D Gunewardene, B J S M Senanayake, J R F Peiris S A S Perera, J E P Kehelpannala Stated capital: Rs. 925,200,000 Stated capital: Rs. 143,172,000 281 G4-17 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Directory Rajawella Holdings Limited (49.85%) CONSUMER FOODS AND RETAIL Retail Directors: S C Rathnayake Chairman Consumer Foods JayKay Marketing Services (Pvt) Ltd. (Appointed w.e.f 9/9/2015), (PV 33) (81.36%) Ceylon Cold Stores PLC. (PQ 4) (81.36%) A D Gunewardene (Appointed w.e.f Owns and Operates the Keells Super Manufacture & Marketing of Beverages 9/9/2015), J R F Peiris (Appointed w.e.f chain of supermarkets and Nexus Mobile and frozen confectionery and the holding 9/9/2015), S Rajendra (Appointed w.e.f loyalty card programme. company of JayKay Marketing Services 9/9/2015),C B Thornton (27/4/2001), Incorporated in 1980 (Pvt) Ltd. G R Bostock Kirk (Appointed w.e.f No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner Incorporated in 1926 13/4/2012) S E Captain (Appointed w.e.f Mawatha,Colombo 02 No.117, Chittampalam A Gardiner 9/9/2015) Tel: 2316800 Mawatha,Colombo 02 Stated Capital: 784,690 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Tel: 2318798 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, M R N JayasunderaReal estate A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, Moraes (Resigned w.e.f. 1/8/2015), J R Gunaratne, U P Liyanage(Deceased K N J Balendra, J G A Cooray (Appointed John Keells Properties (Pvt) Ltd. 10/8/2015), P S Jayawardena, w.e.f.1/8/2015), K C Subasinghe (PV 1034) (100%)* A R Rasiah, M Hamza (Appointed W.E.F. (Appointed w.e.f.1/8/2015) Renting of office space 15/05/2015) Stated capital: Rs.1,198,000,000 Incorporated in 2006 No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner Stated capital: Rs. 918,200,000 Mawatha, Colombo 02 John Keells Foods India (Pvt) Ltd. FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP Tel: 2306000 /2397263 (U15122MH2008FTC180902) (89.65%)* John Keells Stock Brokers (Pvt) Ltd. Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman, Marketing of Branded meat and (PV 89) (90.04%) A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra convenience food products Share broking services Stated capital: Rs.240,000,030 Incorporated in 2008 Incorporated in 1979 Keells Realtors Ltd. (PB 90) (92.37%)* Luthra and Luthra Chartered No. 186, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 02 Owner of Real Estates Accountants Tel: 2446694-5 /2338066/4710721-4, Incorporated in 1977 A 16/9, Vasant Vihar, 0112306250 No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner New Delhi -110057, India Directors: A D Gunewardene Chairman Mawatha,Colombo 02 Tel: 0091 1142591823, S C Ratnayake, K N J Balendra Tel: 2306000 /2397263 0091 1126148048, 26151853, 26147365 Stated capital: Rs.7,500,000 Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman Fax: +91-11-2614 5222 Nations Trust Bank PLC. (PQ 118) A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman (29.9%)** Stated capital: Rs.75,000,000 J R Gunaratne,R S Fernando Commercial banking and leasing Stated capital: Rs. 220,294,544 Waterfront Properties (Pvt) Ltd. (PV operations (INR 90,000,000) 82153) (93.23%) Incorporated in 1999 Developer of Hotels,Apartments & Keells Food Products PLC. (PQ 3) No. 242, Union Place, Colombo 2. Shopping Malls (89.65%) Tel: 4313131 Incorporated in 2011 Manufacturer and distributor of Directors: K N J Balendra Chairmen No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner Processed meat, breaded meat and M E Wickremesinghe (Resigned w.e.f Mawatha, Colombo 02 convenience food products 30/11/2015 ), A R Rasiah (Resigned Tel: 2306000 Incorporated in 1982 w.e.f 27/12/2015), Dr. (Ms.) D Weerakoon Directors : S C Ratnayake Chairman P.O Box 10,No.16, Minuwangoda Road, (Resigned w.e.f 29/02/2016 ), A D Gunewardene, S Rajendra Ekala, Ja-Ela M Jafferjee, Dr.K De Soysa J R F Peiris, D C Alagaratnam Tel: 2236317/ 2236364 D P De Silva, N S Panditharatne, Stated capital: Rs.18,570,031,230 Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman K O V S M S Wijesinghe, A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, C H S K Piyaratna (Resigned w.e.f Whittall Boustead (Pvt) Ltd Real Estate J R Gunaratne, R Pieris, 31/12/2014), R N K Fernando, Division. (PV 31) (100%)* S H Amarasekera, A D E I Perera, J G A Cooray, C L K P Jayasuriya Renting of office space M P Jayawardena H Raghavan (Appointed w.e.f Incorporated in1958 Stated capital: Rs.1,294,815,000 01/01/2015) C D'Souza (Appointed w.e.f No. 148, Vauxhall Street,Colombo 2. Tel: 2397263 /2327805 18/01/2016) Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman Stated capital: Rs.5,101,368,736 A D Gunewardene, R M David (Resigned w.e.f 1/8/2015 ), S Rajendra Stated capital: Rs.99,188,800 282 G4-17 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Union Assurance General Ltd. (PV Directors: A D Gunewardene Chairman John Keells BPO Solutions India (Pvt) Ltd. 99666) (22 %)** R S Fernando, D C Alagaratnam (U72300DL2006PTC153130) (100%) General insurance underwriters Stated capital: Rs. 5,000,000 BPO operations in India (Formally known Incorporated in 2014 as Quatrro Business Support Services No.20, St. Michaels' Road, Colombo 3 (Pvt) Ltd) IT Enabled Services Tel: 2428428 Incorporated in 2006 Directors: R Athappan Chairman InfoMate (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 921) (100%) Basement-24, C Block, Community (appointed w.e.f 1/6/2015) IT enabled services Centre, Janakpuri, New Delhi. A D Pereira, C Ratnaswami (Appointed Incorporated in 2005 Tel: +91 124 4561000 w.e.f 1/6/2015), A S Wijesinha No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 Directors: J R F Peiris, (Appointed w.e.f 1/6/2015), Tel: (94) 112149700 R S Fernando, K N J Balendra, C D Wijegunawardene (Appointed w.e.f Directors: S C Ratnayake, N S H A Rehmanjee (Appointed 7/10/2015), S Malhotra (Appointed w.e.f M J S Rajakariar, R S Fernando w.e.f.1/12/2014 & Resigned w.e.f 4/11/2015) Stated capital: Rs.20,000,000 11/2/2016), C Somasundaram Stated Capital: Rs.3,131,949,000 John Keells BPO Holdings (Pvt) Ltd. (Appointed w.e.f 31/12/2015) Union Assurance PLC. (PQ 12) (93.92%) (C 60882) (100%)* Stated capital: Rs. 899,836,136 Life insurance underwriters Holding company of AuxiCogent group John Keells BPO Solutions Lanka (Pvt) Ltd. Incorporated in 1987 companies (PV 3458) (100%)* No. 20, St. Michaels' Road, Colombo 3 Incorporated in 2006 BPO operations in Sri Lanka Tel: 2428428 IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius Incorporated in 2006 Directors: A D Gunewardene Chairman Tel: (230) 467 3000 No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 D C Alagaratnam, S Rajendra, Directors: S C Ratnayake Tel: (94) 2300770-77 A S De Zoysa, G F C De Saram, A D Gunewardene, R S Fernando, Directors: S C Ratnayake, H A J De Silva Wijeyeratne, A D Pereira K N J Balendra, P Bissoonauth, A D Gunewardene, R S Fernando, Stated capital: Rs.Rs.1,000,000,000 Z H Niamut R M David (Resinged w.e.f 1/8/2015) Stated capital: Rs.1,988,300,000 Stated capital: Rs.328,435,800 John Keells BPO International (Pvt) Ltd. John Keells BPO Solutions US Inc. (PO INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (C 070137) (100%)* 8000022353) (100%)* IT Services Investment holding company Provides sales & marketing support for John Keells Computer Services (Pvt) Incorporated in 2007 AuxiCogent in North America Ltd. (PV 652) (100%) IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius Incorporated in 2008 Software services Tel: (230) 467 3000 9225, Ulmerton Road, Suite H, Largo, Incorporated in 1998 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Florida 33771, USA. No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. A D Gunewardene, R S Fernando, Tel: +1 727 518 0000 Tel: 2300770-77 K N J Balendra, P Bissoonauth, Director: M P Gunaratna, R S Fernando Directors: A D Gunewardene Chairman Z H Niamut (Appointed w.e.f 27.08.2014) S C Ratnayake, R S Fernando Stated capital: Rs.1,616,700,008 Stated capital: Rs.40,243,250 Stated capital: Rs. 96,500,000 John Keells BPO solutions Canada Inc. J K O A Mobiles (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 136) (100%) (761124-2) (10 0%)* OTHERS Marketer of software packages BPO Operation in Canada Incorporated in 1992 Incorporated in 2010 Plantation Services No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. 1900, 736-6th Avenue S.W., Calgary, John Keells PLC. (PQ 11) (86.90 %) Tel: 2300770-77 Alberta T2P 3T7, Canada. Produce Broking and Real Estate Directors: A D Gunewardene Chairman Directors: A D Gunewardene, Ownership R S Fernando, D C Alagaratnam D K Malik (Resigned w.e.f.1/4/2015), Incorporated in 1960 Stated capital: Rs. 8,000,000 K N J Balendra, R S Fernando No 186, Vauxhall street, Colombo 02 R M David, J R Gunaratne, Tel: 2306000 Office Automation D C Alagaratnam, T E Scott, A S Perera Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman John Keells Office Automation (Pvt) Ltd. (Appointed w.e.f.1/4/2015) A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, (PV 127) (100%) Stated capital: Rs.88,484,008 R S Fernando, T de Zoysa,Y A Hansen, Distributor/Reseller and Services S T Ratwatte, V A A Perera (Appointed Provider in Office Automation(OA), Retail w.e.f 20/8/2015) Automation (RA) and Mobile Devices Stated capital: Rs.152,000,000 Incorporated in 1992 Corporate Office: 90 Union Place, Colombo 2 Technical Services: 148 Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2 Tel: 2313000, 2431576, 2445760 283 G4-17 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Group Directory John Keells (Teas) Ltd. (PV 522) (100%) John Keells Holdings PLC. (PQ 14) Keells Consultants Ltd. (PB 3) (100%) Manager eight bought leaf tea factories Group holding company & function based Company secretarial services to the group Incorporated in 1979 services Incorporated in 1974 No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner Incorporated in 1979 No.117,Chittampalam A, Gardiner Mawatha,Colombo 02 No.117, Sir Chittampalam A, Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 02 Tel: 2306518 Mawatha, Colombo 02 Tel: 2421101-9 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Tel: 2306000 /2421101-9 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, R S Fernando Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman A D Gunewardene, D C Alagaratnam Stated capital: Rs. 120,000 A D Gunewardene Deputy Chairman, N W Tambiah ((Appointed w.e.f.1/8/2015) John Keells Warehousing (Pvt) Ltd. (PV J R F Peiris, E F G Amerasinghe, Stated capital: Rs.160,000 638) (86.90%) T Das, Dr I Coomaraswamy, M A Omar, Mackinnons Keells Ltd. (PB 8) (100%)* Warehousing of Tea and Rubber D A Cabraal, A N Fonseka, P Perera Rental of office space Incorporated in 2001 Stated capital: Rs.58,701,977,289 Incorporated in 1952 No.93,1 Avenue, Muturajawela, Hendala, John Keells International (Pvt) Ltd. (PV No. 4, Layden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 Wattala, Muturajawala. 46) (100%)* Tel: 2475102-3 Tel: 4819560 Regional holding company providing Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman administrative A.D Gunewardene, S Rajendra A D Gunewardene, R S Fernando & function based services Stated capital: Rs.10,800,000 Stated capital: Rs.120,000,000 Incorporated in 2006 Mortlake Ltd. (PV 756) (100%)* Tea Smallholder Factories PLC. (PQ 32) No.117,Chittampalam A,Gardiner Investment company (37.62%) Mawatha,Colombo 02 Incorporated in 1962 Owner and operator of Bought Leaf Tel: 2306000 /2421101-9 No. 148, Vauxhall Street, Colombo 2. factories Directors: S C RatnayakeChairman Tel: 2475308 Incorporated in 1991 A D Gunewardene Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman No.4, Leyden Bastian Road, Colombo 1 Stated capital: Rs. 1,991,600,000 A D Gunewardene, R M David Tel: 2335870/2149994 J K Packaging (Pvt) Ltd. (PV 1265) D C Alagaratnam Directors: S C Ratnayake – Chairman (100%)* Stated capital: Rs. 3,000 (Alt.Mr J R Gunaratne) Printing and packaging services provider A D Gunewardene, J R F Peiris, for the export market E H Wijenaike, R Seevaratnam, Incorporated in 1979 R E Rambukwella, A S Jayatilleke, No 148, Vauxhall street, Colombo 02 J S Ratwatte, R S Fernando Tel: 2475308 Stated capital: Rs.150,000,000 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman R M David, R S Fernando Stated capital: Rs.14,500,000 Centre & Others John Keells Singapore (Pte) Ltd. Facets (Pvt) Ltd. (PV1048) (100%)* (199200499C) (80%)* Owner of real estate International trading services Incorporated in 1974 Incorporated in 1992 No.117, Chittampalam A, Gardiner 1R5DĵHV3ODFH Mawatha, Colombo 02 Bharat Building, Singapore-048617 Tel: 2306000 Tel: 65 67329636 Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman Directors: S C Ratnayake Chairman D C Alagaratnam Alt. A D Gunewardene, R M David, Stated capital: Rs.150,000 R Ponnampalam, D C Alagaratnam John Keells Holdings Mauritius (Pvt) Stated capital: Rs.9,638,000 Ltd.(081455 C1/GBL) (100%)* Holding company of AuxiCogent group companies IFS Court, 28, Cybercity, Ebene, Mauritius Incorporated in 2008 Tel: 2304673000 Directors: S C Ratnayake, A D Gunewardene, Z.H.Niamut, B.Pooja Stated capital: Rs.258,531,533 284 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information GRI G4 Content Index This Report is prepared ‘in accordance’ Core of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES General Page Number (or Link) External Assurance UNGC IFC Code of Best Standard Information related to Standard Disclosures required by the ‘in Indicate if the Standard Advanced Sustainability Practice on Disclosures accordance’ options may already be included in other reports Disclosure has been Principles Framework Corporate prepared by the organisation. In these circumstances, the organisation externally assured. Performance Governance may elect to add a speciﬁc reference to where the relevant If yes, include the page Standard 2013 information can be found. reference for the External Assurance Statement in the report. STRATEGY AND ANALYSIS G4-1 Page 12 Yes, 275 277 1 7 ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 Page 3 Yes, 275 277 22 G4-4 Page 8 Yes, 275 277 22 G4-5 Page 3 Yes, 275 277 22 G4-6 Page 3 Yes, 275 277 22 G4-7 Page 3 Yes, 275 277 22 G4-8 Pages 3, 8 Yes, 275 277 22 G4-9 Pages 3, 10, 61 Yes, 275 277 22 G4-10 Page 65 Yes, 275 277 11, 12 3 G4-11 Page 67 Yes, 275 277 11, 12 3 G4-12 Pages 68, 112, 122, 132, 141 149, 155, 161 Yes, 275 277 21 Pages 9 10 of www.keells.com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach G4-13 Page 9 Yes, 275 277 22 G4-14 Page 91 Yes, 275 277 13 2 G4-15 Page 83 Yes, 275 277 4 7 G4-16 Pages 272 274 Yes, 275 277 IDENTIFIED MATERIAL ASPECTS AND BOUNDARIES G4-17 Pages 278 284, Page 4 Yes, 275 277 G4-18 Pages 5, 82, 85 87 Yes, 275 277 22, 23 6, 7 G4-19 Page 87 Yes, 275 277 3 6 G4-20 Page 86 Yes, 275 277 22, 23 6 G4-21 Page 86 Yes, 275 277 22, 23 6 G4-22 Page 83 Yes, 275 277 22, 23 G4-23 Pages 4, 87 Yes, 275 277 22, 23 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT G4-24 Pages 84 85 Yes, 275 277 3 6 G4-25 Page 83 Yes, 275 277 3 6 G4-26 Pages 83 85 Yes, 275 277 3 6 G4-27 Page 85 Yes, 275 277 6 REPORT PROFILE G4-28 Page 4 Yes, 275 277 22, 23 G4-29 Page 83 Yes, 275 277 22, 23 G4-30 Page 83 Yes, 275 277 22, 23 7 G4-31 Page 87 Yes, 275 277 22, 23 G4-32 Pages 5, 83, 275 277 Yes, 275 277 22, 23 7 G4-33 Pages 83, 275 277, 15 Yes, 275 277 24 7 GOVERNANCE G4-34 Page 24 Yes, 275 277 2 7 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY G4-56 Page 39 Yes, 275 277 2 285 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 GRI G4 Content Index SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES DMA and Page Number (or Identiﬁed Reason(s) for Explanation for External Assurance Indicators Link) Omission(s) Omission(s) Omission(s) Indicate if the Standard Information related In exceptional In exceptional In exceptional Disclosure has been to Standard cases, if it is cases, if it is cases, if it is externally assured. Disclosures not possible not possible not possible required by the ‘in to disclose to disclose to disclose If yes, include the page accordance’ options certain certain certain reference for the External may already be required required required Assurance Statement in included in other information, information, information, the report. reports prepared by identify the provide the explain the the organisation. In information reason for reasons these circumstances, that has been omission. why the the organisation omitted. information may elect to add a has been speciﬁc reference to omitted. where the relevant information can be found. CATEGORY: ECONOMIC MATERIAL ASPECT: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 1 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 2, 6-7 G4-EC1 Pages 266 267 Yes, 275 277 1 G4-EC3 Page 67 Yes, 275 277 1 MATERIAL ASPECT: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 4 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 10 11 G4-EC7 Page 68 Yes, 275 277 4 MATERIAL ASPECT: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES G4-DMA 89, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 1 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 9 10 G4-EC9 Page 68 Yes, 275 277 1 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: ENERGY G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 13, 14 3 2 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Page 3 G4-EN3 Page 61 Yes, 275 277 15, 16 3 2 286 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information MATERIAL ASPECT: WATER G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 13, 14 4 2 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Page 3 G4-EN8 Page 62 Yes, 275 277 15, 16 4 2 MATERIAL ASPECT: BIODIVERSITY G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 13, 14 6 2 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Page 4 G4-EN11 Page 120 Yes, 275 277 15, 16 6 2 CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL MATERIAL ASPECT: EMISSIONS G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 13, 14 3 2 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Page 3 G4-EN15 Page 62 Yes, 275 277 15, 16 3 2 G4-EN16 Page 62 Yes, 275 277 15, 16 3 2 MATERIAL ASPECT: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 13, 14 3 2 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 3-4 G4-EN22 Page 63 Yes, 275 277 15, 16 3 2 G4-EN23 Page 63 Yes, 275 277 15, 16 3 2 G4-EN24 Page 110 Yes, 275 277 15, 16 3 2 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 13, 14 2 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Page 3 G4-EN29 Page 68 Yes, 275 277 15, 16 2 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT G4-DMA 89, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 15 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Page 9 -10 G4-EN32 Page 68 Yes, 275 277 15 287 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 GRI G4 Content Index CATEGORY: SOCIAL SUB-CATEGORY: LABOUR PRACTICES AND DECENT WORK MATERIAL ASPECT: EMPLOYMENT G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 9, 10 3 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 5 7 G4-LA1 Pages 66 Yes, 275 277 11, 12 3 MATERIAL ASPECT: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 9, 10 3, 7 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Page 5 7 G4-LA6 Page 66 Yes, 275 277 11, 12 3, 7 MATERIAL ASPECT: TRAINING AND EDUCATION G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 9, 10 3 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 5 7 G4-LA9 Page 66 Yes, 275 277 11, 12 3 G4-LA11 Page 6 Yes, 275 277 11, 12 3 0$7(5,$/$63(&7',9(56,7<$1'(48$/23325781,7< G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 9, 10 2 3 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 5 7 G4-LA12 Page 65 Yes, 275 277 11, 12 2 3 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER ASSESSMENT FOR LABOUR PRACTICES G4-DMA 89, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 11 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 9 10 G4-LA14 Page 68 Yes, 275 277 11 SUB-CATEGORY: HUMAN RIGHTS MATERIAL ASPECT: FREEDOM OF ASSOCIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 9, 10 2 3 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Page 6 G4-HR4 Page 67 Yes, 275 277 11, 12 2 3 MATERIAL ASPECT: CHILD LABOUR G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 5, 6 2 3 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 7 8 G4-HR5 Page 11 Yes, 275 277 7, 8 2 3 288 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information MATERIAL ASPECT: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 5, 6 2 3 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 7 8 G4-HR6 Page 68 Yes, 275 277 7, 8 2 3 MATERIAL ASPECT: SUPPLIER HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT G4-DMA 89, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 7 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 9 10 G4-HR10 Page 11 Yes, 275 277 7 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: LOCAL COMMUNITIES G4-DMA 89, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 4 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Pages 10 11 G4-SO1 Pages 64, 67 68, Yes, 275 277 4 69 72 MATERIAL ASPECT: ANTI-CORRUPTION G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 17, 18 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Page 8 G4-SO3 90 Yes, 275 277 19, 20 SUB-CATEGORY: SOCIETY MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 17, 18 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Page 8 G4-SO8 Page 68 Yes, 275 277 19, 20 SUB-CATEGORY: PRODUCT RESPONSIBILITY TOPIC: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 5 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Page 12 MATERIAL ASPECT: PRODUCT AND SERVICE LABELLING G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 5 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Page 12 G4-PR3 Page 142 Yes, 275 277 5 289 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 GRI G4 Content Index MATERIAL ASPECT: MARKETING COMMUNICATIONS G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 5 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Page 12 G4-PR7 Page 68 Yes, 275 277 5 MATERIAL ASPECT: COMPLIANCE G4-DMA 88, www.keells. Yes, 275 277 5 com/sustainability Disclosure of Management Approach Page 12 G4-PR9 Page 68 Yes, 275 277 5 290 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Corporate Social Responsibility Social Responsibility Projects carried out by John Keells Foundation during the year in review Project Location/ Initiative Project Objective Direct Impact English Language English for Teens Providing foundation level English language training for early Scholarships awarded – 1,076 Scholarship Programme (Foundation Level) teens (12-14 years). Courses Completed 1,037 English for Teens Offered to students who passed the foundation-level English Scholarships awarded – 148 (Pre-intermediate level) programme last year with honours. Courses Completed 136 English for Teens Offered to students who passed the pre-intermediate level Scholarships awarded –27 (Intermediate level) programme last year with honours. Courses Completed 27 Neighbourhood Schools English Skills Offered scholarships for eligible students under the John Keells Students 9 Development English Language Scholarship Programme. Refresher Workshop for Grade 5 6 refresher seminars were conducted in Sinhala and Tamil Students – 150 Scholarship medium for 5 schools. Refresher Workshop for Ordinary Seminars were conducted to assist the students in subjects that Students150 Level Students are mandatory to be eligible for Advanced Level Examinations in both Sinhala and Tamil medium for 5 schools. IT training IT scholarship programme for grade 8 students to acquire basic Students 43 IT and MS Office skills for 5 schools. Career Guidance and vocational Brieﬁng for parents to make them aware on the importance of Students – 10 training for school leavers Vocational Training. Parents 15 Vocational Training Programme for school leavers commenced Students – 10 with 11 students of which 1 student dropped out. Brieﬁng for parents to make them aware on the importance of Parents 50 Career Guidance. Students – 54 Career Guidance workshop outlining career, ethics, CV writing Students – 42 and interview, skills importance of Vocational Training and Principal 5 awareness on opportunities within the John Keells Group. School infrastructure and facility Infrastructure renovation of 5 schools. 5 Schools enhancement Students – 1,813, Teachers 82 Awareness sessions Child Abuse Awareness Sessions for 5 schools. Students – 940 Teachers 15 Higher Education Promoting secondary and tertiary education for disadvantaged 6 -University scholarships Scholarships youth, giving those with limited ﬁnancial means the opportunity 9 Advanced Levels to pursue higher education. (a total of 15 Scholarships) Science Promotion at Science promotion in schools in Encouraging and promoting an interest in science among Science Day Programme Schools Ampara, Anuradhapura, Jaffna, school children. Schools 95, Students 1,427 Monaragala, Ratnapura and Teachers – 98 Vavuniya. Astronomy Programme Schools29, Students – 382 Teachers22 Village Adoption Project Halmillewa Dam renovation, home gardening and sewing for women, child abuse awareness, Higher 500 persons Education Scholarships and youth motivation. WAVE Awareness 677 persons Mangalagama (Ampara District) Sewing classes and awarding of certiﬁcates. Support for the village was discontinued due to the lack of scope for further intervention Iranaipalai in Puthukkudiyiruppu DS (Mullaitivu District) and Puthumathalan in Maritimepattu 915 persons DS (Mullaitivu District) Agro road renovation, tank survey and renovation, cattle donation and WAVE Awareness 458 persons training for women, dry ﬁsh training, donation of school musical instruments, tables and chairs and construction of a new classroom block, renovations of school kitchen, O’Level revision workshops, English, IT and career skills for youth, child abuse awareness and Higher Education Scholarships, Women’s and Children’s Desk renovations and gender sensitisation training for Police team at Puthukkudiyiruppu Police Station. Morawewa (Trincomalee District) Tank rehabilitation and Reverse Osmosis ﬁltration system, sewing 1,332 persons classes, cattle donation and training for women, school renovations, donation of sports equipment WAVE Awareness 314 and play area, child abuse awareness and higher education scholarships. 291 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Social Responsibility The John Keells Foundation’s Social Responsibility Projects Alignment to Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Capital Project SDGs English Language Scholarship Programme Neighbourhood Schools Development Final Step Higher Education Scholarships Science Promotion at Schools Supporting of Siduhath Vidyalaya University of Moratuwa Transportation and Logistics Degree Programme Social and Relationship Capital John Keells HIV and AIDS Awareness Campaign John Keells Vision Project Project WAVE Batticaloa Teaching Hospital Village Adoption Project Sustainable Sourcing Initiative Kala Pola Digital Art Gallery Disaster Relief Partner Recognition Day UNGC Global Compact 292 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Capital Project SDGs Nature Field Rumassala Slave Island Railway Station Project Leopard Forestry Project Cinnamon Elephant Project Yala Block 1 Map Natural Capital Sri Lankan Elephant Exhibition 2016 Paper Conservation Polythene Reduction UNGC Water Mandate Chronic Kidney Disease related initiatives Banners to Bags (B2b) Keells adopt energy efficient designs Staff Volunteerism Human Capital Rural BPO HIV and STDs check at Cinnamon Bey Blood Donation at Cinnamon Bey For further details, refer www.johnkeellsfoundation.com 293 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Glossary of Financial Terms ACCRUAL BASIS DIVIDEND PAYABLE NET PROFIT MARGIN Recording revenues and expenses in the Final dividend per share multiplied by the Proﬁt after tax attributable to equity holders of period in which they are earned or incurred latest available total number of shares as at the parent divided by total revenue including regardless of whether cash is received or the date of the report. share of associates. disbursed in that period. DIVIDEND PAYOUT RATIO NET WORKING CAPITAL ADJUSTED ROCE AND ROE Dividend paid as a percentage of Company Current assets minus current liabilities. Adjusted for 2013 Rights Issue, 2015 Warrant proﬁts adjusted for non-cash gains items. Issue, “Waterfront” debt, revaluation of PRICE EARNINGS RATIO property, plant and equipment and fair value DIVIDEND YIELD Market price per share (diluted) over diluted changes on investment property for 2013/14, Dividends adjusted for changes in number of earnings per share. 2014/15 and 2015/16. shares in issue as a percentage of the share price (diluted) at the end of the period. PRICE TO BOOK RATIO ASSET TURNOVER Revenue including associate company Market price per share (diluted) over net asset EARNINGS PER SHARE (BASIC) revenue divided by average total assets. value per share. Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the parent divided by the weighted average PRICE TO CASH EARNINGS BETA number of ordinary shares in issue during the Diluted market price per share divided by Covariance between daily JKH share return period. diluted cash earnings per share. and market return divided by variance of daily market return, over a 5 year period. EBIT PUBLIC HOLDING Earnings before interest and tax (includes Percentage of shares held by the public CAPITAL EMPLOYED other operating income). calculated as per the Colombo Stock Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling interests and debt. Exchange Listing Rules as at the date of the EBIT MARGIN Report. EBIT divided by turnover inclusive of share of CAPITAL STRUCTURE LEVERAGE (CSL) associate company turnover. QUICK RATIO Average total assets divided by average shareholders’ equity. Cash plus short term investments plus EBITDA receivables, divided by current liabilities. Earnings before interest, tax, depreciation and CASH EARNINGS PER SHARE amortisation. RECURRING EBIT/RECURRING PROFIT Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the parent adjusted for non cash items minus EFFECTIVE RATE OF TAXATION AFTER TAX/RECURRING PROFIT share of associate company proﬁts plus Tax expense divided by proﬁt before tax. ATTRIBUTABLE TO EQUITY HOLDERS OF THE dividends from associate companies divided PARENT by the weighted average number of ordinary ENTERPRISE VALUE (EV) Proﬁt, as applicable, adjusted for changes in shares in issue during the period. Market capitalisation plus net debt/(net cash). fair value of investment property and one-off disposal gains or losses accruing through the COMMON EARNINGS LEVERAGE (CEL) INTEREST COVER sale of investments not held under the private Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Consolidated proﬁt before interest and tax equity portfolio of JK Capital. parent divided by proﬁt after tax. over ﬁnance expenses. RETURN ON ASSETS CONTINGENT LIABILITIES LIABILITIES TO TANGIBLE NET WORTH Proﬁt after tax divided by the average total A condition or situation existing as at the date Total non current and current liabilities assets. of the Report due to past events, where the including contingent liabilities divided by ﬁnancial effect is not recognised because: tangible net worth. RETURN ON CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROCE) 1. The obligation is crystallised by the Consolidated proﬁt before interest and tax as LONG TERM DEBT TO TOTAL DEBT occurrence or non occurrence of one or a percentage of average capital employed. Long term loans as a percentage of total debt. more future events or, 2. A probable outﬂow of economic resources RETURN ON EQUITY (ROE) is not expected or, MARKET CAPITALISATION Proﬁt attributable to shareholders as a 3. It is unable to be measured with sufficient Number of shares in issue at the end of the percentage of average shareholders’ funds. reliability period multiplied by the market price at the end of the period. SHARE TURN RATIO CURRENT RATIO Total volume of shares traded during the year Current assets divided by current liabilities. MARKET VALUE ADDED divided by average number of shares in issue. Market capitalisation minus shareholders’ DEBT/EQUITY RATIO funds. SHAREHOLDERS’ FUNDS Debt as a percentage of shareholders’ funds Total of stated capital, other components of and non-controlling interests. NET ASSETS equity and revenue reserves. Total assets minus current liabilities, long DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE (EPS) term liabilities, and non-controlling interests. TANGIBLE NET WORTH Proﬁt attributable to equity holders of the Total equity less intangible assets and parent divided by the weighted average NET ASSETS PER SHARE deferred tax assets. number of ordinary shares in issue during Net assets as at a particular ﬁnancial year end divided by the number of shares in issue TOTAL DEBT the period adjusted for options granted but Long term loans plus short term loans and not exercised and outstanding unexpired as at the current ﬁnancial year end. overdrafts. warrants. NET DEBT (CASH) Total debt minus (cash plus short term TOTAL EQUITY deposits). Shareholders’ funds plus non-controlling interest. 294 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Notice of Meeting Notice is hereby given that the Thirty Seventh Annual General Meeting of John Keells Holdings PLC Notes: will be held on 24 June 2016 at 10.30 a.m. at the Forum Area (Sixth Floor), The Institute of Chartered Accountants of Sri Lanka, 30A, Malalasekera Mawatha (Longden Place), Colombo 7. i. A member unable to attend is entitled to appoint a Proxy to attend and vote in his/ The business to be brought before the meeting will be: her place. 1. to read the notice convening the meeting. ii. A Proxy need not be a member of the Company. 2. to receive and consider the Annual Report and Financial Statements for the Financial Year ended 31 March 2016 with the Report of the Auditors thereon. iii. A member wishing to vote by Proxy at the Meeting may use the Proxy Form 3. to re-elect as Director, Mr. J R F Peiris, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of enclosed on page 299 of this Report. Association of the Company. A brief proﬁle of Mr. J R F Peiris is contained in the Board of Directors section of the Annual Report. iv. In order to be valid, the completed Proxy Form must be lodged at the Registered 4. to re-elect as Director, Mr. M A Omar, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Office of the Company not less than 48 Association of the Company. A brief proﬁle of Mr. M A Omar is contained in the Board of hours before the meeting. Directors section of the Annual Report. v. If a poll is demanded, a vote can be 5. to re-appoint Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration. taken on a show of hands or by a poll. Each share is entitled to one vote. 6. to consider any other business of which due notice has been given in terms of the relevant Votes can be cast in person, by proxy or laws and regulations. corporate representatives. In the event an individual shareholder and his/her By Order of the Board proxy holder are both present at the JOHN KEELLS HOLDINGS PLC meeting, only the shareholder’s vote is counted. If the proxy holder’s appointor has indicated the manner of voting, only the appointor’s indication of the manner to vote will be used. Keells Consultants (Private) Limited Secretaries 30 May 2016 295 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Corporate Information Name of Company Related Party Transaction Review Auditors John Keells Holdings PLC Committee Ernst & Young A N Fonseka Chairman Chartered Accountants Legal Form E F G Amerasinghe P.O. Box 101 Public Limited Liability Company D A Cabraal Colombo, Sri Lanka Incorporated in Sri Lanka in 1979 M P Perera Ordinary Shares listed on the Colombo Stock S C Ratnayake Bankers for the Company Exchange Bank of Ceylon GDRs listed on the Luxembourg Stock Registered Office of the Company Citibank N.A. Exchange 117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Commercial Bank of Ceylon Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Deutsche Bank A.G. Company Registration No. Telephone : +94 11 230 6000 DFCC Bank 34 Internet : www.keells.com DFCC Vardhana Bank Email : jkh@keells.com Habib Bank Directors Hatton National Bank S C Ratnayake Chairman Secretaries Hongkong and Shanghai Banking Corporation A D Gunewardene Deputy Chairman Keells Consultants (Private) Limited MCB Bank J R F Peiris 117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, National Savings Bank E F G Amerasinghe Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Nations Trust Bank D A Cabraal Telephone : +94 11 230 6245 NDB Bank I Coomaraswamy Facsimile : +94 11 243 9037 Pan Asia Banking Corporation T Das People’s Bank A N Fonseka Investor Relations Sampath Bank M A Omar John Keells Holdings PLC Seylan Bank M P Perera 117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Standard Chartered Bank Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Senior Independent Director Telephone : +94 11 230 6166 Depository for GDRs E F G Amerasinghe Facsimile : +94 11 230 6160 Citibank N.A. Email : investor.relations@keells.com New York Audit Committee A N Fonseka Chairman Sustainability, Enterprise Risk Management D A Cabraal and Group Initiatives I Coomaraswamy 186 Vauxhall Street M P Perera Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Telephone : +94 11 230 6182 Human Resources and Compensation Facsimile : +94 11 230 6249 Committee Email : sustainability@keells.com E F G Amerasinghe Chairman D A Cabraal Contact for Media I Coomaraswamy Corporate Communications Division A N Fonseka John Keells Holdings PLC M A Omar 117 Sir Chittampalam A. Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2, Sri Lanka Nominations Committee Telephone : +94 11 230 6191 T Das Chairman Email : jkh@keells.com E F G Amerasinghe D A Cabraal M A Omar M P Perera S C Ratnayake 296 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Notes 297 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 Notes 298 Group Highlights l Governance l Management Discussion and Analysis l Financial Statements l Supplementary Information Proxy Form I/We ...................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... of .................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................................... being a member/s of John Keells Holdings PLC hereby appoint ..................................................................................................................................... of ................................................................................................................................................................................................................................. or failing him/her MR. SUSANTHA CHAMINDA RATNAYAKE or failing him MR. AJIT DAMON GUNEWARDENE or failing him MR. JAMES RONNIE FELITUS PEIRIS or failing him MR. EMMANUEL FRANKLYN GAMINI AMERASINGHE or failing him MR. TARUN DAS or failing him DR. INDRAJIT COOMARASWAMY or failing him MR. MOHAMED ASHROFF OMAR or failing him MR. DAMIEN AMAL CABRAAL or failing him MR. ANTHONY NIHAL FONSEKA or failing him MS. MARIE PREMILA PERERA as my/our proxy to represent me/us and vote on my/our behalf at the Thirty Seventh Annual General Meeting of the Company to be held on 24 June 2016 at 10.30 a.m. and at any adjournment thereof, and at every poll which may be taken in consequence thereof. I/We, the undersigned, hereby direct my/our proxy to vote for me/us and on my/our behalf on the speciﬁed Resolution as indicated by the letter “X” in the appropriate cage: For Against To re-elect as Director, Mr. J R F Peiris, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company (Agenda Item 3). To re-elect as Director, Mr. M A Omar, who retires in terms of Article 84 of the Articles of Association of the Company (Agenda Item 4). To re-appoint Auditors and to authorise the Directors to determine their remuneration (Agenda Item 5). Signed on this ………………… day of …………………… Two Thousand and Sixteen …………………………………………. Signature/s of Shareholder/s Notes: Instructions as to completion of Proxy Form are noted on the reverse. 299 John Keells Holdings PLC Annual Report 2015/16 INSTRUCTIONS AS TO THE COMPLETION OF PROXY 1. Please perfect the Form of Proxy by ﬁlling in legibly your full name and address, signing in the space provided and ﬁlling in the date of signature. 2. The completed Form of Proxy should be deposited at the Registered Office of the Company at No. 117 Sir Chittampalam A Gardiner Mawatha, Colombo 2, not later than 48 hours before the time appointed for the holding of the Meeting. 3. If the Form of Proxy is signed by an Attorney, the relevant Power of Attorney should accompany the completed Form of Proxy for registration, if such Power of Attorney has not already been registered with the Company. 4. If the appointer is a company or corporation, the Form of Proxy should be executed under its Common Seal or by a duly authorised officer of the company or Corporation in accordance with its Articles of Association or Constitution. 5. If this Form of Proxy is returned without any indication of how the person appointed as Proxy shall vote, then the Proxy shall exercise his/her discretion as to how he/she votes or, whether or not he/she abstains from voting. Please ﬁll in the following details: Name : ..................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................... Address : ..................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................... ..................................................................................................................... Jointly with : ..................................................................................................................... Share Folio No. : ............................................................................................................... 300 Designed & produced by Digital Plates & Printing by Softwave Printing and Publishing (Pvt) Ltd Photography by Danush De Costa www.keells.com
