www.it-profiler.com In our second year of actively participating in the United Nations Global Compact we continued to establish and support the 10 Principles in our Business. We are proud on what has already been achieved, but will continue to adapt our business structures to the UNGCs principles. Statement of continued support I am pleased to confirm that Profiler reaffirms its support of the UNGC and the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. Fathima Khan, Founder and Managing Director of Profiler Human Rights & Labour Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We respect and support the International Human Rights, stated in the Universal Declaration of the Human Rights. It is in our very interest, that everybody related to the company behaves in a responsible and law-abiding manner, according to human and employment rights. Profiler is a multicultural, diverse and open company and does not tolerate any form of discrimination. There have not been any indications of violation of the law or discrimination. Over the last year we have been able to maintain and continue enforcing our workforce diversity as well policy of equal opportunities as described in our last report. One of our goals during this time, included extending our support of anti discrimination programmes outside of the company by becoming a sustaining member of InteGREATer e.V., which is a registered, non-profit association focusing on education of children and young people with immigrant backgrounds. Profiler has in the past year supported InterGREATer in mainly in 2 ways: 1) By providing our office premises as a location for the regular regional meetings. 2) We are currently working on a webinar platform for InteGREATer allowing them to carry out trainings and workshops online. This platform once launched will not only save participants the cost and time of having to travel to a physical location in order to attend these seminars but also provides an environment friendly alternative to the current situation. Social Engagement is an important part of Profiler’s company culture In light of the current refugee crisis we feel the obligated to expand our engagement. For this reason we would like to help those people, who have been forced to leave their home countries in desperateness, by offering an internship. We hope that through this campaign we are able to provide some stability and normality to them, at the same time giving them the opportunity to get insight into the www.it-profiler.com German work culture and labour market whilst gaining work experience in Germany. Furthermore we have offered our office premises in 2016 as seminar rooms for „Teachers on the Road“ to hold German classes for refugees. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. As a service provider our possibilities of setting environment-friendly processes seem rather limited. We have implemented, as mentioned in our last COP, various actions to keep our employees aware of the importance of considering the effects on the environment through our day to working habits in the office. We plan to continue underlining the importance of working sustainably in the coming year as well. Profiler leaves behind a rather small ecological footprint, in the last year our main issues have been: Business travels: we are continuously trying to keep business travels at a minimum by using video calls and telephone interviews for preliminary decisions, as well as webinars rather than on-site seminars. Paper filing/archiving: We are currently implementing a digital Document Management System across the company so as to keep hard copy archiving to the minimum. We hope to have this completely implemented by summer 2016 Waste/detergents: We pay attention to strict waste separation, the usage of gentle detergents by the cleaning company, the re-usage of plastic bags and encourage every employee to turn off electronic devices when not in use instead of using the stand-by function. Moreover we recycle used cartridges in cooperation with a local school. The school also benefits from this, as it has an agreement with a recycling company which pays the school for each empty cartridge. These funds are used for library books and other school activities In addition we keep a subject area in our regular newsletter for educating employees and bringing awareness on environmental topics. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Every employee is instructed to report any form of corruption or suspicion of corruption. Furthermore we are working on establishing an in-house training regarding anti-corruption. There have not been any indications of corruption, extortion or bribery. www.it-profiler.com Goals In 2015 we had set out to achieve 6 Goals. Some of these were reached while others remain still open for us in 2016: 2015 Goals Achieved (and which we continue to support) 1) Educating and creating awareness/active participation amongst employees regarding the UNGC and its principles and eventually encouraging them to adopt similar philosophy outside Profiler in their private time – We plan to achieve this by holding regular internal workshops (at least once every quarter) offering employees the opportunity to select a specific topic, which will then be analysed and discussed, so as to encourage new Ideas on improving our compliance with the UNGC. 2) Supporting other projects in anti-discrimination outside of Profiler 3) Supporting the education and schooling of students with immigration background 5) Goals for an environment friendly handling in 2015 are switching all of the bottles to glass bottles, encouraging the cleaning company to using gentle detergents and also replacing regular tube lightning with LED lamps. Additionally it is planned to optimize our electricity consumption, therefore we are going to analyze and document the status quo, so that we can effectively implement changes where necessary. 2015 Goals partially or not yet achieved (planned for 2016): 4) Set up an in-house training workshop informing employees about what could be interpreted as corruptive business handling and how to properly report or react in these situations. 6) For the coming year it is planned to introduce a company code of conduct/company policy including the 10 principles, with special regard to Human Rights & Labour. 2016 Goals • We are planning on establishing workshops for refugees, which will be held by Profiler employees. In these workshops we want to approach the topic of CV, application writing and also translating CVs into German, to enable refugees to find their way into the German employment market • Complete implementation of a digitalized document management system • Continue to improve working conditions and employee satisfaction to make Profiler an responsible attractive employer www.it-profiler.com
