STATEMENT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER & INTRODUCTION MANAGING DIRECTOR DHIRAAGU became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact in December 2012 and this report is the fourth Communication on Progress (COP) Report issued by the company. The reporting period is for the year 2015, from January – December. On behalf of Dhiraagu, it is my pleasure to submit the fourth Communication on Progress Report for the year 2015 to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We are committed to the ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. Through this report, we hope to communiTHE REPORT IS DIVIDED cate about the progress we have made in implementing our CSR programmes with respect to the Global Compact principles. INTO TWO PARTS; This report will be available on our website dhiraagu.com.mv Thank you for taking the time to read the report and we welcome SECTION 1 provides an overview about the company and our approach to corporate social responsibility your feedback. Sincerely, SECTION 2 describes our policies, implementation and outcomes in relation to the specific Global Compact Principles. Ismail Rasheed Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director This report was reviewed and approved BY DHIRAAGU CSR COMMITTEE SECTION 1 ABOUT DHIRAAGU Dhiraagu is the leading telecommunications operator in the Maldives with the widest coverage in the country. Our business is based on a commitment to providing innovative products and services and a philosophy that places high VISION value on customer experience. Employing over 99% trained qualified Maldivians and present in 10 strategically ENRICH LIVES THROUGH DIGITAL located operating centres across the country, we remain the largest telecomSERVICES. munications provider in the Maldives. We overcome geographic barriers and stay close to customers through the nation’s largest retail and distribution network of 40 exclusive partners, 40 distributors, 120 agents and over 3,000 retailers across the country. We provide the widest coverage in Maldives, which includes all of the country’s MISSION inhabited islands, all resort islands and all major industrial islands. We are the only operator to have linked the Maldives from North to South TO LEAD THE MARKET THROUGH through a 1,200km long fibre optic submarine cable network which supports EXCELLENCE IN QUALITY, VALUE the nation’s largest 3G and 4G LTE and fixed broadband network. AND CUSTOMER SERVICE. We continue to lead the market with over 28 years of excellence and a proven record of success. CORPORATE SOCIAL CARING FOR OUR RESPONSIBILITY COMMUNITY AT DHIRAAGU The three pillars in our CSR Strategy CARE FOR CHILDREN Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) is a top priority for us. We undertook the following initiatives to support Our approach to CSR is based on the idea that CSR is more and help protect children. than philanthropy. It is about responsibly grounded business decision-making that considers the broad impact of corporate actions on our people, our community and our environCollaborated with the NGO, ARC and launched ment. It is an integrated part of our core business processes “Surf Smart”, an online child protection campaign including Human Resources, Marketing, Procurement and to promote safe internet use amongst children. The Administration etc. programme includes an awareness campaign with informative TV clips, radio clips and brochures for We undertake sustainable business practices that positiveschools on topics related to online child safety. OUR PEOPLE OUR COMMUNITY OUR ENVIRONMENT ly make a difference to our people, our community and our environment. Our CSR activities are administered under our Established an Indoor Play Area at the Maldives CSR strategy and the strategic direction of our CSR activities Autism Association on World Autism Awareness are overseen by Dhiraagu CSR Committee. The Committee is Day. chaired by the Chief Executive Officer & Managing Director and is represented by senior management from cross funcUnder the 3 pillars in our CSR Strategy, key focus areas for community Renewed our commitment to sponsor teachers at tional departments. support are as follows ; the Kuda Kudhinge Hiya orphanage, on Children’s Day. Contributed teaching and developmental resources to Care Society to support children with disabilities. Donated over MVR 180,000 to 8 local NGOs endorsed in Dhiraagu Maldives Road Race. With 3000 participants, the event was a platform for NGOs to raise awareness to help protect children. CHILD PROTECTION EMPOWERMENT Contributed teaching and developmental resourcAND SUPPORT OF YOUTH es to Care Society to support children with disabilities. Contributed over MVR 100,000 worth of developmental resources to Al-Noor, Special Education Needs class in Sharafuddheen School, S. Hithadhoo, to support children with disabilities. 200 children participated in Dhiraagu Special Sports Festival, an annual event organized and driven by Dhiraagu in association with various NGOs and institutions. The event provides opportunities for children with various disabilities to participate in sports activities and creates a platform for collaboration. Contributed MVR 50,000 to SHE, to enable the NGO to conduct a Child Protection Programme. As a holiday treat for the children of Kuda Kudhinge Hiyaa orphanage, we took the children on a submarine trip for them to have a fun experience and explore the underwater beauty of Maldives. Continued to support the Child Helpline 1412. The service provides assistance to all children across the country in need of protection to access help via a toll free number. Renewed our membership of the GSMA Mobile Alliance Against Child Sexual Abuse Content to block Child Sexual Abuse content on Dhiraagu internet. Dhiraagu was the first and the only operator from Maldives to have joined this alliance along with other leading telecom operators from around the world. EMPOWERING DISASTER RELIEF YOUTH We carried out the following initiatives to support disaster relief. We carried out the following initiatives to help Contributed MVR 100,000 to the Nepal Relief empower youth. Fund to support the Maldives Red Crescent and enabled free calls to Nepal during the Nepal earthContributed “Dhiraagu Smart Teaching Solution” quake crisis. to Maldives National University, a system which connects all MNU campuses across the country, With the tragic stampede in Mina and the crane providing access to live and archived lectures for collapse in Mecca that resulted in the death of students regardless of their location. many, we offered free calls throughout the day to Saudi Arabia to help families of Hajj pilgrims get in Partnered with Ghiyasuddin International School, touch with loved ones. to help the school run a pilot project and implement a Build Your Own Device (BYOD) proDhiraagu volunteers participated in the nationgramme for the first time in Maldives, which is taral door to door Dengue Awareness campaign, as geted to integrate and widen technology based part of the national level response following the learning in Maldives. dengue outbreak across the Maldives. Enrolled 26 new apprentices in the Dhiraagu Apprenticeship Programme, an educational and training programme targeted for youth to enhance work skills development. Dhiraagu volunteers participated in the walk to Information under “Caring for our People” help raise awareness in the National Tobacco Free and “Caring for our Environment” is deYouth Campaign to promote a tobacco-free life tailed under Section 2 of the report under for youth. the respective Global Compact Principles. SECTION 2 GLOBAL GRIEVANCE POLICY AND PROCEDURE COMPACT As part of taking concrete actions to enhance labour policies and procedures, a Grievance Policy and Procedure was issued during PRINCIPLES the year. The policy formalizes a mechanism for employees to raise any concerns regarding any work related matters. WHISTLE BLOWING AND UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL FRAUD REPORTING COMPACT HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Our “Whistle blowing and Fraud Reporting Policy” protects our employees who wish to raise concerns about irregularities within the company and to provide a mechanism for employees and other stakeholders to report any concerns. PRINCIPLE 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and; MEDICAL CARE We have an in-house medical benefits scheme that offers more benefits and is more comprehensive than a basic health insurance scheme. The medical benefits scheme applies to all staff and to PRINCIPLE 2 their dependents under age of 18. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses, Assessment, Policy and Goals RETIREMENT CARE CARING FOR OUR We continue to contribute 10% to the employee pension fund, which is beyond the 7% required by law. We have a Retirement PEOPLE and Redundancy Policy and a voluntary retirement benefit scheme in place, even before the establishment of the national pension scheme in 2009. We respect the culture, values and human rights throughout our operations. We believe in the conduct of our affairs in a fair and transparent manner by adopting the highest standards of professionalism, honesty, integrity and ethical behavior. The Maldives is a signatory to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and we remain committed to comply with all local laws and regulations pertaining to it. CODE OF CODUCT KEEPING SAFE AT THE AND ETHICS POLICY WORKPLACE Our code of conduct and Ethics Policy sets the ground rule We care about our people and we are committed to ensuring To provide and to maintain adequate measures to in the ethical standards of behavior of all employees in their the health and safety of all our staff. Apart from complying control health and safety risks arising from work acinteractions with each other and among other stakeholders. with local legislations, we work towards achieving internativities in order to prevent accidents and cases or Dhiraagu’s achievements have always been founded upon a tional best practices in relevant areas relating to our industry workrelated ill health commitment to sound business conduct and a fair and ethical and specific work environments. relationship with all our stakeholdersshareholders, employTo provide staff with relevant information, instruction, ees, customers, business partners, suppliers, regulatorand, training and supervision to ensure health and safety more broadly, the community and society in which we opWe have the following targets: at work erate. We ensure our Ethics policy is in line with the current trend in business environment. To ensure that work activities are not harmful to the To ensure that a conducive work environment is eshealth of employees or to the general public and are tablished for our staff The company targets all employees to become familiar with as safe as is reasonably practicable the Ethics Policy and Code of Conduct. IMPLEMENTATION Ensure that safe systems of work are implemented and reviewed. COMMITTEE TO PREVENT Ensure that all personnel are given information, instruction, training and supervision as appropriate in SEXUAL HARASSMENT AT order to carry out their work safely. WORKPLACE Carry out assessments of risk to the health and safety of persons involved in or affected by the operations We established a Committee to prevent Sexual Harassment of their departments at the workplace. The Committee is primarily responsible for increasing awareness to prevent sexual harassment, conduct Arrange induction safety training for all new employinvestigations regarding any complaints and take necessary ees. actions against any persons who is proved to have carried out an act of sexual harassment. Ensure that all firefighting equipment is regularly inspected and serviced. EMPLOYEE INDUCTION PROGRAMME MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES As part of the Employee Induction Programme at Dhiraagu, our Ethics Policy together with the code of conduct is briefed and communicated with all new employees. The policy is also accessible from the online employee portal for further reference. There were no major accidents that resulted in losttime. An Induction Programme was conducted for ALL new HEALTH AND SAFETY staff and the ethics policy, code of conduct and safety IMPLEMENTATION procedures were briefed to ensure that employees are familiar with the policies from the very beginning. Our Health and Safety Policy is applicable to all Dhiraagu emIn 2015, a team of staff were trained as industrial fire ployees and contractors. All senior managers are responsible squad for our Head Office. Basic fire awareness trainto ensure that the Safety policy is implemented in their reings were conducted in all regional centres with fire spective functions. As part of the Induction Programme, all drills conducted at Dhiraagu Head Office and all restaff are briefed with regard to safety procedures including gional centres. fire and first aid procedures. 37 staff were provided with Health and Safety related A Safety Committee with representatives from all departawareness training ments and regional centres is in place and a Safety Management Review is organised once a month in order to monitor 10 apprentices were given training on Basic and review the programme. Fire Safety 10 apprentices were given training on Basic First Aid UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACTLABOUR PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; PRINCIPLE 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; PRINCIPLE 5 The effective abolition of child labor; and PRINCIPLE 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. We ensure to comply with local employment laws in the Maldives. We do not engage or employ child and forced labour in any of our operations. We also ensure to eliminate discrimination with respect to employment in all our operations. IMPLEMENTATION HRD BOARD We believe in open, transparent dialogue with regard to laTo periodically review human resource development plans, bour related issues within the organization. policies and procedures and recommend strategic directions, a Human Resources Board (HRD Board) is established and We adhere to the Maldives Employment Act to ensure the the committee convenes regularly. elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the effective abolition of child labour, and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. LEGAL REVIEWS Dhiraagu’s General Counsel regularly gives legal advice on STAFF DEVELOPMENT employment issues to deal within the bounds of the Employment law and company procedures. Dhiraagu Human Resources Development Strategy includes a proactive Training and Development Framework where a MEASUREMENT range of developmental opportunities are provided to support our staff in achieving organizational and personal goals along with business objectives. As part of our commitment for capacity building of our staff, we have conducted various training experience and learning programmes to enhance leadership and technical skills. OF OUTCOMES These programs were conducted in-house as well overseas. There have been no major employment issues in the reported Programs were mainly delivered by international well known period. training providers. By the end of 2015 we conducted 65 Training Programmes where 406 staff were trained in technical and non-technical STAFF ENGAGEMENT areas. These included academic programs at masters and undergraduate level. 37 staff also completed professional certiWe have a well-rounded, structured programme to motivate fication programmes. and engage staff. A wide array of events were organized over the past year, which gave the opportunity for all staff and families to participate. UNITED NATIONS GLOBALCOMPACTENVIRONMENT SUPPORTING THE MARINE ENERGY EFFICIENCY AT PRINCIPLES RESEARCH CENTRE We contributed MVR 154,200 to support the Marine ReDHIRAAGU HEAD OFFICE The sustainable green design features incorporated in search Centre in their conservation efforts in Maldives. The Dhiraagu Head Office leads to significant energy consumpcontribution will help to conduct awareness and outreach tion efficiency. PRINCIPLE 7 activities on the need for conservation of endangered and Business should support a precautionprotected marine species. ary approach to environmental chalAll the lights used in the building, including emerlenges; gency lights are 99% LED lights SUPPORTING THE SIXTH REGIONAL 3R FORUM IN ASIA Motion detectors/sensors are used to switch off the PRINCIPLE 8 lights in common areas of the building such as corriBusiness should undertake initiatives dors, staircases, toilet areas etc, to ensure lights are to promote greater environmental We were a partner of the ‘Sixth Regional 3R Forum in Asia switched off when not in use. responsibility; and and the Pacific, a platform for sharing best practices in 3R areas including new and emerging issues of concern in High heat reflective glass is used in building facade waste management. to minimise heat entering into the building PRINCIPLE 9 Business should encourage the Ozone friendly refrigerant R410A is used in the VRV development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies USE OF RENEWABLE ENERGY AC units installed in the building. Air conditioning is set at a minimum 25 degree CelSince 1988, Dhiraagu has been one of the highest sius in all main office areas. The office adopts cenIMPLEMENTATION users of renewable energy in the Maldives. Dhiraagu tral AC control, where air-conditioning is centrally uses renewable energy as the secondary source of turned off at pre-set times and is limited to official power in some of its equipment sites. working hours. The company targets to reduce the environmental impacts from the footprints of our activities and to undertake initiatives that promote environmental sustainability. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES There are 58 islands where Dhiraagu has installed solar power systems, covering an area of more than 1,462 sqm solar across the country and producing 228,476KWh of renewable energy per year. The energy saving features incorporated in Dhiraagu Head Office results in an annual reduction of approximately 390,228.00 kwh of electricity, which is also equivalent to 276 metric tonnes of Carbon Dioxide or 636 barrels of oil. ANTI-CORRUTION PRINCIPLES PRINCIPLE 10: Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery POLICY AND GOALS Dhiraagu’s Anti-Bribery Policy comprehensively addresses IMPLEMENTATION SUPPLIER CODE OF CONDUCT in detail with regard to the following; We do not tolerate bribery, and do not offer , give or receive bribes or improper payments or particiFrom 2013 onwards, it was made mandatory for all our suppate in any kind of corrupt activity, either directly or pliers to sign the Supplier Code of conduct when entering through a third party. into a contract with us. This code of conduct addresses the commitment to comply with applicable laws and regulaWe do not make facilitation payments and we do not tions concerning bribery, corruption, fraud, and any other allow others who work for us to make them either. prohibited business practices. Any gifts or hospitality or promotional expenditure MEASUREMENT we receive or give in connection with our business should always be proportionate and reasonable in terms of value and frequency. Gifts and hospitality OF OUTCOMES should never be offered or accepted if it may be perceived as improperly influencing a business decision about or by us or impair independence or judgment about us. ALL suppliers entering into a contract with Dhiraagu We do not make political contributions either directsigned the Supplier Code of Conduct. ly or indirectly to political parties, causes or individuals We are committed to ensure that those who act on our behalf as representatives, agents, consultants and other providers of services do not bribe on our behalf.
