COMMUNIQUÉ on the Progress in the Field of the Corporate Social Responsibility Sector: Energy Reporting Period: January – December 2015 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS I. Human Rights 1. 10th Edition of “Youth With a Future” Internship Program 2. Partnership with Universities 3. Supporting Students 4. “The Evy and Encho‘s Class” Initiative 5. EVN for Bulgaria 2015 – 60 Volunteering Initiatives II. Labour Standards 1. Model “Flexible Working Hours“ 2. Training and Qualification – EVN Academy 3. Work Safety 4. Additional Health Insurance 5. EVN Ombudsman Institution 6. Keeping the Employees Informed Regarding the Company‘s Internal Recruitment 7. Driving Values for Employees 8. Health and Balance @ EVN Bulgaria Program 9. Sertificate for Social Responsibility III. Environment 1. Project “Life for Safe Grid” under Life + Program of the European Commission 2. Biodiversity 3. Integrated Quality and Environmental Management System 4. iURBAN – an International Project for Energy Management 5. Investments in the Modern and Environmentally Friendly Electricity and Heat Production IV. Anti-corruption 1. 12 Principles of Loyal Communication with Our Customers 2. Corporate Social Responsibility Clause of EVN Group Companies 3. Compliance – It’s Good Energy 4. Union with the Loyal Customer 5. Reporting Contact EVN Bulgaria 0700 1 7777 37, Hristo G. Danov info@evn.bg 4000 Plovdiv, Bulgaria www.evn.bg 2 Statement on the support of the Global Contract by Robert Dick – Chairman of the Management Board and Kalina Trifonova – Chairman of the Management Board of EVN Bulgaria EAD EVN Bulgaria EAD has been a member of the UN Global Compact since August 2010 and a co-founder of the Bulgarian Global Compact Network since August 2010. The company is part of the large EVN AG family – a leading Austrian company with headquarters in Lower Austria, the country’s largest federal province. EVN Bulgaria is a company with socially responsible behaviour to the society. Our long-term existence requires excellence, competence and reliability to ensure customers and partners’ satisfaction. That brings sustainable success guarantee and encourages us to keep being a leading company by promoting values and positive corporate culture. The company completely agrees with and supports the 10 Global Compact principles with respect to human rights, labour standards, environmental affairs and anti-corruption principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles a part of our strategy, culture and daily corporate duties. EVN Bulgaria is making all the necessary efforts to involve and attract in the initiative all its employees, partners and suppliers. EVN Bulgaria‘s Corporate Social Responsibility aims to achieve social, economic and environmental practices that go beyond regulatory requirements and which are implemented in a dialogue with all stakeholders. The company‘s policy is aimed at taking care of employees and commitment to the problems associated with the environment and the community in which the company operates. We share the sustainable management concept and strive to observe simultaneously the technological, economic, environmental and social aspects. Our priority is to balance the interests of all stakeholders, transparency and openness to dialogue. In the spirit of high responsibility associated with our work we set ambitious standards to work with stateof-the-art and highly efficient technologies, environmental responsibility, commitment towards society and human resource development. Kalina Trifonova Robert Dick Member of the Management Board Chairman of the Management Board of EVN Bulgaria EAD of EVN Bulgaria EAD 3 Charter of the EVN Bulgaria Group Our vision As an energy and environmental services provider, we fulfil the daily needs of our customers. Through our reliable and high quality services, we make sustainable contribution to our clients‘ quality of life. Our mission We create values through high profitability and by assuming corporate social responsibility, thus ensuring the long-term success of the EVN Group. On this basis, we offer to our customers competitive prices, to our shareholders sustainable enhancement of value and to our employees attractive working conditions. From our headquarters in Lower Austria, we focus primarily on the dynamically growing region of Central and Eastern Europe, where we seek to establish a strong market position. In the energy and environmental services segments, our business operations are mainly designed to serve the end-customers. In order to meet their expectations as best as possible, we have developed high-quality standards for both our products and services. Sustainable performance in the provision of electricity, gas, heating, drinking water, wastewater treatment or waste incineration services requires outstanding know-how, a high-level of efficiency, a state-of-the-art infrastructure and a constant willingness to innovate. Our values We have defined highly ambitious standards of behaviour which apply to the way in which we operate and manage our Group, in the spirit of assuming a high-level of responsibility in our daily supply. For us it is a natural consequence that we adhere to fundamental ethical principles as well as all relevant legal regulations. We are committed to the principle of sustainable corporate governance, and subsequently endeavour to balance economic, ecological and social considerations.The top priority is ensuring a fair and reasonable balance of the needs of all company stakeholders. The economic responsibility to secure the long-term existence of our Group demands outstanding performance on our part. A high level of competence and reliability ensure the satisfaction of our customers and business partners. In turn, they represent the underlying basis for our sustained corporate success. We fulfil our responsibility to the environment in particular by endeavouring to best preserve the natural resources, entrusted to us, minimize waste gas emissions and promote the use of renewable energy sources. On-going innovations and increased efficiency will make a decisive contribution towards achieving these goals. We also fulfil our social responsibility in manifold ways. The commitment we demonstrate to ensure the well-being of our employees, fair and attractive salary levels, and our maintaining a positive corporate culture featuring openness, loyalty and mutual respect are just as important as our emphasis on serving people and achieving an appropriate positioning within the framework of a society shaped by a diverse range of influences. This approach encompasses a high-level of transparency and the willingness to engage in an ongoing dialogue, both within and outside the company. 4 I. Human Rights Principle 1: Respecting and supporting the protection of human rights. Principle 2: Guaranteeing avoidance of actions, which violate human rights. 1. 10th Edition of “Youth With a Future” 2. Partnership with Universities Internship Program In 2015 EVN Bulgaria continued the consistent policy of cooperation with higher education institutions with the aim of In the summer of 2015, the tenth annual internship program raising the practical knowledge of the students and exchange “Youth With a Future” of EVN Bulgaria was held. The program of experience. On 8 June 2015 the company concluded provides opportunities for students in engineering and memoranda of cooperation with Burgas Free University. The economics from various universities to work in the company document provides for cooperation to enhance the practical during the summer and acquire experience, which will be knowledge of students in the areas of electrical engineering, beneficial for their future career success. information technologies, etc. For the 2015 edition of the program there was strong interest, This is yet another agreement that EVN Bulgaria has concluded as there were more than 600 candidates. After the selection with a higher education institution. In 2015 the company procedure 40 students were approved for internship in the renewed the memoranda with the Technical University of Sofia company. – Branch Plovdiv (TUSP) and with the University of food technologies in Plovdiv, which validity had expired. In addition, “Youth with a Future” program covers three months – July, the agreement remains valid with two faculties of the August and September. A total of 25 interns worked in central Technical University of Sofia: Electrical Engineering and Power departments of EVN Bulgaria Group companies and 15 interns Engineering & Power Machines. worked in various service units in Southeast Bulgaria. Each of them worked under the personal guidance and advice of a Within the framework of cooperation with higher educational mentor. establishments EVN Bulgaria initiated visits for students to sites of the company, which are of interest for future professionals and enrich their knowledge with the technologies and innovation introduced by the company. In 2015 a total of 114 students had the opportunity to visit the technical facilities of EVN Bulgaria and to become physically acquainted with work of the high-tech and complex systems as well as to ask their questions to the experts from the company. EVN Interns class 2015 were guests at the Dispatching center in Stara Zagora. Internship group in front of the building of the regional servicing center in Stara Zagora. 5 I. Human Rights 3. Supporting Students the Ministry of Education and Science (MES), as well as useful and amusing gifts for the students and class. In 2015 an internship was held with students from Vocational School of Electrical Engineering and Electronics (VSEEE) – The initiative of EVN Bulgaria is approved by the Ministry of Plovdiv. This was possible as a result of the cooperation Education and Science and is carried out in partnership with between ЕVN Bulgaria and the educational institution. Under the Regional Inspectorates of Education (RIE). EVN Bulgaria the agreement, eleven 12-grade pupils of “Electrical equipment started training on energy efficiency in schools in 2009, and by of Production” specialty at VSEEE – Plovdiv, began internship the end of the 2015/16 school year a total of 20 000 students at EVN Bulgaria running under the conditions of a real working will have undergone training for rational use of the natural environment. resources. The curriculum was developed by company experts and was tailored to EVN Bulgaria‘s specific activities as well as to Evy and Encho’s competition students‘ needs. Youths passed the internship in both technical departments at the headquarters of the company and in In order to diversify the energy lessons for children in Southeast regional customer centers, where the maintenance of the grid Bulgaria, EVN Bulgaria organized different competitions with is performed. The agreement of ЕVN Bulgaria with VSEEE – prizes for the participants each school year. Depending on Plovdiv follows the ambition of the company to cooperate their age, students create their vision of rational energy use in with educational establishments that have specialized classes. a different form. At the end of the school year 2014/2015 the company held for a second consecutive year a contest for making a maquette dedicated to the topic “Environmentally friendly city“. The 4. “The Evy and Encho‘s Class” Initiative purpose of the contest was the students to present again in the form of a maquette their view of an environmentally friendly city in which the energy and water consumption is For the seventh consecutive year children in energy-efficient and reasonable. Southeast Bulgaria attended energy lessons The first place in the contest was awarded to fourth-graders During 2015/16 school year, for the seventh year in succession, from “St. St. Cyril and Methodius“ primary school, village EVN Bulgaria began training of students in the rational use of Sarnevo, municipality of Radnevo. The second place was of energy resources and nature conservation within the awarded to fourth-graders from “Georgi Karaslavov“ primary framework of the initiative “The Evy and Encho‘s class“. school in the town of Parvomai, and the third place was awarded to students from “Elisaveta Bagryana“ primary school EVN Bulgaria organized “energy lessons” in all 9 administrative in the town Sliven. All the participants received incentive areas in Southeastern Bulgaria, serviced by EVN Bulgaria – awards. Burgas, Kardzhali, Pazardzhik, Plovdiv, Sliven, Smolyan, Stara Zagora, Haskovo and Yambol. In addition, since the 2015/16 The primary school in the village of Sarnevo was awarded with school year 10 new schools have joined the program. The the grand prize provided by EVN Bulgaria: a playground with expansion will allow for training courses under the program to sports equipment in the yard of the educational establishment. educate a total of over 10 900 students this year alone, from For all the winners in the contest the company organized a visit 480 classes from 2nd, 3rd and 4th grade making a total of 61 in the modern high-efficiency cogeneration plant. schools in Southeastern Bulgaria. With the aim of the program to be even more accessible and understandable for the students, special painted heroes are helping children: Evy – the firefly and Encho – the bunny. Therefore the full name of the initiative is “Evy and Encho‘s class. Amusing trainings for energy and environment.” Evy and Encho offer children interesting energy tips and curious ways for the rational energy use. Our exciting lessons “The Evy and Encho‘s class” are carried out by teachers in 4 class hours in the course of the year, during the so called “class hours”. For the purposes of training the company develops and grants the materials approved by 6 I. Human Rights The first place ranked the model of the IV grade students from Primary School “St. St. Cyril and Methodius“ primary school, village of Sarnevo, municipality of Radnevo. The prize for the winners: a playground in the yard of “St. St. Cyril and Methodius“ primary school, village of Sarnevo, municipality of Radnevo. The facility includes one “energy“ swing and various sports facilities. The second place was awarded to fourth-graders from “Georgi Karaslavov“ primary school in the town of Parvomai. The winners in the children’s contest of EVN Bulgaria for making a maquette on the topic “Environmentally friendly city” visited the new modern cogeneration headquarters of EVN Bulgaria Toplofikatsia in Plovdiv on 26 May 2015. The third ranked were the students from “Elisaveta Bagryana“ primary school in the town of Sliven. 7 I. Human Rights 5. EVN for Bulgaria 2015 – 60 Volunteering Initiatives In the spring of 2015 on the occasion of the ten-year anniversary of EVN Bulgaria, the company launched a major initiative for corporate social responsibility under the name “EVN for Bulgaria“. In the year of its establishment the program EVN for Bulgaria was dedicated to corporate volunteering and relied entirely on the initiative and the motivation of EVN employees. Each employee of EVN Bulgaria Group companies could participate, and the company supported volunteer actions by provision of financial resources for each approved cause and one working day of each participating employee. Volunteering initiative: Music Spring A team of seven employees with musical gifts organized a cultural event in the home for elderly people in Banya village, The volunteers were refred to as “Good Fellows“, because Nova Zagora. The Good Fellows personally sang Rhodopean a good heart is enough to help and bring joy to the people folklore music. The team gave the occupants of the home also around you. Within the period of the program from April to some small gifts as a souvenir – embroidered cloth. December over 420 employees joined actively the volunteering campaign. As a result a total of 60 actions were realized based on the ideas of EVN employees in 28 settlements in the country. The beneficiaries are accommodation centers of family-type for children, retirement homes, centers for children with disabilities, public lands, kindergartens, schools, children‘s gym, refugee center, monastery, churches, community center, theatre, museum-house, non-governmental organizations. Full information about EVN for Bulgaria is published on the company webpage www.evn.bg in the menu “Responsibility”. Volunteering initiative: More light for the “little sunshines“. A team of seven employees have helped the kindergarten “Nadezhda“ in Brestnik village, district of Plovdiv. The Good Fellows replaced the existing old lighting with luminescent lamps and renewed the switches for the lighting in two of the studies. They also inspected and secured the power installation in the medical cabinet and did a preventive check of the computer. Volunteering initiative: Give joy of children A team of ten employees helped the Center for family-type accommodation of children and youth and kindergarten, village of Pavelsko, municipality of Volunteering initiative: “Everything native Bulgarian I cherish, Chepelare. The Good Fellows painted the playing equipment and the walls, observe and adore“ a wooden gazebo, a handrail of the terraces and corridor, removed rust A team of four employees mounted lighting on the facade and in and old plaster, polished wooden parts. the yard of the house museum “Ivan Vazov“ in the town of Sopot. 8 I. Human Rights Volunteering initiative: EVN bike track A team of seven employees constructed a wooden track between the trees in park “Lauta“ in Plovdiv. The novelty is a wooden track with different height and artificial obstacles among the trees, where beginners cyclists can experience the mountain biking feeling. Volunteering initiative: A second chance for homeless animals A team of seven employees fenced a terrain with partition mesh of a newly built rescue center for animals in trouble Animal Hope Bulgaria, in the town of Saedinenie. Volunteering initiative: Culinary feast “Golden fall“ A team of three employees helped the school for disabled children “Stefan Karadzha“ in Plovdiv. The team furnished the newly opened room for cooking and organized a culinary competition for children. The students were divided into teams and had the opportunity to cook and present various dishes prepared with autumn fruits and vegetables. 9 II. Labour Standards Principle 3: Upholding the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right of collective bargaining. Principle 4: Eliminating all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Effective abolishment of child labour. Principle 6: Eliminating the discrimination in respect of the right to employment and occupation. 1. Model “Flexible Working Hours“ 2. Training and Qualification – EVN Academy In 2011 EVN Bulgaria introduced a “floating” (or “flexible”) work hours at the administrative departments of the EVN Academy is the specialized unit in EVN Bulgaria, which companies in Plovdiv. Following the good results a year later, coordinates all internal and external qualification events of the same model was introduced for the employees working at the company. The vision of EVN Academy is connected with a the customer service centers of the company in other cities of targeted and long-term improving of the skills and knowledge the Southeastern Bulgaria. of the employees. This working hours model was borrowed from EVN AG, where Highlights in the 2015 curriculum of EVN Academy included the flexible working hours have been successfully applied training on leadership and human development, communication for many years. According to this model, within the 8-hour with customers, time management, efficient implementation workday a period of compulsory presence of the employees of meetings, written communication, economics for nonat their work places is fixed, and during the rest of the time economists, engineering for non-engineers, etc. Traditionally, every employee has the opportunity to organize their working the seminar “Working under Voltage“ was held for employees time in accordance with the specific tasks and projects. Thus, performing grid maintenance activities. The main purpose of the employees are able to manage in a more flexible way their the seminars is the development of managerial and specialized work and personal time, so the working place becomes more competencies. attractive. The free fixing of the start and the end of the workday is to great extent a precondition for good coordination between the company’s engagements and the EVN Library personal interests and contributes for increasing the efficient conduct of the employees at work. In September 2015 ЕVN Academy started an internal corporate library with professional literature accessible to all employees of ЕVN Bulgaria. The initiative follows the strategy for development of the company employees focusing on their personal responsibility. A register was created for this purpose, where it was described the literature available to different organizational units. On the basis of the register, the employees of ЕVN Bulgaria may request and use those editions, which are of interest to them and thereby assist their professional expertise and development. 10 II. Labour Standards A training facility unique for Bulgaria Since 2014 EVN Bulgaria has upgraded the qualification of its Specialized trainings include: electricians with trainings at a unique training facility providing real working conditions on the electricity distribution grid. The • work at heights on live and non-live 400 V overhead facility for real height and live work was built in Stara Zagora line on account of its central location to the licensed company • work at heights on live and non-live 20 kV overhead territory in Southeast Bulgaria, facilitating the training process. line It represents an extended and modernized version of the • simulation of emergency rescue of an injured existing company training center. employee at height • works on medium and low voltage cable lines The training facility is a part of the professional qualification • make of cable connections team of EVN Academy and was built in only a few months • installation of switching cabinets, etc. in coordination with the Centre for Occupational Safety and Fire Safety of EVN Bulgaria. The training is held by qualified The training facility includes a new concrete transformer trainers, a part of EVN Bulgaria team, with real experience as station which further enhances the scope of the training electricians of company emergency teams. A real low voltage process. An important aspect of the trainings is improvement and middle voltage grid is available on the training range of safety level during emergency repairs, including various maintained by the company. skills for using protective equipment at heights and safe use of specialized equipment. A total of three iron grid and 24 reinforced concrete pillars with the respective overhead lines and equipment allows the Since the launch of its first operation in April 2014, more than specialized training to be performed at real heights in case 600 employees have gone through the training facility by the of troubleshooting breakdowns, making the training ground end of 2015. unique in terms of its characteristics. Employees of KEZ successfully completed training – the trainees are in yellow outfits, the trainers – in red. 11 II. Labour Standards 3. Work Safety Safety certificate BS OHSAS 18001 EVN Bulgaria Toplofikatsia obtained a certificate for health and safety at work in accordance with the international standard BS OHSAS 18001 in 2014. In 2015 the company passed successfully a surveillance audit confirming the certification. The certification and surveillance audits are performed by TÜV Rheinland – Bulgaria EOOD Bringing the activities of EVN Bulgaria in accordance with the internationally recognized standard BS OHSAS 18001 contribute to the high level of awareness and motivation of the employees to observe safety at work. The assessment of health and safety at work in accordance with BS OHSAS 18001 is the most well-known professional system for safety management. This certification is recognized in over 80 countries. The certificate ensures that health and safety of the employees are a priority for the employer. Logo for safe work To illustrate the internal campaign “Work Safety“ EVN Bulgaria Corporate campaign “Work Safety” introduced a safety logo. It was a part of all materials, trainings, information related to occupational safety. The logo contains The safety issue is of particular importance in any of the the words “Protect Life“ and is a symbol of the joint efforts of operation fields, but in particular a lot of risks are observed the company that work should be carried out with caution and when technical activities are carried out: work outdoors, with in accordance with the security rules. An interesting fact of the machinery or with electricity. This is why in EVN Bulgaria is logo is that it was chosen among four options after an internal running a long-term internal campaign called “Work Safety“ investigation of the opinion in several technical departments. with a focus on regional technical units (KEZ – customer energy centers) and technical central departments of the company. Since 1 September 2013 in every KEZ a board to count the days without accidents has been running. The counter calculates and shows the days where caution and attention at work have resulted in a work without accidents. All employees of the KEZ where 500 days with no accident at first step and then another 999 at the second stage have been reached shall receive special prizes. On 14 January 2015, the first 500 days from the launch of the internal campaign “Work Safety“ in KEZ were reached. The counters of 18 (out of over 30) KEZ managed to mark 500 days without accidents and were rewarded for their efforts in safety at work. By the end of 2015 another six KEZ earned the award for achieved 500 days of safe operation. The first technical units which counted 500 days without accidents from the start of the campaign received diplomas from the management of the company at a special ceremony in Plovdiv. 12 II. Labour Standards “Safety champion” 4. Supplementary Health Insurance At the beginning of October 2015 another internal initiative The company provides its employees with a program for was launched for EVN Bulgaria’s employees, developed by additional health insurance, which offers annual prophylactic the Centre for Occupational Safety and Fire Safety. It is called examinations by different specialist as well as a package of “Safety champion“ and is intended to encourage the individual additional medical services for prevention and treatment of contribution that each one of the employees can give for diseases. establishing and improving safety in the company. Each year will be nominated a Safety champion, who will receive a special prize from the company. Every employee of EVN Bulgaria Group companies may apply 5. EVN Ombudsman Institution for the title Safety champion by proposing new ideas on the topic of safety or any good practice acquired from internet Since the spring of 2011 an EVN Ombudsman is appointed or another company. Individual nominees are sought and at EVN Bulgaria with the task to help maintaining open each employee may participate with more than one idea. and transparent working relations between the company The initiative is annual and the first Safety champion in EVN and its employees. The employees at of EVN Bulgaria can Bulgaria will be announced at the end of November 2016. He refer to EVN Ombudsman in the event of current disputable will be elected by an internal corporate commission formed by matter by searching for assistance for efficient resolution of the employees of different organizational units. interpersonal, ethical or labour-organizational issues. EVN Ombudsman appears as a guarantor of the human Napo’s experience rights and freedoms, and their purpose is to give publicity to concealed unresolved conflicts, to help addressing them and One can become a champion with regular training. That is to improve the working environment. This institution is a real why the team of the initiative has selected a series of short manifestation of the principles in the field of human rights set amusing and useful video movies for the employees. They in the UN Global Compact. aimed at raising the awareness on the topic of health and safety at work and encouraging the colleagues to participate In 2015 were reported 112 occasions in the entire company. in the initiative. The cartoon man Napo is the main character Thus the total number of reported cases for the four years in all movies. Together with other heroes in various episodes, was 584 since the foundation of the institution. Napo shows individual situations of working life, the health and safety risks and the opportunities to eliminate hazards. 6. Keeping the Employees Informed Regarding the Company‘s Internal Recruitment In 2012 the communication with the employees with respect to the free positions and internal recruitment competitions at the company was improved. The regular and timely internal communication is aimed at informing the employees about new positions throughout the company and the opportunities for internal rotations. Thus EVN Bulgaria has further extended its platform for professional and personal development, as well as endeavours to motivate its own employees. On the right is Napo – the hero of the educational movies on safety. On the left is an employee of the Centre for Occupational Safety and Fire Safety in EVN Bulgaria Elektrorazpredelenie. 13 II. Labour Standards 7. Driving Values for Employees Meeting EVN Driving Values Among the main topics in the internal corporate life of the History of the values company in 2015 were EVN Driving values – ensure, encourage and enable. The values developed in the group were adopted The three Driving values: ensure, encourage and enable are in EVN Bulgaria at the end of 2014, and in 2015 there developed in the holding EVN AG, and later implemented were seminars for all employees. The purpose was for each into all companies of the group. The values build a common employee to have individual meeting with the Driving values, corporate foundation for all employees of the group in to get acquainted with them, their meaning and application 21 countries where it operates. In this way it aims at every at work. All employees had the opportunity to participate in individual employee to be inspired and dedicated to the a discussion and to work in a team. The positive feedback commitment on providing quality and reliable service for all of confirmed the expectations that they will be a springboard for 14 million customers of EVN in Europe. everyone to achieve professional excellence. Ensure quality and success. We aim at continuity and security. Our employees are competent, reliable and high-quality oriented. Everyone contributes towards achieving best quality for our customers, security of energy supply and environmental services in ensure the spirit of our strategy. Through our professionalism we осигурявам contribute to the growth of the company. sichern обезбедува Encourage the personal development. We encourage well-intentioned relations and help each other. The good spirit and positive atmosphere are of equal importance both for the success of our companies and for the development of our employees. We encourage encourage each other to develop our skills, to learn and to discuss насърчавам constructively. ermutigen охрабрува Enable innovations for a better future. We do not just talk the talk, but also walk the walk, thus reaching our targets. We act correctly and choose the way leading to specific decisions. We participate in projects having long-term benefits for people and nature. For us, enable осъществявам the sustainable development is an important goal in all ermöglichen activities. овозможува 14 II. Labour Standards 8. Health and Balance @ EVN Bulgaria Program An integral part of EVN Bulgaria’s policy for corporate and Feedback social responsibility are the measures that the company is undertaking for its employees – for their health, working For the launch of Health and Balance @ EVN Bulgaria, focus conditions, working atmosphere and integration. Being a groups were implemented in the company in order to survey logical continuation of the consecutive steps in this direction, the employees’ opinion. The points of view of about 60 a new corporate program was launched in 2015 for healthy colleagues were collected, analyzed and taken into account and balanced life – Health and Balance @ EVN Bulgaria. The when planning and further refining the initial measures in program summarises the existing measures and at the same several separate areas: physical activity, healthy eating habits, time provides a platform for new initiatives to create a more improvement of the working environment, promotion of social favourable working environment, to form healthy habits and activities, resistance to stress and emotional balance. to increase the employees’ satisfaction. At the time of the program launch a number of solutions were allready realized in EVN Bulgaria to support the prosperity of the employees such as: • flexible working hours, • supplementary pension insurance, Здраве и Баланс @ EVN България • additional health insurance, • thorough prophylactic examinations, • various social benefits, • drinking water provided at the working place, etc. The purpose of the company was to supplement these Logo of the Program measures with initiatives aimed more toward prevention and awareness, building and consolidation of habits for a healthy and balanced way of life and to improve the health status. Objective 9. Sertificate for Social Responsibility The main purpose of the program is to encourage employees to practice healthy habits in order to achieve and maintain a At a ceremony on 24 March 2015 in the town of Haskovo high quality of life by prevention. EVN Bulgaria was awarded a prize for “Socially responsible company of the municipality“ for 2014. The award was given during the Third awards of the Confederation of Employers Principles and Industrialists in Bulgaria (CEIBG) in Haskovo region. Health and Balance @ EVN Bulgaria is based on three key In 2015 the nominations were made by all 11 municipalities in principles: the region proposing a total of 40 companies with extremely 1. Accessibility – the measures and initiatives within the high social contribution in the field of development of corporate program shall be accessible to all employees according to their social responsibility for 2014. Among the official guests were: needs. the Deputy Chairman of the 43rd National Assembly of the 2. Promoting personal involvement – the healthy and Republic of Bulgaria at the time Ivan Ivanov, Deputy Minister of balanced life is a matter of personal decision and contribution. economy Lyuben Petrov, representatives of the Bulgarian Small 3. Creating a culture of balanced way of life – different and Medium Enterprises Promotion Agency, of the Bulgarian measures will be gradually introduced, including information Investment Agency, the Consulate General of the Republic of campaigns and other initiatives for the separate aspects of Turkey in Plovdiv and the local business. balanced life aiming to encourage healthy habits and balance. 15 III. Environment Principle 7: Supporting the preventive approaches to environment protection. Principle 8: Undertaking initiatives to stimulate the assumption of greater responsibility to the environment. Principle 9: Encouraging the development and distribution of environment-friendly technologies. 1. Project “Life for Safe Grid” under Life + Program of the European Commission The project of EVN Bulgaria “Life for Safe Grid“ is co-financed under LIFE + program of the European emissions and is developed in cooperation with the Bulgarian Society for the Protection of Birds (BSPB). The full name of the project is “Improving the Protection of the Globally Threatened Imperial Eagle in Bulgaria by Reducing Its Mortality Caused by Electricity Distribution Lines“. In 2015 EVN Bulgaria Elektrorazpredelenie initiated construction works on the project. The symbolic start was given on 16 April 2015 on the territory of one of the specially protected areas (SPA) of the NATURA 2000 grid – “Sakar“, in the area of Harmanli municipality. At an official ceremony with representatives of the local public and media, a demonstration installation was carried out of the so called “bird rests” on 20 kV overhead line “Balgarin“. This was the first time they were installed in Bulgaria. Each “bird rest“ provides a high landing place for birds, which is at a safe distance from the electrical The symbolic start of the technical activities under the project “Life pillar and protects birds from current conducting elements. for Safe Grid” was given on 16 April 2015 with a demonstration installation of “bird rests”. The first site under the project was on the territory of Harmanli municipality within the period up to September 2015. This birds with the overhead conductors, as the new conductors site included installation of 10 “bird rests“ and 255 spacers, are more visible and easy to avoid. which protect the wings of the birds. In addition, almost 45 km of the so-called PAS system on 20 kV overhead electric The total value of the investment in the first site amounts to line “Bulgaria” were installed. PAS system is one of the most BGN 388 000. modern methods for securing the power lines. It consists in new insulated conductors along the electric line. In the summer of 2015 the technical activities in relation to the second site were launched as well, being a part of the project Thus completely is eliminated the risk of electrocution, caused “Life for Safe Grid“. by a simultaneous contact of birds with live conductors and grounded parts of the supporting pillars. The introduction of the PAS system significantly reduces the risk of collision of flying 16 III. Environment On 23 June 2015, a symbolic first ground-breaking ceremony The project “Life for Safe Grid“ was approved by the EC in July on this site was made in the region of the town of Topolovgrad, 2013 with a beneficiary EVN Bulgaria Elektrorazpredelenie. close to one of the habitats of the Imperial eagle in Bulgaria. Thus, EVN Bulgaria Elektrorazpredelenie became the first The sub-project includes laying of underground cable lines at infrastructure company in the country, which implemented the place of the existing 3 overhead lines with a total length of a project with LIFE + program funding by the European nearly 50 km. Along with this will be constructed also nearly Commission. The total value of the project is nearly EUR 17 km of PAS system (insulated conductors). Additionally will 4 million and the activities will be performed for a period be installed safety devices like spacers, “bird rests“ for birds, of 5 years from 2013 to 2018. The project provides for etc. extensive investment activities related to securing the electricity distribution grid. The website of the project is The construction of a total of 50 km of underground cable www.lifeforsafegrid.bg. lines will eliminate the hazards for the birds in the area. On the other hand this will significantly improve the power supply for The Imperial eagle is protected species included in the Red 10 settlements in the municipalities Elhovo and Topolovgrad. book and in the list of endangered species of the international This is possible because the underground cable lines are not union for the protection of nature and natural resources. exposed to outside weather conditions. On the other hand, PAS system provides protection against icing of the conductors The project “Life for Safe Grid“ of EVN Bulgaria is a continuation in the winter months and ensures the security of power supply of the long-standing support that the company provided to to the customers in the area. the BSPB‘s project “Conservation of Imperial Eagle and Saker Falcon in the key areas of Natura 2000 network in Bulgaria.” The value of the investment in the territory of the municipalities The project of BSPB ended in December 2013, as within the Elhovo and Topolovgrad is nearly BGN 5 million. project EVN Bulgaria secured with protective isolation nearly 561 pillars along the electricity distribution grid. The start of the technical activities was given by Mr. Bozhin Insulators type “MST-spacers“ were installed under the project “Life for Safe Bozhinov, mayor of the Municipality of Topolovgrad, Mr. Grid”. Svetoslav Spasov, projects director in BSPB, Mr. Ronald Brechelmacher, Chairman of the Board of Directors of EVN Bulgaria Elektrorazpredelenie and Mr. Kostadin Velichkov, Executive member of the Board of Directors of EVN Bulgaria Elektrorazpredelenie. 17 III. Environment 2. Biodiversity Awards for eco activity On January 27th 2015 in Brussels, EVN Bulgaria and the EVN Bulgaria Elektrorazpredelenie won this honour in a Bulgarian Society for the Protection of Birds (BSPB) received yet competition with 10 other nominations in its category and another international recognition of their protection activities the prize was awarded by a jury comprising of experts and aimed at protecting the endangered Imperial Eagle and Saker public figures. The honoured award comes as a recognition of Falcon in Bulgaria. On that date the BSPB and its partner EVN EP’s long-years operations on conservation of protected organization BirdLife International won the “Good Practice animal species in its licensed territory in South-East Bulgaria. of the Year Award“ in “Environmental Protection” category in Among these operations is the annual campaign of EVN a coopetition organized by Renewables-Grid-Initiative (RGI). Bulgaria Elektrorazpredelenie on mounting safety platforms The prize was awarded for the joint work of ЕVN Bulgaria and for stork nests on electric poles which are preferred places for BSPB in isolation of the pillars around the nest of the Imperial nesting. eagles in Bulgaria. The prize is being awarded for the first time as the assessment of the applications was done by 9-member jury, which included European Commission experts and a Bern Convention Secretariat representative. EVN Bulgaria Elektrorazpredelenie won once more the prestigious award – the prize of Bulgarian Biodiversity Foundation for “Business supporting biodiversity in Bulgaria“. This happened in Sofia on 25 November 2015 at a ceremony where the Annual awards for conservation of biodiversity in the country were given. EVN Bulgaria won the prestigious award of Bulgarian Biodiversity Foundation for “Business supporting biodiversity in Bulgaria“. On behalf of the company the award was received by Petar Kostadinov, head of Communications department (in the middle) and Dilyana Popova from Energy Policy and Environmental Affairs department (on the left). The winners in all categories (from left to right): Svetoslav Spasov (BSPB) and Ilina Stefanova (EVN Bulgaria) with the Good Practice of the Year award. The awarded Dutch-German organization TenneT in “Communication“ category and the Danish Bystrup winner in “Technology and Design“ category. Source: http://renewables-grid.eu/news.html. 18 III. Environment Care for the storks in Bulgaria In the construction and operation of its facilities EVN Bulgaria Safety activities of EVN Bulgaria in 2015 were performed within intends to use the latest ecological and advanced technologies. the framework of the new authorisation by MoEW, after the In respect of the protected species White Stork, which often company reported excellent performance of the measures chooses to nest on the pillars of the electricity distribution under the old authorization for the period 2011 – 2014: more grid, the company applies consistent activities in securing the than 60% of the nest platforms are populated by White Storks. nests by installation of platforms. The initiative is carried out Also in 2015 the company carried out a review and updated on the basis of the authorisation issued for securing the stork the technical characteristics of the safety platform used so nests by the Ministry of Environment and Water (MoEW). The far, as a result of which the platform was improved for the activities on securing are agreed with the relevant Regional purpose of greater reliability and service life. Inspectorate in Environment and Waters (RIEW), which are annually provided with a schedule of the nests planned to be With the 210 platforms mounted in 2015, the total number of secured and a report on performed activities. facilities installed by EVN Bulgaria to protect the life of storks is amounting to 1890 for the period 2009 – 2015. Through standard metal platforms, the nests are raised to a safe distance from the live parts. Thus, we protect the lives of the birds and prevent the occurrence of accidents along the electricity distribution grid. Most often the accidents are caused by rainy weather from collapse and contact of a part of the nests with the wires leading to the emergence of short circuit, interrupts or disturbances in power supply. On the one hand this is fatal to the bird, and on the other hand it causes damage to the electricity distribution grid and the consumers of electricity. Installing the security platform for storks using the new and improved type in the region of Kardzhali. 19 III. Environment Rescue operations In 2015 the employees of EVN in the regional service centers to fly away from the nest, was hanging out on the side of the (KEZ) once again became heroes, helping actively in emergency nest near to the wires. The bird had, however, injured its wing operations for the rescue of young storks, become a victim of as a result of the continued attempts to fly away release from their inexperience in flying or of human intervention in nature. the twine, due to which the bird was brought to be treated in the Survival center for wild animals of the Green Balkans On 17 July 2015 colleagues from KEZ Dimitrovgrad saved the organization in the town of Stara Zagora. young stork in the village of Yabalkovo. One foot of the bird was entangled in a piece of twine, which was brought to the Of 30 July colleagues in Burgas saved the young stork in the nest by the parent birds. Fortunately, the bird foot was not village of Trastikovo, municipality of Kameno; the stork had damaged and the stork was successfully released. fallen from its nest located on a pillar in the village. Another case with a stork entangled in twine in the village of In the beginning of August the colleagues responded to help Moriantsi, municipality of Krumovgrad, resulted in interference rescue a young stork, caught up in a twine loop in its nest in of the teams of EVN Bulgaria on 24 July. Our colleagues the town of Sredets, Burgas district. managed to rescue the young bird which making attempts 20 III. Environment Recovery of extinct bird species Campaign in Strandzha In June 2015 EVN Bulgaria assisted “Green Balkans“ to EVN Bulgaria cooperated with the Directorate of Natural perform informative workshops in Customers Energy Centers Park “Strandzha“ (DNP “Strandzha“) on a project funded of Krumovgrad and Svilengrad within a new project of the by the Operational Program “Environment” – “Sustainable non-governmental organization – “Greater chance for the Management and Structure of Strandzha Nature Park“. Lesser Kestrel (Falco naumanni) in Bulgaria“, funded by the EU The joint work includes securing 150 electric pillars. At the LIFE program (LIFE11 NAT/BG/360). beginning of 2014 DNP “Strandzha“ identified the electric pillars located in the park, which posed risk for birds and EVN Bulgaria is cooperating on the project of the environmental located on the territory of KEZ Primorsko – in the region of the organization in the activities set for securing the electricity towns of Malko Tarnovo and Ahtopol, and by the end of 2014 distribution lines in protected areas from the network Natura EVN Bulgaria had secured 83 electric pillars. 2000, located in the territory of both customer centers, which cover the municipalities Krumovgrad, Ivailovgrad, Svilengrad, In 2015 employees of the company secured the remaining etc. 67 electric pillars, a part of 20 kV overhead electricity grid, covering the expenses for installation of the insulation During the joint expert meetings between EVN Bulgaria and materials purchased for the purpose of the project. “Green Balkans“ the objectives of the project were presented, the target power lines to be secured were identified, and a The objective of securing is to protect the populations of schedule for the implementation of the technical activities was protected bird species from the orders stork-like (Ciconiiformes) discussed. Within the expert meetings were organised on-site and falcon-like (Falconiformes) on the territory of the park. visits of three protected areas from Natura 2000 network, as well as a visit of the Green Balkans‘ demonstration center for lesser kestrel in protected ареа “Sakar“ within the project. “Sinite kamani“ Natural Park The commitment of EVN Bulgaria included installation of EVN Bulgaria cooperated with the Directorate of “Sinite protective insulation of over 150 pillars of the electricity kamani“ Natural Park (DNP “Sinite kamani“) under a project distribution grid in the areas of Natura 2000 and the activity is funded by the Operational Program “Environment“ – planned to be carried out in 2016. “Sustainable management and structure of “Sinite kamani“ Natural Park. The company assisted the natural park in the implementation of an activity under the project for securing the hazardous electric poles in the site of Karakityuk with the aim of preventing the damage from electric shock to birds and bats. On the territory of the DNP “Sinite kamani“ there are 176 species of birds, of which 149 are protected by the Biological Diversity Act. Among them are the owl (Bubo bubo), imperial eagle (Aquila heliaca), golden eagle (Aquila chryseatos), Egyptian vulture (Neophron perenopterus). In 2015 EVN Bulgaria secured the 200 electric pillars identified to pose risk for large species of birds in the area of the Natural Park, which is located in the Balkan Mountains over the town of Sliven. The lesser kestrel, which used to be a widespread species in Bulgaria, disappeared from the country at the end of the 80‘s of the 20th century. Photo: “Green Balkans“. 21 III. Environment International cooperation 3. Integrated Quality and Environmental In May 2015 EVN’s wind farm near the town of Kavarna hosted Management System a group of international specialists who examined the radar system blocking the blades when a flock of birds is detected. Waste Management The system is constructed by Dutch company Robin Radar and is designed to protect migratory birds, which main road passes Implementing its environmental policy and socially responsible through this area. Among the guests were representatives of a behaviour, in 2015 EVN Bulgaria continued the program for number of non-governmental organizations from Austria and separate collection of industrial and hazardous waste. They are Germany, including the Austrian branch of the world nature collected and provided for recovery and disposal to companies preservation organization BirdLife. having the relevant permits. The Bulgarian representative of BirdLife – the Bulgarian society In 2015 the company reported over 28 tonnes of paper for for the Bird Protection is a traditional partner of EVN Bulgaria recycling, which is equivalent to rescuing almost 400 trees in the company activities for environmental protection. from being cut down. Proper waste management among the companies in the group leads to saving natural resources by waste recycling and utilization on the one hand, and on the other to preventing environmental pollution with hazardous substances through the disposal of waste that cannot be otherwise used. Environmental Management Certificate ISO 14001 Four companies of EVN Bulgaria Group hold certificates of compliance for their environment management systems to the requirements of the international ISO 14001 standard: EVN Bulgaria Elektrorazpredelenie, EVN Bulgaria Elektrosnabdiavane, EVN Bulgaria Toplofikatsia, and EVN Trading South East Europe. In 2015 all companies successfully passed the surveillance audit to confirm their certifications. The certification and surveillance audits are performed by TÜV Rheinland – Bulgaria EOOD. Bringing the activities of EVN Bulgaria in accordance with the internationally recognized standard ISO 14001 is expanding the possibilities for identifying the measures for environmental protection and the prevention of pollution. 22 III. Environment 4. iURBAN – an International Project for Energy Management The international project iURBAN started in in October 2013 The attendees had the opportunity to ask questions and and will continue by 2016 funded by the European Union’s evaluate the demo version of the software. The customers’ Seventh Framework Program for research, technological feedback was extremely important for developers in future development and demonstration. The abbreviation iURBAN upgrades of design and structure of the electronic platform. derives from the “Intelligent URBAn eNergy tool“ – Intelligent devices for urban energy. The participants in the project are a The activities of iURBAN for the town of Plovdiv include the consortium of nine organizations from different Member States installation of metering devices with remote sensing in a total of the EU, among which energy and IT companies, scientific of 30 heated buildings in Plovdiv. Among them are residential institute, a non-governmental organisation, etc. In the project buildings, kindergartens, administrative buildings, etc. Energy 2 pilot cities – Plovdiv and Rijeka (Croatia) are included. On the consumption inside these premises will be measured in a new Bulgarian side the beneficiaries of the project are EVN Bulgaria and modern way. The new system will give the opportunity Toplofikatsia and Energy Agency Plovdiv. for effective monitoring and analysis of various aspects of the energy consumption of the customers. In January 2015 EVN Bulgaria held information meetings with household customers from heated buildings in the town of The development of the specialized software for energy Plovdiv under the project. During the meetings information consumption monitoring finished in September 2015 and was presented on iURBAN, opportunities for participation and an individual user name and password for access was project objectives – the development and implementation created for each participant. The participants in the project of an electronic platform for management, monitoring and iURBAN received individual access to the software during two improvement of energy consumption and costs. demonstration presentations in October 2015. The project gives the opportunity to the participant to install new appliances with remote sensing in their properties – an Energy efficiency awards individual heating meter was mounted by the entrance of the housing (without having metering devices on the heaters), hot Seven kindergartens in Plovdiv, participating in the project water meters and an electric meter. Data from the appliances iURBAN were awarded with gold medals by The Association will be monitored with a newly installed electronic platform of Bulgarian Energy Agencies for reducing their energy costs. accessible to the customer. The benefits that are provided to In the kindergartens there were installed innovative and customers via iURBAN are as follows: modern installations for the production of renewable energy • installation and use of new appliances for remote and for daily monitoring of the heating and electricity sensing costs. The seven children establishments are “Nezabravka“, • option for different types of reports on energy “Kremena“, “Slantze“,“Rositza“, “Viara“, “100 Usmivki“ and consumption “Prikazen sviat”. • free access of the customer to the electronic platform • complete technical maintenance of the appliances, including metrological check. Demo version of the software under the project was presented to the customers for the first time in April 2015. At that time in the town of Plovdiv a second seminar was held with customers of heating energy. Participation included partners under the project from “Sensing & Control“ (Spain), Fraunhofer Institute (Germany), ЕVN Bulgaria Toplofikatsia and Energy Agency Plovdiv. The customers were informed how they may use the new electronic platform in their everyday life. The main functionalities of the program were also presented and the options which are provided to record the energy consumed in different past periods of time. This gives customers the opportunity to monitor and optimize their consumption Demo version of the software for monitoring of energy including the energy costs. consumption under iURBAN project was presented to customers participating in the project for Plovdiv, for the first time in April 2015. 23 III. Environment 5. Investments in Modern and Environmentally Friendly Electricity and Heat Production Preparation for 2015 autumn-winter period The crisis situation of March 2015 showed how important The total amount of the investments made by EVN EP for is to be invested in a modern and secure grid, which can cabling of electric lines and other technical activities for this minimize the influence of bad atmospheric conditions during summer is estimated at more than BGN 5 million. Besides the cold months. In this respect and as a part of the preparation cabling, the preparation included replacement of electrical for the coming winter, in the summer of 2015 EVN Bulgaria pillars, 100% physical inspections of electric lines, electricity Elektrorazpredelenie (ЕVN EP) managed to install 30 km of installations, transformers and switching stations both in the overhead power lines in the Rhodopes Mountain. This was Rhodopes Mountain and in all other areas on the territory of announced also during the visit of the Minister of Energy EVN EP. Temenuzhka Petkova, Deputy Minister Nikolay Nikolov and Rozalin Petkov, the current regional governor of Plovdiv, at the headquarter of the company in Plovdiv on 17 September 2015. The readiness of the company to meet the coming 2015/2016 winter season was discussed during the meeting with Mr. Robert Dick, regional manager of EVN for Bulgaria and the management of ЕVN EP. Minister Petkova and Mr. Dick acknowledged the good coordination between EVN Bulgaria and the authorities during the March crisis in the Rhodopes Mountain that year, being crucial for recovery activities. Following the analysis of the damages caused by the crisis, this summer the company paid special attention to secure those overhead power lines, being most vulnerable in bad weather in the mountain areas by means of laying cables (and thus, replacing the overhead power lines underground). The cabling of electric lines is among the most effective for improving the electricity supply. In view of the difficult mountain terrain and in accordance with the possible investments EVN Bulgaria Elektrorazpredelenie identified and installed 14 electric lines that are most influenced by the atmosphere. That significantly increased the security of power supply in these regions, which was noted by Minister Petkova and Mr. Dick as a long-term measure. An example of such is the cabling of an electric line supplying the neighbourhood of Raikovo in the town of Smolyan where during the crisis in March 2015 only one of the neighbourhoods in the town had overhead electricity supply. Now the neighbourhood of Raikovo similar to the other parts in the town of Smolyan is totally cabled underground which guarantees uninterruptible power feeding under regular supplies from the substations. Another cabled overhead electric line is the one supplying the villages of Kiselchovo and Kremene in Smolyan municipality, which is one of the most difficult mountain area, a new underground cable line of 4,1 km was installed. KEZ Kardzhali: repair of iron grid pillar on the overhead line at medium voltage “Ardino“. 24 III. Environment A total of 329 km of clearings through grids of medium and After having started the construction of a heating grid for low voltage, supply of equipment, inspection of the specialized district heating in the western area “Zapaden” of Plovdiv in machinery, instruments and providing the necessary supply of 2014 for the first time, that autumn EVN TP implemented new stocks and materials were carried out in compliance with the projects in the area for interconnection of the buildings of legal requirements. two kindergartens – “Elitza“ and “Zvezda“. In order for these two facilities to benefit the comfort of district heating, EVN TP To deal with various situations during winter period EVN constructed new grid with a total length of 330 m. Earlier – in Bulgaria relies on the good cooperation of the company‘s May 2015, the company worked on interconnection of the regional control engineers and managers with the local newly built facility of a kindergarten “Mir”, located in the area, authorities in the face of the regional governors, the municipal to the heating grid. and territorial directorates of “Civil defence“. Information about the contacts persons of EVN Bulgaria was provided to all regional governments, municipal mayors and the directors of Territorial directorates of “Civil defence“. Investment and Repair Program 2015 of EVN Bulgaria Toplofikatsia In 2015 EVN Bulgaria Toplofikatsia continued the fast pace of investments and repairs, when a total of BGN 18,6 million were invested in modernization, expansion and repair of the heating grid and generation facilities. This resulted in construction of 3 km of new heating mains in Plovdiv and 24 new abo stations, which will allow more customers to use environmentallyfriendly and comfortable district heating. Guaranteed 2015/2016 heating season During the summer months of 2015 EVN Bulgaria Toplofikatsia (EVN TP) was working actively as usually on its investment program, including both replacement of old infrastructure and construction of new one in Plovdiv in areas having no district heating. Among the significant buildings interconnected this year is the medical center of “Selena” on “Peshtersko shose” blvd., which required the laying of 100 meters of new heating mains, and the administrative building of Water and Sewerage Plovdiv on “Shesti Septemvri” Blvd., which required the construction of 150 meters of new heating mains. In August EVN ТР started another project for expansion of the heating grid in the central area in Plovdiv. New 350 m of heating mains will connect “Veliko Tarnovo” street with the crossing of “Ivan Vazov” street and “Ekzarh Yosif” street, as a result of which “Sveti Mina” hospital and other administrative buildings on “Ivan Vazov” street were interconnected to the heating gird. The project is a part of the company investments to construct a circular scheme of the heating grid in Plovdiv, One of the large-scale projects of EVN TP in 2015 was related to the replacement of main district heating pipeline on the bridge which is a precondition for improving grid management in the of “Vassil Aprilov” blvd. The new heating mains have a larger city. diameter providing higher consumption of thermal energy. They are equipped with electronic alert system in case of rupture, as well as with modern expansion joints to handle the temperature expansions. The specifics of work on the bridge required extraordinary measures, such as moving the bed of “Maritza River”, to be taken so that the construction machinery could access the site. 25 IV. Anti-corruption Principle 10: Supporting the anti-corruption initiatives and policy of transparency. As an international company providing services in the field 3. Compliance – It’s Good Energy of energy and environment, we serve as a role model in both domestic and foreign market. To establish the good Integrity and legitimate behaviour of the employees holds a reputation and business success of EVN Bulgaria, we attached central position in the corporate culture of EVN Group. Ethical significant value to honesty and respecting of the law by all and correct conduct are a prerequisite for good image and our employees. thus for the company success also. In this regard in October 2013 in the group, including EVN Bulgaria, the Compliance management system (CMS) was launched. An essential part in 1. 12 Principles of Loyal Communication this system is EVN Code of conduct. with Our Customers The code was established on the basis of the Charter of EVN, in which the vision, mission and fundamental values of the EVN Bulgaria has developed “12 Principles of Loyal company have been formulated. In addition, the code lays Communication with Our Customers”. Every company’s down the basic principles of conduct in EVN in different areas employee is familiar with the principles and follows them like anti-corruption, work safety and relations with business strictly in relations with our customers. The purpose of partners and customers. the company is to implement a policy of transparency and customer satisfaction by providing high-quality services. CMS implementation aims to ensure compliance with the legitimate conduct within the framework of EVN. The three The document containing all 12 principles, is published in the main pillars of the CMS are: internal network (Intranet) of EVN Bulgaria to be available 1. Prevention through awareness. to the employees, being distributed at the same time in all 2. Identification of violations of the Code of conduct and company offices. signalling. 3. Reaction through analysis and improvement. 2. Corporate Social Responsibility Clause The project for rollout of the CMS in EVN Bulgaria completed of EVN Group Companies successfully at the end of 2014. Within the clarifying in-house Compliance campaign were carried out 89 trainings for all the EVN Bulgaria has developed a social responsibility clause valid employees, in which took participation 2372 people or 99% for the companies of EVN Group, which obliges the suppliers of the company personnel. and subcontractors to observe the following basic principles: The project ended with a test “How well are you informed • respect for human rights, about Compliance?“, which was programed interactively in • abolition of child and forced labour, the intranet of EVN Bulgaria. The summarised positive results • elimination of discrimination and torture in respect of the test denote the good awareness of the principles of of employment and occupation, Compliance. • occupational health and safety, • labour and social legal regulations, Regarding the Christmas and New Year holidays and the • transparency of the working time and remuneration, existing traditions for exchange of gifts and invitations to • environmental protection, holiday events and building on the positive feedback for the • reducing the use of resources, waste and emissions first Compliance test was organised one more Christmas test. generation, With real examples it guided the employees of EVN Bulgaria • high ethical standards; how to act in accordance with the Code of conduct of EVN. • transparent business relations, • right for gatherings and strikes. 26 IV. Anti-corruption 4. Union with the Loyal Customer 5. Reporting In 2015 EVN Bulgaria continued its campaign “Union with the The companies from the EVN Bulgaria Group develop their Loyal Customer”. Its main purpose is to protect the principles activity in compliance with the requirements of the effective of equal treatment of all customers of the company: electricity Bulgarian laws. In this connection they prepare each year supply to all customers paying regularly for their energy annual financial statements according to the International consumed and adequate reaction towards bad payers. Financial Reporting Standards. The statements are audited by an external auditor and published in the Commercial Register Being part of the activities for protection of its loyal customers, of the Republic of Bulgaria, being available to the public. the company regularly carries out a series of checks for legitimate use of electricity in Southeast Bulgaria. In 2015 EVN Bulgaria continued the tendency of improving the effectiveness of the checks for the unauthorised use of electrical energy. The 24 600 facility checks of household and business customers, by 37% less than the previous year, established 9400 cases of either deviations or violation of the Energy Act and the General terms and conditions of the electricity sale contracts approved by the Energy and Water Regulatory Commission. This number is by 9% lower compared to 2014, however, the electricity thefts detected in 2015 amounts to 15,7 million kWh, which is by 12% higher than the previous year. In 2015 the number of thefts from the facilities of the electricity distribution grid continued to increase. For the entire territory of the company, in 2015 EVN Bulgaria registered more than 340 cases of theft from electricity facilities, which was by 17% more than the previous year. Conductors (overhead and cable power lines) with a total length of 32 000 m were stolen. Besides, a subject of illegal encroachments on the territory of the company became electric meters, transformers, fuses and other equipment in the transformer stations. The amount of the reported material damages for the company reaches nearly BGN 260 000 – funds that could have been invested for improving the electricity supply and customer care. EVN Bulgaria continues to attract the public attention to the risks posed by the encroachments on the energy infrastructure. They cause not only big financial losses for the company but are the reason for failures and interruptions in the electricity supply to a large number of customers. In order to preserve the security of electricity supply EVN Bulgaria applies all necessary measures to ensure the shortest possible grid recovery. Part of these measures includes joint initiative for enhanced cooperation with the police for checking and limiting the thefts. The efforts are focused on the application of measures for mutual actions on the whole territory of the company in Southeast Bulgaria. 27 Always here, always with you EVN Bulgaria 2016 edition 28
