Cape To w n I n t e r n a t i o na l C o n v e n tio n C e n tre | 2 0 1 6 In tegrated A nnual Report EXTENDING OUR REACH, EMBRACING AFRICA, WELCOMING THE WORLD Last year our Integrated Annual Report saw us allow us to compete far more favourably on the world stage. driving the knowledge economy – harnessing Having already hosted 39 significant international conferences in 2015/16, we are now poised to welcome still more global education, skills and innovation to create events of increasing stature. The advent of this state-of-thesustainable economic success and competitive art new building in 2017 will allow us to host and deliver advantage. This year we built on that foundation, extraordinary experiences to a far broader audience – from focusing on ideas of expansion and extension Africa, our continent, from the world beyond and also our – both physical in terms of our new CTICC East local communities. expansion and geographical in terms of how So expansion means more space but it also means more options we seek to reach out and connect with our – more facets to the work we do, more flexibility and, lest we continent and the world. forget that we are also in the entertainment business, more fun. For without interaction, without engagement, without increasing our knowledge, our circles, our connections, we Releasing African potential are not growing the knowledge economy – and we are not growing ourselves. As a truly South African offering, the CTICC contributes to realising the continent’s potential. The key drivers of Investing in people and planet technology, tourism and mineral resources are platforms that we can leverage with our African partners, maximising This, of course, applies to both our own people and our clients. opportunities to promote Africa to the wider world. In addition, Without the commitment and enthusiasm of our dedicated, we wholeheartedly champion the role that both education and often 24/7, colleagues (half of whom are women), we would female empowerment play in the growth of Africa. As such, not be able to achieve our vision. And without our clients, we we are committed to sharing knowledge and building capacity would simply not be in business. Our interlinked investments in business and society so that all those aspects of African in staff training, industry upliftment and the client experience potential are realised. Our case studies this year focus on this. bolster our pledge to reach out to Africa and beyond. Moreover, with the advent of our new building, our CTICC team will most In addition, our CTICC East expansion will allow us to leverage certainly expand as well. this aspiration, building on our vision to be one of the world’s top ten leading long-haul international convention centres Having said that, these new facets to our offering, this new by 2020. This is supported by our multi-faceted mission to expanded space, must also maintain our commitment to maximise economic spin-off, create jobs, constantly innovate, sustainability – a further pledge that is core to our promise exceed service expectations, nurture quality staff and be a of being more environmentally and socially aware, as well as world leader in sustainability. fiscally prudent. This commitment to responsible triple-bottomline reporting underscores both this report and everything we Expanding our reach do – and plan to do – in the coming years. Our CTICC East expansion will give us an additional 10 000m2 This 2016 integrated annual report illustrates our ongoing of exhibition and conference space, coupled with a further pledge to people, planet and performance, as well as our 3 000m2 of formal and informal meeting space. This will growing links with our continent and the world. C ape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated A nnu al Repor t About this report This report is compiled annually and contains data for the 2015/16 financial year, which runs from 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016. The Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) is owned and managed by the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Ltd (RF), also known as Convenco. The CTICC consists of one operational building (CTICC West) and the boundary of this report reflects the performance of CTICC West, including CTICC East currently under construction. The most recent previously compiled report was made available at the CTICC’s Annual General Meeting (AGM) on 21 October 2015 and contained information from the previous financial year (1 July 2014 – 30 June 2015). The contact persons for questions regarding the report are Olivia Bruce (olivia@cticc.co.za) and Susan Davis (susand@cticc.co.za). They are contactable on the following number: +27 (21) 410 5000. Cape To w n I n t e r n a t i o na l C o n v e n tio n C e n tre | 2 0 1 6 In tegrated A nnual Report TABLE OF CONTENTS HIGHLIGHTS 2015/16 2 SOCIETY: Investing in people and community FOREWORDS Building futures by empowering our communities 61 Message from the Executive Mayor of Cape Town 5 Committed to partnering with local community Message from the Premier of the Western Cape 6 organisations 62 Message from the Chairman of Convenco 7 Expanding education through training and industry Review by the Chief Executive Officer 8 experience 66 Building a future workforce for the events ABOUT THE CTICC and hospitality sector 67 A world-class convention centre welcoming Training success stories: investing in our people the world 11 and an international future 68 Our vision, mission and values 11 Creating a world-class workforce through Who we are: our name, our structure and our performance review 71 services 12 Customer feedback: delivering ever better service 71 Who we serve: our markets, our clients, our staff Empowering women, building small business 72 and our stakeholders 13 Certifications: ensuring quality management at ENVIRONMENT: all times 14 Building global sustainability How the CTICC nurtures our world through its Awards: recognition by our peers and industry 15 NOW strategy 75 Memberships and Associations: the power of How we reduce our environmental impact partnership 15 every day 76 CTICC EAST Continually striving to save energy 76 CTICC East: expanding to welcome the world 18 Continuing to reduce waste and contributing to safeguarding our planet 78 OUR WORK: Waste management success story: Cape Wine 79 Reaching out across the globe Sustainability success story: Consumer Goods Forum 81 Reviewing the 504 events of 2015/16 21 Continuing to save water in a drought-stricken Events that offer a gateway into Africa and beyond 22 world 83 International conference case studies 23 GOVERNANCE: Event highlights 33 Maximising compliance, minimising risk ECONOMY: Governance structure of the organisation 85 Contributing to the future Directorate and administration 86 Maintaining a steady and profitable course 49 Board committees 87 Making our mark on the economy 50 Compliance, good governance and risk management 91 Creating jobs, growing tourism and boosting Stakeholder engagement review 92 economic growth 50 Key Performance Indicators: more than just numbers 55 OUTLOOK: A growing commitment to enterprise development 56 Embracing a global future Capital expenditure: investing to compete for A healthy forward book: a look into the future 99 the future 56 Seeking sectors of future growth 101 Investing in our guest experience: keeping ahead Innovating for the future 101 of the trends 58 ANNUAL FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 103 ICT comes in-house at the CTICC: creating jobs, reaping benefits 59 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX 146 Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Repor t | 1 HIGHLIGHTS 2015/16 The CTICC delivered impressive results in the 2015/16 financial year, breaching the psychological R200m revenue ceiling and also increasing EBITDA, profit before tax and net after-tax profit. All Key Performance Indicators were exceeded. Operations and Finance Revenue (including other income) R209m (R14m above target) EBITDA R57m (R30m above target) Operating profit R67m (R43m above target) After-tax profit R47m (R30m above target) 504 Total events International 39 association conferences 84% Customer Satisfaction Index Economic contribution 7 758 Total jobs created R522.4m B-BBEE procurement Contribution to SA (92.8% of net spend) National GDP R3.5bn 30% Women-owned enterprise suppliers Contribution to Western Cape GGP R3bn (of total supplier spend) 49% Cumulative contribution to Women employed in the SA National GDP R32.5bn business: 79 out of 161 Cumulative contribution to 18 Western Cape GGP R28.8bn Women engineering students on CTICC East construction project 2 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n atio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 1 6 Integrated Annual Report Awards & accreditation Top500 Companies Award 1st place Exhibition and Conference Facilities category Top 40 Women in MICE Award: Newsmaker of the Year Julie-May Ellingson: Chief Executive Officer SAACI Best Venue Award 2014/15/16 three years in a row ISO 9001 (Quality Management) ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) ISO 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety Management) Corporate Social Environmental sustainability Investment Y-O-Y reduction in water usage 5% R1.2m Waste diverted from landfill 85% Value of community development support Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Repor t | 3 IFLA World Library and Information Congress 2015 | 81st IFLA General Conference and Assembly 4 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n atio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 1 6 Integrated Annual Report FOREWORDS Message from the Executive Mayor of Cape Town Cape Town with its vibrant cultures, experiences and vast natural beauty is a world-renowned tourism success story, but our City is more than just a pretty face. Recently Cape Town was voted 2015/16 Telegraph Travel More than doubling its conference and exhibition hall capacity Awards Best City in the World for the fourth year running will make the CTICC offering immeasurably more attractive. All and we tend to forget that much of that tourism is generated of which should make it a premier convention destination at by business. the top of every global event organiser’s list. We look forward to seeing it there! We have achieved great things as a leisure tourist destination but we have much more to offer as we are repositioning Cape Alderman Patricia de Lille Town as the ideal place to live, work, play and invest in. Executive Mayor: City of Cape Town Many businesses are seeing great promise in our City and one of our great success stories, the Cape Town International Convention Centre is an ideal example of why businesses can thrive in Cape Town. Indeed, the CTICC’s role as a host of world-class international events is a key factor. In particular, this takes the form of international conferences and trade fairs that expand knowledge, encourage interaction, promote exchange and build opportunity – supporting the City’s role as an opportunity city committed to economic growth and job creation. The CTICC’s contribution as a service-driven, communitysupporting and profitable strategic City asset also sustains our multiple commitments to deliver a safe, caring, inclusive and well-run city to our citizens and our communities. I warmly congratulate Julie-May Ellingson, the Convenco Board, the Executive team and every CTICC employee and supplier for another outstanding year. The CTICC continues to perform impressively, increasing its contribution to the sustainability of the economy. The CTICC’s success stems from its stellar management, good financial practices and offering all visitors a world-class experience. This past financial year, the CTICC once again made Cape Alderman Patricia de Lille Town proud when it scooped first place in the Top 500 of Executive Mayor: City of Cape Town South Africa’s best managed companies in the exhibition and conference facilities category. Moreover, the CTICC’s contribution to the city will surely grow once its much-anticipated state-of-the-art CTICC East “The CTICC’s success stems from its stellar expansion opens next year. This means a bigger CTICC with an management, good financial practices and additional 10 000m2 of exhibition space, as well as a further offering all visitors a world-class experience.” 3 000m2 of formal and informal meeting space. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Repor t | 5 Message from the Premier of the Western Cape It has been 13 years since the CTICC opened for business, putting Cape Town and the Western Cape firmly on the international conference circuit. It continues to play a pivotal role in attracting investment to the province, building our reputation as a productive, competitive and innovative region. As such, reaching out into the world through Africa and beyond, the CTICC allows the Province to make connections and form partnerships that simply would not be possible without this world-class strategic facility. Next year that offering will be enhanced considerably by its expansion into the new East Wing, creating many more opportunities to accommodate an increasing range of events – and also much larger ones. This will bolster the CTICC’s ability to expand the Province’s global reach, ensuring that we all benefit from best practice innovations and technologies shared with experts who come to expand their knowledge with us. This inspires further Helen Zille innovation and opportunity for growth and jobs. Premier of the Western Cape Each event brings an opportunity for exchange and expansion in terms of what we as a province can learn from the world – and what it can learn from us. This supports our primary “Each event brings an opportunity for exchange strategy to build an “Open-opportunity Society for All” and expansion in terms of what we as a in the Western Cape, which is also the cornerstone of our province can learn from the world – and what it Constitution. can learn from us.” In addition, our Vision 2040 is of “a highly skilled, innovationdriven, resource-efficient, connected, high-opportunity society for all”. We have no doubt that the CTICC will be contributing strongly to this vision as it continues to perform profitably and build both the knowledge economy and the catalytic economic growth sectors that the Province has identified. Congratulations once more to the efficient and effective CTICC Board, Executive and all staff and stakeholders for another excellent year in 2015/16. Our province is the richer for your efforts. Helen Zille Premier of the Western Cape 6 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n atio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 1 6 Integrated Annual Report Message from the Chairman of Convenco The CTICC is a strategic asset whose reach and influence go far beyond the city and the province: it has an important local, national and international role to play as well. Indeed, its stated vision to be one of the world’s top ten leading long-haul international convention centres by 2020 makes this mission clear. As such, its value as a gateway into Africa, coupled with its upcoming potential to host much larger gatherings as the CTICC East expansion comes on line, can only grow. That greater capacity will allow its commitment to the knowledge economy to extend still farther, creating and sharing intellectual capital and innovation across the world as it welcomes an increasing range, number and size of events to its expanded offering. There is, in some ways, an irony here. As the world is being shrunk by technology, so the need for us to connect as people, face-to-face, seems to grow. And this, of course, is what the CTICC provides par excellence – the space and the opportunity Andrew Boraine for people to meet to bridge international barriers, make crossChairman: Convenco cultural connections and solve global problems. The world needs such places more and more. In these pages you will read about international gatherings “The CTICC continues to prosper and perform that have not only brought experts from a vast range of year on year, continually exceeding its targets countries together, but have, vitally, left legacies here on the ground in our city, province and country as well. In addition, and making strong contributions to the regional in this age when the African continent is rising, many of those and national economy.” connections are building African networks as well. This is something Julie-May Ellingson and her team absolutely understand and are already preparing the ground for as the CTICC East expansion prepares to open early next year. In addition, the CTICC continues to prosper and perform year on year, continually exceeding its targets and making strong contributions to the regional and national economy. Congratulations to Julie-May, her Executive Management team and her staff for another excellent year. Finally, I must express my sincere thanks to my fellow Board members, whose continuing commitment to the world-leading vision of the CTICC provides both platform and support for their continuing endeavours and success. Andrew Boraine Chairman: Convenco Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Repor t | 7 Review by the Chief Executive Officer The CTICC continues to deliver impressive performance in uncertain times. Breaching the psychological R200m revenue ceiling is certainly cause for celebration; but a figure of R209m (including other income; and R12m above prior year) is especially pleasing in the context of rising costs and volatile economic times. That we should still increase our operating profit from R60m to R67m, our EBITDA from R52m to R57m and our net after-tax profit from R42m to R47m, which is 176% above target, is remarkable. Rigorous cost control has certainly played its part and I have my Executive team colleagues to thank for that. Our cost containment measures have saved us R17m across all cost categories. Julie-May Ellingson These figures only tell some of the story, however. This Chief Executive Officer report’s theme is about expansion and about reaching out to our continent, our communities and the world beyond. And, indeed, as our CTICC East expansion reaches completion, it is to these continental and global clients that we must market “The CTICC is a strategic asset of its three ourselves. As you will see from our events review section, shareholders and as such its commitment to we are already building our international client base, with perform is not just financial but also economic 39 international conferences choosing to come to the CTICC and social.” last year – a 22% rise compared to the year before. Our challenge is to build on that. Transforming people’s lives by building Making economic waves and creating job futures opportunities The CTICC is a strategic asset of its three shareholders, the City On top of this, our commitment to supporting and empowering of Cape Town, the Western Cape Government and SunWest the communities in which we operate goes from strength to strength as our relationship with our four main beneficiaries International, and as such its commitment to perform is not matured during the financial year: you can read more about just financial but also economic and social. the past year’s activities in the social responsibility section of Happily, I can report that in the 2015/16 financial year, the the report. We also continued to invest in a variety of other CTICC delivered the highest economic contribution to national community development organisations. These corporate social Gross Domestic Product (GDP) in its 13-year history at R3.5bn, responsibility initiatives are fervently supported by our staff as well as a R3bn contribution to the Western Cape’s Gross who continue to give of themselves to serve others. Geographic Product (GGP). This includes the positive effects Giving back is something we feel is particularly important and of induced tourism, which continues to be driven by the everwhat better gift than the gift of education. This is why we buoyant reputation of Cape Town as a tourism destination. made a commitment, on our 13th birthday this year, to provide We also continue to sustain jobs in both our region and our 13 students with bursaries to the combined value of just country, through 3 233 direct jobs in the Western Cape and under R400 000. The bursaries will provide students studying in the culinary, events, marketing, finance, procurement and 4 525 indirect employment opportunities across South Africa. technical fields with additional support to help them through Bolstering this is our growing contribution to supporting their studies. On completion of their studies, these students SMME, B-BBEE and, in particular, women-owned enterprises, will be incorporated into the CTICC’s graduate programme and most of which are local. Indeed, we have excelled in particular given one-year employment contracts to gain valuable work in sourcing 92.8% of our total net spend this year from B-BBEE experience and hands-on training. suppliers, up more than 6% on the prior year. 8 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n atio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 1 6 Integrated Annual Report This is the first time the CTICC will be directly providing funds however. These include, inter alia, government policy and to support students with their studies. Not only is this another international healthcare codes of conduct that impact on big step towards contributing to job creation and sustainability, conference attendance, visa regulations on travel into the but it also allows students from disadvantaged backgrounds country, poor economic conditions globally, rising food costs the opportunity to make their dreams come true. Of this we due largely to drought and the ever-rising costs of utilities. couldn’t be more proud. All of these factors have affected our business and impacted particularly on our delegate numbers. The CTICC saw a drop Investing in our own future to build our in delegate numbers as fewer delegates attended conferences value proposition and exhibitions. Furthermore, delegates remained for shorter Continuous investment is a non-negotiable in our business. As periods, and, as a result, fewer may return as tourists. new convention centres emerge, established ones reinvest. To Up to a point, we can strategise our way around these remain competitive, we must do the same. This year we have challenges, as our section Outlook: Embracing a global future invested R29m in capital expenditure to maintain and upgrade on page 99 demonstrates. Our approach is a set of plans and our current CTICC West building – much of it to contain costs, aspirations through which we intend to fill our new CTICC benefit from new technologies and build sustainability into East expansion and welcome our continent and the world to our business. share it with us. We also invested a further R351m in our new CTICC East Thank you expansion, which will open for business next year and create a substantially increased offering to our clients – another My second year as CEO of the CTICC has been one of 10 000m2 of conference and exhibition space, as well as a consolidation and commitment to the future – for our centre, further 3 000m2 of formal and informal meeting space. our people and the communities and stakeholders we serve. My sincere thanks go to the ever-dedicated CTICC Executive However, our reinvestment is not just in capital expenditure. team and staff, as well as our suppliers whose commitment It is also in people – and this year we have chosen to focus and dedication are the reason we are the success we are. in particular on the women who work with us. You will find It remains an honour and a privilege to lead such a loyal, stories of our investment in staff and suppliers on pages 68 to enthusiastic and creative team. 70 and 72 to 73. And you will also discover that we have 18 women engineering students on our CTICC East construction Thank you, also, to the CTICC shareholders and the Board of site. At the CTICC, we seek to be the change as well as make Directors for your continued guidance and support over the the change. past year. Just one example of how we translate this into customer Finally, my genuine appreciation goes to all our CTICC clients. satisfaction is our rigorous independent customer satisfaction Without you, there would be no CTICC: you are the reason index (CSI) survey, which, at 84% this year, again exceeded our we exist. overall customer satisfaction target of 75% by almost 10%. Julie-May Ellingson Sustaining our success year on year Chief Executive Officer Sustainability and triple-bottom-line reporting remain integral to the way we do business. It is also part of the structure of this year’s report as we have separate sections on economic contribution, environmental impact and social responsibility. They are all equally important and our metrics have improved in almost all of our sustainability parameters. We remain part of the UNGC initiatives that support responsible business and we have, yet again, reduced our electricity usage by almost 3% and our water consumption by a further 5%. These are particularly important figures in the face of rising energy costs and the ongoing drought. Looking outward, solving challenges and making plans We have come to the end of another great year in the life of the CTICC. The year has not been without its challenges, Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Repor t | 9 The CTICC celebrates staff diversity and attempts to ensure that the staff complement represents the richness of South African society. 10 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report ABOUT THE CTICC A world-class convention centre welcoming the world The Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) is purpose-designed to accommodate global conferences, international trade shows and world-class exhibitions. It also hosts banquets, concerts, film shoots and stage productions. It has a wide range of state-of-the art venues, services and facilities, from highly advanced technology services to largescale auditoria and exhibition halls, fully equipped boardrooms and several hotels within walking distance, including the fivestar Westin in the precinct. OUR VISION, MISSION AND VALUES Vision Mission The CTICC will become How we will bring our vision one of the world’s top to reality: ten leading long-haul • Maximising economic international convention spin-off and job creation centres by 2020. • Focusing on innovation and exceeding expectations • S ervice excellence by building capable and quality staff • Being a world leader in sustainability. Values We will achieve our mission and vision by applying ourselves with: Passion – We live to go beyond. Innovation – We create magic that gives us the edge. Integrity – We are transparent in all our actions. Excellence – We create superior experiences. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 11 Staff preparing for an event Who we are: our name, our We have two facilities – CTICC West and CTICC East, the latter being under construction and opening during 2017. structure and our services CTICC West: where it all began The Cape Town International Convention Centre (CTICC) is managed by the Cape Town International Convention Centre Our main facilities include: Company SOC Ltd (RF), also known as Convenco. • Two modern raked auditoria – which can seat 1 500 and The Cape Town International Convention Centre Company 612 guests respectively SOC Ltd (RF) was formed in 1999. It is owned by the City • A sub-divisible, multifunctional ballroom of 2 000m2 of Cape Town (which holds the majority of shares in the • O ver 11 200m2 of dedicated exhibition and trade show company), the Western Cape Government and SunWest space International (Pty) Ltd. • 3 3 breakout rooms varying in size and able to accommodate The main departments at the CTICC are Commercial & Business from 25 to 320 people Development, Finance, Food & Beverage & Operations, Facilities • A roof terrace meeting room that seats 250 banquet-style & Operations, Human Resources and Company Secretariat. with an independent foyer and terrace The CTICC is primarily an event venue, and offers event-related • Three conservatories flooded with natural light and services typically required to host an event or conference. The indigenous flora CTICC’s primary products and services include: • A marshalling yard of 5 000m2 • International conference services • D edicated hot, cold and pastry kitchens, with 14 satellite • National conference services kitchens • Food and beverage services • A n in-house independent coffee shop – “Coffee on the • Exhibition services Square”. • Operational services • Marketing and corporate communication services • Event-related services such as IT, audio-visual and cleaning. 12 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Who we serve: our markets, The success of the CTICC is built on the success of our people and the opportunities we give them to rise to their potential. our clients, our staff The CTICC has a total of 161 employees (151 permanent and and our stakeholders ten fixed-term contract staff), as well as a fluctuating group of contract staff managed by additional service providers. The CTICC serves several markets based on seven key event sectors: international conferences and events; national Diversity conferences; exhibitions; trade fairs; banquets; special events; The CTICC celebrates staff diversity and attempts to ensure that as well as film shoots and other events. A total of 504 events the staff complement represents the richness of South African were held during the past financial year. society. Our staff profile reflects our commitment to diversity, In the year under review, the CTICC hosted events and serviced with 79 of our staff being female and 82 male. clients from many geographic locations, including the United States of America (USA), United Kingdom (UK), France, Our employment philosophy Netherlands, Switzerland, Germany, Kenya, Japan, Ireland, The CTICC believes diversity in terms of race, gender and Botswana, Russia, Canada, Czech Republic and Sweden. The disability makes a difference to the business, stimulating bulk of the events, however, were local South African clients growth. That growth can only occur if we make an ongoing (69%). commitment to comprehensive training and skills development, A total of 39 international conferences were hosted at the mentoring and coaching. CTICC. This is an increase on the 32 hosted in the prior year. When recruiting, preference is given to local residents to ensure that our centre contributes to job creation and the economic Our people upliftment of local residents. Local, in this context, refers to the A business that looks after its people looks after its business. City of Cape Town and the Western Cape. Ethnic groups Age groups 51+ years White 41 – 50 3% years 15% 20 – 30 Indian African years 4% 34% 26% 26% Total Total 161 161 47% 45% Coloured 31 – 40 years Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 13 Our executive management Megan Arendse: General Manager: Commercial & Business Development Julie-May Ellingson: Craig Barrington: General Manager: Chief Executive Officer Facilities & Operations Fairoza Parker: Robert Hatton-Jones: General Manager: Chief Financial Officer Food & Beverage & Operations Certifications: The CTICC also received: • AIPC Gold certification ensuring quality • 5-star grading (Tourism Grading Council of South Africa). management at all times The centre also holds the SANS 10330 Certification for HACCP As a leader in the industry it is important for the CTICC to (Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points) and follows the benchmark itself at an international level and we actively seven principles as set out for food hygiene and safety. support the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) principles. The CTICC achieved a Mobility Level 3 with 91% for Universal We also use an Integrated Management System (IMS) to ensure Access in the Tourism Grading Council of South Africa’s quality management and environmental responsibility, as well Universal Accessibility audit. This is a significant improvement as health and safety. on the 83% achieved in the previous year. There is a strong commitment to maintaining our work The CTICC was recertified in 2015 and successfully maintained processes to internationally recognised systems standards. In all of the above certifications. line with this, the International Standards Organisation (ISO) has accredited the CTICC for the following standards: • ISO 9001 (Quality Management) • ISO 14001 (Environmental Management) • OHSAS 18001 (Occupational Health & Safety Management). 14 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Awards: recognition by our peers and industry During the year under review, we received a number of industry awards, including those listed below: • Top 40 Women in Meetings Incentive Conference Exhibitions (MICE) Award: CTICC CEO Julie-May Ellingson has been recognised for her contribution to the business events industry and although only being at the helm of the CTICC for a year at the time, grabbed the media’s attention and received the Newsmaker of the Year Award. Esmaré Steinhöfel, former CTICC Business Development Manager: International and now Regional Director Africa for ICCA, also scooped a Top 40 Women in MICE Award for her influential role in the industry. • Top500 Companies Award: The CTICC has scooped first place in the Top500 Companies, Exhibition and Conference Facilities category. • Southern African Association for the Conference Industry (SAACI) Best Venue 2016: For a third consecutive year, the CTICC has been voted Best Venue, winning top honours and receiving the Members Choice Award for Best Top 40 Women in MICE Award Conferencing and Events Venue 2016. It is the third consecutive year that the CTICC has been voted SAACI Best Venue in the Members Choice Awards for Best SAACI Best Venue Award Conference and Events Venue. Memberships and Associations: the power of partnership The CTICC is a member of the following associations: 1. International Association of Congress Centres (AIPC) 2. International Congress and Convention Association (ICCA) 3. The Global Association of the Exhibition Industry (UFI) 4. Meeting Professionals International (MPI) 5. Southern African Association for the Conference Industry (SAACI) 6. Exhibition Association of Southern Africa (EXSA) 7. Federated Hospitality Association of Southern Africa (FEDHASA) 8. Cape Town Tourism (CTT) 9. Cape Chamber of Commerce and Industry (CCCI) 10. Green Building Council of South Africa (GBCSA) 11. South African Event Greening Forum (EGF) 12. Proudly South Africa (PSA) Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 15 CTICC East: Construction in progress July 2015 July 2016 16 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report CTICC EAST Engineering students working on the CTICC East construction site Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 17 CTICC East: expanding to welcome the world The CTICC, City of Cape Town and the Western Cape Government are investing R832m into the Foreshore area as part of our expansion project, commonly known as CTICC East. The expansion is approximately 31 000m2 in extent and consists of 10 000m2 of conference and exhibition space, as well as a further 3 000m2 of formal and informal meeting space. In addition, we will be constructing a sky bridge across the Heerengracht to connect CTICC West with CTICC East, as well as a tunnel to connect the two buildings’ service areas. The main facilities include the following: 10 000m2 double-story exhibition space, sub-divisible into six halls, three halls per floor; four meeting suites; five meeting pod rooms and two terrace rooms. Bulk earthworks for the expansion were completed in the year under review. The main construction is expected to be completed towards the end of 2016, with commissioning taking place in February and March 2017. The expansion will allow the CTICC to host much larger events and it will also increase the number of events we can host concurrently. Furthermore, the expansion will provide the necessary capacity for our clients who wish to expand and grow their events. CTICC East construction material As at 22 June 2016: 2 338 336 bricks Jobs created As at 22 June 2016: Over 100 000 pockets of cement 1 019 total jobs created to date 20 609m3 concrete 1 087 tons of structural steel 833 Black (81.7% of total) 3 700m2 of stone cladding 24 000m2 58 51 of screed on walls, Female Black female floors and ceilings (9.6% of total) 21 Students (2015 & 2016) 213km 157km of electric of data cabling cabling 18 20 Black students Female students 2 188 data jacks 1 201 904 Total man-hours for all R832m staff on the project to date as at 22 June 2016 budget 18 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report 4 4 floors meeting suites CTICC East 6 3 in figures halls main kitchens 31 148m2 3 floor area in total 2 halls per floor terrace rooms 10 000m 2 additional conference 5 1 and exhibition space meeting pod rooms sky bridge CTICC East comparisions Brickwork 515km Steel 2 338 336 bricks from 1 087 tonnes of structural steel 220mm long Cape Town to Plettenberg Bay 155 African Male Bull Elephants Stone cladding (av. 7 000kg each) 3 700m2 stone cladding 20 would cover half a Southern Right Whales (av. 55 000kg each) rugby pitch Cabling Concrete 20 609m3 of concrete, each m3 157km of data cabling 213km of electric cabling weighing 2 130kg from Cape Town from Cape Town 43 897 170kg to Robertson to Swellendam 370km of cabling (both combined) 43 897 tonnes from 800 6 270 Cape Town Southern Right Whales African Male Bull to (av. 55 000kg each) Elephants Mossel Bay (av. 7 000kg each) Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 19 IFED World Congress of the International Federation of Aesthetic Dentistry 2015 20 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report OUR WORK: reaching out across the globe Reviewing the 504 events of in 2015/16, compared to 1.36m in 2014/15, a 36% decline. The decline is largely attributable to fewer exhibitor and other 2015/16 event days, i.e. shorter exhibitions and consequent lower The CTICC hosted 504 events during the 2015/16 financial exhibition attendance. year, exceeding its target of 500 events once again. The total The underlying causes of the reduction in delegate days are, number of 39 international conferences is a robust increase however, more structural. During the financial year we saw on the 32 hosted during 2014/15 and the most international government cost measures impose restrictions on conference conferences we have held since 2011. Indeed, the CTICC attendance. In addition, visa regulations on travel into the hosts the highest number of international association events country have affected international delegate attendance. in Africa. Moreover, poor economic conditions worldwide have reduced The increase in international conferences can be attributed budgets for conference trade across the board. All of these to growth in the small (less than 500 delegates) and medium factors have affected our business and our delegate numbers (between 500 and 1 000 delegates) conference bands. The in particular. overall number of delegates who attended international conferences was 43 219, second only to the maximum of The introduction of pharmaceutical codes of conduct and 45 576 who attended international conferences in 2007. This changes in healthcare compliance in the USA, UK and Europe is also a marked increase on international conference delegate are negatively impacting on the number of both local and numbers for 2014/15 of 35 091. international medical professionals attending conferences. There is little difference in the number of national congresses The “pharma codes” regulate how commercial healthcare compared to the last two years – just one more in 2015/16: companies (pharmaceutical or medical technology firms) 28 in all. There were, however, fewer delegates. The reduction interact with healthcare professionals. The codes of conduct in the number of delegates is largely the result of less large have meant that a greater number of healthcare professionals national congresses (more than 500 delegates). Total delegates would have to self-fund attendance to medical conferences. at national congresses amounted to 16 624 in 2014/15 This is affecting associations and venues across the world. compared to 12 556 in 2015/16. Congress duration was also lower than in previous years. In summary, while there were more international congresses and trade fairs, there were less delegates and visitors There were more trade fairs (19 vs 14) and trade fair delegate attending these and the other event types. The duration of days increased from 484 126 in 2014/15 to 582 036 days in the international and national congresses was also shorter than 2015/16. There was also an increase in the number of special in previous years, which is in line with international trends events hosted. All other event segments declined. and impacts directly on the economic contribution of these Total visitor days across all segments amounted to 875 297 event types. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 21 Events that offer a gateway into Africa and beyond Events hosted by the CTICC per event segment: 2015/16 International conferences 39 Film shoots National and other meetings 338 28 conferences 504 15 Special events 37 Total events Exhibitions Banquets 28 19 Trade fairs The City and Western Cape Government have placed a Many of the events we hosted in the 2015/16 financial year, priority on strengthening Cape Town and the Western Cape’s especially the 39 international conferences, included these competitiveness and potential through the promotion of nine catalytic sectors, as demonstrated by the case studies on pages key sectors for trade, investment and growth: 23 to 32. In addition, we continue to attract national and local meetings, exhibitions and events in a range of other sectors • Agro-processing ranging from film and media to consumer interest. • Finance As a particular emphasis this year, we are showcasing a series • Health and medical technology of case studies that demonstrate our commitment to extend • ICT our reach into Africa and the world beyond. As such, we have focused on international events, reinforcing Cape Town’s • Metals, tooling and niche engineering position as the number one city in Africa for international • Mining, oil and gas conferences. These events made substantial connections and • Retail brought together people from all over the world to further their particular contributions to their fields and the planet. • The green economy, including renewable energy They all left real legacies within South Africa and on our • Tourism and events. African continent. 22 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Meetings that extend our reach, embrace Africa and welcome the world International Conference of the World Veterinary Poultry Association (WVPA) 2015 South Africa’s The 46th Union International World Conference Renewable on Lung Health Energy 2015 Conference (SAIREC) 2015 International conference case studies 47th Congress of the International Going Global Society of 2016 Paediatric Oncology (SIOP) 2015 39 International 2nd World Africa Travel Week 2016 conferences Seabird Conference 2015 World Council of 18th Annual Enterostomal Therapists AfricaCom 2015 (WCET™) Congress 2016 Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 23 Our Work Working together to keep poultry farming healthy International Conference of the World Veterinary Poultry Association (WVPA) 2015 WVPA congresses bring together hundreds of poultry health professionals, including a strong representation of poultry veterinarians. This congress provided delegates with great educational and networking opportunities, as well as the chance to meet with the world’s leading suppliers of poultry veterinary products. The WVPA is a global partnership, founded over 50 years ago, whose objective is to organise meetings to share information on diseases and conditions relating to the avian species, to Dates: encourage research and information exchange, and to establish 7 – 11 September 2015 and maintain links with other bodies with related interests. The conference programme highlighted the increasingly important role of poultry veterinarians in areas such as biosecurity, health and end-product quality. Key topics of the Sector: scientific presentations included the changing pathology of Agro-processing and Veterinary Health the infectious bronchitis virus; the importance of avian flu control; and the need to control Newcastle Disease in Africa in particular. Vaccine development was therefore a major focus of the conference. “A study by the Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations found that In an African context, Dr Rosa Costa, from the KYEEMA vaccinating backyard chickens in Africa Foundation in Mozambique, spoke about the importance of improving production in small-scale poultry farms and said against Newcastle Disease reduced mortalities that interventions that focused on the vaccination of chickens by up to 80 per cent and increased farmer against Newcastle Disease Virus proved the most successful. earnings.” This is particularly important for South Africa, which is struggling to combat Newcastle Disease. Dr Rosa Costa, KYEEMA Foundation, Mozambique 24 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Renewable energy reducing poverty and generating income South Africa’s International Renewable Energy Conference (SAIREC) 2015 The International Renewable Energy Conference (IREC) provides a global platform for government, private sector and civil society leaders to advance renewable energy. In October 2015, South Africa became the sixth country, and the first in Africa, to host IREC, using the theme RE-energising Africa. Convened by the Renewable Energy Policy Network for the 21st Century (REN21), IREC is a high-level political conference series hosted by a national government. The Conference Declaration provided a solutions-driven agenda Dates: for the upcoming United Nations climate change conference, 4 – 7 October 2015 positioning renewable energy as central to improving global energy access and energy security while mitigating greenhouse gas emissions and driving sustainable development. South Africa’s Minister of Energy, Tina Joemat-Pettersson, gave a rousing closing address to the conference, committing Sector: herself to acting as a champion for renewable energy, including Green Economy/Renewable Energy adding 1 500MW to the Northern Cape as a SAIREC legacy project. The Minister stressed the role of renewable energy in eradicating poverty. “To date, renewable energy projects in South Africa have resulted in 20 000 job years for South Africans and attracted R192.6bn in investment. Furthermore, independent power producers have committed a total of R19.1bn towards socio-economic development initiatives in communities in which they operate, contributing to livelihoods and income generation.” Tina Joemat-Pettersson, South African Minister of Energy Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 25 Raising the profile of paediatric oncology in the region 47th Congress of the International Society of Paediatric Oncology (SIOP) 2015 The International Society of Paediatric Oncology (SIOP) was founded in the late 1960s. It has a simple vision: no child should die of cancer. SIOP has become a vibrant global organisation with over 1 000 members and its annual meeting is the largest paediatric oncology gathering in the world. This was the first time the congress was held in sub-Saharan Africa. Attended by 1 432 physicians, nurses, parents and survivors from 94 countries, the meeting celebrated scientific advances in the field and also focused on childhood cancer Dates: in lowand middle-income countries, where 70% of these 8 – 11 October 2015 children live and the vast majority of deaths occur. Gratifyingly, 35% of participants hailed from Africa, Asia and the Pacific. Local paediatric units at Tygerberg and Red Cross hospitals care for about 180 new cancer cases a year, with the Western Sector: Cape and Gauteng delivering cancer care comparable with Health and medical technology high-income countries. A two-day paediatric oncology fellows’ education workshop, hosted by Groote Schuur and Red Cross Children’s hospitals, also took place prior to the conference. “The conference attracted significant media attention, raising the profile of paediatric oncology in the region. It is hoped that the high profile advocacy symposium, attended by WHO Assistant Director-General for Non-communicable Diseases and Mental Health, Oleg Chestnov, and Ghanaian Health Minister, Alexander Segbefia, will reap dividends in terms of resource allocation and access to treatment.” Professor Alan Davidson, Chair of the local organising committee and CTICC ambassador 26 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Our Work Our Work Reducing by-catch, saving our birds, conserving our wildlife 2nd World Seabird Conference 2015 The 2nd World Seabird Conference Programme was hosted by the World Seabird Union and The African Seabird Group. Themed Seabirds: Global Sentinels, it welcomed 600 delegates from more than 50 countries and featured over 400 presentations by over 1 700 individual authors. These presentations provided insight into how to advance the science, research, collaboration and management of seabirds in the coming years and, in particular, the challenge of seabird by-catch by the fishing industry. A special effort was made to help fund early career scientists to be able to attend, participate and to have a chance to meet Dates: and create options for future collaborations with established 26 – 30 October 2015 scientists from around the world. More than 60 scientists and managers from South Africa attended. The conference began with an opening address by the eminent British primatologist Jane Goodall and concluded at the Sector: banquet dinner with the attendees rising to her challenge to Green economy hear everyone’s seabird sounds. A series of legacy workshops was also convened to facilitate improved interaction between seabird groups and to establish “Perhaps the most precedent-setting new better opportunities and systems for assembling and linking data. Additional goals included improving access and utilisation approach that occurred was the Twitter of seabird data at a regional and global level and discussing Conference: this is the first time a major scientific new approaches to conservation, especially outcome-based conference included a Twitter Conference and options. has since spawned more Twitter Conferences.” Marischal De Armond, De Armond Management Ltd Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 27 African connectivity continues to bring the world to Cape Town 18th Annual AfricaCom 2015 Attended by some of the most switched-on minds in Africa, with over 350 high-level speakers and an exhibition showcase for more than 375 of the world’s most innovative telecommunications brands, AfricaCom returned to the CTICC in 2015 and remains the biggest technology event in Africa. It gathers together 800 senior decision-makers from global digital brands and reports on cutting-edge developments. Delegates include leading operators, smart new players, content providers, regulators, vendors and more. AfricaCom is both a conference and an exhibition – one that attracted over 7 000 visitors. As such, it helps players old and new to Dates: meet the right people and make the right decisions to create 17 – 19 November 2015 new futures. Household names like Facebook, Firefox, Google, Hewlett Packard, NEC and Orange attend without fail. New trends emerge as a matter of course – three particularly relevant to Africa include additional submarine cabling to Sector: enhance broadband, the move towards 5G to facilitate the ICT internet of things and the advent of the solar-powered mobile phone charger. And networking – in every sense – abounds. As it has for “This is a great show. And for us we’ll definitely the nine years that AfricaCom has chosen to partner with the look to be here again next year because it’s rare CTICC. It is also keen to expand into the new CTICC East building in 2017. that you can get people again from as far north as Egypt down to Botswana, South Africa in one place.” John Bernard, Global Marketing Director, Firefox 28 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Improving the quality of wound management and stomaltherapy World Council of Enterostomal Therapists (WCET™) Congress 2016 The congress welcomed almost 900 delegates from 56 countries to “embrace the circle of life” theme and focused on new ideas on stoma, wound and continence management. The circle indicates a “hole” and the “whole”, within the framework of the enterostomal family, a dedicated “family” understanding their part in a collective effort to bring quality into this “circle of life”. In 2016, 14 nurses received awards and scholarships to attend the congress and five nurses received scholarships to attend stoma, wound and continence training programmes. Many Dates: more nurses have received membership scholarships, as well 13 – 16 March 2016 as general scholarships. Besides the educational sessions, congress delegates attended various educational tours to and site visits of the Red Cross War Memorial Children’s Hospital, the Heart of Cape Town Museum Sector: and Groote Schuur Hospital, as well as the Baphumelele Health and Medical Technology Children’s Home in Khayelitsha. These tours allowed the delegates to gain insight into medical practices in Cape Town and the Western Cape. WCET™ also had the opportunity to network with several organisations dedicated to the needs of “Thank you for a quality conference. A beneficial persons with diabetes in Africa. opportunity has been the local tours such as you provided, e.g. the Red Cross Hospital. These available experiences allowed an opportunity to gain insight into international health provision. Thank you again for the South African experience.” Rebecca Foot-Connolly, Delegate from Australia Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 29 Our Work Continuously catching the African travel wave in Cape Town Africa Travel Week 2016 From Botswana to Mauritius, Senegal to Zambia, the Seychelles to Ethiopia, the continent of Africa was represented at Africa Travel Week 2016, which attracted 5 000 delegates and visitors. This was the third year in which the CTICC played host to this must-attend event for tourism professionals in Africa. Africa Travel Week generates millions of rands for exhibitors every year and serves to boost the local and continental tourism industry. Prominent SA political commentator Justice Malala opened the programme with an overview of today’s Africa, highlighting technology growth on the continent as well as Africa’s growing Dates: middle class and considerable female consumer power. 6 – 8 April 2016 Africa Travel Week is essentially three travel and tourism industry shows in one. The three co-located shows kicked off with ILTM Africa, a table-top event focusing on the luxury market. Buyers from 28 countries – of which 93% were first time participants – took part in over 4 500 one-to-one Sector: appointments with elite sub-Saharan products. Tourism and events WTM Africa is the leading trade exhibition for Africa’s leisure travel industry. The event has grown year after year, with 2016 “We have been involved with WTM Africa since seeing over 600 inbound and outbound travel companies interacting with buyers, big business and VIPs. The seminar its inception; and at the tip of Africa it is the best programme stimulated food for thought as experts shared platform for us to reach the whole of Africa.” their insights on trends such as social media and travel, travel blogging and destination trends. Kenan Ince, General Manager: Cape Town, Turkish Airlines IBTM Africa, a one-day business traveller conference, provided African exhibitors in this field to meet face-to-face with selected senior international buyers. Thanks to the previous years’ successes, Africa Travel Week is taking place for the fourth time at the CTICC in April 2017 and will be expanding into CTICC East in future years. 30 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Grappling with the challenges of internationalised education Going Global 2016 Established by the British Council, Going Global is an annual open forum for global leaders of tertiary education to discuss issues facing the international education community. Each year it attracts leaders from across the tertiary (further and higher) education sectors and a variety of other industries with perspectives on international education. 800 delegates attended this conference. The conference examined non-compulsory education through the following lenses: • E  ducation policy: local priorities, national systems and global drivers Dates: • Economic development: skills, enterprise, research and 3 – 5 May 2016 innovation • E  ngagement: democracy, social justice and international relations. This was the first occasion that Going Global came to Sector: Africa. In particular, its location in Cape Town allowed for Education a fresh perspective based on considerable African and Arab representation at the meeting. “The conference was hosted in Cape Town to In this context it also became relevant to discuss whether a commitment to the internationalisation of education highlight the importance of the African continent outweighs the importance of local education priorities. Some and encourage collaboration and exploration speakers argued that in some countries it would be better if in the region. This has resulted in closer, stronger students learned in the context of their own cultures rather relationships – not only for the British Council but than always reaching for the golden goal of being “global for all attendees as well.” citizens”. The British Council is the UK’s international organisation for Alina Makarova, cultural relations and educational opportunities. It creates Senior Operations Manager, Going Global, British Council international opportunities for the people of the UK and other countries, building trust between them worldwide. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 31 Facing the challenge of reducing lung disease The 46th Union World Conference on Lung Health 2015 The Union World Conference on Lung Health is the world’s largest gathering of medical professionals working to reduce lung disease. It focuses specifically on the challenges faced by lowand middle-income countries where eight million people die each year from lung diseases. This is the second time the CTICC has hosted the event. The 38th meeting in 2007 attracted 2 000 delegates – a thousand more than forecasted. Cape Town excelled again in 2015, as the 46th gathering was the largest event to date (3 500 delegates attended the conference) and a record number of Dates: sessions were held over the five-day scientific programme. 2 – 6 December 2015 The theme, A New Agenda: Lung Health Beyond 2015, reflected the new Sustainable Development Goals, as well as the World Health Organisation’s new Global TB Strategy, the next phase of the Stop TB Partnership’s Global Plan to Stop TB and the growing use of e-cigarettes. The programme addressed Sector: how these new agendas will influence the inter-related fights Health and Medical Technology against TB, HIV, lung disease and non-communicable diseases, as well as the global campaign for tobacco control. “Conferences like these not only boost Africa’s Distinguished Professor in Paediatrics and Child Health at Stellenbosch University, Robert Gie, was honoured at participation, contribution and development the conference in recognition of his international work in in this very important medical field, but childhood TB. hold positive economic impact to the host This was also a conference where scientific papers shared the destination.” stage with real-life stories of hope. Some of the memorable moments came from the testimonies of courageous people Corné Koch, who shared their experiences of a life with and beyond TB. Head of the Cape Town and the Western Cape Convention Bureau, Wesgro 32 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Activity highlights across our seven event segments Exhibitions Trade Fairs Banquets Event highlights Special Events International Conferences Other Events National Conferences Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 33 Exhibitions Cape Town Art Fair 2016 34 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report 15 Exhibitions held for the year under review Month Event Pax Jul 2015 Industrial Show 2015 2 179 Jul 2015 Factory Shop Exhibition 2015 11 000 Aug 2015 Cape Homemakers Expo 2015 38 106 Sep 2015 Indo Asia International Expo 5 076 Sep 2015 SA Health and Fitness Expo 2 968 Oct 2015 Cape Town International Boat Show 2015 9 650 Oct 2015 MUDL 2 700 Nov 2015 MamaMagic, The Baby Expo 2015 13 500 Nov 2015 Seda Entrepreneurs Expo 2015 700 Feb 2016 Cape Town Art Fair 2016 12 000 Feb 2016 Cape Retirement Lifestyle and Expo 420 Mar 2016 Old Mutual Two Oceans Marathon Expo 2016 30 000 May 2016 Decorex Cape Town 2016 36 123 May 2016 Good Food and Wine Show 2016 25 890 Jun 2016 The Wedding Expo 2016 5 000 Decorex Cape Town 2016 Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 35 Banquets Global Ubuntu Awards Gala Dinner 2016 36 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report 28 Banquets held for the year under review Month Event Pax Aug 2015 Govan Mbeki Awards 820 Aug 2015 Suriya & Lavehn Wedding 280 Aug 2015 SAICA Southern Region Annual Dinner 2015 439 Sep 2015 Shell Women in Excellence Awards Gala Dinner 220 Sep 2015 DirectAxis MD Gala Dinner and Birthday Celebration 539 Sep 2015 BPeSA Regional Awards 400 Oct 2015 Veritas Wine Awards 2015 720 Nov 2015 EOH Mthombo Year End Function 1 600 Nov 2015 Direct Axis Year End Function 1 147 Dec 2015 For the Love of the Girls 350 Feb 2016 Global Ubuntu Awards Gala Dinner 2016 670 Mar 2016 IINET 2016 Annual Recognition Awards Ceremony 450 Mar 2016 Aimee Johnson’s 21st Birthday Party 67 Apr 2016 Norman Henshilwood High School 367 Apr 2016 Department of Energy 136 Apr 2016 Banderker Wedding 970 May 2016 1000 Women 1 Voice 830 May 2016 African Day Celebration 150 Norman Henshilwood High School Matric Ball Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 37 International Conferences International Conference on Emergency Medicine (ICEM) 2016 38 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report 39 International Conferences held for the year under review Month Event Pax Jul 2015 POWER-GEN Africa/DistribuTECH Africa 2015 385 Aug 2015 IFLA World Library and Information Congress 2015 | 81st IFLA General Conference and Assembly 2015 3 098 Aug 2015 General Assembly of the International Institution for Production Engineering Research (CIRP) 2015 514 Sep 2015 International Conference of the World Veterinary Poultry Association (WVPA) 2015 1 152 Sep 2015 World Youth and Student Travel Conference (WYSTC) 2015 320 Oct 2015 South Africa's International Renewable Energy Conference (SAIREC) 2015 3 800 Oct 2015 47th Congress of the International Society of Paediatric Oncology (SIOP) 2015 1 450 Oct 2015 SolarPACES Conference 2015 550 Oct 2015 2nd World Seabird Conference 2015 600 Oct 2015 22nd Africa Oil Week 2015 800 Nov 2015 World Congress of the International Federation of Aesthetic Dentistry (IFED) 2015 640 Nov 2015 World Congress on Developmental Origins of Health and Disease (DOHaD) 2015 835 Nov 2015 Esri Africa User Conference 2015 840 Nov 2015 AfricaCom 2015 7 834 Nov 2015 International Conference for Hydrography (HYDRO) 2015 230 Nov 2015 IMN's South African & African Capital Markets Conference 2015 400 Dec 2015 The 46th Union World Conference on Lung Health 2015 3 500 Dec 2015 IEEE Symposium Series on Computational Intelligence (SSCI) 2015 300 Feb 2016 12th Symposium of the International Neurotrauma Society (INTS) 2016 290 Feb 2016 Investing in African Mining Indaba 2016 5 940 Mar 2016 World Council of Enterostomal Therapists (WCETTM) Congress 2016 867 Apr 2016 COMOC – Combined Orthopaedic Associations Meeting 2016 856 Apr 2016 International Conference on Emergency Medicine (ICEM) 2016 1 915 Apr 2016 Virtuoso Symposium 2016 455 May 2016 British Council Going Global 2016 800 May 2016 14th International Congress of the International Radiation Protection Association (IRPA) 2016 980 Jun 2016 10th World Endodontics Congress (IFEA) 2016 1 000 Jun 2016 Annual Meeting of the International Society for Behavioral Nutrition and Physical Activity (ISBNPA) 2016 544 Jun 2016 The Consumer Goods Forum Global Summit 2016 810 21st World Congress of the International Society for Labour and Social Security Law Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 39 National Conferences Green Building Convention 2015 40 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report 28 National Conferences held for the year under review Month Event Pax Jul 2015 National Association of Childcare Workers Bi-annual Conference 2015 960 Jul 2015 Institute of Retirement Funds Convention 2015 856 Jul 2015 Board of Health Care Funders of Southern Africa 1 000 Aug 2015 South African Society for Clinical and Radiation Oncologists & SA Society of Medical 1 050 Oncology Congress 2015 Aug 2015 16th International Biennial Congress Cape Town, South Africa (SASCRS) 600 Sep 2015 8th Annual E-Tourism Africa Summit 357 Sep 2015 Hospital Association of South Africa Conference 2015 500 Sep 2015 Gartner Symposium/ITxpo Africa 2015 1 000 Nov 2015 The Green Building Convention 2015 690 Feb 2016 The eCommerce Africa Confex 2016 320 Feb 2016 UCT Department of Medicine Physicians Conference 2016 220 Mar 2016 The Pension Lawyers Association 2016 432 Mar 2016 Nedgroup Investments (Pty) Ltd 2016 300 Mar 2016 State Security Agency – Security Managers Forum Annual General Meeting 550 Apr 2016 SAB Marketing, Sales and Distribution Conference 2016 1 170 Jun 2016 Sanlam Life Insurance Senior Managers Conference 2016 350 eCommerce Africa Confex 2016 Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 41 Other Events Sixth Wood Conference 42 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report 338 Other Events held for the year under review Month Event Pax Jul 2015 Momentum DNA of Financial Wellness Roadshow 322 Jul 2015 Shell Real Estate Portfolio Review 200 Jul 2015 Engen CEO Review 1 100 Aug 2015 Exploring Emotions 525 Aug 2015 Old Mutual Advice Road Show 950 Aug 2015 COSATU Pensioners Day 1 200 Aug 2015 Truworths Annual Citations/Awards Ceremony 900 Aug 2015 Naspers AGM 120 Aug 2015 Media24 AGM 180 Sep 2015 Sanlam Private Wealth Client Presentation & Cocktail 400 Sep 2015 Employment Equity Roadshow 645 Sep 2015 Liberty Challenge Roadshow 900 Sep 2015 SMME Opportuntiy Roadshow 250 Sep 2015 Microsoft Dev Day H1 Q1 & Q2 CPT Event 150 Oct 2015 Investec Asset Management – Taking Stock 700 Oct 2015 First International Symposium on Fisheries Crime 2015 140 Oct 2015 Juta's Annual Labour Law Seminar 2015 130 Oct 2015 State of the Nation with Clem Sunter, Justice Malala and Host Stephen Grootes 210 Oct 2015 Allan Gray IFA Roadshow 2015 500 Oct 2015 PwC Oil & Gas Africa Week 80 Nov 2015 Vodacom CEO Roadshow 600 Nov 2015 COSATU – Proudly South African 1 350 Nov 2015 Manufacturing Indaba – Western Cape 220 Nov 2015 Professor Mervyn King: Corporate Governance 2 50 Nov 2015 Group CEO Roadshow 1 550 Nov 2015 Ethics for All – the Annual MPS Ethics Event 2015 1 400 Nov 2015 Canon Roadshow 751 Dec 2015 CFA Exams 462 Dec 2015 Woolworths Leadership Day 170 Jan 2016 VinPro Inligtingsdag 2016 600 Jan 2016 SAICA Tax Update Seminar 320 Jan 2016 Queen Elizabeth – Passenger Turnaround 800 Feb 2016 DAFF ABALONE Indaba 200 Feb 2016 Sixth Wood Conference 450 Feb 2016 Economy in 2016 (Standard Bank) 310 Feb 2016 STANLIB Assett Management Roadshow 180 Feb 2016 Budget Speech 2016 (Grant Thornton) 300 Feb 2016 Ernst and Young Budget Breakfast 185 Feb 2016 Network 21 Conference 552 Feb 2016 Discovery Budget Speech 20 Feb 2016 Herbalife Southern Africa Leadership Development Weekend 400 Mar 2016 The Competition Commission South Africa; Market Inquiries Part1 410 Mar 2016 Investec Asset Management – Taking Stock 750 Mar 2016 Internetix 2016 410 Mar 2016 The Competition Commision of South Africa; Market Inquiries 2 100 Apr 2016 BMW International Conference 2016 30 Apr 2016 UBER Conference 250 Apr 2016 Sanlam Roadshow 2016 550 Apr 2016 Queen Victoria – Passenger Turnaround 1 097 May 2016 Canon Roadshow 680 May 2016 The 7th Annual Rural Development Conference 100 May 2016 Huawei Middle East African Joint Services Summit 150 May 2016 State of the Nation Breakfast Series 2016 763 Jun 2016 Allan Gray Direct Client Investment Seminar 650 Jun 2016 CFA Exams 720 Jun 2016 Informal Economy and Micro-enterprise Summit 207 Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 43 Special Events The Cape Town International Jazz Festival 2016 44 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report 37 Special Events held for the year under review Month Event Pax Jul 2015 The Demartini Human Institute – 6 Proven Strategies to Great Relationships 150 Jul 2015 A Very Special SOLO Evening with Joan Armatrading 2 560 Aug 2015 Robert Kiyosaki Live in SA 960 Aug 2015 Farid Ayaz 955 Aug 2015 Each One Teach One Womens Group – When I think about the Lord Women's Conference 2015 414 Aug 2015 Nedbank Cape Winemakers Guild Showcase 405 Sep 2015 Cedar House 800 Sep 2015 Discovery Health Launch 1 100 Oct 2015 Santa Shoebox Project 2015 4 368 Nov 2015 Spirit Revelation International Ministers’ Conference 1 457 Dec 2015 Boyz ll Men & Joe: The Hits Live in South Africa Tour 5 500 Dec 2015 Marimba's New Year's Party 3 000 Feb 2016 Cultures of China, Festival of Spring 1 200 Feb 2016 El-Shaddai Cape Town Launch 1 195 Mar 2016 El-Shaddai Church 130 Mar 2016 El-Shaddai Church 110 Mar 2016 El-Shaddai Church 105 Mar 2016 El-Shaddai Church 150 Apr 2016 Cape Town International Jazz Festival 2016 37 000 Apr 2016 Jimmy Carr 3 000 Apr 2016 Sinai Indaba X 1 000 Apr 2016 El-Shaddai Church 129 May 2016 El-Shaddai Church 268 May 2016 El-Shaddai Church 189 May 2016 Peace is Possible 400 May 2016 Jireh Music and Movement 2016 785 Jun 2016 Old Mutual Trophy Wine Show 2016 300 Jun 2016 8th Shiraz Showcase 324 Boyz ll Men & Joe: The Hits Live in South Africa Tour Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 45 Trade Fairs Source Africa 2016 46 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report 19 Trade Fairs held for the year under review Month Event Pax Aug 2015 Cape Construction Expo 2015 1 850 Aug 2015 SPAR Trade Show 2015 500 Sep 2015 Shoprite Checkers Christmas Conference and Supplier Awards 450 Sep 2015 Africa Waste Business Conference & Exhibition 2015 60 Sep 2015 Sign Africa 2015 1 725 Sep 2015 2015 My Business Expo 1 500 Sep 2015 Cape Wine 2015 1 500 Nov 2015 ATF Expo 2015 2 300 Jan 2016 Cape Premier Yearling Sale 2016 5 000 Mar 2016 The Council for Leather Exports (CLE) India Leather and Footwear Expo 150 Mar 2016 Professional Beauty Cape Town 2 315 Apr 2016 Africa Travel Week 2016 5 000 Apr 2016 SPAR Trade Show 2016 500 May 2016 Sign Africa 2016 1 202 May 2016 African Utility Week 2016 6 445 Jun 2016 Source Africa 2016 1 273 SPAR Trade show Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 47 48 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report ECONOMY: CONTRIBUTING TO THE FUTURE Maintaining a steady and profitable course In 2015/16 the CTICC achieved record financial results, achieving over R209m in revenue for the first time in its history and improving EBITDA from R52m in 2014/15 to R57m. That it should achieve these figures at a time of considerable global economic turmoil is no small achievement. This financial success was as a result of a healthy year-on-year increase in revenue from R197m in 2014/15 to R209m in the past year. Both profit before tax and net profit also rose from R60m and R42m in 2014/15 to R67m and R47m in the year under review. Our profitability remains significantly driven by our ability to contain costs, which has saved us R17m across all cost categories, including R1m saving on utilities alone. As a result, our operating costs of R177m were 9% below our budget of R197m for the financial year, compared to a 9% figure below budget for last year. R209m revenue from operations including other income (2014/15: R197m) R57m R47m EBITDA (2014/15: R52m) net profit after tax (2014/15: R42m) Financial highlights for the 2015/16 year R67m profit before tax (2014/15: R60m) Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 49 14th International Congress of the International Radiation Protection Association (IRPA) Making our mark on the economy The CTICC remains both a geographic and economic icon in tourist and business profile of the city and province through Cape Town’s vibrant CBD. Its location on the city’s Foreshore induced tourism, defined as the permanent and ongoing boost district has uplifted the precinct from the day it opened its given to tourism when some convention delegates return as doors. Indeed, it continues to do so, directly through the rising tourists or become regular visitors to Cape Town. promise of the CTICC East expansion, which will give it the The tables overleaf indicate our continuing economic opportunity to increase its economic impact. contribution, which has cumulatively risen over the last 13 years to R32.5bn in terms of contribution to national Gross As the CTICC reached its 13th year of operation, our networks Domestic Product (GDP), and nearly as much in terms of through Africa and out into the world have matured. As our contribution to regional Gross Geographic Product (GGP). This figures show, international events are on the up and there is contribution can only rise as the full economic growth effects no doubt that they bring opportunity, income and influence of the CTICC East expansion come on stream during 2017. with them. In 2016 induced tourism generated by the CTICC resulted In recent years there has been a meshing of the events that in approximately 603 000 international tourist days, which have been hosted by the CTICC and their contribution to the is higher than in previous years and is a function of both the ongoing development of economic policy in Cape Town and number and type of events previously held at the CTICC and the Western Cape. Legacies have been left and exchanges the increase in the duration of visitor stays in South Africa. profitably made. Our case studies this year, which are detailed The latest SA Tourism survey found that international tourists on pages 23 to 32, are examples of this. More and more spent 9.5 days on a visit to South Africa, up from 7.7 the our choice of events focuses the efforts of the CTICC on previous year. maximising the social synergies with local targeted policy on In addition, our contribution to the critical economic goal of economic growth. job creation continues to grow, boosted by our CTICC East Expansion construction programme, which has also created Creating jobs, growing 1 019 jobs since building commenced in 2007. A total of 7 758 direct and indirect jobs have been sustained this year, tourism and boosting with 3 233 direct jobs sustained in the Western Cape and economic growth 4 525 indirect jobs sustained nationally. The significant contribution of the CTICC to the economies of In short, the CTICC continues to make a significant contribution the City of Cape Town, the Western Cape and South Africa is to the economies of the Western Cape and South Africa, a matter of record. The bulk of this contribution comes from despite the tough economic conditions facing South Africa direct CTICC operations, but we also add value by raising the and the world. 50 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Highlights of the CTICC’s 2015/16 economic contribution Other economic benefits of the CTICC R209m Apart from the macroeconomic effects discussed, there revenue R57m are many other macroeconomic effects that flow from (including other income) EBITDA the CTICC. In the year under review, these included an estimated: R67m R47m R619m profit before tax in foreign exchange net profit after tax earnings R3.5bn R3.0bn R1.8bn contributed to contributed to in indirect national GDP Western Cape GGP household income 3 233 direct employment opportunities R340m created in the Western Cape in taxes 4 525 The financial contributions for 2015/16 mean that we have now made a cumulative economic contribution of: indirect employment opportunities created across South Africa Total R32.5bn R28.8bn to national GDP to Western Cape GGP 7 758 direct and indirect employment opportunities created across South Africa Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 51 Summary of the CTICC’s overall economic contribution1 The following table summarises the economic benefits of the CTICC via capital expenditure, operational expenditure, host/organiser expenditure, exhibitor expenditure, delegate expenditure and induced tourism. It includes contributions to GDP, GGP, direct and indirect job creation, indirect household income, net forex earnings and delegate/visitor days. Macroeconomic contribution for the 2016 financial year GDP GGP Direct Indirect Direct & Indirect Net Delegate & Rand million, 2016 Prices WC Jobs SA Jobs Indirect H-hold Forex Visitor Taxes Income Earnings Days CTICC Capital Expenditure 490 453 491 702 50 273 CTICC Operational Expenditure 77 130 74 91 18 38 Host/Organiser Expenditure 102 29 42 130 11 56 Exhibitor Expenditure 330 229 142 360 32 166 Delegate Expenditure 1 403 1 360 1 590 1 850 124 709 Sub-total 2 402 2 201 2 339 3 133 235 1 242 Induced Tourism 1 137 822 894 1 392 105 572 Total Contribution 2016 3 539 3 023 3 233 4 525 340 1 814 619 875 297 Total Contribution 2015 3 481 3 140 3 659 4 623 328 1 767 641 1 363 523 1. This report includes the capital expenditure on CTICC East. This was not done in the previous report. Caution must therefore be used when comparing this report with those of previous years. CTICC contribution to national gross domestic product Operations at the CTICC (including capital and operational expenditure, as well as hosts, organisers, exhibitors and delegates) contributed R2.4bn to national GDP. The effect of induced tourism added a further R1.1bn to national GDP, bringing the total economic contribution made by the CTICC for the 2015/16 financial year to R3.5bn. Contribution to Gross Domestic Product – South Africa Rand million, normal prices Known Financial Year FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 CTICC Capital Expenditure 14 45 63 127 490 CTICC Operational Expenditure 57 60 72 71 77 Host/Organiser Expenditure 61 75 80 82 102 Exhibitor Expenditure 174 225 226 270 330 Delegate Expenditure 1 414 1 695 1 690 1 974 1 403 Sub-total 1 720 2 100 2 131 2 524 2 402 Induced Tourism 825 909 974 957 1 137 Total Contribution to GDP 2 545 3 009 3 105 3 481 3 539 Cumulative Contribution 19 357 22 366 25 471 28 952 32 491 Real Contribution – 2016 Prices 3 164 3 539 3 438 3 671 3 539 Over the last 13 years we have made a cumulative contribution of R32.5bn to national GDP. 52 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report CTICC contribution to regional gross geographic product Operations at the CTICC (including capital and operational expenditure, as well as hosts, organisers, exhibitors and delegates) contributed R2.2bn to Western Cape GGP. The effect of induced tourism added a further R822m to GGP, bringing the total economic contribution made by the CTICC for the 2015/16 financial year to R3.0bn. Contribution to Gross Geographic Product – Western Cape Rand million, normal prices Known Financial Year FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 CTICC Capital Expenditure 8 36 51 111 453 CTICC Operational Expenditure 101 103 123 123 130 Host / Organiser Expenditure 22 26 25 25 29 Exhibitor Expenditure 121 156 157 187 229 Delegate Expenditure 1 360 1 618 1 594 1 853 1 360 Sub-total 1 612 1 939 1 950 2 299 2 201 Induced Tourism 671 742 853 841 822 Total Contribution to GGP 2 283 2 681 2 803 3 140 3 023 Cumulative Contribution 17 163 19 844 22 647 25 787 28 810 Creation of direct employment opportunities in the Western Cape In the 2015/16 financial year, the CTICC sustained 3 233 direct jobs in the Western Cape. Contribution to Provincial Direct Jobs – Western Cape Known Financial Year FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 CTICC Capital Expenditure 21 57 75 138 491 CTICC Operational Expenditure 57 62 71 68 74 Host / Organiser Expenditure 32 37 37 36 42 Exhibitor Expenditure 90 109 104 119 142 Delegate Expenditure 1 996 2 266 2 098 2 332 1 590 Sub-total 2 196 2 531 2 385 2 693 2 339 Induced Tourism 907 950 1 028 966 894 Total Direct to Jobs 3 103 3 481 3 413 3 659 3 233 Over the last 13 years we have made a cumulative contribution of R28.8bn to Western Cape GGP. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 53 SEDA Annual Entrepreneurs Expo Creation of indirect employment opportunities nationally In the 2015/16 financial year, the CTICC sustained 4 525 indirect jobs in South Africa. Contribution to National Indirect Jobs – South Africa Known Financial Year FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 CTICC Capital Expenditure 23 73 96 189 702 CTICC Operational Expenditure 82 83 94 88 91 Host / Organiser Expenditure 96 112 112 110 130 Exhibitor Expenditure 236 288 272 309 360 Delegate Expenditure 2 288 2 583 2 432 2 692 1 850 Sub-total 2 725 3 139 3 006 3 388 3 133 Induced Tourism 1 254 1 309 1 320 1 235 1 392 Total Indirect to Jobs 3 979 4 448 4 326 4 623 4 525 54 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Key Performance Indicators: more than just numbers The success of the business is measured by far more than figures. As an important strategic asset of the City of Cape Town and Western Cape Government, the CTICC has a responsibility to deliver on a variety of targets agreed with our majority shareholder. These targets take the form of a comprehensive set of Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) that has been agreed between Convenco and the City. Importantly, while these KPIs set out organisational priorities and objectives, they are also used to inform the departmental, team and individual performance assessment criteria across our business. In the 2015/16 financial year, we once again exceeded all our KPIs, thereby ensuring that we continue to serve as a valuable contributor to the City’s achievement of its strategic objectives. Category Measurement Target Actual 2016 2016 1 Events Number of events hosted compared to annual 500 504 budgeted target Events Number of international events hosted compared 32 39 to budgeted target 2 Human Capital Development Percentage of annual total salary cost spend on 5% 6.9% training of permanent and temporary staff 3 Customer Centricity and 75% of minimum aggregate score for all CTICC 75% 84% Service Excellence internal departments and external suppliers 4 Supply Chain Procurement Percentage spend not lower than 50% 50% 92.8% from B-BBEE suppliers measured ito of B-BBEE Act 5 Budget Operating Profit Percentage achievement of annual budgeted 100% 279.4% operating profit Capital Projects Percentage of the total number of capital projects 80% 100% for the year completed or committed Capital Expenditure Maintain five star tourism grading through Achieve Five Star Five Star Tourism effective management of maintenance and quality Tourism Grading Grading Council of service delivery Council Achieved Capital Expenditure (CTICC Percentage of total capital expenditure spend 90% 99.2% East Expansion Programme) 6 Governance External Audit Report Unqualified Audit Report for 2014/15 financial year Unqualified Unqualified Audit Report Audit Report for 2014/15 financial year achieved Minimum Competency Level Number of senior managers registered for MFMA 7 12 Competency Course Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 55 A growing commitment to businesses. Where possible, we prefer to use local suppliers, as long as the procurement procedures fall within MFMA enterprise development regulations and meet its competitive pricing requirements. At the CTICC we appreciate the need for economic structural We define local suppliers as those situated within the borders transformation in South Africa. We place a high value on of the Western Cape. working with SMME suppliers, B-BBEE and women-owned A total of R522.1m, or 92.8% of total procurement was with enterprises. As a municipal entity we are obliged to comply locally based suppliers in the 2015/16 financial year. This is with the Municipal Finance Management Act of South Africa, slightly higher than the 90.3% of the previous financial year 2003 (Act 56 of 2003) and we adhere to the accompanying and shows that our proactive procurement practices are having Supply Chain Regulations. a positive impact. In line with our ongoing commitment to help develop businesses in our sector and beyond, our B-BBEE spend for Capital expenditure: the 2015/16 financial year was over R522.4m. It currently amounts to 92.8% of our total spend, compared with investing to compete for 86.4% in 2014/15. Based on the previous financial year, the the future percentage has increased by 6.4%. This is a pleasing result In the events and tourism sector, nothing stays the same. bearing in mind that the previous year’s figure was already very New entrants come into the market, like the new Century high. The spend itself is also significantly up on the R263m of City Conference Centre locally and Kigali International the previous year – an increase of 98%. Convention Centre in Rwanda, and established ones upgrade Procurement via SMME suppliers for this period was at 29.45% constantly. We have no choice but to do the same, simply to of our total procurement spend. stay competitive. Procurement from women-owned companies represented At the CTICC we recognise that economic sustainability is only 30% of total supplier spend for the year, up from 28% in the possible through a willingness to continually invest back into previous year. our product offering and infrastructure. To this end, over the past financial year, we have continued to invest significantly Supporting local suppliers into enhancing our systems, processes, services, infrastructure and facilities via a total of 26 large capital investment projects. While the Municipal Finance Management Act (MFMA) places limitations on preferential treatment of suppliers, A total of 25 projects were initiated in the period under due consideration is given to the B-BBEE status, SMME review with a further project carried over from the previous status, sustainability criteria (where relevant) and location of financial year. CTICC capital project expenditure in 2015/16 Carry Over 2014/15 2015/16 Consolidated 2015/16 Total capex projects planned 1 25 26 Actual capex projects completed/in progress 1 25 26 Percentage projects achieved 100% 100% 100% Percentage unattained 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Total capex budget R4 500 000 R22 844 109 R27 344 109 Actual capex spend R4 500 000 R21 410 795 R25 910 795 Actual capex unspent R0 R1 433 313 R1 433 313 Percentage spend achieved (R) 100% 93.73% 94.76% Percentage unspent (R) 0.00% 6.27% 5.24% Health and safety: making the CTICC Risk management: backed up and ready ever safer for all eventualities • A dditional roof safety rigging points have been installed, • P ower feeds to communications rooms have been upgraded enhancing health and safety and reducing operational costs. to make use of a secondary power supply from an alternative • O ur voice evacuation system has been upgraded, enhancing power feed. the coverage in identified areas. • B  ack-up power generation capacity systems have been • A dditional security fencing has been installed, enhancing designed and procured and will be installed during the environmental safety. upcoming year. • Fire detection systems have been upgraded to utilise • E  nvironmental monitoring alarms have been installed to aspiration technology, enhancing the operation and reduce the possibility of downtime for the UPS system. detection sensitivity of the system. 56 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Network infrastructure has been procured to upgrade technology service offerings Venue enhancement: making the CTICC a • T he wireless management system and wireless connectivity better place to be infrastructure have been upgraded to provide additional capacity and enhance user experience and our service • A blution upgrades for the office section have been offering as a whole. completed. • Portable telephony (DECT) coverage has been • P rotective rails have been installed to reduce damage to the upgraded, increasing coverage and supporting the team wooden wall panels. communication systems. • T he built-in staging for Auditorium 2 has been replaced and • A ccess control, time and attendance systems have been upgraded, maintaining the quality of the offering. upgraded to a digital system. • A ccess doors have been upgraded to improve longevity and prevent damage. Sustainability: saving energy, saving • C ableway access lids have been replaced, enhancing the costs, saving the planet look and functionality of the venue. • R oadside signage has been upgraded, making use of • The audio-visual public address system coverage has been LED technology which reduces power consumption and increased within the venue. increases life span. Technology upgrades: improving the • P arking indicator signage has been replaced with LED service we offer our clients technology in the same way. • P rojection and audio facilities were permanently installed in • S pot, flood and foot lights have been upgraded to LED a meeting venue as part of a pilot project to enhance the technology, also reducing power consumption and service offering. increasing life span. • N etwork infrastructure has been procured to upgrade and enhance technology and facility service offerings. • T he CCTV system has been upgraded, enhancing technology and functional features. • T he building’s energy and power management system has been upgraded, enhancing measuring and reporting features, as well as functionality. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 57 Wine steward Commis chef Nkululeko Farren Mageman Khohlokoane Investing in our guest Culinary team flies CTICC flag at national experience: keeping ahead culinary challenge of the trends The CTICC does not shy away from challenges, especially those that showcase its prowess in the kitchen, or those that Our Food & Beverage department plays a vital role in ensuring challenge its staff to aspire to greater culinary heights. we deliver world-class experiences to our clients and visitors. The centre took on the Cape Legends Inter-Hotel Challenge This year we made even more improvements to our service 2016 which called on candidate chefs and candidate wine offerings by keeping up to date with worldwide culinary trends stewards to work together to win this prestigious culinary and purchasing sustainable and organic produce through local competition. and small business; changing how our guests interact with us by providing innovative and creative culinary set-ups; and It was the first time the CTICC was invited to participate and investing time in training our teams which ensured that our the centre was tremendously proud when it was approached clients’ needs and wants were surpassed. to enter wine steward Nkululeko Khohlokoane and commis chef Farren Mageman, who competed with wine stewards Reducing our costs and food and beverage waste were also and chefs from across South Africa. key priorities. During the period under review, we tightened our overall spend and reviewed and scrutinised several The challenge took place over five months with CTICC areas within our Food & Beverage division. We continuously Executive Chef Warwick Thomas providing Khohlokoane and reviewed how we purchased our goods; how we could better Mageman with support through every step of the rigorous control our stock, improve our preparation techniques in our process. kitchens and bars; and decrease food and beverage wastage. Candidate wine stewards participated in various workshops, We are mindful of the tough economic times we currently lectures and courses, which eventually culminated in a cooklive in and instil in our team the importance of food security, off that showcased their knowledge and skills in wine and keeping costs low, reducing food wastage and being mindful food pairing. The candidate chefs were given strict criteria and of our carbon footprint. We will continue to strive to better our very specific ingredients with which to create complicated, and offering while always bearing in mind the environment, as well sometimes unconventional, meals. as the important role we play in the Food & Beverage sector. Taking part in this prestigious challenge showed the stature and knowledge of the CTICC’s food and beverage team. It also showed the commitment the centre has to continuous staff training, skills development and exchange, and knowledge-sharing. 58 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report The CTICC’s in-house ICT team ICT comes in-house at the Over and above the 15 staff now employed in-house, specialist outsourcing is called in as third-line support, if required. CTICC: creating jobs, reaping benefits The benefits of in-housing ICT After 12 years of outsourcing ICT support, the CTICC set up 1.Ownership – almost all ICT issues are now managed and an internal ICT unit on 1 January 2016. This unit employs 15 controlled in-house. people. Previously only two CTICC permanent staff oversaw ICT: a Business Systems Administrator and an ICT Maintenance 2. Flexibility – the team can multi-task and assist each other Manager. The new unit has created 13 new jobs. across specialist areas. The new ICT Department has: 3. Turnaround time improvements – improved by internal logging system and problem prioritisation. • F our control room operators – who work 24 hours, on back-to-back shifts, programming venues, lighting, air4. Cost savings – already an 8% reduction in overall ICT costs, conditioning and CCTV. They are the eyes and ears of the with year-on-year revenue from chargeable connectivity, CTICC; networks, wireless and telephony. • Two business systems administrators, working closely 5. Sustainability benefits – KPAs are shared with all CTICC with the internal business ensuring business systems are departments and waste usage reporting has been enhanced operational; and made more reliable. • One client-facing ICT service delivery manager; 6. U pskilling efficiencies – due to on-the-job cross-learning. • S ix ICT support staff, an ICT systems administrator as team leader, overseeing three support specialists and two ICT 7. Integration efficiencies – the maintenance team is now technicians; client-facing, so greater proactivity and speed is possible in terms of solving challenges. • O ne ICT maintenance manager to monitor integration of ICT with fire detection, safety and other building systems; • One ICT manager. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 59 60 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report SOCIETY: INVESTING IN PEOPLE AND COMMUNITY Building futures by empowering our communities The CTICC is committed to its role as a responsible corporate citizen and encourages the development of local communities. The CTICC has forged strong partnerships with four community organisations, which represent communities affected by and/or related to the CTICC’s operations. These partners are: Abalimi Bezekhaya, which supports micro-farmers on the Cape Flats to grow their own organic vegetables. In addition, Harvest of Hope, Abalimi’s social business arm, has been providing the CTICC with top-of-the range organic vegetables for the past three years. Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR), which works with communities affected by foetal-alcohol syndrome disorder in South Africa. The Haven Night Shelter, which supports and shelters adult homeless people in the Cape Town area. Mitchell’s Plain School of Skills, which provides learners who have difficulties in learning at mainstream schools with the opportunity to learn practical skills. Each of these beneficiaries is the focus of our community-based initiatives during the year, along with a number of other causes which we consistently support. For the 2015/16 financial year the value of the CTICC’s community development support increased to R1 244 203 and includes support to community organisations and our bursary programme. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 61 Committed to partnering with local community organisations The CTICC ran over 20 activations with various local community partners throughout the financial year. Mitchell’s Plain School of Skills For our Mandela Day “Teach” activation we donated materials, carpets and furniture to Mitchell’s Plain School of Skills. In May, we donated dozens of boxes of chocolates for Wesley Guild Youth Projects Grandparents Day. We donated stationery and event material to this youth development project. Haven Night Shelter For our Mandela Day “Nurture” activation we donated paint and food, as well as garden tools. We sponsored venues for the organisation’s board meetings, and donated food on several occasions. On Homeless Day we sponsored materials and maintenance services to refurbish a storage container in conjunction with a maintenance supplier. Foundation for Alcohol-Related Research (FARR) For our Mandela Day “Connect” activation, we donated garden tools and books. We also sponsored a venue for the FARR AGM. 62 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report SA Children’s Home A food drive was held and ran for three weeks. Staff were encouraged to bring non-perishables for donation. Ruyterwacht Senior Centre New Somerset Hospital We held a winter donation drive amongst staff and We donated stationery to the hospital. donated winter care packs to the senior centre. Breast Cancer Awareness The CTICC ran an awareness and fundraising campaign throughout the month. All funds were donated to FARR. Santa’s Shoebox The Santa’s Shoebox collection point was hosted by the CTICC. The CTICC sponsored the venue and all staff participated in the drive. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 63 Sea Point Primary School MasterChef programme The CTICC was approached by a local government school to assist by exposing its cooking class to a “MasterChef” cooking environment. The children visited our kitchens and gained exposure to an industrial kitchen and professional chefs. Abalimi Bezekhaya The CTICC sponsored compost and garden tools to assist the farmers of Moya we Khaya Peace Gardens in Khayelitsha. Cape Town International Jazz Festival Training Workshop The CTICC sponsored venues over the month of February for Jazz Festival training and development workshops for youth. Experts and mentors provided young people with training pertaining to the entertainment sector. Ubuntu House Colon Cancer Awareness Staff sold arm beads to raise awareness around colon The CTICC donated books to Ubuntu House, a place cancer. All funds raised were donated to the Cancer of safety for abandoned and orphaned children. Association of South Africa (CANSA). 64 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report 1000 Women 1 Voice Fundraising Luncheon The CTICC sponsored the venue for the 1000 Women 1 Voice fundraiser luncheon organised by WomensNet, a South African non-governmental organisation that strengthens women and girls’ movements for social justice and change. Youth Day The CTICC hosted Mitchell’s Plain School of Skills and Lathi-Tha School of Skills at its third annual Youth Day Programme. The programme, facilitated by Youth Interpreter, took learners through a journey of life discovery – through roleplay, art, theatre and discussions – with the aim of providing them with ways to change their lives, communities and country. 13 bursaries for 13 students to build hands-on training in various departments and valuable work experience. bright futures This was the first time the CTICC had directly provided In celebration of its 13th birthday, the Cape Town funds to support students with their studies and the International Convention Centre was very excited centre was very proud to have embarked on this to announce that it has provided 13 students with initiative. The CTICC has long been respected as a vital bursaries to the value of just under R400 000. The contributor to training and skills transfer within the bursaries provided students studying in the culinary, South African and international events and hospitality events, marketing, finance, procurement and technical industries. Through various programmes, including fields with additional support to help them through their the CTICC Graduate Programme, the CTICC Student studies. Placement Programme and the CTICC Work Readiness The CTICC worked with long-standing partners, the Programme, the centre aims to expose promising young Cape Peninsula University of Technology, Durban individuals to relevant experience that will enhance their University of Technology, the South African Chef employability. Association and College of Cape Town that earmarked For the CTICC, this was a big step toward contributing student candidates for the bursaries. to job creation, sustainability, furthering education and Once the students have completed their studies, they will providing students from disadvantaged backgrounds be incorporated into the CTICC’s Graduate programme with the opportunity to make their dreams come true. and receive one-year employment contracts to receive Our 13th birthday commitment: The gift of education by providing 13 students bursaries to the value of just under R400 000. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 65 Expanding education development: statutory, vocational, developmental and values-based leadership. The training we offer embraces all through training and these types of training and concentrates mainly on leadership industry experience development, team building, change management, effective employee engagement and coaching. As well as individual The CTICC is committed to developing and strengthening its training, each team must arrange at least one relationshipemployees by prioritising training at all levels and for whatever building gathering per year to encourage cohesive and skills are necessary to fulfil the centre’s mandate and realise high-performing teams. its vision. CTICC staff members received the following short and longTraining at the CTICC covers the four key aspects of skills term training over the period under review: Short-term training Long-term training • Intermediate and Advanced Excel Training In addition to the standard short-term training, the CTICC • Labour Law Updates has provided 31 permanent staff members with ten different • New Managers Development Programme forms of long-term training, equating to 229 months in total. • N ational Occupational Safety Association (NOSA)  Twelve of these staff members were male and 19 were female. ISO 14001, 18001, IT IS and Auditing Training • C  hartered Institute of Management Accountants (CIMA) • Social Media & Online Marketing Training Training • Fire Marshal Training • Credit Management Course • Health and Safety Training • Institute for Certified Bookkeepers (ICB) Junior Bookkeeping • Event Safety Training and Junior Office Administration Certificate • N’lighten Reporting Training • Global Association of the Exhibition Industry (UFI) Exhibition • International Association of Congress Centres (AIPC) Management Degree • Marketing Indaba Conference • National Higher Certificate in Accounting • Industrial Relations for Management • Postgraduate Diploma in Management Practice – UCT • QlikView Training • Events Management • Exhibition Association of Southern Africa (EXSA) Conference • BCom Financial Management • Africa Waste Week • Municipal Minimum Competency – National Treasury. • Finance for Non-financial Managers In addition to the above, 86.5 hours of training were provided • IT Governance Workshop to a total of 412 contract staff. This is over and above the daily • Bar Training on-the-job training such staff receive. • Business Writing Course • Industrial Relations Training. Municipal Regulations on Minimum Human Resources has put a plan in place to address oustanding competencies given the constrainsts imposed on Competency Levels the management team by their operational commitments. The Accounting Officer, Chief Financial Officer, Senior Notwithstanding this, all managers in the employ of CTICC Managers, financial officials in middle management, heads of have the qualifications, skills, experience and capacity necessary Supply Chain Management Units and Supply Chain Managers to fulfil the responsibilities of their respective positions. of a municipal entity must be competent in the unit standards Attainment of competency levels within prescribed timeframes prescribed for financial and supply chain management is not included in individual performance agreements. This competency areas as set out in the Municipal Regulations on instead, is measured at an organisational level and is included Minimum Competency Levels. in the CTICC’s key performance targets. Accounting Chief Senior Financial Head of Supply Other Total Officer Financial Managers Managers SCM Unit Chain Managers Officer Managers Total number of officials employed 1 1 3 1 1 2 3 12 Competency assessments completed 3 9 29 6 1 15 18 81 Competency assessments outstanding 15 12 19 9 16 5 27 103 66 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report CTICC staff team building 2016 Human rights and Building a future anti-corruption training workforce for the events In addition, 11 employees (7.28%) received a total of 16 hours and hospitality sector of formal training in the CTICC’s policies and procedures on human rights issues. During the year under review, the CTICC The CTICC has a proven track record in training and skills had no incidents of discrimination and as such no actions were transfer within the local and international events and hospitality required. sectors. In the year under review, the centre continued to build on this reputation, by continuing to focus on promising young The CTICC also directly employs one person to manage safety individuals and giving them relevant experience that would and security and oversee its external security contractors. The enhance their employability in the sector. This applied both to manager is trained on all policies and procedures relating to our own staff and to students and graduates who emerged the company and the relevant aspects of human rights. The in these industries. The CTICC’s current workplace experience outsourced security services at the CTICC are governed by a initiatives include the following training success stories. comprehensive Service Level Agreement (SLA) that requires all security personnel are trained and licensed as per the Private Security Industry Regulatory Act. Compliance to this act incorporates issues around human rights and fair treatment into training. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 67 Training success stories: investing in our people and an international future The following training experiences come from a wide range of CTICC staff across all departments and talk to the benefits of longterm training for not only the individuals concerned and the CTICC, but also the events and hospitality sector as a whole. 31 permanent staff 10 different forms of long-term training = 229 12 male months in total 19 female Chantal Croaster: Revenue Manager Training: Postgraduate Diploma in Management Practice, Graduate School of Business (GSB), UCT Period: January 2015 – March 2016, 15 months How long have you been working at CTICC? I’ve worked at the CTICC for nine years. What was the highlight of the course for you? There were many moments of clarity while spending time at GSB, but working through complicated group challenges and being able to deliver a presentation with six different team members at the end of each module definitely stands out as a highlight. Olivia Bruce: Marketing & Sustainability Manager Training: Postgraduate Diploma in Management Practice, Graduate School of Business (GSB), UCT Period: January 2015 – March 2016, 15 months Why did you decide to do this particular course? I decided to study with the GSB as they are rated amongst the best business schools in Africa, but my primary reason was that it focused on business management holistically with insights into HR, Finance, Operations, Marketing, Communications and Sustainability, so the approach was holistic and practical. How did the course help you in your job/career? My specialisation was innovation: to look at new ways to market the CTICC and keep abreast of the ever-changing environment in which we operate. It also had a strong focus on sustainability. 68 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report (front) Bianca Roodt, Minette Cloete, Sandile Tyhulu, Shamil Abrahams, (back) Randale Alexander, Kabelo Thamage New Managers Development Programme In June 2016, seven managers studied at the University of Stellenbosch Business School; five were from the Operations department and two from the Commercial department. We are highlighting three: Kabelo Thamage, Bianca Roodt and Shamil Abrahams. Kabelo Thamage: Event Services Manager What was the highlight of the course for you? Describe your journey with the CTICC? The highlight of the course was the Financial Management module. I have a greater respect for our Finance department I started off working through a labour broker as a dishwasher, as I am now better able to understand the terminology and parking attendant, steward and porter. That was in 2003. This the process. was during a time when there were only three permanent duty managers who ran more than four events simultaneously. I joined the duty managers as a porter and runner for certain Shamil Abrahams: ICT Systems Administrator clients. One miraculous day I was handed an event programme How long have you been working for the CTICC? of a four-day conference, function sheet and phone. I got introduced to the client as a porter who will be duty managing Technically I have only been permanently employed for eight the four-day conference. I ran my first event as a porter. From months but I have been at the CTICC for 10 years through 1 January 2005, I was permanently employed making lots of service providers (the ICT resource at the CTICC was recently mistakes and learning a lot from my colleagues. In 2010, I brought in-house). became an Event Services Manager. Name a specific aspect of the training that you found What was the highlight of the course for you? most helpful for your job? The course gave me essential tools for effective work delegation We were given an overview of management and leadership by and situational leadership. I also discovered that managers are Cecil Hambridge. He spoke to us about emotional intelligence meant to manage processes and lead staff members or teams and how it plays a huge role in leading people, and that being soft on people and hard on the rules are such effective ways in the right direction. to lead. Bianca Roodt: promoted during the year from Sales What was the highlight of the course for you? Executive to Business Development Manager: National I would have to say it was learning new things about leadership Do you think the training contributed to your promotion? and how many tools there are to improve many aspects of a business, not only financially but in terms of staff morale as Yes, definitely. Developing people is my passion. I have always well. I have learned how to deal with difficult situations and felt strongly about imparting knowledge to others. The training become a better person generally, not only at work. has provided me with a better understanding of what a leader should be and how I can get the best out of people. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 69 UFI Exhibition Management AIPC Academy Programme 2016 Degree Class of 2016 Adele Maritz: promoted from Business Development Exhibition Management Degree Manager: National to Business Development Manager: International during the financial year The Global Association of the Exhibition Industry (UFI) in partnership with the University of Cooperative Education in Training: AIPC (The International Association of Convention Ravensburg, Germany, has created the Exhibition Management Centres) Academy Programme, AIPC, Brussels Degree to train exhibition industry professionals. In June 2016, Period: February 2016, five days two staff members, Lindy Cambouris and Arno Ruiters, started the six-month course which has a face-to-face and e-learning Why did you decide to do this particular course? component. The first module was taught in Macau, China. AIPC is an association for international convention centres and Lindy Cambouris: Business Development the academy had a fantastic five-day programme that looks Manager: National at all areas of convention centre management. I was looking forward to attending this course to broaden my knowledge How will the training benefit you with the launch of of the industry, learn more about the association’s business the CTICC East? as well as coming up with some solutions to some challenges With more space available we have more options available to we may be facing. us and the course offered insights into how we can sustain What has this training meant for your new role? venue occupancy and revenue generation. It has given me great insight into the association’s market What was the highlight of the course for you? and bidding process as well as allowed me to make valuable Thus far it has been the opportunity to travel to a new connections with colleagues from other international destination and experience a new culture and through that convention centres for lead exchanges, information sharing acquire new industry connections and the ability to view the and networking. trade fair and exhibitions industries through a different lens. What was the highlight of the course for you? Arno Ruiters: Conference and Exhibition A great highlight was when Mark Emch, VP Finance & CFO of San Diego Convention Centre Corporation, presented on Services Manager Financial Performance and ROI and said that the CTICC’s What did you learn that was new to you as a seasoned Integrated Annual Report is the best annual report he has professional? seen to date. He even had a copy to show the Academy – this was a proud moment. The first module dealt with the Sales, Marketing and Project Management aspects from an event organiser’s perspective. Gaining insight into the intricacies and workloads our clients endure, prior to engaging with us as a venue, has been quite enlightening. What was the highlight of the course for you? The course content that focused on Sales, Marketing and Participation in Exhibitions was very insightful. From a personal perspective, the trip to Macau, China, with my colleague Lindy was fantastic – the people and my classmates were welcoming and hospitable and the culture was wonderful to observe. For how long have you worked at the CTICC? More than 10 years. 70 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report World Congress of Enterostomal Therapists 2016 Gala Dinner Creating a world-class interviews with hosts and delegates of every event we host. The survey is designed to measure customer experience at workforce through every experience touch point, including: performance review • Audio-visual services At the CTICC we view effective performance management • Cleanliness of venue as the basis on which a high performance, learning culture • “Coffee on the Square” should be built. All our employees are required to participate • Conference and exhibition services in quarterly performance reviews with their line managers, at which their job description is discussed, their key performance • Cuisine – food and beverage criteria agreed and their performance against those criteria • Environmental sustainability assessed. All CTICC employees also undergo two formal • Event executives performance reviews per year. • Event service managers We offer a performance-based incentive scheme to all • Explanation of processes permanent staff. The assessment for incentive awards is informed by individual Key Performance Indicators (KPIs). • Finance processes These are identified and agreed between each staff member • IT and telecommunication services and their line manager. These individual KPIs are linked to • Parking services our organisational KPIs, aligning individual performance with • Reception staff organisational goals. • Safety and security All scheduled performance reviews were completed in the year • Sales executives under review. Performance reviews and company performance inform employee bonuses and salary increases. • Venue climate control • Waitron service. Customer feedback: For the year under review, we received an overall customer delivering ever better satisfaction index of 84%, up 4% on last year and considerably service over target, which makes us very proud. Delivering genuine customer delight is central to the CTICC’s The results of these customer experience surveys are used to ongoing success. This is why we use an independent company inform our ongoing training materials and interventions and to measure our customer satisfaction levels on a monthly basis. to educate staff on the expectations of clients and visitors to The client surveys consist of face-to-face, telephonic and email the CTICC. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 71 Empowering women, building small business The CTICC is committed to enterprise development, particularly with regard to B-BBEE and women-owned businesses. Procurement from women-owned companies represented 30% of total supplier spend for the year, up from 28% in the previous year. We introduce you to two of our small women-owned businesses. Notukela Makohliso, who heads True Media, and Carrie van Listenborgh, the owner of La Parmigiana, have been supplying the CTICC with produce and beverages of the highest quality. These two female-owned businesses are two of the many valuable suppliers to the CTICC. True Media Distribution True Media Distribution, a sole proprietorship, has been a strategic business partner of the CTICC for the last two years. The 100% black-owned, female-owned business provides the centre with a bouquet of the best red and white house wines from some of the most renowned vineyards in South Africa. The partnership with the CTICC was the perfect vehicle for True Media Distribution to get its wines into the market in a substantial way. The CTICC provided the business with the opportunity and platform to reach an international audience through the varied events that the centre hosts. True Media Distribution provides a broad range of eventsrelated services and has been steadily increasing its footprint in South Africa and Africa. Currently the CTICC is its second biggest client after South African Airways and True Media Distribution is now making in-roads into Gabon, Nigeria, Angola and Cameroon. The centre is proud to have played a role in supporting this small business that has a business model that speaks to that of the CTICC – exposing clients to South African brands, increasing job creation and building the local economy. “Supplying the CTICC has boosted our company profile significantly. Companies like the CTICC prove to be the exception that helps us to survive in a very challenging province and industry.” Notukela Makohliso, owner True Media Distribution 72 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report 30% women-owned companies represented of total suppliers 28% in previous year La Parmigiana CC La Parmigiana has been a consistent supplier to the CTICC, providing the centre with fresh pasta with tailor-made fillings, hand-rolled cannelloni, ravioli and gnocchi, as well as sauces. La Parmigiana’s ethos of always providing fresh, healthy food with no additives is in line with the CTICC’s ethos of always providing its clients with the freshest food. Since becoming a supplier to the CTICC, La Parmigiana has gone from strength to strength. Orders from the centre have boosted the business’s turnover and its confidence has grown tremendously. A spin-off is that this woman-owned business has grown substantially and is a proud contributor to economic development and job creation. “The CTICC has boosted our business and allowed our team (and machines) to work at full capacity. We have been a supplier to the CTICC for a long time and are motivated by fantastic, innovating chefs.” Carrie van Listenborgh, owner La Parmigiana Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 73 Environmental sustainability Waste management Saving energy Saving water Carbon footprint 74 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report ENVIRONMENT: BUILDING GLOBAL SUSTAINABILITY How the CTICC nurtures our world through its NOW strategy The CTICC’s commitment to global sustainability – economic, which are described in the corporate social responsibility social and environmental – goes beyond a business section of the report. commitment to triple-bottom-line reporting. It is simply a In terms of mitigating the CTICC’s environmental impact, the belief that it is good business to do good. Increasingly our NOW team is mandated to: clients see sustainability the same way. As King IV approaches, responsible corporate citizenry is a given that we at the CTICC • Inform, drive, and monitor the CTICC’s triple-bottom-line already make a priority – for ourselves, our clients, our city, our approach country and our world. • Oversee the design and implementation of sustainability In that context, and as a global convention centre with an initiatives that contribute to economic growth established sustainability reputation, we believe we have a • R  aise the profile of the centre as a sustainability leader in responsibility to influence the sustainability journeys of our its industry stakeholders, suppliers and, in particular, our clients. • E  nsure the effectiveness of our efforts to minimise our This sustainability commitment is driven by our Nurture negative environmental impacts while maximising the Our World (NOW) initiative. The NOW team consists of positive contribution we make to a sustainable future for representatives from all our departments and is chaired by society. the General Manager: Facilities & Operations, and Acting GM: In more concrete terms, the environmental aspect to the NOW Food & Beverage & Operations. team’s work focuses on waste management (reduction, reuse Notably, this innovative, interdepartmental team is also and recycling); careful energy usage; sustainable product use; responsible for driving and coordinating the CTICC’s corporate responsible transport use and emissions reduction; and water social investment strategy and social responsibility activities use management. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 75 How we reduce our • Use natural light in venues, whenever practical; environmental impact • C  ontribute R5.00 per delegate to the NOW Fund for each full conference, half conference, full English or continental every day breakfast package purchased. These funds are used to The CTICC continues to provide the following services in order support the CTICC’s local community partners; to mitigate its own environmental impact across all its products • D iscuss ways to offset their carbon footprint with our and services. We: clients; • P  rovide recycled/green conference smalls (notepads and • Include a green events checklist with our marketing pens); material to raise awareness about event greening. This • P rovide Fairtrade coffee, locally produced food and fish only checklist is also on our website along with frequently asked from the SASSI-approved green list; sustainability questions; • P  rovide a multi-bin system to encourage recycling with • P rint only on Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) approved separation at source; paper; • P rovide water that is bottled on-site by means of the Vivreau • P rovide much of the above as part of our sustainable day system in reusable glass bottles or jugs of water; conference package. Continuously striving to save energy During the 12 months under review, the CTICC used 3.16% a total of 33 161.8 gigajoules of energy from primary Reduction of energy sources (fuel) and electricity generation. usage in 2015/16 Year-on-year fuel consumption Gigajoules per annum 40 000 Litres 35 000 4 000 30 000 3 500 25 000 3 000 20 000 2 500 15 000 2 000 10 000 1 500 5 000 1 000 0 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 There has been a significant decrease in use of fuel as CTICC previously contracted and managed all staff transport, including that of labour broker staff. As of the 2015/16 financial year, staff transport has been included in the labour broker contracts, which accounts for the reduction in fuel usage. 76 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report AfricaCom 2015 Reduction of electricity consumption Three-year comparison of CTICC’s annual The CTICC’s electricity consumption average consists of two electricity usage factors: kVA (kilo Volt Amps, peak demand) and kWh (kilo Watt hours, power consumption). This is the average usage kWh per month over the 12-month financial year. A reduction in 840 000 monthly usage was shown when compared to the previous 820 000 financial year (12-month average). 800 000 Electricity usage The figures for electricity use shown below demonstrate a saving of 22 722kWh, which equates to a saving of 2.88% in 780 000 electricity consumption. Also efforts were made to reduce the 760 000 kVA (kilo Volt Amps) peak consumption average per month by alarming and monitoring high kVA usage. These efforts 740 000 achieved a reduction of 4.74% from the previous year. 720 000 kVA kWh 700 000 2013/14 2 283 824 558 680 000 2014/15 2 325 789 322 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 2015/16 2 215 766 600 -4.74% -2.88% Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 77 Continuing to reduce food) and waste to landfill. They are now, quite literally, part of our furniture. waste and CONTRIBUTING TO Elsewhere, both hazardous and non-hazardous waste streams SAFEGUARDING OUR PLANET are monitored by type, volume and disposal method and We remain committed to waste reduction and diversion from disposed of at certified waste disposal facilities. This is to landfill. Indeed, our year-on-year records show an extraordinary ensure consistency, compliance and comparability. path from just 25% diversion in the 2010/11 financial year In the 2015/16 financial year, the CTICC diverted 85% of to our equal best year ever in 2015/16 at 85% diversion of waste from city landfill – much of it as a result of various waste from landfill. In other words, in a business that uses a recycling initiatives. This is 1% up on the figure achieved in lot of disposable resources, we are managing to recycle 85% the previous financial year and significantly up on the 30% of the resources we use. As ever, this starts at the beginning achieved in the 2012/13 financial period, at which time we of the supply line with eco-procurement. To this end, we select had not yet instituted our composting initiative for wet waste. suppliers who provide reusable and recyclable products rather The infographic below shows the total amount of waste than disposable items. generated in metric tonnes, in comparison to the previous On-site recycling is another critical aspect of our waste years. The steady increase in waste-to-landfill diversion is management process, with separation into three categories clear over the first three years, while this year in particular taking place at source as far as possible. These brightly coloured compostable waste has increased, which is largely to the bins divide recyclables (plastic, paper, cardboard, glass, metals benefit of one of our four key community partners, Abalimi and other recyclable items) from organic produce (leftover Bezekhaya, which is involved with community gardens. Total weight and diversion of waste by type and disposal method (in metric tonnes) Paper & board 39.84 39.02 in 2014/15 Compostable 84.78 Glass 54.74 in 2014/15 28.73 25.58 in 2014/15 Hazardous Plastics 0.90 0.30 in 2014/15 Total 15.05 448.04 12.25 in 2014/15 653.44 in 2014/15 % diversion Recyclables 85% 84% in 2014/15 Metals 296.64 7.39 495.68 in 2014/15 6.63 in 2014/15 Mixed recyclables Landfill 65.72 205.63 102.72 in 2014/15 412.20 in 2014/15 78 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report CAPE Wine sets the recycling bar high for both glass and plastic Cape Wine 2015 • Briefing of relevant service providers, namely:  – Staffing Direct/Workforce (waitrons and facilities Dates: 15 – 17 September 2015 staff who deal with waste) Sector: Agro-processing – Servest (cleaning staff who deal with waste) Cape Wine is the flagship business showcase of the South  – Wasteman (waste service provider and in control of African wine industry attended by over 1 500 delegates. waste room) Presented at the CTICC every three years by Wines of South – Ywaste (organic waste service provider) Africa (WOSA), it is the most successful international wine • Using a Waste Champions WhatsApp group to identify and trade show in the southern hemisphere. solve potential waste issues quickly. It is a trade show that brings together the best of the Cape wine industry with international as well as local buyers. Over What WISP/GreenCape did 300 exhibitors take stands, the majority of them wine brands. In addition to this, the event aims to be environmentally WISP is a free facilitation service that is funded by the Western friendly, with most of the exhibition stands made out of Cape Department of Economic Development and Tourism and recyclable Xanita board. There is also a strong emphasis on is delivered by the sector development agency, GreenCape. The recycling glass and plastic. programme helps companies identify business opportunities arising from exchanging unused or residual resources (waste The CTICC, in collaboration with Cape Wine and the GreenCape materials, energy, water, assets, logistics, expertise) between Western Cape Industrial Symbiosis Programme (WISP), ran a companies and thereby enhancing business profitability and project to divert as much waste as possible from landfill during sustainability. WISP identified MPact, a cardboard recycler, to the event. Despite some challenges, the event achieved an assist with the recycling of Xanita board. admirable 75% diversion from landfill. This provides a useful baseline measurement for the event going forward. How the Cape Wine event made the waste management grade What the CTICC did “Sustainability across the board is an integral part of WOSA’s corporate mandate. So, from the Although the CTICC already has a functioning system to divert vineyards right through to the exhibition hall, we waste from landfill, the CTICC took the following additional steps to divert waste during the week of Cape Wine: strive to always maintain a meaningful level of • A  dditional briefing of the Waste Champions Team (multiboth environmental and social sustainability.” stakeholder body at the CTICC who champion event waste Julia Moore, management). Acting Communications Manager, Cape Wine Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 79 How we measured our success with equates to over 10 metric tonnes of diverted waste, nearly Cape Wine three-quarters of which was glass and PET collected in the skips. In order to keep accurate records of waste, the CTICC employs The use of separate skips for glass and PET was essential to the following techniques: the diversion of waste. 1.Wheelie bins, which are positioned at various wastecollection areas at the CTICC, are bar-coded and are Carbon footprint reduction weighed and scanned when returned to the waste room. Based on the waste figures, the diversion not only reduces 2. At the waste room, waste is further separated into the landfill volumes but also carbon footprint. Using a calculator various bins. Organic waste is sealed in drums with bokashi developed by the consultancy firm The Green House, WISP powder, which breaks down food waste. was able to work out the amount of life cycle greenhouse 3. Skip volumes are recorded through their pro-forma invoices gas savings associated with industrial symbiosis material presented upon collection. exchanges. Emissions savings are calculated from user input and emissions factors drawn predominantly from “ecoinvent 4. In addition to this, WISP coordinates the records of waste v3” (adapted in part for a South African context). Based on removed by its various solution providers. this calculator, the emissions savings are as follows: 2 743kg CO2 equivalent. What the Cape Wine client did The client’s involvement was crucial in that they requested two Conclusion: what we learned at additional skips, one for PET/plastic bottles and one for glass. Cape Wine The skips were an essential part of the waste diversion process. The above report provides a useful baseline regarding waste Due to the nature of the Cape Wine event, a large amount management at the Cape Wine (and, by association, similar of glass and PET waste was expected. As such, separate and wine events). Achieving a 75% diversion rate, the event dedicated skips were provided for each material. The resultant was an example how client buy-in – particularly through diversion from landfill was excellent, with a 74.6% diversion the provision of additional skips – can assist in achieving rate for the event, as shown by the pie chart below. This environmental goals. “We are thrilled by this achievement. Intricate planning was needed to reach our sustainability targets, e.g. separating glass and paper waste, liaising with all the roleplayers, such as cork suppliers and stand manufacturers, to ensure our sustainability targets were met. Next time we will focus on offsetting the carbon footprint created by the significant air travel involved.” Julia Moore, Acting Communications Manager, Cape Wine Waste-to-landfill diversion Xanita (Upcycling) 8% 25% Non-recyclable Waste Recyclable Waste 55% (Externally) 2% Recyclable Waste 10% (Internally) Organic/Composting 80 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Environmental awareness takes centre stage AT CONSUMER GOODS FORUM’S GLOBAL SUMMIT 60th Global Summit of the Consumer “The Summit has been hosted all over the world Goods Forum and this was the first time it has been on the African continent. Thank you to you and your Dates: 15 – 17 June 2016 team for showcasing Cape Town, South Africa Sector: Retail and Africa in such a positive way! Our team found For its 60th anniversary, the Consumer Goods Forum’s (CGF) it to be one of the most user-friendly venues that Global Summit was hosted in Africa for the first time in its they have used in the past 30 years.” history. The CGF Global Summit brings together the CEOs from the world’s most successful retailers, manufacturers and Gareth Ackerman, service providers to set the global agenda for the consumer Co-Chair of the CGF Board goods sector. Giants of the retail industry have made implementing socially and environmentally sustainable business solutions a priority. At the Summit, global brand names like Walmart, Tesco, Pepsico and Nestlé, together with local consumer brands like Pick n Pay, discussed a range of international trends and case studies that support the forum’s commitment to help preserve the earth and help people live better lives. Striving for a more sustainable consumer goods industry is, in fact, one of the CGF’s primary objectives. It has dedicated one of its strategic pillars to social and environmental sustainability, which includes the event management supply chain. With regard to the 60th Global Summit itself, the CGF started implementing several concrete and measurable actions, in partnership with the CTICC, related to solid and food waste management, the use of sustainable products and the use of energy. Their commitment to sustainability is clear and their objective is to gradually green all CGF events around the world. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 81 CTICC Executive Chef Warwick Thomas speaking at the Pepsico luncheon How the CTICC partnered with the CGF to local community projects, as well as ensuring all menus and materials used for the Zero Luncheon were recyclable to take sustainable action (see below). The CGF waste management Serving a “zero waste” feast commitment The Global Summit included several spin-off events hosted by The CGF commitment was to collect detailed data on solid and CGF sponsors. In keeping with the sustainability focus, sponsor food waste, as well as overproduction of merchandising, and Pepsico hosted a “zero waste” luncheon on 16 June 2016. The use it as a benchmark for future CGF events. CTICC catering team was eager to collaborate on this project They further wished to ensure that all materials used in the to further their knowledge of sustainability practices. exhibition area were recycled. This was supported by the The CTICC and CGF achieved the zero waste luncheon, CTICC’s three-bin, colour-coded waste system, which operates which included Franschhoek salmon trout belly as a starter, in all areas of the CTICC. seared flank steak as main course and fruit pulp biscuit with The CGF also decided to serve plated food to delegates rather a berry and chai compote as dessert, in a number of ways. than offer a buffet service, as this significantly reduces the Firstly, all compostable food waste was returned to the fresh food supplier, Moya we Khaya farm, to be composted, thus amount of food waste. preventing any food waste. Secondly, the wine selection Finally, the CGF chose to donate packed and unprepared food included a range of wine that benefits environmental to local community projects and served excess prepared food sustainability and social development in farming communities. to the CTICC staff canteen. Thirdly, the table centrepieces were made from herbs and local fresh produce, which were then used for other events The CGF sustainable product later that week. Fourthly, all materials used for the luncheon, such as bottles and cans, were recycled, and event equipment commitment such as display counters and beverage stands were reused or The CGF’s commitment is to source suitable venues for their shared to maximise their use. Finally, the CGF chose to have meetings that are both practical and sustainable. At the the luncheon menu printed on seed paper, which was then CTICC they also coordinated the donation of stand materials planted to provide fresh food for future CTICC events. 82 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Bottling water on-site to reduce environmental impact Continuing to save water in As a result of its water-saving initiatives, the CTICC now uses 10 million litres less water per year than it had five years ago. a drought-stricken world This significant saving was achieved by replacing both bulk The CTICC’s water supply is provided by the City of Cape Town geysers in 2011 and, over the past financial year, concentrating as part of its municipal water supply. During the period under on the following areas: review, the CTICC used a total of 39 388m3, representing a • W e have reduced the toilet cistern water-holding capacity good further reduction of 5% over the previous year’s usage. by 20% in all ablution facilities. • A ll showerheads have been replaced with water-saving Saving water is a particular concern in the Western Cape and, shower heads. indeed, southern Africa as a whole. Drought has affected • A ll butterfly shut-down valves were replaced to reduce the almost all the main agricultural areas in South Africa, reducing water supply to the cooling towers by 20%. the availability of both potable and irrigation water. Crops have been affected and food prices have risen. Water restrictions • A ll water leaks are now treated as an emergency to minimise are in place throughout the country, including the traditionally water consumption. winter-wet Western Cape. In this scenario, it is incumbent on • We replaced the leaking and corroded main water supply. business to save as much water as we can. The graph below • W ater taps in public ablution areas were replaced with shows the CTICC’s reduction record over the last three years. sensor taps to avoid water wastage. Kilolitres 44 000 43 000 42 000 41 000 40 000 39 000 38 000 2013/14 2014/15 2015/16 Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 83 International Conference on Emergency Medicine (ICEM) 2016 84 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report GOVERNANCE: MAXIMISING COMPLIANCE, MINIMISING RISK Governance structure of the organisation Governance commitment There is currently one vacancy on the Board, which is to be filled by a person nominated by SunWest International (Pty) The company’s Board of Directors (“the Board”) subscribes Ltd. to the principles as set out in the King Report on Corporate Governance for South Africa 2009 (“King III”). The Board places Board meetings are held at least quarterly to review the a strong emphasis on maintaining high standards of financial company’s performance against budgeted targets and more management, accounting and reporting to ensure that the frequently if necessary. Board meetings are scheduled well in company’s affairs are managed in an ethical, transparent advance and Board members are provided with all relevant and responsible manner, while also taking into consideration information to enable them to make informed decisions. A appropriate risk parameters. record is kept of each Director’s attendance at Board and committee meetings. The Directors may seek professional advice on matters concerning the affairs of the company. Board structure and responsibilities The company has an experienced and stable Board of Directors, Changes to the Board which directs, governs and is in effective control of its business. The Board is ultimately responsible for determining the Mr Taljaard retired by rotation at the previous annual strategic direction of the company through the establishment general meeting of the company, held on 27 October 2015. of strategic objectives and policies. The company has a unitary Mr Cloete was appointed as a Director of the company on Board structure, with twelve Non-executive Directors and two 27 October 2015. Mr Lundy resigned as a Director of the Executive Directors, being the Chief Executive Officer and Chief company on 31 March 2016. Messrs Vuyo Ntoi and Sandise Financial Officer. The roles of Chairman and Chief Executive Sibanda were appointed as Independent Non-executive Officer are separated. The Chairman is a Non-executive Directors of the Board on 25 August 2016. Director. A Lead Independent Director has been appointed to act in situations where the Chairman of the Board may have a conflict of interest. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 85 DIRECTORATE AND ADMINISTRATION for the year ended 30 June 2016 Directors Board committees AM Boraine Audit and Risk Committee Chairman BJ Lodewyk (Chairman) Non-executive SW Fourie Appointed: 17/10/2006 EI Hamman AA Mahmood DA Cloete Non-executive Human Resources and Remuneration Committee Appointed: 27/10/2015 DA Cloete (Chairman) AM Boraine J Ellingson BJ Lodewyk Chief Executive Officer Appointed: 01/09/2014 Nominations Committee AM Boraine (Chairman) RSH Eksteen SW Fourie Non-executive RSH Eksteen Appointed: 16/02/2014 Social and Ethics Committee GM Fisher EI Hamman (Chairman) Non-executive RSH Eksteen Appointed: 22/11/2011 AA Mahmood SW Fourie J Ellingson Non-executive CTICC Expansion Committee Appointed: 22/11/2014 AM Boraine (Chairman) EI Hamman CA(SA) GM Fisher (Vice-Chairman) Lead Independent Director DA Cloete Non-executive S Myburgh-De Gois Appointed: 20/04/2013 J Ellingson BJ Lodewyk CA(SA) Non-executive Administration Appointed: 20/04/2013 Company registration number 1999/007837/30 GJ Lundy Non-executive Registered office Appointed: 20/04/2013 Convention Square Resigned: 31/03/2016 1 Lower Long Street Cape Town 8001 AA Mahmood PO Box 8120 Non-executive Roggebaai 8012 Appointed: 20/04/2013 Company Secretary S Myburgh-De Gois MM Thirion Non-executive Appointed: 01/08/2006 Appointed: 16/02/2014 Resigned: 01/08/2016 F Parker CA(SA) Auditors Chief Financial Officer Office of the Auditor-General Appointed: 16/10/2012 Private Bag X1 HJ Taljaard Chempet 7442 Non-executive Principal bankers Appointed: 05/07/1999 ABSA Bank Ltd Retired by rotation: 27/10/2015 PO Box 7735 Johannesburg 2000 86 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report external auditors have access to the committee and are invited Board compensation and performance to attend committee meetings. Remuneration of the Board of Directors, Executives and Senior The committee exercises oversight of the internal financial Managers is aligned with the Municipal Finance Management controls of the company. It reviews the adequacy and Act (MFMA). The Cape Town City Council sets and revises the effectiveness of: the financial reporting processes; accounting upper limits of remuneration for the Board, as well as the CEO and all staff reporting directly to her. practices; management information systems; the system of internal controls; the management of financial, investment Bonuses are linked to performance and the Remuneration and operational risks; the internal and external audit processes; Committee determines the CEO’s performance bonus. The and compliance with laws and regulations. The committee management team (senior and middle management) receive makes submissions to the Board regarding accounting policies, performance bonuses in July, based on company performance, financial control, records and reporting. As the company while the bonuses paid out in February each year are based does not have a separate risk committee, the Audit and Risk on personal performance. Shareholders approve the policy for Committee also oversees the risk management process and Directors’ remuneration at every second AGM as required by monitors the implementation of the CTICC’s risk management the Companies Act. plan and risk register, which is reviewed by the Board quarterly and approved annually. The committee meets at least quarterly. Board committees It met five times during the past financial year. The Convenco Board committees operate in accordance with the terms of reference defined in their respective charters. Human Resources and Remuneration Regular reports on the committees’ activities are provided Committee to the Board. The members of the committees are listed on The Human Resources and Remuneration Committee page 86. comprises three Non-executive Directors and meets at least four times for the purpose of reviewing annual salary increases, Audit and Risk Committee bonus incentives and the company’s remuneration strategy. The Audit and Risk Committee is constituted as a statutory The committee’s meetings are attended by the CEO, CFO and committee of the company in respect of its statutory duties the Human Resources Manager of the company. It met five in terms of section 94(7) of the Companies Act and as a times during the past financial year. committee of the Board in terms of all other duties assigned to it by the Board. The committee currently comprises four independent Non-executive Directors and one Non-executive Director appointed by one of the shareholders, all of whom are suitably skilled, competent and experienced. The CEO, CFO and other members of the company’s Executive Management team attend meetings of the committee. Both the internal and Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 87 Convenco Board of Directors Andrew Julie-May Ruwaida Gary Deon Boraine Ellingson Eksteen Fisher Cloete Nominations Committee Social and Ethics Committee The Nominations Committee currently comprises three NonThe Social and Ethics Committee currently comprises three executive Directors and is tasked with overseeing and making Non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive Officer. The recommendations to the Board to ensure that: committee’s role is to monitor the company’s activities, having • The Board has the appropriate composition to execute its regard to relevant legislation, other legal requirements and/ duties effectively; or prevailing codes of best practice. The Social and Ethics Committee oversees matters related to social and economic • D irectors are appointed through a formal and transparent development; good corporate citizenship; and the environment. process; Matters of health and public safety, including the impact of the • O ngoing induction, training, development and evaluation company’s activities, fall within the purview of the committee. of Directors take place. In addition, it also monitors matters related to the company’s The committee met three times during the past financial year. products or services and consumer relationships, including the company’s advertising, public relations and compliance with Expansion Committee consumer protection laws and labour and employment. Its role is also to draw matters within its mandate to the attention The Expansion Committee has been mandated by the Board to of the Board and to report, through one of its members, to oversee all aspects of the CTICC’s expansion. The committee the shareholders at the company’s annual general meeting on currently comprises the Chairperson of the Board, three the matters within its mandate. The committee is also tasked Non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of with monitoring and reporting on the company’s approach and the company. The previous Chairman of the company is the implementation of ethics management across the business. Vice-chairman of this committee. Members of the company’s Executive Management team also attend meetings of the committee. The committee met seven times during the year under review. 88 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Convenco Board of Directors Ethel Barry Sharon Aklaaq Fairoza Solly Hamman Lodewyk Myburgh-De Gois Mahmood Parker Fourie Details of Convenco Board composition IndepenSurname First Name Date of Female Male African Coloured Indian White 20 – 30 31 – 40 41 – 50 Above dence Appointment 50 (*) Boraine Andrew Micheal 17 Oct 2006 • • • (*) Cloete Deon Anton 27 Oct 2015 • • • (*) Eksteen Ruwaida Suzette Heidi 16 Feb 2014 • • • # Ellingson Julie-May 01 Sep 2014 • • • ** Fisher Gary Morton 22 Nov 2011 • • • ** Fourie Solly William 22 Nov 2011 • • • * Hamman Ethel Irene 20 Apr 2013 • • • * Lodewyk Barry Joseph 20 Apr 2013 • • • * Mahmood Aklaaq Ahmed 20 Apr 2013 • • • (*) Myburgh-De Gois Sharon 16 Feb 2014 • • • # Parker Fairoza 16 Oct 2012 • • • Total 5 6 4 2 5 1 5 5 * Independent non-executive (*) Independent non-executive appointed by the City of Cape Town # Executive ** Independent non-executive appointed by the Western Cape Government Independence Convenco Board retirements and resignations Independence Surname First Name Date of Appointment Date of Retirement/Resignation * Taljaard Henning Jeremias 5 July 1999 27 October 2015 (retired) * Lundy Guy 20 April 2 013 31 March 2016 (resigned) * Independent non-executive Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 89 Details of Directors’ meeting attendance 1 July 2015 – 30 June 2016 Name of Director Board Audit and Risk HR and Nominations Social and Ethics Expansion Committee Remuneration Committee Committee Committee Committee Total number of 8 5 5 3 3 6 meetings AM Boraine 8 4 3 6 DA Cloete 4 2 3 RSH Eksteen 6 3 3 J Ellingson 8 (5) (5) (3) 3 6 GM Fisher 7 2 SW Fourie 8 2 1 EI Hamman 7 4 3 BJ Lodewyk 7 5 5 GJ Lundy 4 4 1 AA Mahmood 7 3 3 S Myburgh-De Gois 7 5 F Parker 4 (5) (4) (2) HJ Taljaard 2 1 2 () Attended meeting in a capacity other than as a committee member 90 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Compliance, good governance and risk management Audit and Risk Committee Company Secretary of risk. The precautionary principle is used as a tool when making decisions that might pose a risk to the organisation. The Company Secretary ensures that, in accordance with The objective of this principle is to prevent harm from the pertinent laws, the proceedings and affairs of the directorate outset, rather than managing it after it has happened. The and, where appropriate, members of the company are properly CTICC has, for example, taken a tough stance on ensuring that administered. The Directors have access to the Company the expansion of the centre meets best practice environmental Secretary and can seek her advice on Board and governance standards, with clear monitoring systems in place. There is a matters. The Company Secretary is also the Secretary to all separate risk register for the CTICC East expansion, which is the committees of the Board. closely monitored by the Expansion Committee. Precautionary principle approach to risk The Board places a strong emphasis on proactive risk management within the company and the Audit and Risk Committee is responsible for monitoring the management Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 91 Client Year end Function 2015 Stakeholder Engagement Review As a significant roleplayer both in the leisure and business 10 Stakeholder engagements held tourism sector internationally, the CTICC engages with a number of different shareholders, as identified in the About for the year under review the CTICC section in this report. The list of key stakeholders follows in the table below. Our stakeholders and their role in our world List of Stakeholder Groups Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders City of Cape Town Primary shareholder and investor. Important to the governance of the CTICC. Western Cape Government Second largest shareholder and investor. Important to the governance of the CTICC. Clients: Professional conference, exhibition and event Vital to the financial sustainability of the CTICC. organisers CTICC staff Fundamental to the longevity, sustainability and reputation of the CTICC. Service partners Important to effective delivery on organisational goals/KPIs. Local community partners: Abalimi Bezekhaya, Foundation for Established partnerships since 2011 to strengthen community Alcohol Related Research (FARR), the Haven Night Shelter and ties and offer ongoing support to the valuable work of the Mitchell’s Plain School of Skills organisations. Cape Town Convention Bureau Business unit within the official Destination Marketing, Investment and Trade Promotion Agency for the Western Cape (Wesgro). A strategic alliance that assists in attracting bids for international conferences to the CTICC and Cape Town. Tourism industry stakeholders Raise the tourism profile of the city and region. Collaborating in order to position the CTICC and the region at top of mind. Media Partner in raising awareness about the CTICC. Primary target audience for reputation management strategy. 92 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Women’s Day Event 2015 An additional focus area is our membership of both local How we engage with our stakeholders and international trade forums, which helps us to position In order to encourage stakeholder interaction, various the CTICC as a global player in the conventions and events stakeholder events are hosted throughout the year. These sector (a full list of our membership is included in the About include the regular CTICC Board meetings, the annual general the CTICC section of this report). CTICC staff members are meeting and social stakeholder events. These platforms particularly active in these associations and their contribution encourage face-to-face communication and are an ideal way helps promote and strengthen the industry both nationally of receiving first-hand feedback from stakeholders. Specific and internationally. Notably, the CEO is the first African stakeholder engagement initiatives include: representative to be voted onto the Board of the International • A variety of events hosted throughout the year to which Association of Congress Centres (AIPC). The CTICC’s Business clients are invited and at which they are able to provide Development Manager: National serves on the Board of the direct feedback and input to the centre; Exhibition Association of South Africa (EXSA). In addition, a • At least four staff meetings per year with the specific CTICC Event Executive serves on the South Africa Association aim of encouraging direct communication and feedback, for the Conference Industry (SAACI) Western Cape Committee. supported by additional events and internal communication platforms such as the CTICC intranet, staff emails, staff newsletters, KPA meetings, notice boards; • A series of stakeholder and client events to which industry 18 869 Facebook Members roleplayers, media and suppliers were invited to engage with the CTICC as demonstrated on pages 95 to 97; • Comprehensive ‘product and service’ feedback sessions as part of thorough client de-briefing sessions after each key event; • Monthly client surveys conducted by an independent third 5 634 Twitter Followers party supplier; • Extensive social media interaction with 18 869 Facebook Social media data as at June 2016 members and 5 634 Twitter followers. These social media platforms are extensively used for two-way stakeholder communication. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 93 Growth through local partnerships One of the cornerstones of our sustainable success is our commitment to collaborating with local tourism and eventing organisations, not only to enhance our own position, but also to grow and develop the entire industry. These partner organisations include, but are not limited to, the following: • Cape Town & Western Cape Convention Bureau: a strategic business unit of Wesgro, this organisation works to promote Cape Town and the Western Cape as a premier destination for meetings, incentives, conferences, events, exhibitions and trade fairs. • Event organisers: Professional Conference Organisers (PCOs) and exhibition organisers are our key clients. We work closely with these stakeholders to constantly refine and enhance our offering in line with their requirements and expectations. • The film and media industry: Cape Town is an appealing international filming and photography destination. The CTICC is a sought-after location for these shoots and we make every effort to promote our centre and the city to the global media industry. • The South African National Convention Bureau (SANCB): SANCB plays a vital role in positioning South Africa as a world-class international meetings and events destination. Employee engagement and labour practices A strategic alliance Employees are able to raise any concerns relating to Conditions Positioning the CTICC as a leading conference destination, of Employment, Employment Equity and Skills Development especially in the international association event segment, with their line managers. The CTICC also has an Employee requires strong partnerships and cross-industry collaboration. Relations Forum (ERF) in place, with six staff nominated ERF representatives who take a collective approach to resolve We consider our work with the Cape Town & Western employee relations matters. Concerns can be raised through Cape Convention Bureau as a strategic alliance in securing the HR department directly or via this ERF. international congresses and association events. The Bureau is a business unit within Wesgro – Cape Town and the Western Fair labour practices and human rights principles are Cape’s official tourism, trade and investment promotion implemented at the CTICC and have also been included agency. into the procurement of contractors and sub-contractors as outlined in the section on procurement practices. This includes The Bureau is instrumental in building the reputation of Cape protection against child, forced and compulsory labour. Town and the Western Cape as a premier business events destination and offers preand post-bid assistance, convention The CTICC does not have employees who are covered by a planning support and event services to business event planners. collective bargaining agreement. They do however operate within a unionised environment with 21 employees (13.9%) Indeed, as a result of our collaboration, we have managed to belonging to the South African Commercial, Catering and secure prominent international association conferences for the Allied Workers Union (SACCAWU). CTICC and Cape Town, not to mention Africa. As partners, we were proud to announce in September 2015 Keeping in touch with our stakeholders that the World Ophthalmology Congress will be held in Africa for the first time in 2020. This congress will bring approximately The following mechanisms are in place for shareholders, 15 000 delegates to our centre, our city and our region. The employees, clients and other stakeholders to provide conference is one of the world’s largest medical meetings and recommendations or direction to the highest governance body will be the biggest ever hosted at the CTICC and will occupy (the CTICC Board): both CTICC West and East. • Clients: CTICC customer survey index (CSI) During the financial year, we also successfully hosted the 46th • E  mployees: Employment relations forum (ERF) and CEO Union World Conference on Lung Health (featured in the event open door policy case studies section of this report). The Bureau was responsible • S  hareholders: Strongly encouraged to attend AGM and for submitting the successful bid to host the conference. press conference • M  edia and other stakeholders: Free to attend AGM and Truly, a highly valued partnership in securing high-value press conference. conferences. 94 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report Significant client stakeholder engagements in the year under review August 2015 International Ophthalmology Association Chef’s Table To showcase our offering, CTICC Executive Management hosted a chef’s table for the Chief Executive Officer and Director of Meetings of the International Ophthalmology Association and the local organising committee of the World Ophthalmology Congress, which will be hosted at the CTICC in June 2020. 15 000 delegates are expected. October 2015 February 2016 Chef’s Table for corporate clients Société Internationale de Chirurgie The national sales team hosted a tasting for corporate Orthopédique et de Traumatologie clients with Executive Chef Warwick Thomas and his team. (SICOT) Chef’s Table SICOT is an international non-profit association that promotes the advancement of science and the art of orthopaedics. The CTICC hosted a chef’s table with the International Secretariat and local president. SICOT will take place at the CTICC from 28 November to 2 December 2017. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 95 February 2016 Meetings Africa client relationship management event CTICC Executive Management hosted a client relationship management event with the client responsible for the 17th Annual Conference of the Board of Healthcare Funders of Southern Africa. April 2016 Jazz Festival Client Engagement Sessions The CTICC hosted stakeholders and top clients during the Cape Town International Jazz Festival to thank them for their valuable contribution to the CTICC as well as showcasing the CTICC product offering. April 2016 IMEX International Associations business event In partnership with four other convention centres, CTICC Executive Management hosted 22 international association and meeting planner clients during a business event at the annual IMEX tradeshow in Frankfurt, Germany. May 2016 International Society for Microbial Ecology (ISME) Chef’s Table The International Society for Microbial Ecology is the principle non-profit scientific society for the burgeoning field of microbial ecology and related disciplines. The CTICC hosted a chef’s table with the ISME Executive Board. 96 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report May 2016 Joint Assembly (IAPSA, IAMAS, AIGA) Chef’s Table The CTICC hosted a chef’s table for the local organising committee of the International Association of Meteorology and Atmospheric Sciences, the International Association for the Physical Sciences of the Ocean and the International Association of Geomagnetism and Aeronomy. May 2016 ICCA Client-Supplier Workshop Megan Arendse, GM: Commercial & Business Development attended the International Congress and Convention Association client-supplier workshop in Cancun, Mexico. The CTICC qualified to take its client, Catherine Draper from the International Society for Behavioural Nutrition and Physical Activity Association, to the workshop. June 2016 Global Exhibitions Day The CTICC participated in the inaugural Global Exhibitions Day event launched by UFI (the Global Association of the Exhibitions Industry of which the CTICC is a member). Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 97 Artist’s impression of CTICC East interior 98 | C a p e To w n I n t e r na tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 0 16 Integrated Annual Report OUTLOOK: EMBRACING A GLOBAL FUTURE A healthy forward book: a look into the future The global events environment is highly competitive and increasingly so each year as an ever-growing number of convention centres and event providers open for business all over the world. We work constantly and diligently to position ourselves in this tough environment. And although we may be fortunate in our location at the popular southern tip of Africa, we cannot afford to be complacent. A vital tool in our quest for long-term business sustainability is our ability to populate a healthy forward book, which we manage to do primarily by winning bids and tenders for large international association conferences. The CTICC expansion will be open for business during 2017 and we have seen keen interest in our expanded facilities and services from prospective national and international clients. We have already won our first international bid in this regard, and will host the World Ophthalmology Conference in 2020. This event will see both CTICC West and East simultaneously occupied by 15 000 delegates, which simply would have been beyond our capacity before. During the year under review, we built on our established success, securing international association meetings and at the time of reporting there are 23 international congresses secured. Ca p e Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual R epor t | 99 Our forward book is growing into our expanded offering International bids awarded up to 2022 Start Date End Date Description Forecast Attendance 27/11/16 02/12/16 International Conference of Drug Regulatory Authorities (ICDRA) 2016 500 05/07/17 08/07/17 Mid-Year Meeting of the International Neuropsychological Society (INS) 2017 500 28/08/17 02/09/17 Joint Assembly Cape Town 2017 (IAPSO – IAMAS – IAGA) 2017 1 300 03/09/17 06/09/17 International Heavy Haul Railway Conference (IHHA) 2017 1 000 10/09/17 16/09/17 International Cochrane Colloquium Global Evidence Summit 2017 1 000 30/09/17 02/10/17 International Round Square Conference (RSIC) 2017 1 500 07/03/18 11/03/18 World Conference on Tobacco or Health (WCTOH) 2018 3 000 23/05/18 26/05/18 Congress of the World Federation of Occupational Therapists (WFOT) 2018 2 500 02/07/18 06/07/18 International Congress of Linguists (ICL) 2018 1 000 05/09/18 08/09/18 Congress of the Liga Medicorum Homoeopathica Internationalis (LMHI) 2018 1 000 17/09/18 19/09/18 Conference of the International Society for Trenchless Technology – NO DIG 150 (ISTT) 2018 19/10/18 22/10/18 World Congress of Internal Medicine (WCIM) 2018 6 000 28/10/18 01/11/18 World Congress of Audiology (WCA) 2018 1 500 01/12/18 05/12/18 International Congress of Endocrinology (ICE) 2018 5 500 18/03/19 19/03/19 INSOL International Annual Regional Conference 2019 500 03/09/19 06/09/19 African Regional Conference of the International Society for Soil Mechanics and 300 Geotechnical Engineering (ISSMGE) 2019 27/05/20 30/05/20 World Congress of Neurorehabilitation 2020 2 000 06/06/20 11/06/20 ISF World Seed Congress 2020 1 500 26/06/20 30/06/20 World Ophthalmology Congress (WOC) 2020 15 000 16/09/20 19/09/20 International Congress of Dietetics (ICD) 2020 1 500 01/03/21 13/03/21 International Congress of Human Genetics (ICHG) 2021 7 000 08/08/22 12/08/22 International Heat Transfer Conference (IHTC) 2021 1 200 09/10/22 13/10/22 Congress of the International Fiscal Association (IFA) 2022 2 000 100 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report Seeking sectors of future that will allow us effective control over utility use, harnessing technology to save costs and resources. Essentially, CTICC growth East will be a very smart building and an altogether more We see potential for growth in a number of sectors, African extraordinary client experience in every way. and global – most notably agro-processing, energy, technology, We are also constantly following and adapting food and tourism and healthcare. These hold great value for Africa and beverage trends in our extensive catering offering. As food we wish to partner with our stakeholders in concretising that trends evolve, our clients demand innovative and delicious promise. catering concepts to enhance their events. This needs to be Finally, we are of course looking at new and, in particular, balanced, of course, by sourcing in a sustainable way and we repeat clients and we are promoting the potential of CTICC love the creative challenge this brings with it. East and West to them. Already events such as the Cape Town In addition, we are convinced our ongoing investment in the International Jazz Festival and AfricaCom have expressed keen training and development of our own people and communities interest in our expanded offering. will pay further dividends. Finally, we seek to expand our already loyal client base via a greater connection with our Innovating for the future rising continent and the ever-changing world beyond. This is We believe technology and sustainability hold the joint keys our promise going into 2017, when our expansion comes on to the future, the one ably assisting the other to be realised. stream, we wish to: As an example, the CTICC East expansion will have a fully Extend our reach, embrace Africa and welcome integrated state-of-the-art building management system (BMS) the world. Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 101 102 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report Annual financial STATEMENTS Contents The reports and statements set out below comprise the annual financial statements presented to members: Directors’ Responsibility Statement 104 Report of the Directors 105 Company Secretary’s Certificate 106 Report of the Audit and Risk Committee 107 Report of the Human Resources and Remuneration Committee 109 Report of the Nominations Committee 110 Report of the Social and Ethics Committee 111 Report of the auditor-general 112 Statement of financial position 115 Statement of financial performance 116 Statement of changes in net assets 116 Cash flow statement 117 Statement of comparison of budget and actual amounts 118 Notes to the financial statements 119 Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 103 Directors’ Responsibility Statement for the year ended 30 June 2016 The Directors are responsible for the maintenance of adequate accounting records and the preparation, integrity and fair presentation of the financial statements of the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Ltd (RF). The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with the Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) including any interpretations of such Statements issued by the Accounting Standards Board, the Municipal Finance Management Act of South Africa, 2003 and the Companies Act of South Africa. The financial statements are based on appropriate accounting policies, consistently applied. The Directors are also responsible for the company’s systems of internal financial control. These control procedures are designed to provide reasonable, but not absolute, assurance about the reliability of the financial statements, that assets are safeguarded and to prevent and detect losses. The Directors are not aware of any significant breakdown in the functioning of these measures, procedures and systems during the year under review. The going concern basis has been adopted in preparing the financial statements. The Directors have no reason to believe that the company will not be a going concern in the foreseeable future, based on forecasts and available cash and finance resources. The financial statements have been audited by the Auditor-General of South Africa, who was given unrestricted access to all financial records and related data, including minutes of all meetings of shareholders, Board of Directors and committees of the Board. The Directors are of the opinion that all representations made to the independent auditors during the audit are valid and appropriate. The responsibility of the external auditors is to express an opinion on the financial statements in accordance with the accounting framework. Approval of the annual financial statements The annual financial statements which appear on pages 115 to 145 were approved by the Board of Directors on 25 August 2016 and are signed on their behalf by: Authorised Director Authorised Director Authorised Director 25 August 2016 25 August 2016 25 August 2016 104 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report Report of the Directors for the year ended 30 June 2016 The Directors have pleasure in presenting their report for the year ended 30 June 2016. 1. General review The company’s business and operations and the results thereof are clearly reflected in the attached financial statements. 2. Dividends No dividends were declared or recommended during the year. 3. Share capital There were no changes in the authorised share capital. There were changes to the issued share capital of the company during the period under review. Refer to note 7. 4. Events subsequent to year-end Further tranches of shares in the company will be issued to the shareholders on pre-agreed dates in terms of the accepted share offer letter. The shares are issued in return for cash to fund the planned expansion of the CTICC. 5. Directors The Directors of the company during the year under review and at the date of this report were: AM Boraine (Chairman) J Ellingson (CEO) GM Fisher F Parker (CFO) S Myburgh-De Gois RSH Eksteen SW Fourie EI Hamman BJ Lodewyk AA Mahmood DA Cloete – Appointed on 27 October 2015 GJ Lundy – Resigned on 31 March 2016 HJ Taljaard – Retired by rotation on 27 October 2015 6. Auditors The Auditor-General of South Africa was reappointed as auditor in terms of the Municipal Finance Management Act, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003) (MFMA). 7. Shareholding The City of Cape Town owns 67.8% of the company’s shares. The remaining shares are held by the Provincial Government of the Western Cape (25.3%) and SunWest International (Pty) Ltd (6.9%). 8. Subsidiary The company has only one subsidiary, the Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company Ltd (OPCO). OPCO is in the process of being deregistered. Consolidated financial statements have not been prepared as OPCO is dormant and is not considered material. Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 105 Company secretary’s certificate for the year ended 30 June 2016 In terms of Section 88(2)(e) of the Companies Act, 71 of 2008 (“the Act”), I certify that the company has lodged with the Companies and Intellectual Property Commission, all returns and notices as required by the Act in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2016, and that all such returns and notices are true, correct and up to date. MM Thirion FCIS Company Secretary 1 August 2016 106 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE for the year ended 30 June 2016 The Audit and Risk Committee (“the committee”) submits its policies; the adequacy, reliability and accuracy of financial report in respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2016 as reporting and information; performance management required by section 94 of the Companies Act, 71 of 2008. and evaluation; effective governance, compliance with the MFMA and other applicable legislation and any other matters referred to it by the Board; Audit and Risk Committee mandate • ensures that the combined assurance received is The committee is governed by formal terms of reference, which appropriate to address all the significant risks facing the have been approved by the Board and which are regularly company; and monitors the relationship between the reviewed. It fulfils its responsibilities in terms of the Companies external assurance providers and the company; Act, 71 of 2008, the Municipal Finance Management Act, 56 of 2003 (MFMA), and its terms of reference. The committee • oversees and reviews the expertise, resources and has an independent role with accountability to both the Board experience of the company’s finance function; and the shareholders. It does not assume the functions of • oversees the internal audit function, which is outsourced management, which remain the responsibility of the Executive and which reports directly to the Audit and Risk Directors, officers and other members of management. The Committee; reviews and approves the internal audit committee acts in an advisory and oversight capacity; it does plan, and monitors the effectiveness of the internal audit not relieve management of its responsibilities but makes function in terms of its scope of work, progress with objective and independent recommendations. execution of the internal audit plan and independence; • expresses a view on the effectiveness of the internal Composition of the committee control environment by monitoring internal controls for The committee currently comprises four Non-executive effectiveness; Directors with appropriate qualifications and experience, • oversees the external audit process and approves the nominated by the Board and appointed by the Council of the terms of engagement and remuneration of the external City of Cape Town. auditors and reviews the effectiveness of the external Name of committee member Qualifications audit process. Any significant issues arising from the audit are brought to the committee’s attention; BJ Lodewyk (Chairman) B.Com (Acc.); Hons B. Compt; CA (SA) • assists the Board in ensuring that the company has implemented an effective policy and plan for risk SW Fourie B.Com (Econ); management, which will enhance the company’s ability Hons, MBus. Admin. to achieve its strategic objectives; EI Hamman B.Com (Acc.); • forms an integral part of the risk management process PGDA; CA(SA) and specifically oversees financial reporting risks, internal AA Mahmood B.Com; MBA financial controls, fraud risk in relation to financial reporting, and information technology risks as they relate to financial reporting; Attendance at meetings • oversees the development and annual review of the The committee meets at least four times a year and its meetings company’s risk management action plan and ensures are attended by the Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial that frameworks and methodologies are implemented to Officer, other Executive Managers of the company and increase the possibility of anticipating unpredictable risks; representatives of the internal and external auditors. A quorum • monitors implementation of the risk management action for meetings is 50% of the members present. The committee plan and ensures that risk management assessments are met five times during the period under review. Refer to performed on a continuous basis and reports to the Board page 90 for the attendance at meetings of the committee. in this regard; • makes recommendations to the Board concerning levels Key responsibilities of the committee of tolerance and risk appetite; and The legal responsibilities of the committee are set forth in • performs such additional oversight functions as may be the Companies Act, 71 of 2008, and the Municipal Finance determined by the Board from time to time. Management Act, 56 of 2003. The committee: Discharge of responsibilities • exercises oversight of the internal financial controls of The committee has a detailed work plan, which is formally the company; adopted to support its effective functioning during the • makes submissions to the Board of Directors, and advises year. The committee is satisfied that it has, during the past the Board, the accounting officer and the management financial year, met its responsibilities as stipulated in its terms of of the company on matters relating to internal financial reference and that it has complied with all its legal, regulatory control and internal audit; risk management; accounting and other requirements. Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 107 REPORT OF THE AUDIT AND RISK COMMITTEE for the year ended 30 June 2016 (continued) Internal control the effectiveness of the company’s system of internal control and risk management, including internal financial The committee has, during the period under review: controls; • satisfied itself that the Chief Financial Officer has the • monitored implementation of the company’s risk appropriate expertise and experience to act in this management action plan and made recommendations capacity; regarding the improvement thereof and reporting thereon. • reviewed the expertise, resources and adequacy of the Internal audit company’s finance function and found it to be adequate; The committee has, during the period under review: • reviewed the quarterly and annual financial results and performance information and reporting to ensure proper • ensured that the company’s internal audit function was and complete disclosure of timely, reliable and consistent independent and that it had the necessary resources and information; standing to enable it to discharge its duties; • evaluated on an ongoing basis the appropriateness, • reviewed and approved the internal audit plan in terms adequacy and efficiency of accounting policies and of its scope and coverage and monitored progress with procedures, compliance with Standards of Generally the execution thereof; Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) and overall accounting standards as well as any changes thereto; • monitored the effectiveness and independence of the internal audit function; • discussed and resolved any significant or unusual accounting issues; • exercised oversight of the co-operation between the internal and external auditors and served as a link between • reviewed and monitored the effectiveness, efficiency the Board and these functions. and the management as well as reporting of tax-related matters; External audit • reviewed the effectiveness of the company’s system of The committee is satisfied that the external auditors were internal financial controls including receiving assurance independent of the company. from management, internal audit and external audit; The committee had considered the fees to be paid to the • reviewed relevant company procedures for the prevention auditors as well as their terms of engagement, and found it and detection of fraud; to be acceptable. • reviewed and made recommendations to the relevant Annual financial statements and conclusion company policies; The committee has reviewed the year-end financial statements • reviewed the significant issues raised by the internal and and Integrated Annual Report and is satisfied with its integrity. external auditors; The committee recommended approval thereof to the Board. The financial statements are prepared in accordance with the • had oversight of IT governance; and basis of accounting determined by the National Treasury as set • exercised oversight of the financial aspects of capital out in accounting policy note 1 and in the manner required by projects including the CTICC East expansion. the MFMA. The committee has reviewed the external auditor’s management letter and management’s response thereto. The committee has extensively reviewed quarterly financial and performance reporting together with findings from The Board has subsequently approved the integrated report, the Auditor-General and internal audit. These findings have which will be open for discussion at the upcoming annual been discussed with management. Based on the processes general meeting. and assurances obtained, the committee believes that the The committee is confident of the combined assurance approach significant internal financial controls are generally effective with the continued support of the Board, shareholders and key and that accounting practices are appropriate. stakeholders in the new financial year. Risk management The committee has, during the period under review: • exercised oversight in respect of the enterprise risk management function, which remains management’s responsibility; BJ Lodewyk CA(SA) Audit and Risk Committee Chairman • exercised oversight of a process, facilitated by the internal auditors, in terms of which management has assessed 25 August 2016 108 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report REPORT OF THE HUMAN RESOURCES AND REMUNERATION COMMITTEE for the year ended 30 June 2016 This report is presented by the Human Resources and Discharge of responsibilities Remuneration Committee (“the committee”) and describes how the committee has discharged its duties in respect of the During the year under review the committee: financial year ended 30 June 2016. • exercised oversight over salary increases; • reviewed various company policies; Mandate of the committee • set, in conjunction with the CEO, her key performance The committee is governed by formal terms of reference, which indicators (KPIs) and carried out the necessary review of have been approved by the Board and which are regularly performance against the set KPIs; reviewed. The committee has an independent oversight and • had oversight of the company’s employment equity advisory role. A detailed work plan was formally adopted reporting; and to ensure the effective functioning of the committee. The • exercised oversight of matters related to human resource committee is satisfied that it has, during the past financial year, management and succession planning. met its responsibilities as stipulated in its terms of reference and that it has complied with all its legal, regulatory and other Remuneration strategy and policy responsibilities. The company’s remuneration strategy is aimed at attracting, motivating and retaining competent and talented employees Composition of the committee to ensure that its business remains sustainable. Remuneration levels are influenced by the scarcity of skills and work The committee currently comprises three independent Nonperformance. executive Directors of the company and there is currently one vacancy. The Executive Directors and certain members A performance based incentive scheme is in place in respect of the company’s Executive Management team also attend of all levels of the company to acknowledge the contributions committee meetings. A quorum for meetings is 50% of the of individual employees by rewarding them for exceptional members present. performance. KPIs are identified and agreed between each staff member and his/her immediate superior and his/her Mr HJ Taljaard, the previous chairman of this committee, performance is measured against these agreed indicators. retired by rotation at the Annual General Meeting of Individuals’ KPIs are linked to the company’s KPIs as a means the company on 27 October 2015. He was replaced as of ensuring that the company achieves its objectives. A reward chairman of this committee by Mr GJ Lundy on and recognition programme has also been implemented. 27 October 2015. I, Deon Cloete, was appointed as chairman Remuneration packages are benchmarked to similar positions of this committee following Mr Lundy’s resignation on in the meetings industry to ensure that they are fair and 31 March 2016. competitive. Attendance at meetings Directors’ remuneration The committee met five times during the period under review. The company’s strategy for the remuneration of Non-executive Details of Directors’ attendance at meetings appear on Directors is aimed at ensuring that levels of remuneration page 90 of this report. are sufficient to attract, retain and motivate suitably skilled and experienced Non-executive Directors, recognising the Key responsibilities of the committee responsibilities borne by Directors and ensuring that they are remunerated fairly and responsibly within the constraints of The committee: the Municipal Finance Management Act, 56 of 2003 and the • assists the Board in ensuring that the company remunerates company’s Memorandum of Incorporation. its Directors and Executives fairly and responsibly and that The company’s Directors’ Remuneration Policy was last the disclosure of remuneration is accurate, complete approved by the shareholders at the Annual General Meeting and transparent and in accordance with the laws and of the company, held on 21 October 2014. It will again be regulations applicable to the company; put to the shareholders for approval at the Annual General • monitors the administration of remuneration at all levels Meeting of the company to be held on 25 October 2016. in the company; Please refer to page 139 for details of the Directors’ • oversees the establishment of a remuneration strategy, remuneration for the period under review. which promotes the achievement of the company’s strategic objectives and encourages individual performance; • evaluates the performance of the Chief Executive Officer in determining her remuneration; and • exercises oversight of matters related to human resource management and succession planning. DA Cloete Human Resources and Remuneration Committee Chairman 25 August 2016 Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 109 REPORT OF THE NOMINATIONS COMMITTEE for the year ended 30 June 2016 This report is presented by the Nominations Committee and Attendance at meetings describes how the committee has discharged its duties in The committee must, in terms of its terms of reference, meet respect of the financial year ended 30 June 2016. at least twice a year, and more often if required. It met three times during the past financial year. Please refer to page 90 for Role of the committee the attendance at meetings of the committee. The committee has an oversight role and makes recommendations to the Board regarding the Directors of the Discharge of responsibilities company to ensure: The committee has a detailed work plan, which has been formally adopted to support its effective functioning during • that the Board has the appropriate composition to enable the year. it to execute its duties effectively; During the year under review the committee made • that Directors are appointed through a formal and recommendations to the Board regarding the composition of transparent process; the CTICC’s various committees. It also exercised oversight of • that the respective Board committees have the appropriate the recruitment process of the two independent Non-executive Directors who were appointed to replace Messrs HJ Taljaard skill sets; and GJ Lundy respectively. • that induction, ongoing training and development and The committee is satisfied that it has, during the past financial evaluation of Directors takes place; and year, met its responsibilities as stipulated in its terms of • that an appropriate succession plan is in place in respect reference. of the Chief Executive Officer of the company. Composition of the committee The committee currently comprises two Non-executive Directors, appointed by the shareholders, as well as the Chairman of the Board who also chairs this committee. There is AM Boraine Nominations Committee Chairman currently a vacancy on the committee. A quorum for meetings is 50% of the members present. 25 August 2016 110 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report REPORT OF THE SOCIAL AND ETHICS COMMITTEE for the year ended 30 June 2016 This report is presented by the committee to describe how it Attendance at meetings has discharged its statutory duties in terms of the Companies Act, 71 of 2008, in respect of the financial year ended 30 The committee must, in terms of its terms of reference, meet June 2016. at least twice a year. It met three times during the past financial year. Details of meeting attendance appear on page 90 of this report. Ethics and corporate social responsibility The Board of Directors subscribes to the highest standards Discharge of responsibilities of ethics and corporate social responsibility and assesses the company’s performance against various mandatory The committee has a detailed work plan, which has been and voluntary standards. The Board assumes the ultimate formally adopted, to support its effective functioning during responsibility for the company’s ethics performance, which the year. is delegated to the Executive Management, but it does not The committee has, during the period under review, monitored relieve management of its duties and responsibilities in this the company’s activities, having regard to relevant legislation regard. The Chief Executive Officer is the visible link between and other legal requirements and codes pertaining to the Board’s corporate ethics expectations and the company’s matters relating to social and economic development, the management of ethics. environment, Broad-Based Black Economic Empowerment, employment equity, health and safety, employee wellness Mandate of the committee and stakeholder relationships. It is satisfied that it has, during the past financial year, met its responsibilities as stipulated in The committee derives its mandate from section 72 of the its terms of reference and that it has complied with its legal, Companies Act, 2008, read together with Regulation 43(5) regulatory and other responsibilities. of the Companies Regulations, published under Government Gazette Notice R351 in Government Gazette 34239 of The committee is satisfied that the company takes its 26 April 2011. governance, social and environmental responsibilities seriously. While the committee recognises that areas within its mandate The committee’s role and responsibilities are set forth in its are constantly evolving, it is confident that management is terms of reference, which have been approved by the Board committed to integrating ethics into the business of the and are reviewed annually. The committee is accountable to company and that it continues to pay sufficient attention to both the Board and the company’s shareholders. It has an ethics management. independent role and acts in an advisory and oversight capacity. The main objective of the committee is to assist the Board in monitoring the company’s performance, having regard to all relevant laws, standards and principles with regard to matters relating to, not only financial sustainability, but good corporate citizenship, social and economic development, the environment, client relationships, labour and employment and EI Hamman CA(SA) health and safety. Social and Ethics Committee Chairman 25 August 2016 Composition of the committee The committee currently comprises three Non-executive Directors and the Chief Executive Officer of the company. A quorum for meetings is 50% of the members present. Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 111 Report of the auditor-general to the Western Cape Provincial Parliament and the Council of The City of Cape Town on the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company Soc Limited (rF) Report on the financial statements Introduction 1. I have audited the financial statements of the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Limited (RF) (CTICC) set out on pages 115 to 145, which comprise the statement of financial position as at 30 June 2016, the statement of financial performance, statement of changes in net assets, cash flow statement and the statement of comparison of budget information with actual information for the year then ended, as well as the notes, comprising a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Accounting officer’s responsibility for the financial statements 2. The accounting officer is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of these financial statements in accordance with South African Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting Practise (SA Standards of GRAP) and the requirements of the Municipal Finance Management Act of South Africa, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003) (MFMA) and the Companies Act of South Africa, 2008 (Act No. 71 of 2008) (Companies Act), and for such internal control as the accounting officer determines is necessary to enable the preparation of financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. Auditor-general’s responsibility 3. My responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on my audit. I conducted my audit in accordance with International Standards on Auditing. Those standards require that I comply with ethical requirements, and plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free from material misstatement. 4. An audit involves performing procedures to obtain audit evidence about the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. The procedures selected depend on the auditor’s judgement, including the assessment of the risks of material misstatement of the financial statements, whether due to fraud or error. In making those risk assessments, the auditor considers internal control relevant to the entity’s preparation and fair presentation of the financial statements in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity’s internal control. An audit also includes evaluating the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the financial statements. 5. I believe that the audit evidence I have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for my audit opinion. Opinion 6. In my opinion, the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the CTICC as at 30 June 2016 and its financial performance and cash flows for the year then ended, in accordance with SA Standards of GRAP and the requirements of the MFMA and the Companies Act. Emphasis of matter 7. I draw attention to the matter below. My opinion is not modified in respect of this matter: Significant uncertainties: 8. With reference to note 24 to the financial statements, there is an ongoing income tax dispute between the municipal entity and SARS. The ultimate outcome of the matter cannot be presently determined and no provision for any liability that may result has been made in the financial statements. 112 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l C o n v e n tio n C e n tre | 2 016 Integrated A nnual Report Additional matters 9. I draw attention to the matters below. My opinion is not modified in respect of these matters. Unaudited disclosure notes 10. In terms of section 125(2)(e) of the MFMA the municipal entity is required to disclose particulars of non-compliance with the MFMA. The disclosure requirement did not from part of the audit of the financial statements and accordingly I do not express an opinion thereon. Other reports required by the Companies Act 11. As part of my audit of the financial statements for the year ended 30 June 2016, I have read the directors’ report, the audit committee’s report and the company secretary’s certificate for the purpose of identifying whether there are material inconsistencies between these reports and the audited financial statements. These reports are the responsibility of the respective preparers. Based on reading these reports, I have not identified material inconsistencies between these reports and the audited financial statements. I have not audited these reports and, accordingly, I do not express an opinion thereon. Report on other legal and regulatory requirement 12. In accordance with the Public Audit Act of South Africa, 2004 (Act No. 25 of 2004) (PAA) and the general notice issued in terms thereof, I have a responsibility to report findings on the reported performance information against predetermined objectives of selected key performance areas presented in the annual performance report, compliance with legislation and internal control. The objective of my tests was to identify reportable findings as described under each subheading but not to gather evidence to express assurance on these matters. Accordingly, I do not express an opinion or conclusion on these matters. Predetermined objectives 13. I performed procedures to obtain evidence about the usefulness and reliability of the reported performance information of the following selected key performance areas presented in the annual performance report of the CTICC for the year ended 30 June 2016: • Key performance area 1: events, on page 55 • Key performance area 3: customer centricity and service excellence, on page 55 • Key performance area 5: budget, on page 55 • Key performance area 6: governance, on page 55 14. I evaluated the usefulness of the reported performance information to determine whether it was presented in accordance with the National Treasury’s annual reporting principles and whether the reported performance was consistent with the planned key performance areas. I further performed tests to determine whether indicators and targets were well defined, verifiable, specific, measurable, time bound and relevant, as required by the National Treasury’s Framework for managing programme performance information (FMPPI). 15. I assessed the reliability of the reported performance information to determine whether it was valid, accurate and complete. 16. I did not identify any material findings on the usefulness and reliability of the reported performance information for the selected key performance areas. Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 113 Report of the auditor-general to the Western Cape Provincial Parliament and the Council of The City of Cape Town on the Cape Town International Convention Centre Company Soc Limited (rF) (continued) Additional matter 17. Although I identified no material findings on the usefulness and reliability of the reported performance information for the selected key performance areas, I draw attention to the following matter: Achievement of planned targets 18. Refer to the annual performance report on page 55 for information on the achievement of the planned targets for the year. Compliance with legislation 19. I performed procedures to obtain evidence that the CTICC had complied with applicable legislation regarding financial matters, financial management and other related matters. I did not identify any instances of material non-compliance with specific matters in key legislation, as set out in the general notice issued in terms of the PAA. Internal control 20. I considered internal control relevant to my audit of the financial statements, key performance areas and compliance with legislation. I did not identify any significant deficiencies in internal control. Cape Town 7 October 2016 114 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l C o n v e n tio n C e n tre | 2 016 Integrated A nnual Report STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL POSITION as at 30 June 2016 NOTES 2016 2015 R R ASSETS Non-current assets 622 079 336 264 119 857 Property, plant and equipment 2 619 425 592 264 115 089 Investment in subsidiary 3 100 100 Deferred taxation 4 2 653 644 4 668 Current assets 437 925 550 582 845 409 Inventories 5 1 259 812 1 765 555 Receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions 6 18 070 712 26 448 312 Cash and cash equivalents 14.3 418 595 026 554 631 542 Total assets 1 060 004 886 846 965 266 NET ASSETS AND LIABILITIES Net assets 916 427 146 752 174 213 Contribution from owners 7 1 084 427 701 967 427 701 Accumulated deficit (168 000 555) (215 253 488) Current liabilities 143 577 740 94 791 053 Client deposits 46 620 494 36 429 117 Payables and other payables from exchange transactions 8 91 973 122 53 938 793 Provisions 9 3 537 828 3 364 567 Receiver of revenue 14.2 1 446 296 1 058 576 Total net assets and liabilities 1 060 004 886 846 965 266 Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 115 STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE for the year ended 30 June 2016 NOTES 2016 2015 R R Revenue from exchange transactions 11 202 459 444 189 999 837 Cost of sales (25 682 611) (23 225 817) Gross profit 176 776 833 166 774 020 Other operating income from exchange transactions 41 894 633 38 481 468 Finance income 12 35 271 842 30 836 658 Other 6 622 791 7 644 810 Operating expenses (151 369 407) (144 441 217) Operating profit 10 67 302 059 60 814 271 Finance costs 12 (42 327) (95 104) Profit before taxation 67 259 732 60 719 167 Taxation 13 (20 006 799) (18 576 297) Net profit for the year 47 252 933 42 142 870 Statement of changes in net assets for the year ended 30 June 2016 CONTRIBUTIONS ACCUMULATED TOTAL FROM OWNERS DEFICIT R R R Balance at 1 July 2014 764 713 201 (257 396 358) 507 316 843 Profit for the year – 42 142 870 42 142 870 Share issue 202 714 500 202 714 500 Balance at 30 June 2015 967 427 701 (215 253 488) 752 174 213 Profit for the year – 47 252 933 47 252 933 Share issue 117 000 000 117 000 000 Balance at 30 June 2016 1 084 427 701 (168 000 555) 916 427 146 116 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report CASH FLOW STATEMENT for the year ended 30 June 2016 NOTES 2016 2015 R R Cash flow from operating activities 127 269 799 78 796 255 Cash receipts from customers 227 555 789 189 449 136 Cash paid to suppliers and employees (113 247 450) (121 640 053) Cash generated from operations 14.1 114 308 339 67 809 083 Finance costs 12 (42 327) (95 104) Finance income 12 35 271 842 30 836 658 Taxation paid 14.2 (22 268 055) (19 754 382) Cash flow from investing activities (380 306 315) (81 878 694) Acquisition of property, plant and equipment (380 306 315) (81 878 694) Cash flow from financing activities 117 000 000 202 714 500 Proceeds from share issue 7 117 000 000 202 714 500 (Decrease)/increase in cash and cash equivalents (136 036 516) 199 632 061 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of the year 14.3 554 631 542 354 999 481 Cash and cash equivalents at end of the year 14.3 418 595 026 554 631 542 Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 117 STATEMENT OF COMPARISON OF BUDGET AND ACTUAL AMOUNTS for the year ended 30 June 2016 NOTES ACTUAL APPROVED BUDGET FINAL BUDGET Favourable/ Variance Unfavourable variance 2016 2016 2016 2016 R R R R % STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL 19.2 PERFORMANCE Revenue (i) 174 453 822 168 312 338 169 312 338 5 141 484 3% Other income (ii) 34 628 413 24 414 160 25 414 160 9 214 253 36% Less: direct costs 43 110 929 41 007 804 42 132 115 (978 814) -2% Cost of sales 25 178 796 24 879 928 26 004 239 825 443 3% Direct personnel (iii) 13 555 021 11 744 828 11 744 828 (1 810 193) -15% Parking costs 3 390 862 3 578 973 3 578 973 188 111 5% Equipment hire 986 250 804 075 804 075 (182 175) -23% Add: finance income (iv) 35 271 843 22 567 788 27 111 735 8 160 108 30% Less: indirect expenditure (v) 133 983 417 155 932 808 155 630 305 21 646 888 14% Personnel costs 48 046 825 54 301 387 56 361 387 8 314 562 15% Operations general 2 067 575 2 898 628 2 176 008 108 433 5% Utility services 17 799 026 19 633 530 19 333 530 1 534 504 8% Maintenance 7 856 031 8 041 373 8 041 373 185 342 2% Building costs 14 310 529 15 199 098 15 199 098 888 569 6% Office costs 3 794 562 4 713 686 4 713 686 919 124 19% Computer expenses 3 415 263 4 944 717 3 804 834 389 571 10% Advisors 2 923 308 4 495 586 4 495 586 1 572 278 35% Travel and entertainment 1 109 256 1 877 631 1 877 631 768 375 41% Marketing and corporate 5 186 347 6 890 065 6 890 065 1 703 718 25% communications Catering materials 2 182 156 2 866 614 2 666 614 484 458 18% Bad debts 418 083 280 900 280 900 (137 183) -49% Depreciation 24 832 129 29 789 593 29 789 593 4 957 464 17% Finance costs 42 327 – – (42 327) – Net profit for the period (vi) 67 259 732 18 353 674 24 075 813 43 183 919 179% Capital expenditure for the year ended 30 June 2016 CATEGORY NOTES ACTUAL APPROVED BUDGET FINAL BUDGET Favourable/ Variance Unfavourable variance R R R R % Building enhancements 15 194 123 16 495 000 16 495 000 1 300 877 8% IT & electronic infrastructure 10 517 398 10 849 109 10 849 109 331 711 3% Kitchen enhancements 786 288 1 050 000 1 050 000 263 712 25% Catering furniture and equipment 2 596 609 4 174 897 3 174 897 578 288 18% Other capex items 351 207 982 467 975 076 354 442 039 3 234 057 1% Total capital expenditure 19.3 380 302 400 500 544 082 386 011 045 5 708 645 1% 118 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report NOTES TO THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS for the year ended 30 June 2016 1 Accounting policies 1.1 Basis of preparation The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with Standards of Generally Recognised Accounting Practice (GRAP) including interpretations guidelines and directives issued by the Accounting Standards Board in accordance with the Municipal Finance Management Act, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003). The cash flow statement has been prepared in accordance with the direct method. The amount and nature of any restrictions on the cash balance are disclosed. GRAP Standards issued but not yet effective The following GRAP Standards have been issued but are not yet effective and have not been early adopted by the entity: This standard ensures that a reporting entity’s financial statements contain the disclosures GRAP 20 Related Party necessary to draw attention to the possibility that its financial position and surplus or Disclosures deficit may have been affected by the existence of related parties and by transactions and outstanding balances with such parties. GRAP 32 Service This standard prescribes the accounting for service concession arrangements by the grantor, Concession Arrangements a public sector entity. Grantor GRAP 108 Statutory This standard prescribes the accounting requirements for the recognition, measurement, Receivables presentation and disclosure of statutory receivables. Standards not applicable to the entity include GRAP 18 Segment Reporting (Not required by the Accounting Standards Board) GRAP 103 Heritage Assets (The entity does not hold any heritage assets) Transfers of functions between entities under common control (There are no entities under GRAP 105 common control) Transfers of functions between entities not under common control (There are no entities GRAP 106 not under common control) GRAP 107 Mergers (The entity does not hold any mergers) Accounting for service concession arrangements by the grantor, a public sector entity (The GRAP 32 entity does not service concession arrangements) The recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of statutory receivables GRAP 108 (The entity does not hold any statutory receivables) Where a standard of GRAP is approved as effective, it replaces the equivalent statement of International Public Sector Accounting Standards Board, International Financial Reporting Standards or Generally Accepted Accounting Principles. Where a standard of GRAP has been issued, but is not yet in effect, an entity may select to apply the principles established in that standard in developing an appropriate accounting policy dealing with a particular section or event before applying paragraph 12 of the Standard of GRAP on Accounting Policies, Changes in Accounting Estimates and Errors. Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 119 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.1 Basis of preparation (continued) The significant accounting policies are set out below, and are consistent with those applied in the previous financial year. In the process of applying the accounting policies, management has made the following significant accounting judgements, estimates and assumptions, which has the most significant effect on the amounts recognised in the financial statements: Operating lease commitments – Entity as lessor The entity has entered into commercial property leases on its property portfolio. The entity has determined that it retains all the significant risks and rewards of ownership of these properties, and so accounts for them as operating leases. Rental is paid based on turnover rental contracts and is recognised as accrued. Impairment of trade receivables from exchange transactions The calculation in respect of the impairment of debtors is based on an assessment of the extent to which debtors have defaulted on payments already due, and an assessment of their ability to make payments based on their creditworthiness. This was performed per service-identifiable categories across all classes of debtors. Property, plant and equipment The useful lives of assets are based on management’s estimation. Management considers the impact of technology, availability of capital funding, service requirements and required return on assets to determine the optimum useful life expectation where appropriate. The estimation of residual values of assets is also based on management’s judgement whether the assets will be sold or used to the end of their useful lives, and what their condition will be at that time. Provisions and contingent liabilities Management’s judgement is required when recognising and measuring provisions, and when measuring contingent liabilities as set out in note 9. Provisions are discounted where the effect of discounting is material using actuarial valuations. 1.2 Property, plant and equipment All property, plant and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment loss. Costs include costs incurred initially to acquire or construct an item of property, plant and equipment and costs subsequently to add to, replace part of, or service it. If a replacement cost is recognised in the carrying amount of an item of property, plant and equipment, the carrying amount of the replaced part is derecognised. Depreciation is calculated on the straight-line method to write off the cost of each asset to its residual value over its estimated useful life as follows: 120 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.2 Property, plant and equipment (continued) 2016 2015 % % Plant and equipment 8.33 – 50.00 8.33 – 50.00 Motor vehicles 14.28 – 25.00 14.28 – 25.00 Furniture and fittings 6.67 – 50.00 6.67 – 50.00 Kitchen and catering 6.67 – 50.00 6.67 – 50.00 Office equipment 10.00 – 50.00 10.00 – 50.00 Computer equipment 16.67 – 50.00 16.67 – 50.00 Computer software 33.33 – 50.00 33.33 – 50.00 Escalators and elevators 5.56 – 10.00 5.56 – 10.00 Carpets/laminated flooring 12.50 – 16.67 12.50 – 16.67 Curtains/blinds 11.11 – 20.00 11.11 – 20.00 Signage 8.33 – 33.33 8.33 – 33.33 Audiovisual 7.69 – 16.67 7.69 – 16.67 Fences and gates 6.67 – 20.00 6.67 – 20.00 Cold rooms 5.88 – 16.67 5.88 – 16.67 Air-conditioning system 5.56 – 50.00 5.56 – 50.00 Sprinkler system 16.67 – 20.00 16.67 – 20.00 Auditorium seating 8.33 – 16.67 8.33 – 16.67 Building management system 5.88 – 16.67 5.88 – 16.67 Building 2.5 – 50.00 2.5 – 50.00 The assets’ estimated useful lives and residual values are reviewed on an annual basis. Repairs and maintenance are generally charged to expenses during the financial period in which they are incurred. However, major renovations are capitalised and included in the carrying amount of the asset when it is probable that future economic benefits in excess of the originally assessed standard of performance of the existing asset will flow to the company. Major renovations are depreciated over the remaining useful life of the related asset. Gains and losses on disposals are determined by comparing proceeds with carrying amounts and are included in operating profit. Where the carrying value of an asset exceeds the calculated recoverable amount, the asset is immediately written down. 1.3 Impairment of assets 1.3.1 Impairment of cash-generating assets Cash-generating assets are those assets held by the entity with the primary objective of generating a commercial return. When an asset is deployed in a manner consistent with that adopted by a profit-orientated entity, it generates a commercial return. Impairment is a loss in the future economic benefits or service potential of an asset, over and above the systematic recognition of the loss of the asset’s future economic benefits or service potential through depreciation (amortisation). Carrying amount is the amount at which an asset is recognised in the statement of financial position after deducting any accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses thereon. A cash-generating unit is the smallest identifiable group of assets held with the primary objective of generating a commercial return that generates cash flows from continuing use that are largely independent of the cash inflows from other assets or groups of assets. Costs of disposal are incremental costs directly attributable to the disposal of an asset, excluding finance costs and income tax expense. Depreciation (amortisation) is the systematic allocation of the depreciable amount of an asset over its useful life. Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 121 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.3 Impairment of assets (continued) 1.3.1 Impairment of cash-generating assets (continued) Fair value less costs to sell is the amount obtainable from the sale of an asset in the arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less costs of disposal. Recoverable amount of an asset or a cash-generating unit is the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Useful life is either: a) The period of time over which an asset is expected to be used by the entity; or b) The number of production or similar units expected to be obtained from the assets by the entity. Criteria developed by the entity to distinguish cash-generating assets from non-cash-generating assets are as follows: Identification When the carrying amount of a cash-generating asset exceeds its recoverable amount, it is impaired. The entity assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that a cash-generating asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the entity estimates the recoverable amount of the asset. Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, the entity also tests a cash-generating intangible asset with an indefinite useful life or a cash-generating intangible asset not yet available for use for impairment annually by comparing its carrying amount with its recoverable amount. This impairment test is performed at the same time every year. If an intangible asset was initially recognised during the current reporting period, that intangible asset was tested for impairment before the end of the current reporting period. Value in use Value in use of a cash-generating asset is the present value of the estimated future cash flows expected to be derived from the continuing use of an asset and from its disposal at the end of its useful life. When estimating the value in use of an asset, the entity estimates the future cash inflows and outflows to be derived from continuing use of the asset and from its ultimate disposal and the entity applies the appropriate discount rate to those future cash flows. Composition of estimates of future cash flows Estimates of future cash flows include: • Projections of cash inflows from the continuing use of the asset; • Projections of cash outflows that are necessarily incurred to generate the cash inflows from continuing use of the asset (including cash outflows to prepare the asset for use) and can be directly attributed, or allocated on a reasonable and consistent basis, to the asset; and • Net cash flows, if any, to be received (or paid) for the disposal of the asset at the end of its useful life. Estimates of future cash flow exclude: • Cash inflows or outflows from financing activities; and • Income tax receipts or payments. The estimate of net cash flows to be received (or paid) for the disposal of an asset at the end of its useful life is the amount that the entity expects to obtain from the disposal of the asset in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, after deducting the estimated costs of disposal. Discount rate The discount rate is a pre-tax rate that reflects current market assessments of the time value of money, represented by the current risk-free rate of interest and the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted. Recognition and measurement (individual asset) If the recoverable amount of a cash-generating asset is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. This reduction is an impairment loss. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in surplus or deficit. After the recognition of an impairment loss, the depreciation (amortisation) charge for the cash-generating asset is adjusted in future periods to allocate the cash-generating asset’s revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. 122 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.3 Impairment of assets (continued) 1.3.1 Impairment of cash-generating assets (continued) If the recoverable amount of a cash-generating asset is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. This reduction is an impairment loss. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in surplus or deficit. After the recognition of an impairment loss, the depreciation (amortisation) charge for the cash-generating asset is adjusted in future periods to allocate the cash-generating asset’s revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. 1.3.2 Impairment of non-cash-generating assets Cash-generating assets are those assets held by the entity with the primary objective of generating a commercial return. When an asset is deployed in a manner consistent with that adopted by a profit orientated entity, it generates a commercial return. Non-cash-generating assets are assets other than cash-generating assets. Identification When the carrying amount of a non-cash-generating asset exceeds its recoverable service amount, it is impaired. The entity assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that a non-cash-generating asset may be impaired. If any such indication exists, the entity estimates the recoverable service amount of the asset. Recoverable service amount is the higher of a non-cash-generating asset’s fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. Irrespective of whether there is any indication of impairment, the entity also tests a cash-generating intangible asset with an indefinite useful life or a non-cash-generating intangible asset not yet available for use for impairment annually by comparing its carrying amount with its recoverable service amount. This impairment test is performed at the same time every year. If an intangible asset was initially recognised during the current reporting period, that intangible asset was tested for impairment before the end of the current reporting period. Value in use Value in use of an asset is the present value of the asset’s remaining service potential. The present value of the remaining service potential of an asset is determined using the following approaches: Depreciated replacement cost approach The present value of the remaining service potential of a non-cash-generating asset is determined as the depreciated replacement cost of the asset. The replacement cost of an asset is the cost to replace the asset’s gross service potential. This cost is depreciated to reflect the asset in its used condition. An asset may be replaced either through reproduction (replication) of the existing asset or through replacement of its gross service potential. The depreciated replacement cost is measured as the reproduction or replacement cost of the asset, whichever is lower, less accumulated depreciation calculated on the basis of such cost, to reflect the already consumed or expired service potential of the asset. The replacement cost and reproduction cost of an asset is determined on an “optimised” basis. The rationale is that the entity would not replace or reproduce the asset with a like asset if the asset to be replaced or reproduced is an overdesigned or overcapacity asset. Overdesigned assets contain features which are necessary for the goods or services the asset provides. Overcapacity assets are assets that have greater capacity than is necessary to meet the demand for the goods or services the asset provides. The determination of the replacement cost or reproduction cost of an asset on an optimised basis thus reflects the service potential required of the asset. Restoration cost approach Restoration cost is the cost of restoring the service potential of an asset to its pre-impaired level. The present value of the remaining service potential of the asset is determined by subtracting the estimated restoration cost of the asset from the current cost of replacing the remaining service potential of the asset before impairment. The latter cost is determined as the depreciated reproduction or replacement cost of the asset, whichever is lower. Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 123 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.3 Impairment of assets (continued) 1.3.2 Impairment of non-cash-generating assets (continued) Recognition and measurement If the recoverable service amount of a non-cash-generating asset is less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable service amount. This reduction is an impairment loss. An impairment loss is recognised immediately in surplus or deficit. When the amount estimated for an impairment loss is greater than the carrying amount of the non-cash-generating asset to which it relates, the entity recognises a liability only to the extent that is a requirement in the Standards of GRAP. After the recognition of an impairment loss, the depreciation (amortisation) charge of the non-cash-generating asset is adjusted in future periods to allocate the non-cash-generating assets revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. Reversal of an impairment loss The entity assesses at each reporting date whether there is any indication that an impairment loss recognised in prior periods for a non-cash-generating asset may no longer exist or may have decreased. If any such indication exists, the entity estimates the recoverable service amount of that asset. An impairment loss recognised in prior periods for a non-cash-generating asset is reversed if there has been a change in the estimates used to determine the asset’s recoverable service amount since the last impairment loss was recognised. The carrying amount of the asset is increased to its recoverable service amount. The increase is a reversal of an impairment loss. The increased carrying amount of an asset attributable to a reversal of an impairment loss does not exceed the carrying amount that would have been determined (net of depreciation or amortisation) had no impairment loss been recognised for the asset in prior periods. A reversal of an impairment loss for a non-cash-generating asset is recognised immediately in surplus or deficit. After a reversal of an impairment loss is recognised, the depreciation (amortisation) charge for the non-cash-generating asset is adjusted in future periods to allocate the non-cash-generating asset’s revised carrying amount, less its residual value (if any), on a systematic basis over its remaining useful life. Redesignation The redesignation of assets from a cash-generating asset to a non-cash-generating asset or from a non-cash-generating asset to a cash-generating asset may only occur when there is clear evidence that such a redesignation is appropriate. 1.4 Leases Leases where a significant portion of the risks and rewards of ownership are retained by the lessor are classified as operating leases. Payments made under operating leases are charged to the income statement on a straight-line basis over the period of the lease. 1.5 Inventories Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or net realisable value. Cost is determined on the weighted average method and includes transport and handling costs. The weighted average cost is determined using a weighted average cost for the month based on the most recent month’s purchases. Net realisable value is the estimated selling price in the ordinary course of business, less the costs of completion and selling expenses. 1.6 Current tax Taxation on the profit or loss for the year comprises current and deferred taxation. Taxation is recognised in profit or loss. 124 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.6 Current tax (continued) 1.6.1 Current taxation Current taxation comprises tax payable calculated on the basis of the estimated taxable income for the year, using the tax rates enacted at the reporting date, and any adjustment of tax payable for previous years. 1.6.2 Deferred taxation Deferred taxation is provided on all temporary differences between carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax base. The amount of deferred taxation provided is based on the expected manner of realisation or settlement of the carrying amount of assets and liabilities using tax rates enacted or substantively enacted at the reporting date. Deferred taxation is charged to profit or loss except to the extent that it relates to a transaction that is recognised in equity, in which case it is recognised in equity, or a business combination that is an acquisition, in which case it is recognised as an adjustment to goodwill. The effect on deferred taxation of any changes in tax rates is recognised in profit or loss, except to the extent that it relates to items previously charged or credited to equity. A deferred taxation asset is recognised to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profits will be available against which the associated unused tax losses and deductible temporary differences can be utilised. Deferred taxation assets are reduced to the extent that it is no longer probable that the tax benefit will be realised. 1.7 Provisions Provisions are recognised when the company has a present legal or constructive obligation as a result of past events when it is probable that an outflow of resources embodying economic benefits will be required to settle the obligation, and when a reliable estimate of the amount of the obligation can be made. 1.8 Revenue recognition Revenue comprises the invoiced value of sales of goods and services net of value-added tax, rebates and all discounts. Revenue from sale of goods is recognised when the significant risks and rewards of ownership of the goods have been transferred to the buyer. Revenue arising from the rendering of services is recognised when the event takes place. 1.8.1 Revenue from exchange transactions Revenue from exchange transactions relate to income earned from venue rental and other services. Commission income is recognised for the rendering of services as an agent in accordance with the contract of hire agreements. 1.9 Financial instruments The company classifies financial assets into the following categories: at fair value through profit or loss, amortised cost and cost. The classification depends on the purpose for which the financial assets are acquired. Management determines the classification of its financial assets at initial recognition. Financial assets at fair value Financial assets at fair value are financial assets held for trading. A financial asset is classified in this category if acquired principally for the purpose of selling in the short term. Assets in this category are classified as current assets. Financial instruments at amortised cost Financial instruments at amortised cost are non-derivative financial assets with fixed and determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. They are included in current assets for maturities less than 12 months after the reporting date. These are classified as non-current assets. Financial instruments at amortised cost are classified as trade and other receivables in the statement of financial position. 1.9.1 Receivables from exchange transactions Trade receivables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate method, less provision for impairment. A provision for impairment of trade receivables is established when there is objective evidence that the company will not be able to collect all amounts due according to the original terms of the receivables. Significant financial difficulties of the debtor, probability that the debtor will enter bankruptcy or financial reorganisation, and default or delinquency in payments are considered indicators that the trade receivable is impaired. The amount of the provision is the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the present value of estimated future cash flows, discounted at the original effective interest rate. Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 125 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.9 Financial instruments (continued) 1.9.2 Cash and cash equivalents Cash and cash equivalents include cash on hand, deposits held at call with banks, other short-term highly liquid investments with original maturities of six months or less, and bank overdrafts. Bank overdrafts are shown within borrowings in current liabilities on the statement of financial position. 1.9.3 Share capital Ordinary shares are classified as equity. Incremental costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or options are shown in equity as a deduction, net of tax, from the proceeds. 1.9.4 Payables from exchange transactions Trade payables are recognised initially at fair value and subsequently measured at amortised cost using the effective interest method. 1.9.5 Client deposits Client deposits received in advance for upcoming events. 1.9.6 Financial risk factors The company’s activities expose it to a variety of financial risks: market risk (including currency risk, fair value interest rate risk, cash flow interest rate risk and price risk), credit risk and liquidity risk. The company’s overall risk management programme focuses on the unpredictability of financial markets and seeks to minimise potential adverse effects on the company’s financial performance. i) Interest rate risk The company’s income and operating cash flows are substantially independent of changes in market interest rates. ii) Credit risk Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited due to the company’s large number of customers, who are both internationally and nationally dispersed. The company has policies in place to ensure that sales of products and services are made to customers with an appropriate credit history. The company has policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one financial institution, and cash transactions are limited to creditworthy institutions. iii) Liquidity risk Prudent liquidity risk management implies maintaining sufficient cash and marketable securities, the availability of funding through an adequate amount of committed credit facilities and the ability to close out market positions. iv) Capital risk management The company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. 1.9.7 Fair value estimation In assessing the fair value of financial instruments, the company uses a variety of methods and makes assumptions that are based on market conditions existing at each reporting date. The fair value of financial assets and liabilities for disclosure purposes is estimated by discounting the future contractual cash flows at the current market interest rate available to the company for similar financial instruments. 126 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.10 Translation of foreign currencies Transactions Foreign currency transactions are recorded on initial recognition in Rands, by applying to the foreign currency amount the exchange rate between the Rand and the foreign currency at the date of the transaction. At each reporting date: (a) foreign currency monetary items are reported using the closing rate; and (b) n on-monetary items, which are carried in terms of historical cost denominated in a foreign currency, are reported using the exchange rate at the date of the transaction. Exchange differences arising on the settlement of monetary items or on reporting an enterprise’s monetary items at rates different from those at which they are initially recorded during the period, or reported in previous financial statements, are recognised as income or expenses in the period in which they arise. 1.11 Short-term employee benefits The cost of all short-term employee benefits is recognised during the period in which the employee renders the related service. The accruals for employee entitlements to salaries, performance bonuses and annual leave represent the amounts which the entity has a present obligation to pay as a result of employees’ services provided at the reporting date. The provisions have been calculated at discounted amounts based on current salary levels at the reporting date. 1.12 Irregular expenditure Irregular expenditure is expenditure that is contrary to the Municipal Finance Management Act, 2003 (Act No. 56 of 2003), the Municipal Systems Act, 2000 (Act No. 32 of 2000), and the Public Office Bearers Act, 1998 (Act No. 20 of 1998), or is in contravention of the Municipal Entity Supply Chain Management Policy. Irregular expenditure is accounted for as expenditure in the statement of financial performance and where recovered, it is subsequently accounted for as revenue in the statement of financial performance. 1.13 Fruitless and wasteful expenditure Fruitless and wasteful expenditure is expenditure that was made in vain and would have been avoided had reasonable care been exercised. Fruitless and wasteful expenditure is accounted for as expenditure in the statement of financial performance and where recovered, it is subsequently accounted for as revenue in the statement of financial performance. 1.14 Comparative information Comparative figures are reclassified or restated as necessary to afford a proper and more meaningful comparison of results, as set out in the affected notes to the financial statements. Budgeted amounts have been included in the annual financial statements for the current financial year only. 1.15 Critical accounting estimates and judgements The company makes estimates and assumptions concerning the future. The resulting accounting estimates will, by definition, seldom equal the related actual results. Estimates and judgements are continually evaluated and are based on historical experience and other factors, including expectations of future events that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances. The estimates and assumptions that have significant risk of causing a material adjustment to the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities within the next financial year are discussed on the next page. 1.15.1 Asset useful lives and residual values Plant and equipment is depreciated over its useful life taking into account residual values where appropriate. The actual useful lives of the assets and residual values are assessed annually and vary depending on a number of factors. In reassessing the assets useful lives, factors such as technological innovation and maintenance programmes are taken into account. Residual value assessments consider issues such as future market conditions, the remaining life of the asset and projected disposal value. Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 127 1 Accounting policies (continued) 1.16 Investment Investments in subsidiary companies are stated at cost, less impairment losses. 1.16.1 Finance income Finance income comprises interest income. Interest income is recognised in profit or loss on a time proportion basis, taking account of the principal outstanding and the effective interest rate over the period maturity, when it is probable that such income will accrue to the entity. 1.16.2 Finance costs Finance costs are recognised as an expense in the period in which they are incurred. 1.17 Commission income When the entity acts in the capacity of an agent rather than as the principal in a transaction, the revenue recognised is the net amount of commission made by the entity. 2 Property, plant and equipment 2016 2015 COST ACCUMULATED CARRYING COST ACCUMULATED CARRYING DEPRECIATION AND VALUE DEPRECIATION AND VALUE IMPAIRMENT IMPAIRMENT R R R R R R Escalators 3 564 611 1 797 126 1 767 485 4 153 097 2 092 652 2 060 445 Elevators 8 438 473 6 759 946 1 678 527 10 431 903 8 197 469 2 234 434 Carpets/laminated flooring 8 152 043 3 797 154 4 354 889 8 437 337 3 523 624 4 913 713 Curtains/blinds 1 332 791 1 322 524 10 267 2 703 521 2 570 266 133 255 Signage 4 550 930 2 429 573 2 121 357 3 966 059 2 717 227 1 248 832 Audiovisual 9 694 291 8 887 770 806 521 13 053 983 12 105 738 948 245 Fences and gates 1 307 262 950 954 356 308 1 223 469 968 128 255 341 Cold rooms 3 301 547 2 507 089 794 458 3 188 210 2 235 046 953 164 Air-conditioning system 34 939 307 24 082 413 10 856 894 34 303 314 22 281 815 12 021 499 Sprinkler system 4 891 993 4 881 956 10 037 4 891 993 4 859 636 32 357 Auditorium seating 339 600 191 933 147 667 5 249 773 5 045 506 204 267 Building management system 18 697 297 11 451 499 7 245 798 33 287 513 24 995 785 8 291 728 Building 472 159 014 366 778 762 105 380 252 462 686 531 361 784 473 100 902 058 Plant and equipment 6 688 359 4 018 117 2 670 242 10 715 633 8 260 649 2 454 984 Motor vehicles 1 623 183 1 364 773 258 410 1 641 713 1 254 098 387 615 Furniture and fittings 12 366 206 9 690 769 2 675 437 15 097 374 12 272 163 2 825 211 Kitchen and catering 14 917 113 9 019 988 5 897 125 15 477 071 10 781 954 4 695 117 Office equipment 3 171 809 2 683 329 488 480 4 468 230 3 621 003 847 227 Computer equipment 17 312 839 9 794 084 7 518 755 13 067 153 7 943 419 5 123 734 Computer software 9 244 749 5 007 801 4 236 948 7 773 425 3 129 400 4 644 025 Assets in progress* 476 241 079 16 091 344 460 149 735 125 029 182 16 091 344 108 937 838 1 112 934 496 493 508 904 619 425 592 780 846 484 516 731 395 264 115 089 *Assets in progress relate to the capitalised costs incurred on the expansion of the convention centre. 128 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report 2 Property, plant and equipment (continued) The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment can be reconciled as follows: 2016 CARRYING VALUE AT RECLASSIFICATION ADDITIONS DISPOSALS DEPRECIATION CARRYING VALUE AT BEGINNING AND ADJUSTMENTS END OF YEAR OF YEAR R R R R R R Escalators 2 060 445 – – – 292 960 1 767 485 Elevators 2 234 434 – – – 555 907 1 678 527 Carpets/laminated flooring 4 913 713 – 731 559 – 1 290 383 4 354 889 Curtains/blinds 133 255 76 – – 123 064 10 267 Signage 1 248 832 – 1 151 423 – 278 898 2 121 357 Audiovisual 948 245 61 828 210 944 – 414 496 806 521 Fences and gates 255 341 – 186 101 – 85 134 356 308 Cold rooms 953 164 – 13 747 – 172 453 794 458 Air-conditioning system 12 021 499 – 791 124 – 1 955 729 10 856 894 Sprinkler system 32 357 – – – 22 320 10 037 Auditorium seating 204 267 – – – 56 600 147 667 Building management system 8 291 728 (61 828) 831 729 – 1 815 831 7 245 798 Building 100 902 058 (1 673) 11 165 347 – 6 685 480 105 380 252 Plant and equipment 2 454 984 – 973 839 – 758 581 2 670 242 Motor vehicles 387 615 – – – 129 205 258 410 Furniture and fittings 2 825 211 (29 703) 1 016 697 90 736 1 046 032 2 675 437 Kitchen and catering 4 695 117 58 754 2 351 465 72 947 1 135 264 5 897 125 Office equipment 847 227 (31 369) 260 912 – 588 290 488 480 Computer equipment 5 123 734 492 568 5 837 607 – 3 935 154 7 518 755 Computer software 4 644 025 (492 568) 3 575 839 – 3 490 348 4 236 948 Assets in progress* 108 937 838 3 915 351 207 982 – – 460 149 735 264 115 089 – 380 306 315 163 683 24 832 129 619 425 592 *Assets in progress relate to the capitalised costs incurred on the expansion of the convention centre. Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 129 2 Property, plant and equipment (continued) The carrying amounts of property, plant and equipment can be reconciled as follows: (continued) 2015 CARRYING VALUE AT RECLASSIFICATION ADDITIONS DISPOSALS DEPRECIATION CARRYING VALUE AT BEGINNING AND ADJUSTMENTS END OF YEAR OF YEAR R R R R R R Escalators 2 353 405 – – – 292 960 2 060 445 Elevators 2 790 341 – – – 555 907 2 234 434 Carpets/laminated flooring 4 868 322 – 1 158 601 – 1 113 210 4 913 713 Curtains/blinds 378 702 (1 540) – – 243 907 133 255 Signage 1 457 928 – 175 951 – 385 047 1 248 832 Audiovisual 1 296 571 – 46 448 – 394 774 948 245 Fences and gates 357 587 – – 4 036 98 210 255 341 Cold rooms 1 082 204 – 151 480 – 280 520 953 164 Air-conditioning system 13 140 089 1 540 856 594 17 849 1 958 875 12 021 499 Sprinkler system 73 188 – – – 40 831 32 357 Auditorium seating 661 288 – – – 457 021 204 267 Building management system 9 185 619 – 945 265 – 1 839 156 8 291 728 Building 94 551 323 – 12 717 446 22 593 6 344 118 100 902 058 Plant and equipment 3 100 116 – 173 349 2 428 816 053 2 454 984 Motor vehicles 67 636 – 516 819 51 747 145 093 387 615 Furniture and fittings 3 799 472 27 399 251 241 – 1 252 901 2 825 211 Kitchen and catering 4 550 613 (27 399) 2 134 110 10 342 1 951 865 4 695 117 Office equipment 748 205 – 817 559 293 718 244 847 227 Computer equipment 5 024 149 – 2 782 004 – 2 682 419 5 123 734 Computer software 1 745 355 – 4 295 995 – 1 397 325 4 644 025 Assets in progress* 54 082 006 – 54 855 832 – – 108 937 838 205 314 119 – 81 878 694 109 288 22 968 436 264 115 089 *Assets in progress relate to the capitalised costs incurred on the expansion of the convention centre. 130 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report 2 Property, plant and equipment (continued) Cost (fully depreciated property, plant and equipment) 2016 2015 R R Audiovisual 1 258 235 4 891 570 Auditorium seating – 4 910 173 Building 2 365 214 5 348 828 Building management system 2 527 401 17 877 057 Carpets/laminated flooring – 718 550 Curtains/blinds 1 304 890 1 479 167 Fences and gates 347 177 362 659 Signage 1 411 635 1 882 123 Sprinkler system 4 821 657 4 706 801 Air-conditioning system – 362 296 Escalators – 588 486 Elevators – 1 993 430 Motor vehicles 1 106 364 1 124 894 Computer software 1 771 821 1 258 395 Computer equipment 5 578 460 3 863 440 Office equipment 2 109 179 2 335 634 Furniture and fittings 6 917 497 7 941 089 Artwork 1 321 095 1 321 095 Cold rooms – – Plant and equipment 166 507 4 978 481 Kitchen and catering 2 538 678 5 900 022 35 545 810 73 844 190 Impairment consideration In line with our accounting policy for property, plant and equipment and GRAP for the impairment of assets, non-current assets were assessed during the period for possible indicators of impairment. During the review, management has confirmed the following: Cash-generating unit comprises: 2016 2015 R R Escalators 1 767 485 2 060 445 Elevators 1 678 527 2 234 434 Cold rooms 794 458 953 164 Air-conditioning system 10 856 894 12 021 499 Auditorium seating 147 667 204 267 Building 105 380 252 100 902 058 Kitchen and catering 5 897 125 4 695 117 Total carrying value 126 522 408 123 070 984 Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 131 2 Property, plant and equipment (continued) (a) The main purpose of establishing the centre was to generate spin-off returns for the region. (b) Due to the restrictions imposed on the use of the facility and site, no active market exists within which the value of the centre can be determined through an arm’s length transaction between a willing buyer and a willing seller, and as such the value in use of the centre has been used to determine whether the building’s carrying value may not be recoverable. (c ) Since inception, all initial targets for the region (spin-offs) and the operation of the convention centre have consistently been exceeded and are forecast to maintain this level of performance for the foreseeable future. (d) Despite this, the value in use of the centre can only be attributed to the present value of the future cash flows generated within the centre itself, and excludes any value which it generates for other entities or business sectors. (e) No value could be attached to the centre at the end of its useful life due to its disposal being highly unlikely with no reliable basis for measuring the disposal value. (f) A discount rate of 13.9% (2015: 13.7% ) was used which was calculated using the risk-free rate of R186 bond of 8.8% adjusted by 5.1% for uncertainty regarding timing and extent of certain of the cash flows. Based on the calculation of value in use, the fair value of R133 million was determined. The current carrying value of R126 million was established for the building at date of calculation. This has resulted in a nil reversal of impairment. 3 Investment in subsidiary The company has an investment in the following company: 2016 2015 R R Unlisted Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company (Pty) Ltd (OPCO) 100 100 The agency agreement between Cape Town International Convention Centre Company SOC Ltd (RF) (CONVENCO) and Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company (Pty) Ltd (OPCO) was terminated on 30 June 2010. OPCO does not reflect any trading activities in its financial results and will be deregistered. The company is dormant and has net asset value of R100. 4 Deferred taxation Deferred income taxes are calculated on all temporary differences under the balance sheet method using a tax rate of 28%. 2016 2015 R R The deferred tax balance is made up as follows: Asset/(liability) at beginning of year 4 668 (2 200 973) Temporary differences 2 648 976 2 205 641 Asset at end of year 2 653 644 4 668 The balance comprises of the following temporary differences: Property, plant and equipment (4 003 088) (5 262 563) Trade and other receivables (140 397) (238 651) Client deposits 5 221 495 4 080 061 Trade and other payables 585 044 483 743 Provisions 990 590 942 078 Asset at end of year 2 653 644 4 668 132 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report 5 Inventories 2016 2015 R R Food 427 230 955 443 Beverage 618 492 631 266 Consumables 172 741 148 467 Chemicals 41 349 30 379 1 259 812 1 765 555 6 Receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions 2016 2015 R R Trade receivables 5 071 893 1 696 490 Less: Provision for impairment of trade receivables (4 052) (13 836) Receivables from exchange transactions – net 5 067 841 1 682 654 Prepayments 932 047 1 159 655 Receiver of Revenue: VAT 12 060 414 – Other receivables* 10 410 23 606 003 18 070 712 26 448 312 * Included in the 2015 other receivables balance is an amount of R22.7 million due from the City of Cape Town relating to the second basement of the expansion. 2016 2015 R R Trade receivables ageing Current (0 – 30 days) 4 674 063 913 359 31 – 60 days (50 080) 683 281 61 – 90 days 347 302 5 442 91 – 120 days 26 857 – + 120 days 73 751 94 408 Total 5 071 893 1 696 490 Provision for impairment (4 052) (13 836) Trade receivables due 5 067 841 1 682 654 The carrying amount of trade and other receivables approximates their fair value due to their short-term maturity. Trade receivables in 120 days are not impaired as there is no history of default from these clients. The carrying value of these trade receivables is denominated in the following currency: South African Rand. 2016 2015 R R Provision for impairment of trade receivables Opening balance (13 836) (1 750 654) Additional provision (4 052) (13 836) Unused amounts reversed 13 836 1 750 654 Closing balance (4 052) (13 836) The other classes within trade and other receivables do not contain impaired assets. The maximum exposure to credit risk at the reporting date is the carrying value of each class of receivables mentioned above. The company does not hold any collateral as security. Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 133 7 Contribution from owners Authorised share capital 10 000 000 “A” ordinary shares of no par value 1 000 000 “B” ordinary shares of no par value On 26 November 2013, the shareholders approved the issue of up to the maximum of 158 067 new “A” ordinary shares to the City of Cape Town and up to a maximum of 79 034 new “A” ordinary shares to the Western Cape Government. These shares will be issued in tranches on agreed dates. Number of Stated Capital Number of Stated Capital Shares Shares 2016 2015 R R R R Issued and fully paid ordinary shares Opening balance 171 396 967 427 701 113 477 764 713 201 “A” ordinary shares 157 396 827 788 000 99 477 625 073 500 “B” ordinary shares 14 000 139 639 701 14 000 139 639 701 Movements 33 427 117 000 000 57 919 202 714 500 Share issue: A ordinary shares (8 October 2014) – – 14 285 49 997 500 Share issue: A ordinary shares (30 October 2014) – – 4 674 16 358 000 Share issue: A ordinary shares (9 December 2014) – – 34 286 120 001 000 Share issue: A ordinary shares (14 January 2015) – – 4 674 16 358 000 Share issue: A ordinary shares (4 December 2015) 4 285 15 000 000 – – Share issue: A ordinary shares (18 March 2016) 14 857 52 000 000 – – Share issue: A ordinary shares (29 April 2016) 10 000 35 000 000 – – Share issue: A ordinary shares (27 May 2016) 4 285 15 000 000 – – Closing balance 204 823 1 084 427 701 171 396 967 427 701 “A” ordinary shares 190 823 944 788 000 157 396 827 788 000 “B” ordinary shares 14 000 139 639 701 14 000 139 639 701 8 Payables and other payables from exchange transactions 2016 2015 R R Trade payables 15 919 686 12 126 091 Accruals* 75 831 901 39 177 212 Receiver of Revenue: VAT – 2 561 088 Sundry payables 221 535 74 402 91 973 122 53 938 793 *Included in the 2016 accruals balance is an amount relating to the expansion. The carrying amount of trade and other payables approximates their fair value due to short-term maturity. The carrying value of these trade payables is denominated in the following 15 919 686 12 126 091 currency: South African Rand 134 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report 9 Provisions 2016 2015 R R Performance bonus provision Opening balance 3 364 567 3 249 504 Additional provisions 3 537 828 3 364 567 Prior year provision utilised (3 364 567) (3 249 504) Closing balance 3 537 828 3 364 567 Performance bonuses accrue to staff on an annual basis based on the achievement of predetermined performance. The provision is an estimate of the amount due to staff in the service of the company at reporting date. 10 Operating profit 2016 2015 R R Operating profit is stated after: Income (Loss) on foreign exchange (3 938) (7 164) Rental income Vexicure Proprietary Ltd t/a Westin and Redefine Properties Limited 4 522 011 3 020 951 Expenditure 1 083 053 1 028 877 Auditor’s remuneration – Audit fee Bad debts recovered – (611 141) Depreciation (property, plant and equipment) 24 832 129 22 968 436 11 Revenue from exchange transactions Commissions 17 660 648 12 195 725 Parking 12 070 558 11 576 455 Sales 172 728 238 166 227 657 202 459 444 189 999 837 12 Finance income and costs Finance income (cash and cash equivalents) 35 271 842 30 836 658 Finance cost (finance costs – financial institution) (42 327) (95 104) Net finance income 35 229 515 30 741 554 Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 135 13 Taxation 13.1 South African normal taxation 2016 2015 R R Current year 22 655 775 20 500 849 Underprovision prior year – 281 089 Deferred taxation (refer note 4) (2 648 976) (2 205 641) Taxation 20 006 799 18 576 297 13.2 Reconciliation of effective tax Profit before taxation 67 259 732 60 719 167 Tax at statutory rate (28%) 18 832 724 17 001 367 Non-deductible permanent differences 1 895 773 1 804 982 Disallowed expenditure 189 423 28 018 Prior year underprovision of current tax – 281 089 Other adjustments ( 911 121) (539 159) Effective tax 20 006 799 18 576 297 14 Notes to the cash flow statement 14.1 Cash generated from operations 2016 2015 R R Profit before taxation 67 259 732 60 719 167 Adjustment for: Depreciation 24 832 129 22 968 436 Finance income (35 271 842) (30 836 658) Asset write-off 163 683 109 288 Finance costs 42 327 95 104 Increase in provision for bonuses 173 261 115 063 (Decrease) in provision for impairment of receivables from exchange transactions (9 784) (1 736 818) 57 189 506 51 433 582 Movements in working capital Decrease/(increase) in inventories 505 743 (697 142) Decrease/(increase) in receivables 8 387 384 (14 504 195) Increase in payables 48 225 706 31 576 838 114 308 339 67 809 083 14.2 Taxation paid Balance at beginning of year 1 058 576 31 020 Taxation charged to income statement 22 655 775 20 781 938 Balance at end of year (1 446 296) (1 058 576) 22 268 055 19 754 382 136 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report 14 Notes to the cash flow statement (continued) 14.3 Cash and cash equivalents 2016 2015 R R Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash on hand and balance with banks. Cash and cash equivalents included in the cash flow statement comprise the following balance sheet amounts: Current accounts 9 704 428 9 703 234 Call and investment accounts 408 823 598 544 861 808 Petty cash 5 500 5 500 Cash float 61 500 61 000 Cash and cash equivalents 418 595 026 554 631 542 The following bank and investment accounts were held by the entity: Nedbank – Current Account (Acc Number: 1232043850) 264 794 3 117 879 Nedbank – Call Account (Acc Number: 03/7881544007/46) 16 597 – Nedbank – Investment Account (Acc Number: 03/7881544007/000104) 15 429 431 14 365 969 Nedbank – Investment Account (Acc Number: 03/7881544007/000101) – 10 066 164 Nedbank Money Market Fund (Acc Number: (1766000029) 03/7881111917/00006) – 41 603 718 ABSA Bank – Current Account (Acc Number: 4072900553) 6 106 098 4 384 298 ABSA Bank – CTICC East – Current Account (Acc Number: 4072900228) 1 067 492 706 ABSA Bank – Exh Serv – Current Account (Acc Number: 4072900731) 44 066 103 917 ABSA Bank Treasury – (Acc Number: 4073731246) 65 071 62 405 ABSA Bank Treasury – (Acc Number : 4073733701) 2 156 907 2 034 029 Absa Bank – Call Deposit (Acc Number: 4074708347) 14 833 701 7 294 734 First National Bank – RMB Investment – 00 506 190 167 40 12 788 496 – Stanlib – Corporate Money Market Fund (Acc Number: 000-402-184 (1199539) 551436367) 51 793 529 9 996 168 Stanlib – Corporate Money Market Fund (Acc Number: 000-402-184 (1199539) 552166459) 7 404 17 031 832 Standard Bank – Investment Account (Acc Number: (97212) 486008) – 12 473 075 Standard Bank – Investment Account (Acc Number: (97212) 500922) – 10 261 805 Standard Bank – Investment Account (Acc Number: (97212) 490390) – 12 744 348 Absa Bank – Investment New 2 (Acc Number: (506009 4072900553) 48518474) – 21 961 797 Absa Bank – Investment New 1 (Acc Number: (506009 4072900553) 44699506) – 10 307 904 Absa Bank – Investment New 1 (Acc Number: (506009 4072900553) 47954355) – 9 452 767 Nedbank – Three Month Deposit (Acc Number: 03/7881544007/000102) – 15 485 004 Investec – Corporate Money Market Fund (Acc Number: (462097) 1008645) 19 488 827 10 112 730 Investec – Corporate Money Market Fund (Acc Number: (462097) 1037793) 23 953 16 018 647 ABSA Bank – Call Deposit (Acc Number: 4083941322) 14 018 123 35 925 224 Nedgroup – Money Market Fund (Acc Number: (1800167964) 8319631) 58 687 057 35 370 266 Nedgroup – Corporate Money Market Fund C2 (Acc Number: (800190652) 8330496) 20 40 380 865 Nedgroup – Money Market Fund Class C2 (Acc Number: (800190652) 8330497) – 35 528 273 Absa Bank – Fixed Deposit (Acc Number: 506009 4072900553 – 44893640) – 32 024 611 Absa Bank – Money Market Fund (Acc Number: 9295637051) – 21 169 332 ABSA Bank – CTICC Money Market Fund (Acc Number: 09316676360) 86 823 583 – Absa Bank – Guarantee (Acc Number: (506009 4072900553) 43939765) 134 912 877 125 286 575 Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 137 15 Expenses by nature 2016 2015 R R Depreciation 24 832 129 22 968 436 Employee related costs (note 17) 46 182 266 42 935 049 Changes in inventories (505 743) 697 142 Raw materials and consumables used 25 176 868 23 922 959 Marketing and advertising costs 4 819 105 4 858 342 Other expenses 76 589 720 72 380 209 Total cost of sales and operating expenses 177 094 345 167 762 137 16 Related parties 16.1 Holding Company The company is controlled by the City of Cape Town, which owns 67.8% (2015: 69.9%) of the company’s shares. The remaining shares are held by the Western Cape Government 25.3 % (2015: 21.9%) and SunWest International (Pty) Ltd 6.9% (2015: 8.2%). The City of Cape Town has leased the land on which the convention centre is built to the company for a period of 99 years at a cost of R100 per annum. In terms of an agreement dated April 2001, Convenco has sub-leased a portion of land to Vexicure Proprietary Limited t/a Westin for an initial period of 30 years extendable to 50 years. The hotel erected on this site reverts to the City of Cape Town should the lease not be renewed. In terms of an agreement dated September 2005, Convenco has sub-leased a portion of land to Redefine Properties Limited for an initial period of 50 years extendable by 20 years. The office tower (Convention Towers) erected on this site reverts to the City of Cape Town should the lease not be renewed. 2016 2015 R R Related party transactions Rates and taxes 5 260 215 4 843 818 Electricity 11 124 301 10 406 397 Water 1 088 520 963 682 Lease P1 Parking (including refuse, sewerage, rates and water) 3 390 862 3 100 676 Y-Waste Solutions CC* 22 969 48 897 Related party balances Amounts owing to City of Cape Town 1 378 698 1 302 609 Amounts due by City of Cape Town** 575 804 22 747 307 * Waste management service supplier where the manager's spouse (S Fourie) is a Non-executive Director and in the service of the state (HoD: Department of Economic Development and Tourism). ** The amount due from the City of Cape Town relates to the second basement of the expansion. 138 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report 16 Related parties (continued) 16.2 Subsidiary The company has only one subsidiary, the Cape Town International Convention Centre Operating Company SOC Ltd (OPCO). OPCO is in the process of being deregistered. Consolidated financial statements have not been prepared as OPCO is dormant and is not considered material. 2016 2015 R R Director's remuneration Non-executive Directors’ remuneration* AA Mahmood 52 407 35 432 GM Fisher – 13 888 AM Boraine 94 829 39 694 BJ Lodewyk 79 180 54 667 EI Hamman 58 031 43 782 GJ Lundy 42 229 35 968 HJ Taljaard 17 476 57 416 RSH Eksteen 38 892 35 023 S Myburgh-De Gois 41 331 36 151 DA Cloete 28 522 – * The comparatives have been re-presented in accordance with the CIPC ruling. CEO – (J Ellingson) Basic salary 1 874 976 1 671 455 Bonus 232 485 – Key management remuneration Operations – (C Barrington) Basic salary 1 214 216 963 820 Bonus 173 807 152 666 Commercial – (M Arendse) Basic salary 1 291 495 1 205 375 Bonus 152 858 142 459 Finance – (F Parker) Basic salary 1 382 086 1 287 613 Bonus 186 949 151 885 17 Employee-related costs Salaries and wages 35 216 194 33 041 294 Contributions for UIF, WCA, medical aid, etc 3 064 952 2 867 492 Provident fund 3 039 192 2 804 956 Overtime 716 360 729 070 Performance bonus 2 507 478 2 242 647 Other: Staff transport and health and safety costs 1 638 090 1 249 590 Total employee-related costs 46 182 266 42 935 049 Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 139 18 Operating Leases 18.1 Lessee 2016 1 YEAR 2-5 YEARS Over 5 years R R R Future minimum lease payments (ZAR) (incl. VAT) 2 708 915 12 561 428 291 575 229 2015 Future minimum lease payments (ZAR) (incl. VAT) 2 560 417 11 872 827 295 552 771 Future minimum lease payments for the operating leases relates to the following leases: • City of Cape Town 99 year lease of land, remaining term 84 years 5 months; and • City of Cape Town 50 year lease of P1 parking garage, remaining term 35 years 3 months. 18.2 Lessor The company receives rental income from Vexicure Propriety Limited t/a Westin and Redefine Properties Limited, which is a percentage based on turnover. 19 Budget information 19.1 The budget is approved on an accrual basis by nature classification. The approved budget covers the fiscal period from 1 July 2015 to 30 June 2016. Both the budget and the accounting figures are prepared on the same basis. The variances between the approved and final budgets are mainly due to the adjustment of: – an increase in revenue due to additional short-term business gained; – an increase in finance income due to a delay in the spending of funding for the expansion; and – a decrease in total indirect costs mainly due to adjustments on personnel, operations and computer costs. 19.2 Explanation of variances greater than 5% and greater than R1 million: Final budget and actual amounts Statement of financial performance (i) Revenue (R5 141 484) Due to additional revenue gained from revenue sources such as venue and food and beverage services. (ii) Other income (R9 214 253) Mainly due to revenue gained from secondary revenue sources such as subcontracted services, parking and other services. (iii) Direct personnel (R1 810 193) Increased direct personnel is in relation to the increased revenue. (iv) Finance income (R8 160 108) Due to steady interest rate earned from favourable cash balances. (v) Indirect expenditure (R21 646 888) Substantial savings on indirect expenses achieved through strict budgetary control. Personnel cost savings due to vacancies as at year end. The budget also includes an adjustment in staff salaries, following a salary benchmarking exercise. The salary benchmarking exercise is yet to be finalised. Operations general cost savings on logistic services. Utility services savings are due to a combination of savings on rates, electricity and insurance. Building costs savings are due to tighter control on services of cleaning, refuse and security. Office cost savings due to tighter control on office equipment usage. Computer cost savings due to the in-sourcing of certain IT services. Advisors cost savings due to tighter control on legal cost spend. Marketing and corporate communications savings as a result of trade fairs and related costs and marketing events. Travel and entertainment cost savings due to timing of the expense as a result of business operational needs. Depreciation savings due to the timing of capital expenditure and due to a reassessment of the useful lives of assets. (vi) Profit before tax for the period (R43 183 919) Increased revenue, finance income and significant cost savings contributed to the improved performance. 140 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report 19 Budget information (continued) 19.3 Explanation of variances greater than 10% and greater than R2 million: Final budget and actual amounts Capital expenditure 100% of capital expenditure projects were either complete or in progress as at year end. Other capex items – The unspent capital expenses relates to the timing of expenditure on the CTICC East expansion programme. Capital expenditure relates to the operation and has no impact on service delivery. 19.4 Revenue and other income reconciliation Classification of certain income and expenditure differs in instances from the statement of financial performance compared to statement of comparison of budget and actual amounts. 2016 R Revenue per the statement of financial performance 202 459 444 Other income per the statement of financial performance 6 622 791 209 082 235 Revenue per the statement of comparison to budget 174 453 822 Other income per the statement of comparison to budget 34 628 413 209 082 235 Cost of sales and operating expenses Cost of sales per the statement of financial performance 25 682 611 Expenses per the statement of financial performance 151 369 407 177 052 018 Finance costs included in indirect expenditure 42 327 Direct costs per the statement of comparison to budget 43 110 929 Indirect costs per the statement of comparison to budget 133 983 417 177 094 346 20 Financial instruments 20.1 Risk management Foreign exchange risk The company operates internationally and is exposed to foreign exchange risk arising from various currency exposures, primarily with respect to the US Dollar, Euro and Great British Pound. Foreign exchange risk arises from future commercial transactions and recognised assets and liabilities. Market risk The company’s activities expose it primarily to risks of fluctuations in interest rates. Interest rate risk The company’s interest rate profile consists of fixed and floating rate bank balances which expose the company to fair value interest rate risk and cash flow interest risk. Interest rate sensitivity risk The sensitivity analysis below has been determined based on the financial instruments’ exposure to interest rates at reporting date. A sensitivity analysis shows reasonable expected change in the interest rate, either an increase or decrease in the interest rate percentage. The equal but opposite 1% adjustment to the interest rate would result in an equal but opposite effect on net surplus and therefore has not been disclosed separately. 2016 2015 R R Cash and cash equivalents 418 595 026 554 631 542 Increase/Decrease in interest rates 1% 1% Net surplus (post-tax) 3 013 884 3 993 347 Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 141 20 Financial instruments (continued) 20.1 Risk management (continued) Credit risk management Credit risk is the risk of financial loss to the company if a customer fails to meet its contractual obligation, and arises principally from the company’s customers. The company’s policy is to receive the majority of payment upfront from customers. Any outstanding balances is managed through frequent communications with customers. Due to the nature of the business, a majority of the outstanding amounts are with customers with whom the company has dealt with previously and whom have not defaulted in the past. Financial assets, which potentially subject the entity to credit risk, consist principally of cash and cash equivalents and trade and other receivables. The company’s cash and cash equivalents are placed with high credit quality financial institutions. Credit Risk with respect to trade receivables is limited due to the credit approval processes. Credit quality of trade and other receivables The following represents the credit quality of the trade receivables: 2016 2015 R R Key accounts customers 4 517 340 1 042 579 Other accounts customers 550 501 640 075 High risk customers 4 052 13 836 Related party recoverable* 575 804 22 747 307 5 647 697 24 443 797 The company believes that no further impairment is necessary on trade receivables as reflected in note 6. * The related party recoverable balance is due from the City of Cape Town relating to the second basement of the expansion. Liquidity risk Liquidity risk is the risk that the company will not be able to meet its financial obligations as they become due. The company ensures that adequate funds are available to meet its expected and unexpected financial commitments. The following table provides details of the company’s remaining contractual liability for its financial liabilities. LESS THAN BETWEEN TOTAL 1 MONTH 1 AND 3 MONTHS R R R 2016 Client deposits 46 620 494 – 46 620 494 Payables and other payables from exchange transactions 15 446 903 76 526 219 91 973 122 62 067 397 76 526 219 138 593 616 2015 Client deposits 36 429 117 – 36 429 117 Payables and other payables from exchange transactions 12 102 882 39 274 823 51 377 705 48 531 999 39 274 823 87 806 822 142 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report 20 Financial instruments (continued) 20.1 Risk management (continued) Capital risk management The company’s objectives when managing capital are to safeguard the company’s ability to continue as a going concern in order to provide returns for shareholders and benefits for other stakeholders and to maintain an optimal capital structure to reduce the cost of capital. In order to maintain or adjust the capital structure, the company may adjust the amount of dividends paid to shareholders, return capital to shareholders, issue new shares or sell assets to reduce debt. Consistent with others in the industry, the company monitors capital on the basis of the gearing ratio. This ratio is calculated as net debt divided by total capital. Net debt is calculated as total borrowings (including borrowings and payables and other payables from exchange transactions, as shown in the statement of financial position) less cash and cash equivalents. Total capital is calculated as equity, shown in the statement of financial position, plus net debt. The gearing ratios at 30 June 2016 and at 30 June 2015 were as follows: 2016 2015 R R Cash and cash equivalents 418 595 026 554 631 542 Less: Payables and other payables from exchange transactions (91 973 122) (51 377 705) Net cash 326 621 904 503 253 837 Total equity 589 805 242 248 920 376 Total capital 916 427 146 752 174 213 Gearing ratio 36% 67% 20.2 Financial instuments by category The accounting policies for financial instruments have been applied below: 2016 LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Assets as per financial position R Receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions 5 078 251 Cash and cash equivalents 418 595 026 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Liabilities per financial position R Payables and other payables from exchange transactions 91 973 122 Client deposits 46 620 494 2015 LOANS AND RECEIVABLES Assets as per financial position R Receivables and other receivables from exchange transactions 25 288 657 Cash and cash equivalents 554 631 542 OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES Liabilities per financial position R Payables and other payables from exchange transactions 51 377 705 Client deposits 36 429 117 Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 143 21 Supply chain management regulations 21.1 Deviations In terms of section 36 of the Municipal Supply Chain Management Regulations and the CTICC Supply Chain Management Policy, the CEO may ratify any minor breaches of the procurement process. 2016 Total deviations for the year amounted to R21 094 062 Listed below are material deviations: Incident R Exceptional/impractical cases 6 776 603 Sole/single provider 5 244 722 Emergency situation 583 360 Minor breaches 8 489 377 21 094 062 2015 Total deviations for the year amounted to R22 952 789 Listed below are material deviations: Incident R Exceptional/impractical cases 1 724 908 Sole/single provider 5 227 260 Emergency situation 167 538 Minor breaches 15 833 083 22 952 789 21.2 According to section 45 of the Municipality Supply Chain Management Policy, disclosure needs to be given of awards to close family members of persons in the service of the state, in compliance with the provisions of CTICC’s Supply Chain Management Policy. Appointment of food waste management services was awarded to Y-Waste Solutions CC (non-VAT vendor). The manager’s spouse (S Fourie) is in service of the state (HoD: Department of Economic Development and Tourism) and a Non-executive Director of the company. The amount of the award was 2016: R22 969 (2015: R48 897). Tender CTICC024/2014: Appointment of upgrade P1 parkade renovation was awarded to Exeo Khokela Civil Engineering (Pty) Ltd. The Director’s child (T Meyer) is in service of the state (Educator: Western Cape Education Department). The amount of the award was 2016: R1 563 789 (2015: R4 520 259). AT Catering t/a 3 Peas was appointed onto the panel for the supply and delivery of Fresh and Prepared Fruit and Vegetables (CTICC027/2016). The Director’s spouse (Mrs. M Brink) is in service of the state as a doctor at the Red Cross Hospital. The amount of the award was 2016: R491 937. Tender CTICC010/2016: Professional services – upgrading of existing generating system was awarded to SMEC. The spouse (Mrs. Y Phosa) of the chairperson of SMEC’s Board of Directors, is in service of the service of the state as Chairperson: Parliament Committee of Higher Education and Training. The amount of the award was 2016: R154 933. 144 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report 22 Events subsequent to year end The Directors are unaware of any events after the reporting date that would materially alter the amounts or disclosure in these annual financial statements. 23 Capital commitments Commitments in respect of capital expenditure 2016 2015 R R Category Other capex items 371 850 265 720 463 663 Total capital commitments 371 850 265 720 463 663 24 Contingent liabilities 24.1 Income tax dispute The outcome of an income tax case relating to a SARS audit of 2012 which is currently under appeal is still pending. The potential extent of the liability cannot be determined at this stage as the matter is subject to litigation. Cape Town Inter national Convention Centre | 2016 Integrated Annual Report | 145 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX No. Principle Met Page reference 1 Principle 1 – Businesses should support and respect the protection of 8-9, 13, 56, 65, 67, internationally proclaimed human rights. 72-73, 94 2 Principle 2 – Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights 67 abuses. 3 Principle 3 – Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the 94 effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4 Principle 4 – Businesses should uphold the elimination all forms of forced and 94 compulsory labour. 5 Principle 5 – Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 94 6 Principle 6 – Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect 8-9, 13, 56, 65, 67, of employment and occupation. 72-73, 94 7 Principle 7 – Businesses should support a precautionary approach to 75 environmental challenges. 8 Principle 8 – Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater 9, 57, 59, 76-83, 91, environmental responsibility. 101 9 Principle 9 – Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of 78-82 environmentally friendly technologies. 10 Principle 10 – Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 85, 88 extortion and bribery. 146 | C a p e To w n I n t e r n a tio n a l Co n v e n tio n Ce n tre | 2 016 Integrated Annual Report
