COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT What is UN Global Compact? By joining the United Nations Global Compact, the companies commit themselves to incorporating the ten universal principles from four areas into their strategies and procedures. Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 1 Pac Team Group Ltd. Pac Team was founded in Switzerland in 1949, specializing in timepiece displays, packaging and exhibition solutions. Today Pac Team works on three continents and serve the entire world. Even as the company grows to meet the demands of a global marketplace, the precision and ingenuity of Swiss watchmakers remains its core inspiration. Pac Team embodies the legendary quality of Swiss engineering, and values every relationship like a timepiece a lifelong commitment to be treasured and handled with care. Each of the group’s companies represents a proud tradition of handwork, quality and craftsmanship which Pac Team is committed to preserve. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 Pac Team is a SEDEX member (B member) ; all its production sites are documented via the SEDEX SAQ (Self-Assessment Questionnaire). CSR partner : Product DNA Ltd Pac Team Group has appointed the Swiss company Product DNA Ltd (www.productdna.com) in 2015 to manage the external follow-up of all elements of sustainability: social conditions at production sites, environmental impacts calculation and supply chains traceability. Pac Team is committed to transparency in its production processes, while continuing to improve working conditions and reduce environmental impacts. 2 CEO statement letter of continued support for the UN Global Compact th Le Mont-sur-Lausanne, July 11 , 2016 Dear Mr. Secretary-General, Hereby, I am pleased to confirm that Pac Team SA supports the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. These four areas are currently or will be shortly integrated into our corporate strategies, as well as into our corporate practices and activities. This commitment has been announced to our stakeholders, our suppliers, our partners, as well as our customers. The ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights have been integrated into our corporate social and environmental programme 2016 and are documented in the « Communication on Progress ». Sincerely yours, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 Alain Borle CEO of Pacteam Ltd 3 What has changed in 2015 Sustainable development has become one of the major concerns for luxury goods manufacturers. For this reason, Pac Team decided in 2015 to speed up the move towards greater transparency in its production chains and to publish non-financial indicators about its activities. In doing this, we are anticipating the demands of our clients and playing a leadership role in our field. For this purpose, the following initiatives have been set up : • Strict follow-up of the audits and corrective actions in our production facilities • Partnership with a third-party company in charge of the activities linked to sustainability (Product DNA Ltd) • Launch of an ecodesign programme with internal workshop 2016 • Creation of an internal directory of technical and security standards categorized by items and customers • Selection of non-financial indicators to measure sustainability development and progress • Option given to our customers for the integration of a traceability code on their production enabling them to follow the production chain on a transparent basis • Pac Team own production facilities are members of SEDEX; upgrade of the quality management system (QMS) • REACh declaration letter to be signed by suppliers each year. Tancredi Pascale COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 Operations Manager th Le Mont-sur-Lausanne, July 11 , 2016 4 Scope of this COP The three main production facilities are located in China, Italy, USA. For this first communication on progress, Pac Team Group has decided to focus on Pac Team Production Asia Pacific (PTPAP), which is the Chinese production site. This production platform is located in a country characterized by its potential for improvement in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. It is also the largest Pac Team factory in terms of number of employees and volume of production. Pac Team Facilities : appendix 1, pages 14-16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 5 Principle 1 – Human Rights Protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Towards a living wage All the workers are guaranteed a minimum legal wage ; the median wage in the facility is superior to the minimum legal wage, and tends to come closer to the living wage estimated by local social organizations. Wages ladder, winter 2015 Health and safety for all All the workers benefit from working conditions which do not put their health or safety at risk. The factory supplies all appropriate safety equipment, and machines can only be used with adapted protections. In order to make sure that all the instructions are followed correctly and that any noticed negligence is immediately corrected, a Health and Safety Supervisor was appointed in early 2016. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 A better social security cover During an audit conducted at the end of 2015 in the factory, insufficient social insurance for the workers was highlighted. Pac Team Group has immediately set up the necessary measures in order for the workers to benefit from insurances policies covering acidents, unemployment and basic medical care. The target is that 100% of the workers in the factory benefit from social insurances. See information letter to all workers, appendix 2, page 17 6 Recent audits list, reference table and corrective actions, December 2015 Audits guidance, 2015-2016 All audits are conducted by professional organizations (Intertek, SGS). The scope of each audit meets SEDEX SMETA-4 pillars requirements. The follow-up of corrective actions to be undertaken is carried out by Product DNA. According to ETI (Ethical Trading Initiative), the following points are handled : • Employment is freely chosen • Freedom of association and right to collective bargaining are respected • Working conditions are safe and hygienic • Child labour shall not be used • Living wages are paid • Working hours are not excessive • No discrimination is practiced • Regular employment is provided • Sub-contracting and homeworking • No harsh or inhumane treatment is allowed • Entitlement to work and immigration • Environment • Business ethics COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 Principle 2 – Human Rights Ensure non-complicity in human rights abuses Following ILO principles The International Labour Organization (ILO) is a worldwide organization in charge of setting and supervising international labour standards. Pac Team Group strives to work only with partners following their principles. The Chinese factory does not work with hidden subcontractors. 7 Principle 3 Labour Uphold freedom of association and collective bargaining Beyond legal framework : the workers’ committee A workers’ committee is active within the factory. Internal communication would be improved by the publication of the members’ list inside the factory. Freedom of association The workers are free to belong to an association and under no circumstances, shall they be made the object of reprisals within the framework of union actions or claims. See Code of Conduct : http://www.respect-code.org/CompanyFiles/Company_1726/Certificate_543/3.%20Code%20de%20conduite%20des%20fournisseurs.pdf Principle 4 Labour Support elimination of forced and compulsory labour Free choice of employment All the workers have a contract of employment according to the local labour legislation. There is no illegal work in the factory, they are free to resign and leave their employer at any time, COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 having given prior notice. Sunday, the day of rest All the workers have a right day of rest per week, usually on Sundays. In order to meet customers’ deadlines, workers might exceptionally work on Sundays, in this case, they should be compensated by a day off during the following month at the latest. This is decided with their agreement and with the aim of maintaining some flexibility in the production process in order to meet customers’ requirements. See information letter to all workers, appendix 3, page 18 8 No forced labour Management never recourses to forced labour or to work performed under the threat of a penalty, whether it is within the contractual framework or during overtime as mentioned in the previous point. Importance of social sensitisation Training sessions are regularly held within the factory to sensitise the workers to the stakes and standards of forced labour. Additional information dealing with this question is displayed on the factory walls. Principle 5 Labour Support abolition of child labour All workers : adults All the workers are minimum 18 years old. In order to prevent any misunderstanding, identity documents are checked before any new hiring. Principle 6 Labour Support elimination of discrimination COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 No discrimination The factory recruits employees without any discrimination, whether linked to gender, religion or to any other subjective criteria. No distinction is made between male and female staff and their skills alone are taken into account. Currently, 35% of the management and supervisors are women. Chapter 1.3 of Pac Team Company Manual is dedicated to the « Harassment free, Nondiscrimination workplace » 9 Equal rights for all All the workers earn equal pay for equal work. Potential promotions are based on merit and competence alone. Chapter 4 of Pac Team Company Manual is dedicated to « Salaries, allowances and deductions » Importance of training During training sessions about forced labour and child labour, the dangers of discrimination and harassment at work are also emphasized. Additional information dealing with these questions is displayed on the factory walls. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 10 Principle 7 Environment Support precautionary approach to environmental challenges Caution regarding chemicals The factory follows the European recommendations REACh, so that the environment is better protected against the risks linked to chemicals ; as a prerequisite, all used chemicals must be identified without any ambiguity, as well as their potential danger. See REACh declarations for suppliers, appendix 4, pages 19-20 Manual weeding The factory owns a garden, which is maintained by the workers. According to the precautionary approach, they do not use any pesticide, which could be harmful to the environment. The more tedious, but environmentally friendlier method of manual weeding is preferred. Principle 8 Environment Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 Impacts assessment and management When it comes to corporate environmental responsibility, it is crucial for the company to first assess and measure, then manage its environmental impacts at all levels : energy, water, waste, chemicals, atmospheric pollution and biodiversity. This is how PTPAP approaches this matter ; they set reduction targets on their impacts. Despite a constantly growing market demand for better lead times and greater flexibility, Pac Team Group strives as far as possible to ship its products from China to Europe by sea, rather than by air, which considerably reduces the CO2 impact. 11 Volume by mode of transport in 2015 *Annual data 2015 Toxic waste treatment Production generates toxic waste. As the treatment of such waste must be handled by professionals, PTPAP is currently signing a contract with an official toxic waste treatment company. Pollutant treatment PTPAP has been equipped with an internal treatment system of pollutants for many years. Principle 9 Environment Encourage environmentally friendly technologies Sustainable raw materials COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 Pac Team Group strives to use materials from sustainable sources and managed in an ecologically sustainable way, and avoids as far as possible the use of materials which can generate negative impacts on the environment. Hiring, in June 2016, of a trainee at the HQ in Le Mont for a summary report of the standards in use by all the customers. Starting of the project « eco-conception » with the appointment of a manager at the HQ in Le Mont since June 2016. 12 Principle 10 – AntiCorruption Work against corruption in all of its forms Zero tolerance for corruption PTPAP never resorts to bribery and corruption in any way in its businesses. It also prevents all kind of corruption by its employees and undertakes to denounce any suspicious acts to the police. An anonymous email address has been created to denounce any acts or attempts of corruption or bribery. Chapter 8.6 of Pac Team Company Manual is dedicated to « Bribery and Corruption Law » Any proven act of corruption is punished by immediate dismissal. A act of corruption is defined by the following elements : • A deliberate act • Involving any person, internal or external to the company • Taking place before, during or after a contract • Allowing to promise, offer or grant an undue advantage • In a financial or other form • Directly or through a middleman • For one’s own profit or the profit of a third party COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 Appendices 1. Pac Team Facilities 2. Information letter 2016, towards a full social insurance cover 3. Information letter 2016, hour compensation in case of Sunday work 4. REACh declaration for all suppliers 13 APPENDIX 1: PAC TEAM FACILITIES 14 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 15 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 16 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 APPENDIX 2: INFORMATION LETTER 2016, TOWARDS A FULL SOCIAL INSURANCE COVER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 17 APPENDIX 3: INFORMATION LETTER 2016, HOUR COMPENSATION IN CASE OF SUNDAY WORK COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 18 APPENDIX 4: REACH DECLARATION FOR ALL SUPPLIERS COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016 19 20 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2016 | AUGUST 2016
