Towards the Realization of a Resource-Recycling Society CSR REPORT 2015 ＊This report uses forest-certified paper and eco-friendly soy ink . DOWA’s CSR The DOWA group conducts business based on the corporate philosophy of “Through our deploying business on our earth, we seek to contribute to a high standard of living and the emergence of a resource-recycling society.” Contents DOWA’s CSR DOWA’s Initiatives on each CSR field Editorial Line 01 Governance 17 CSR Management Safety 23 Message from the Management 03 Environment 27 About DOWA group 05 Society 35 DOWA’s contribution to social issues through 07 Voice from Stakeholders our business Questionnaire Results 45 Overseas businesses of DOWA group 09 Opinion of a Third Party 46 Special Issue: Expansion of overseas business 11 and CSR CSR Policy and Plan 15 Editorial Line DOWA group is committed to conducting business based on the CSR activities, (1) Areas covered in this report governmental agencies, NGO’ s, NPO’ s and all stakeholders of the DOWA Check our website for detailed information about the topics marked. If considering the future of our earth and society to contribute to resolving social ■ Target organizations group’s business activities. mistakes are found after publication of the CSR report, they will be problems through business activities. We are also promoting a variety of CSR DOWA Holdings and subsidiaries (both in Japan and other countries) that are ■ Target period reported on our website with errata notes. activities to increase transparency of our business and gain trust from our included in our consolidated accounting are selected in these reports. Data on The report mainly covers activities conducted from April 1, 2014 until March (3) Basic information stakeholders. some of our efforts are only associated to DOWA Holdings and other major 31, 2015 (Fiscal year of 2014), partially including the past background and ■ Publication Date October 2015 Our company has 5 operating companies having different business activities, companies of the group. previous activities to provide more accurate information. ■ Due Publication Date of the Next Report October 2016 and thus facing a wide range of CSR related issues. We have been promoting From the FY 2015 edition, we have added HIGHTEMP FURNACES LTD. and ■ Reference guidelines ■ Responsible Department CSR Department, DOWA Holdings, Co., Ltd. effective CSR, with primary CSR activities centered on our operating DOWA METALS & MINING (Thailand) Co., Ltd. as overseas subsidiaries. The UN Global Compact (UN GC) ■ URL companies and subsidiaries. DOWA CSR Report reports the CSR philosophy ■ Target areas to report ISO 26000 http://www.dowa.co.jp (in Japanese) and the major business activities of the DOWA group of the year in an The report consists of four areas of DOWA’ s CSR policies: Governance, Safety, Environmental Reporting Guidelines 2012 by Ministry of the Environment http://www.dowa.co.jp/index_e.html (in English) easy-to-understand way to all stakeholders. At the same time, each and every Environment, and Society. It covers each of these policies, current (Government of Japan) ■ Contact employee deeply would be able to understand our CSR and also can play a role implementation status of its major issues and the activities by the (2) Publishing of a web version CSR Department, DOWA Holdings, Co., Ltd. in promoting the CSR activities. above-mentioned organizations. This report highlights and reports CSR activities of the DOWA group, focusing 22nd Floor, Akihabara UDX Bldg, 4-14-1 Sotokanda, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo Through this report, we hope to rouse your interest in our corporate philosophy ■ Target audience on some important points, to provide an overview of those activities in an 101-0021 JAPAN and our initiatives for the future. This report is intended for our customers, stockholders, investors, clients, local easy-to-understand way. For more details, visit our website (to be posted in Phone: (+81) 3-6847-1104 / Fax: (+81) 3-6847-1277 communities, researchers, students, employees, rating & evaluation agencies, November 2015). E-mail address: info_dowa@dowa.co.jp 01 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 02 CSR Message from the Management Management Contributing to Resolving Problems of Global Society through Five Core Businesses Promote Business Activities While resources form the basis of all our corporate activities, and we Responding to Changes with Agility at DOWA group will continue to focus even further so that diverse human resources can demonstrate their abilities to the We at DOWA group have been consistently providing fullest. the products and services to support the society since our establishment in 1884, with the corporate philosophy of Stronger CSR initiatives in the supply Create a rich life and contribute to the building of a resource chain of global market recycling society through business activities . Started from the mining and smelting industry, we have come to expand CSR initiatives in the supply chain in the global markets our existing five core businesses, namely, environment and have been gaining increasing importance. DOWA group has recycling, smelting, electronic materials, metal processing created and published new DOWA group CSR Procurement and heat treatment, while responding to various changes of Guidelines in FY 2014, based on CSR procurement policy the times, such as the environmental, economic and social that was formulated in light of the universal principles issues. of the United Nations Global Compact. These guidelines Today, long after entering the global era, the business aim to continue to promote CSR management with mutual environment in which we operate is changing at an cooperation, by including items that involve all the suppliers unprecedented pace. Yet because we have overcome those as well as DOWA group, from the viewpoint of CSR. As a issues of the time for over 130 years, we are conﬁdent that we member that constitutes the global market, we will continue can surely demonstrate our strength furthermore. Leveraging to strengthen the CSR throughout the supply chain, along our years of experience, we will continue to promote business with these guidelines. activities that support the global society, while responding Through our ﬁve core businesses, we at DOWA group will with agility to capture the changes. continue to resolve various social issues on global scale that need to be addresses promptly, such as measures to prevent Foster Diverse global human resources global warming and issues related to resources and energy, responsible for growth while cooperating with various stakeholders such as suppliers, various national governments, and local communities. The new medium-term plan which started from this In addition to conveying at large the various internal and fiscal year, mentions three pillars: Further expansion of external CSR initiatives of DOWA group, this CSR report overseas operations , Business expansion into growth also aims that each and every employee their daily work markets and related ﬁelds , and Continued strengthening of anew and gives a thought once again to CSR involving their business competitiveness, based on the fundamental policy own work. Please send us your frank opinions, so that the We will contribute to resolving problems of global of Continues growth. While steady accumulation of priority continued growth of DOWA group further contributes to the society through further overseas expansion and measures in each business sector is indispensable in these resolution of global social issues. development into growth markets. efforts, development and expansion of human resources which are the bearer of such measures is also indispensable. President and representative director, Especially, we are strengthening our efforts with an eye to DOWA Holdings, Co., Ltd. the medium-to-long-term, such as expansion of overseas Masao Yamada training and global employment of younger employees, and opportunities for the staff of overseas companies to visit and train in Japan, with the aim of fostering Diverse global human resources responsible for achieving further expansion of overseas businesses. Needless to say, human 03 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 04 CSR management About DOWA group Global expansion of our unique recycling business The DOWA Group is engaged in Smelting Business , where we extract useful metals from natural resources, Metal Processing Business areas of DOWA group Business and Heat Processing Business where we add value to the extracted metals. Also, our Electronic Materials Business we further improve the functions of metal materials and, in our Environmental Management & Recycling Business we detoxify waste, The DOWA group has globally developed a recycling business consisting of five core businesses. separate and collect metals from waste. We are committed to resolving social problems such as global issues of the environment and resources through our unique resource-recycling business—from production of non-ferrous metals, highly value-added products and to their recycling. Environment and recycling business DOWA ECO-SYSTEM Co., Ltd. Sales constituent ratio 19.6％ Operating profit constituent ratio 19.4％ (FY 2014 ended March 31, 2015) ○ Waste treatment business Integrated services from collection and transportation to intermediate and ﬁnal processing of municipal Corporate Proﬁle （Hundred million Yen） Sales 4,642 ○ Soil remediation business and industrial waste Total support from survey to remediation and monitoring of soil contamination 4,439 ○ Recycling business Collection of valuable metal from used products such as scrap generated from factories and production 4,193 Name DOWA Holdings, Co., Ltd. 3,798 3,924 processes, electrical appliances and automobiles Incorporated March 11, 1937 Head Ofﬁce 22nd Floor, Akihabara UDX Bldg, Smelting business DOWA Metals & Mining 4-14-1 Sotokanda, Chiyoda-ku, President and Tokyo 101-0021 JAPAN Masao Yamada Sales constituent ratio 44.9％ Operating profit constituent ratio 35.8％ (FY 2014 ended March 31, 2015) Representative ○ Precious metals and World's leading recyce-smelting that can collect a variety of metals such as gold, silver, and copper Director copper business Common Stock 36,437 million yen ○ Rare metals business Recovery of platinum group metals such as platinum from used automobile exhaust gas catalysts Employees Approximately 8,700 persons ○ Zinc business Integrated business development from resource development to ingots production and sales of processed (As of March 31, 2015) 10 11 12 13 14（FY） products, centered on Akita Zinc Co., Ltd. that boasts of largest zinc smelter of 200,000 tons in Japan Electronic materials business DOWA Electronics Materials FY 2014 Financial Highlights （Hundred million Yen） Operating profit 390 Sales constituent ratio 13.9％ Operating profit constituent ratio 23.3％ (FY 2014 ended March 31, 2015) In FY 2014, demand for automotive products remained ○ Semiconductor business Leading manufacturer of high-purity gallium indium semiconductor materials, compound semiconductor strong worldwide. In addition, demand for smart phones and 317 wafers, and high luminance and high output LED renewable energy also remained strong. Zinc prices remained ○ Electronic materials Manufactures silver powder used in renewable energy applications, copper powder used in electronic 229 245 strong, while precious metals and copper fell against the 220 business components, zinc powder and silver oxide used in batteries etc. background of strong US dollar and cheap crude oil. ○ Functional materials Manufacturer boasting wWorld's dominant market shareleading manufacturer of ferrite powder used in Against this backdrop, the consolidated net sales of business metal powder for high-capacity recording tapes, carrier powder for copiers, printers etc. DOWA group for the March 2015 period were 464.2 billion Yen, up 5% YOY, whereas the consolidated operating proﬁt, Metal processing business DOWA Metaltech consolidated ordinary proﬁt, and consolidated net proﬁt were 39 billion Yen, 42 billion Yen, and 26.5 billion Yen, up 23%, 10 11 12 13 14（FY） Sales constituent ratio 16.5％ Operating profit constituent ratio 15.3％ (FY 2014 ended March 31, 2015) 20%, and 14% respectively. ○ Metal processing business Manufacturer of copper, brass, and copper alloys used in terminals and connectors for automobile and （Hundred million Yen） Recurring profit 420 ○ Plating business semiconductor, and brass bars and forgings Precious metal plating processing of components such as connectors and switches of automobiles, mobile phones and consumer electronics products 350 ○ Circuit board business Manufacturer of metal ceramic substrates used in power control equipment such as industrial machinery, high-speed rail, wind-power generation, and solar power 272 233 209 Heat treatment business DOWA Thermotech Sales constituent ratio 5.1％ Operating profit constituent ratio 6.2％ (FY 2014 ended March 31, 2015) ○ Industrial furnace Provides total service from design and erection of furnaces to maintenance, leveraging the know-how of business heat treatment processing 10 11 12 13 14（FY） ○ Heat treatment Application speciﬁc surface treatment such as improvement of abrasion resistance, fatigue resistance and processing business heat resistance 05 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 06 CSR management DOWA’s contribution to social issues through our business Social issues related to the effective use of Responsible recycling International Resource Recycling Promotion resources A wide range of recycling materials are hazardous in nature As the globalization of the value chain is progressing, it < Social issues related to the effective use of resources > even though they contain valuable metals. Therefore, it is not is also necessary to maximize the resource efﬁciency among The purpose of social responsibility is defined as “to Energy consumption sufficient just to recover a lot of material but How to carry countries. DOWA group has developed metal recycling, home Depletion of resources contribute to sustainable development” in the international associated with smelting out recycling is also important. Recycling must also protect appliance recycling, and waste treatment business in China, standard of CSR, ISO 26000 in 2010. The society faces Soaring mineral prices the safety of workers and must be environment friendly while Singapore, Thailand, and Indonesia, leveraging our tried and Waste issue diversified problems, including environment, water, food, (Increased demand, market conditions and exchange rate fluctuations) creating the economic value. tested recycling and experience in Japan, and resources such as poverty and the like. “Effective utilization of resources” is the Technology and infrastructure of DOWA group's waste knowledge and human resources. Uneven distribution of resources Environmental impacts associated most relevant issue to DOWA, as utilization of metal resources with mine development and smelting treatment business is an unparalleled strong point for the Also, we are working to establish a global resource recycling is the core of our business. This is also an important social compatibility of this recycling with environment protection. system by carrying out overseas collection of high-quality Globalization of the markets, issue. demand surge Responsible mineral procurement Based on the technology developed in our mining and smelting recycled materials in our United States and the Czech Republic Mineral ores are natural resource and will be eventually business, we are engaged in responsible recycling such as factories. We are aiming for total optimization while ensuring exhausted if people continue to use them. Resource-recycling <Initiatives of DOWA group> technology for proper treatment of arsenic, cadmium and lead, the transparency and integrity with the legal systems of various is an important solution; however it requires technologies and incineration process that does not give rise to dioxins, and ﬁnal countries, so that recycling can be carried out locally whenever infrastructure to effectively recover metals, and to properly Promotion of recycling International resources and environment treatment facilities managed by GPS and water leakage sensing appropriate recycling is possible, and in Japan whenever it treat the hazardous substances and non-usable substances Precious metal recycling Recycling in DOWA bases in Asia system. is safe and efficient from the viewpoint of technology and Home Appliance Recycling Proper recycling in DOWA bases in Japan produced in the recovery process. This includes technical and Automobile recycling when recovery is difficult overseas due to infrastructure. economic issues which need to be solved such as a proper Used small appliances recycling technology and equipment Recycling of waste edible oil into biodiesel establishment of a social system which enables effective Overseas expansion collection of recycle materials, and cost and efforts put into Development of technologies China Precious metal recycling / Home Appliance Recycling treatment of diverse materials. Recovery of 22 elements Singapore Precious metal recycling Support for high-mix low volume recycled materials DOWA group will strive for growth through various High efficiency recovery of trace elements Improvement of energy consumption initiatives, while understanding these issues and contributing through our business activities such as technologies, products, Improvement of metal recovery efficiency in overseas mines Improvement of electric power consumption DOWA group's Metal products and services. Securing of rare metals rate in the smelting process Use of renewable energy (hydropower) Commitment to Platinum group recovery from automobile spent catalyst Cerium recovered from the glass abrasives Reducing environmental impact Resource Recovery Manufacturing Resource Recovery Proper disposal of heavy metals contained in Securing a stable supply the recycled materials, Freon gas etc. Final treatment of rare metals Securing a stable supply of recycled materials Proper treatment and facility Collection of automobile spent catalysts Reducing the waste by promoting resource pollution prevention Rare metal Logistics recycling through the American and European bases Waste volume reduction plant Incineration Heat recovery and Expansion of Reduce the environmental impact of mining plant power generation recycled products Actual yield improvement Initiatives for future challenges Environment friendly mine development Market research Research and Sales Research of metal recycling using the bryophytes Consideration to biodiversity at the time and analysis new technology development Research of photovoltaic panel recycling system of mining Recycling smelter Zinc smelter Environmental consulting Research institute Raw material Synergy through Conflict minerals analysis and Precious metal collaboration with Stable recovery free metals and High efficiency recovery Usage Promotion of Circular Economy evaluation recycling plant external partners Sales supply of tin Analysis and Recycled materials Center logistics Recycling rate manufacturing plant For sustainable economic growth, a new growth model that maximizes the efficiency and value creation of resource improvement and reduction of waste recycling, separate from the economic systems so far that are built on the constraints of natural resources is required. Shredder dust Automobile processing plant recycling plant Waste Optimization of the recycling chain Home appliance DOWA group has built a circle of resource recycling like development of recycling technologies with an eye on future. recycling plant Recycled materials none other, by combining a wide range of recycling such as Consulting department promotes high degree of recycling, Energy conservation, water cycle precious metals, consumer electronics, automotive, used small taking advantage of the expertise and collective strength of Input volume minimization appliances and further cooperation with various departments the group, such as carrying out surveys for policies of various Energy such as waste treatment and research and analysis, rather nations and regulatory developments. In addition, we strive to Water Natural Minerals Minimization of environmental impacts than simply carrying out recycling in a fragmentary chain. build a ﬂexible recycling chain while increasing the ﬂexibility resources associated with resource development Our sales, logistics departments aim at stable recovery and by coordinating with domestic and foreign external partners reduced recovery costs. Research department promotes the and different sectors. 07 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 08 CSR management Overseas businesses of DOWA group Continue aggressive business expansion in Asia Overseas operations of the DOWA group began with mining development in more than 20 countries since the 1950s, and developed Overseas actively in response to environmental changes in the markets and users. Especially since 2000, we have been working to expand our business in Asian countries such as China and Southeast Asia that continue to have high economic growth, and presently, 35% of all 35% Number of the Group employees are working abroad. employees by region Within Sustainable development of the countries and regions where our offices are located is the foundation of survival and growth for the Asia (except Japan) 2,903 persons 3,014 Japan DOWA group. For this reason, we attend to social issues faced by each of the countries and regions and work to resolve these issues Europe 16 persons persons 8,700 persons in cooperation with local communities. As of the end of March, 2015 65% North America 92 persons Central and South America 3 persons 5,686 persons Major subsidiaries and ofﬁces overseas and business development of FY2014 Environment and recycling business Metal processing business ・Waste disposal associated with oil and natural gas DOWA Metaltech development started in Thailand in addition to ・ Strengthened the processing of copper products and automotive plating in China and 18 DOWA ADVANCED MATERIALS Indonesia Thailand, and worked to expand sales in Asia (SHANGHAI) CO., LTD. ・Worked to expand collection of metal recycled DOWA Eco-system materials from North America and Asia 19 DOWA METALTECH(THAILAND) 1 Dowa Environmental Engineering ・Established a new waste disposal company in CO., LTD. (Thailand) (Suzhou) Co., Ltd. Myanmar, and started the construction of facilities 20 DOWA Precision (Thailand) 2 JIANGXI DOWA ENVIRONMENTAL CO., LTD. (Thailand) MANAGEMENT CO., LTD. Canada 21 Singapore Branch 3 Taiwan office 22 Shenzhen office 4 PT. Prasadha Pamunah Limbah Industri China 23 Dowa Lee Precision Parts Co., Ltd. (Indonesia) 35 16 U.S.A. (Taiwan) 5 Technochem Environmental Complex Pte. Ltd (Singapore) 1 18 25 33 11 12 31 24 6 DOWA ECO-SYSTEM SINGAPORE 13 DOWA ThermoTech PTE.LTD (Singapore) 32 24 DOWA THT AMERICA, INC. 7 Waste Management Siam Ltd. (Thailand) (United Stated of America) 8 Bangpoo Environmental 2 3 23 25 Kunshan Dowa Thermo Furnace Co., Ltd Complex Ltd (Thailand) 22 34 26 DOWA Thermotech(Thailand) 9 Eastern Seaboard Environmental 10 27 5 6 21 Co., Ltd (Thailand) Complex Co., Ltd (Thailand) Czech Republic 27 HIGHTEMP FURNACES Ltd. (India) 10 GOLDEN DOWA ECO-SYSTEM MYANMAR CO., LTD (Myanmar) 14 15 30 28 PT.DOWA THERMOTECH INDONESIA 11 (Indonesia) Heat treatment business 29 PT.DOWA THERMOTECH FURNACES 4 28 29 (Indonesia) ・Established a subsidiary in Mexico as a new DOWA Metals & Mining base, and began maintenance operations 30 DOWA THERMOTECH MEXICO 11 Vancouver office S.A. de C.V. (Mexico) ・ Increased the production capacity of heat 12 Cariboo Copper Corporation treatment processing in Indonesia (Canada) Mexico 13 NIPPON PGM AMERICA, INC. DOWA HOLDINGS CO., LTD., support companies (United States of America) 31 DOWA INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION ❹ Indonesia 14 Mexico office 7 8 9 17 19 20 26 36 (United Stated of America) 15 MINERA TIZAPA, S.A. DE C.V. 32 DOWA INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION (Mexico) San Jose office (United Stated of America) 16 Nippon PGM Europe s.r.o. Smelting business 33 Dowa Holdings (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. (Czech Republic) ・We promoted expansion of sales in the 34 Dowa Holdings (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 17 DOWA Metals & Mining (Thailand) growing Southeast Asia by expanding Co., Ltd. (Thailand) Shenzhen Branch production in the zinc processing plant, which 35 DOWA HD Europe GmbH (Germany) began operations in FY2013 in Thailand. Thailand 36 DOWA HOLDINGS (THAILAND) CO., LTD (Thailand) As of September 30, 2015 09 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 10 DOWA Metaltech (Thailand) DOWA Precision (Thailand) Chachoengsao Province Chachoengsao Province Established in 2006 DOWA Metaltech (Thailand) Co.,Ltd. T h a i l a n d Business development of ■ Promotion of international resource recycling DOWA Group in Thailand Utilizing the network of DOWA group, DMTT has been building a began with the establishment recycling flow of scrap metal to be discharged from the process. o f t h e D O WA M e t a l t e c h We promote recycling not only in our own companies but also as Thailand (DMTT) to carry out a customer service, by purchasing the scrap of sold copper and the copper products plating brass products. Precious metal used in plating is recovered in Bangpoo Environmental Complex Samut Prakan Province processing. DMTT is located Singapore and Kosaka smelting (Akita), and copper is recovered in Chachoengsao Province, Gateway City Industrial Estate, and in DOWA metal (Shizuoka). In order to reliably perform such provides silver, nickel, tin-plating and copper and copper alloys in international resource recycling, every year, we send a detailed DOWA Thermotech (Thailand) the form of coils, called strips, mainly for Japanese manufacturers administrative report that Rayong Province of auto parts. We meet the needs of Japanese companies by clarifies the traceability promoting local procurement in Thailand, by means of mass o f p ro c e s s s t e p s t o t h e SPECIAL ISSUE production with quality comparable to Japan, by having the same Government of Thailand, state-of-the-art facilities as the factories in Japan. and promote responsible Environment and recycling business recycling based on properly Special Issue Eastern Seaboard Smelting business managed recycling system. Environmental Complex Metal processing business Metal strips Chonburi Province Heat treatment business Established DOWA Metals & Mining (Thailand) Rayong Province in 2007 DOWA Thermotech (Thailand) Co.,Ltd. As DOWA Thermotech's ■ Human resource development initiatives No. 1 base in Southeast In DTT, we are focused on local human resource development Asia, DOWA Thermotech such as accepting internships from high schools nearby, and Thailand (DTT) is located carrying out tests as heat treatment professional skills similar to in the Easter n Seaboard Japan, as part of technical education. We have started safety Expansion of Overseas Operations and CSR Industrial Estate in Rayong Province, about 150 km from Bangkok, where automotive industry is concentrated. More than 100 equipment by DOWA Thermotech have been installed in activities such as CCCF (Completely Check and Completely FindOut) since 2011, and QC (Quality Control) since 2014. In CCCF activities, in addition to imparting training related to activities to the employees, we also isolate any hazards in the workplace, through DOWA group is committed to carrying out business activities rooted in Thailand so far, and DTT started with repair and maintenance, and on-site activities which is conducted 2 times a years and in which remodeling services for these equipment. At present, it focuses on the countries and regions where overseas expansion is carried out, all the employees participate. maintenance service of DOWA-made heat treatment equipment Further, we are working on and to building and developing relationships. and commissioned processing of heat treatment services mainly visualization of information for automotive parts and agricultural machinery parts. and communication with In addition, all the factories are conscious of being a member of employees, by installing a the local community, and at the same time, aim to contribute to safety bulletin board. the development of the region from a global perspective. Bulletin board devised by local staff Acquisitions in 2009 Bangpoo Environmental Complex Co., Ltd. Business Activities in Thailand and CSR Bangpoo Environmental Complex (BPEC) is the waste incineration particularly high occupancy Thailand, which is located in the heart of Asia and making advances in the infrastrucand recycling plant in the Bangkok suburb of Samut Prakan. It is rates among the incineration one of the only 2 large waste incineration facilities in Thailand. It facilities in Thailand and has ture development, is indispensable in the supply chain in the global economy. Since started operations in 2006 and joined DOWA group in 2009. BPEC stable operations. our business expansion in 2006, DOWA group has expanded into 4 businesses carries out incineration of product waste such as shampoo and namely environment and recycling, smelting, metal processing, and heat treatment, cigarettes, and non-hazardous waste discharged from factories, and currently these are our flagship overseas bases. Here we introduce the business offices, and cafeterias etc. in the vicinity. It has maintained activities of DOWA group in Thailand and CSR initiatives in respective offices. 11 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 12 SPECIAL ISSUE Special Expansion of overseas business and CSR Issue Strategic promotion business of recovery and destruction of CFCs 2009 Bangpoo Environmental Complex Co.,Ltd. ■ Safe disposal of waste and energy supply out reliable incineration process at a high temperature of 950°C. Further, simultaneously with incineration, the steam collected from Toward Realizing a Low-carbon Society in Asia In Thailand, lack of collection and processing capabilities against the increased waste generation due to economic growth has boiler is supplied as a heat source to the nearby factories and remaining steam is used for Fast-growing Asian region needs to transform into a low-carbon society in order to cut the greenhouse become a social issue. As cost is an issue, landfilling the waste power generation. In addition gas emissions in the world by half by year 2050. If Japan is to leverage her technologies and institutions without any incineration is commonplace. Therefore, there are to being consumed indeveloped up to now and cooperate with and support Asian countries in realizing a low-carbon society then problems such as hygiene and nuisance odor. There are also improper waste treatments such as open burning and illegal house, the surplus generated it will contribute to better environment not only in Asian region but in the entire planet. dumping. power is sold to the power BPEC has a fluidized bed incinerator built in 2005 as effective companies, thus ensuring waste utilization project supported by Japan's New Energy and both an energy supply and a Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO) and carries safe and environment friendly Continuous monitoring of the CFCs in Asian countries Global warming potential of Fluorocarbons (When carbon dioxide is considered as 1) waste disposal. treatment process using monitors Currently in Southeast Asian countries, fluorocarbons having a high HFC-23 14,800 global warming potential, such as CFC, HCFC, and HFC are being CFC-12 10,900 Acquisition used in refrigeration and cold storage equipment and air-conditioning in 2009 Eastern Seaboard Environmental Complex Co., Ltd. equipment in circulation. However, no schemes for proper handling of these CFC-11 4,750 HCFC-22 1,810 fluorocarbons are in place in these countries. On the other hand, in Japan, HFC-134a 1,430 Eastern Seaboard ■ Next-generation support activities Act for Rationalized Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons, Home HFC-152a 124 E n v i ro n m e n t a l C o m p l e x Appliance Recycling Act, and Automobile Recycling Act ensure ongoing In order to contribute to the development of Thailand, ESBEC CO2 1 From IPCC Assessment Report 4 (2007) (ESBEC) is located in proper recovery and destruction of fluorocarbons, on a level higher than is actively engaged in activities from the viewpoint of integration world standard. Sriracha City in Chonburi with local community and education of children who are province of Thailand. bearers of the future. Especially, as the development of the next ESBEC is engaged in generation, ESBEC has scholarships to 6 elementary and junior DOWA group's commitment to CFCs recycling business such high schools in the region, and financial support to the faculty DOWA group started destruction of Fluorocarbons since receiving the Fluorocarbons destruction as waste oil and waste liquid treatment, final disposal of waste, development fund. In addition, it model project from the then Environment Agency and Akita Prefecture in 1996. Currently, we are and separate collection of metal scrap and plastic from recycling continues to carry out contribution licensed as Fluorocarbons destruction operator in Akita, Chiba, and Okayama Prefectures, and of waste oil and sludge and waste electrical and electronic activities that are deeply associated carry out thermal decomposition process by effective utilization of waste heat. Also, DOWA group products. ESBEC's final treatment facility is also compliant with with core business, such as donation has sufficient knowledge and experience about the recovery and destruction of Fluorocarbons, for construction standards of US Environmental Protection Agency for sorting out trash to promote example, Fluorocarbons recovery in automobile and consumer electronics recycling plants. (EPA). ESBEC takes thorough environmental measures such DOWA Eco-system and its subsidiary E&E Solutions cooperate with the Institute for Global Carry out destruction of recycling, volunteering for cleaning Fluorocarbons as measures against offensive odors by using high density Environmental Strategies, in order to promote research and raise the public awareness about Eco-systems Akita and disinfection for improving the polyethylene sheets, incineration of methane compounds Fluorocarbons in Asian countries such as Thailand, Malaysia, and Indonesia, through the Ministry sanitary environment of schools, of the Environment JCM large-scale project formation feasibility study work Fluorocarbons generated from such garbage, and physicochemical treatment and study tours of offices for the Recovery and Destruction Processing Strategic Promotion Business . This work aims to introduce and biological treatment of leachate. students, as part of the environmental In-house newspaper to Japan's knowledge and technology to these countries, investigate about actual use, recovery, and education. convey the CSR activities destruction of fluorocarbons in all the countries, and investigate effective treatment methods and recovery network building techniques including the destruction process. Established in 2013 DOWA Metals & Mining (Thailand) Co., Ltd. Conducted CFCs recovery test in Thailand office D O WA M e t a l s & M i n i n g and initiatives are being undertaken while ideas for the region In Thailand, CFCs are legally positioned as a hazardous waste and their import, production, (Thailand) Co., Ltd. (DMMT) being discussed among the regional representatives and the transportation, consumption, disposal and export are regulated. However, there are no clear legal ESBEC is a zinc processing plant companies. This activity is for the purpose of communication with provision for their processing and there is no social system in place for recovery and destruction of CFCs. Also, there are no recovery guidelines by the government, and unlike Japan, a system for which is located in Amata city local residents and we have been carrying it out activities such carrying out proper destruction process has not been established. Recovery of fluorocarbons from industrial estate, in Rayong as measures against hot weather in schools in the neighborhood, used products is almost non-existent. Province, 120 km southeast and ventilation measures for school cafeteria. In FY 2015, we are In 2014, fluorocarbons recovery test and fluorocarbons-containing equipment dismantling of Bangkok. It is engaged in thinking about a community participation manufacturing contest, test were conducted in collaboration with DOWA group ESBEC. The tests aimed at technical local production of high-quality zinc processed products mainly u t i l i z i n g t h e w a s t e f ro m verification assuming treatment in Thailand, and acquisition of appropriate recovery techniques for for automotive industry, such as formulated zinc for molten zinc processes in the factories fluorocarbons. These tests were carried out on the basis of guidelines for fluorocarbon processing plating, zinc alloy for die-casting, and thermal spray zinc line. that participate voluntarily, and execution methods in recycling facilities in Japan, and was a step forward for the appropriate and call the local residents implementation of fluorocarbons recovery in Thailand. ■ Promotion of local communication for participation in order Through environmental technology and infrastructure etc., DOWA group will continue to strive for to further enhance the making Asia a low-carbon society. DMMT has joined the association that carries out CSR Fluorocarbon recovery activities. system volunteering in the Amata city industrial estate. Since 2014, 10 companies, mostly Japanese companies have participated Material provision for the contest 13 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 14 CSR management CSR Policy and Plan Strengthening Initiatives for Realizing the “Vision” Corporate Governance We revised the CSR policy and established new mid-term goals in FY2014 to strengthen CSR activities through business activities. While formulating the mid-term goals, we reviewed the activity achievements and progress made so far. Also, we compiled the midterm goals according to 4 areas in collaboration with the relevant departments, based on the risk assessment of business entities “Vision for 2020” DOWA within and outside Japan and stakeholder questionnaire results. In this plan, “Vision for 2020” is positioned as the mid-term goal, and Safety Society “S+ESG” management based on the CSR policy is established in CSR Policy the issues to be addressed on priority for the vision are positioned as focus measures, and initiatives and goals of a single fiscal year all DOWA group companies, and we are able to contribute to resolving are positioned as the activity plan towards its realization. These initiatives will start along with the first fiscal year of the new mid-term global social concerns, through minimization of management risks and plan of 2015. improvement of corporate value at the same time. Environment Mid-term Goals FY2020 FY2015 Activity Plan Areas CSR Policy Focus Measures Target “Vision for 2020” Goal Initiatives Goal No. of important Creation of internal control handbook Briefings in and Healthy business management is promoted by ensuring sufficient functions, appropriate Strengthening of internal control and governance deficiencies to be 0 Implementation of regular education in and outside outside Japan – 10 information disclosure and transparency in the internal control system disclosed Japan times ● We will aim to be an open and transparent company. Business management which does not give rise to fraud and corruption of any kind is Implementation rate Strengthening of internal control and compliance Briefing ● We will endeavor in anti-corruption efforts including anti-bribery promoted, by individual employees carrying out appropriate activities based on the “Dowa Strengthening of compliance and risk management of internal education 100% education implementation rate Governance measures taking into consideration of the international agreement. Group’s Values and Standards of Conduct”. and briefings Strengthening the effectiveness of BCP 100% ● We will take CSR into consideration in our procurement. Transaction Supplier survey CSR is promoted throughout the supply chain by building partnerships with business amount CSR procurement promotion coverage rate Implementation of supplier questionnaire 100 major companies connections base *Excludes contractors 80% Frequency rate 1.0 ● All employees will take part spontaneously in safety activities to Raising the company-wide safety level Frequency rate 0.1 or less Strengthening of transverse initiatives in district units or less improve the level of health and safety in the workplace, based on our Severity rate 0.01 or less Severity rate 0.02 or The occupational safety risks of the workplace are managed and minimized appropriately, and Safety basic philosophy of “Safety is the top priority.” a comfortable and safe working environment is realized less ● We are committed to preventing accidents at work and to supporting No. of times education Total 20 times No. of times: 5 times health of our employees. Continued implementation of education by visiting Strengthening of safety education in subsidiaries outside Japan is implemented Total 200 No. of persons: 50 Japan and education by dispatching the trainer No. of persons educated persons persons Increase from Responsible for the core of the international resources recycling network in Asia and the Strengthening of recycle business: Collection volume / Recycling Collection volume of Strengthening of collection of materials for recycling Increase from the the preceding Pacific rim area volume / Increase in no. of elements etc. materials for recycling outside Japan preceding fiscal year fiscal year ● We will provide customers with products and services that contribute Emission amount of 15% Reduction in business entities with large-scale 1% reduction from to building a resource recycling society. Effective reduction of specific CO2 emissions per unit has beenis achieved by various energy Improving the utilization rate of renewable energy reduction as CO2 emissions per emissions the preceding fiscal ● We will reduce environmental burdens and risks in our business saving measures and active use of renewable energy Strengthening energy saving initiatives unit compared to Investigate potential, etc. year Environment activities. FY1990 ● The management and employees together take part in environmental Minimization of environmental accidents risk and strengthening of conservation activities. Guidance by visiting The environmental risks of the workplace are managed properly, and environmental accidentresponse capabilities No. of environmental ● We will promote business activities considering biodiversity. 0 Establishment of environmental risk assessment business entity generation risks are minimized *Environmental accidents: Incidents whose impact is felt outside the accident occurrences 5 company, and reported to the competent administration Biodiversity conservation activities are promoted in collaboration with the upstream and Understanding of biodiversity risks of suppliers Suppliers and mines Plan formulation 100% Formulation and execution of conservation action plan downstream of the supply chain Status confirmation of biodiversity considerations in mines survey rate and execution Employment of Expansion of a global human resources layer disabled people Strengthening training of employees hired locally Promoting diversity Promotion of 2.00% overseas management participation by women 100% Active expansion of mid-career hiring 2.00% While diverse human resources mutually respect each other, employees themselves select Education attendance Holding in-house gatherings towards promoting Twice the diverse work styles commensurate with their respective life stages and styles, and the rate participation by women company and teams support each other Thorough publicity within the company of the various Annual paid leave systems ● We will aim to create a workplace where diversity and human rights Promoting work-life balance acquisition rate 70% Encouragement of annual leave consumption 60% of employees are respected, and each person can demonstrate Promotion of measures to reduce working hours maximum capacity with satisfaction and pride Society Implementing training of appraisers and persons being Appraisers and persons being Employee satisfaction appraised appraised A culture of fair evaluation & treatment, and fostering is established, and employees Training of both appraisers and persons being appraised (Business planning Conducting system surveys 90% No. of participants experience growth, results and satisfaction. And, an organization in which employees compete Strengthening in-house education of human resources system) Expanded education of the layer targeted for in-house 70% in the training with each other and support each other is created by the employees themselves Voluntary career development support for employees (Education system education 600 persons and content) Development of a training system for stratified education In-house publicity of advanced cases of business ● We will promote social contributions, reflecting unique characteristics Information sharing Social contributions reflecting each local community are deployed in Japan and outside Japan Promoting social contribution entities outside Japan of each local community by portal site Supporting business entity initiatives 15 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 16 Governance To continue to be a company that is trusted by the society, the DOWA group has positioned Governance Governance – Focus Measures CSR Procurement Environment R es o l u ti on of soci al con cer n s strengthening of corporate governance as a key management issue, and is working on it based Human rights Labor practices As an enterprise that contributes to a sustainable society, the on “Dowa Group’s Values and Standards of Conduct” DOWA group is also cooperating with business connections who are partners and actively promoting CSR initiatives throughout the supply chain, towards resolving various social concerns, such as environment, human rights, labor practices etc. ● We will aim to be an open and transparent company. CSR Policy ● We will endeavor in anti-corruption efforts including anti-bribery measures taking into referring to deep consideration international agreements. CSR Procurement Policy electronics industry ● We will take CSR into consideration in our procurement. To promote supply chain management, the DOWA guidelines etc., which are linked to the group revised the existing procurement policy to “CSR supply chain, such as Procurement Policy” in 2013. A special characteristic of “JEITA Supply Chain Progress of Activities our CSR procurement policy is that “S (sustainability)” is added to Q (quality), C (cost) and D (delivery) of the CSR Promotion Guidebook” and “EICC Code of Conduct (Electronic Following is the progress of our corporate governance activities and issues in 2014 and plans for 2015. existing procurement. Initiatives for social responsibility, Industry Code of Conduct)” etc. such as environmental conservation and consideration 2014 The prepared guideline was distributed to the infor human rights etc., and off course compliance are house business division and department responsible < Results > included in this “S”. for procurement in each district, and its publicity We introduce our CSR procurement policy to business FY2014 was started through briefings by making visits or inCorporate governance connections at occasions such as trading start etc., and house portal site, towards operations. Further, with Focus Measures Issues Target Evaluation Main Results convey our ideas as well as request for compliance. The globalization of business, since there is an increase in policy is being publicized widely through the website. the reception of questionnaires and interviews related Japan: Visited 14 business establishments, and held <CSR Web> to CSR from business connections in business entities Strengthening of ● Support activities for individual 10 business briefings at 7 locations A http://www.dowa-csr.jp/about/csr̲procurement.html outside Japan, English, Chinese and Thai versions internal control and business establishments in and establishments in governance outside Japan and outside Japan Outside Japan: Visited 15 business establishments were created even for the CSR Procurement Guideline. in North America, Southeast Asia and China The CSR department is conducting briefings on the ● Preparation of CSR procurement Preparation complete Q background behind the preparation, way of thinking of A guideline (Created in Japanese, English, Chinese and Thai) Quality our company and the contents etc., during visits to the Promotion of CSR ● Promotion of in-house CSR Holding a briefing Briefings were conducted in 8 business business entities outside Japan. procurement procurement education A establishments in and outside Japan C CSR Procurement Policy D ● Operation of conflict minerals B Management manual is under preparation, in-house management system liaison meeting has not been held yet Cost Delivery Future Initiatives Promotion of CSR ● Establishment of mid-term CSR goals Already established and reviewed while formulating S In FY2015, we will start distribution of guidelines activities across the A the company-wide mid-term plan Sustainability and self-checklists to major business connections, based group ● Review of focus measures on the CSR Procurement Guideline. The self-checklist 2015 is a checklist for our business connections to carry out a < Initiatives and Goals > self-evaluation by themselves, about the mechanism of CSR Procurement Guidelines promoting our CSR and their understanding of the actual condition. Further, we are planning a feedback of the Creation of internal control handbook Briefings in and outside Japan Internal control, governance “CSR Procurement Guideline” was prepared in results, and additionally, a conﬁrmation visit to suppliers Implementation of regular education in and outside Japan – 10 companies FY2014. It summarizes the contents that should be to conﬁrm the results of the self-check. considered for our company and its business connections In future, we will pursue an improvement in Strengthening of internal control and compliance education Briefing implementation rate 100% to promote CSR. During our studies, we were aware of initiatives, such as aiming to deploy to business Compliance, risk management Strengthening the effectiveness of BCP the need to work with customers and suppliers rather connections outside Japan etc., and reliable operations, than making one-sided demands, for the growth of in order to make our supply chain management an even our company. So, the guideline was prepared while more effective activity. CSR procurement Implementation of supplier questionnaire 100 major companies 17 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 18 Governance Corporate Governance System Internal Control Activities The DOWA group adopted the executive officer system to soundly and effectively operate organizations, fasten decisionTo strengthen corporate governance, we encourage each company in the group to share the basic policy and the system of making and for effective management. The group also adopted the holding company system to separate business units from the internal control with DOWA Holdings (Holdings Company) and also entrust each company to conduct their own activities which holding company as subsidiaries. shall exploit each company’s uniqueness. This ensures effective and efficient internal control based on the holding company We also strive to ensure sound business management, focusing on enhancement of corporate governance through internal system. controls. This is done to improve quality and efficiency of management to implement open, highly transparent management, based on the Dowa Group’s Values and Standards of Conduct. Internal Audit Overview of the Internal Control System Annual Meeting of Shareholders The internal audit based on the internal audit rules The internal control system must be revised continuously Elect, dismiss Elect, dismiss Elect, dismiss prescribed by the DOWA group involves all corporate to match the changes in the business contents and social activities, such as accounting audit, legal audit, safety and environment, and we will continue to maintain the system in a Board of Directors Board of Auditors environmental audit etc. Our CSR department and each of the much stronger manner. 6 directors 4 auditors Independent auditors related departments and group companies cooperate with each (including 1 outside Director) (including 2 outside directors) other and conduct the internal audit, and report its results to Audit 1 Our company will appoint an executive officer to separate the directors, auditors and relevant departments. the executive function from the board of directors, and Supervision Audit Audit In FY2014, as part of strengthening the existing internal attempt to strengthen the supervisory function of the board of directors. Business control, briefings were conducted at 7 locations and internal Execution audits were conducted in 14 companies in Japan. Also, outside | Holding Company | DOWA Holdings Japan, internal audits were conducted in 15 companies in Lawyer North America, Southeast Asia and China. 2 We will define the authority and responsibility for each President Business Strategy Committee Board of Directors job position, by administrative regulations, such as Advice regulations of the board of directors or regulations of administrative authority etc. Additionally, we will ensure Business Execution Committee Board of Directors and officers* compliance of laws & regulations, articles of incorporation and social norms, by self-study by directors and employees and various types of education. DOWA Consultation Desk (outside lawyer) Planning, PR, HR･ Human Development,Administration and Legal, Internal audits in 15 companies outside Japan Accounting and finance, CSR, Technology and Information System departments. Notice Management Report at 7 3 We will develop and operate a system to ensure the Instruction, Supervision Report reliability of financial reporting. locations | Group of Operating Companies | <Briefings> Operating Companies* | Support Companies | DOWA ECO-SYSTEM Co., Ltd. Internal audits in 14 companies in Japan DOWA Technology Co., Ltd. DOWA METALS & MINING Co., Ltd. offers technical support. 4 We will handle anti-social forces systematically with a DOWA ELECTRONICS MATERIALS Co., Ltd. resolute attitude. Further, we will also cooperate with DOWA METALTECH Co., Ltd. the police and other relevant organizations or corporate Support DOWA Management Service Co., Ltd. lawyers if required. DOWA THERMOTECH Co., Ltd offers clerical support. Instruction, Supervision Report Each Subsidiary of Operating Companies * President of an operating company serves concurrently 5 We will aim for prevention and early detection of fraud as a non-fulltime executive director of DOWA Holdings. and misconduct by setting up a DOWA Consultation Desk and conducting internal audits, and take appropriate measures as necessary. (As of March 2015) Types of organization Company with auditors No. of directors 6 (No. of directors designated in the article of incorporation: 13) 6 To understand and avoid risks, our company will implement rigorous inspections by the board of directors, Of which are outside the company directors 1 (Designated as an independent officer) when deciding important matters. Further, we will Term of office of directors designated endeavor to improve the response capabilities during an in the article of incorporation 1 year emergency and construct a communication system for Chairman of board of directors President As of June 24, 2015, the structure has the group companies to collaborate. been modiﬁed to 7 directors (includes No. of auditors 4 (No. of auditors designated in the article of incorporation: 5) 2 outside directors), and 4 auditors of Of which are outside the company 2 which 3 are outside auditors. 19 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 20 国際機関・国際コンソーシアムへの参画 Governance Risk Management Participation in International Organizations and Consortiums Human rights The DOWA group addresses risk management to properly control risks that may hinder the realization of our business The DOWA group has been participating in the UN Global Compact (UN GC) since March 2009. The Labor philosophy and achievement of our business plans, and to fulfill our social responsibilities, and contribute to the improvement of DOWA group is committed to respecting and implementing the GC’s ten principles in four areas of the our sustainable corporate value. Among the risks that beleaguer the group, the board of directors is responsible for the “Business Global Compact of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption these are geared towards Environment risks” and the CSR department is responsible for the “CSR risks” in cooperation with other departments. sustainable development of society. Corruption prevention <Global Compact Japan Network> http://www.ungcjn.org Economic status Stock price movement Safety, hygiene and health Legal Important Business risks Metal exchange, currency exchange Interest rate change risks in CSR Quality Employment and labor Compliance Disaster and / Public regulation or electric power failure Environmental conservation Etc. The DOWA group places strict “Compliance” as the basis of our corporate management and is promoting such measures as strengthening of internal control and education, based on the standard of conduct of our group. The DOWA group set forth Standards of Conduct to attach importance to the philosophy that a company is part of society, which comply with laws and regulations and take a sensible course of action, and continues to work independently towards Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Initiatives creating a good life for all and building a resource-recycling society. The DOWA group has prepared a business continuity plan Further, we have established a mechanism to quickly (BCP) by location and business entity to respond to natural perform safety checks of employees when natural disasters, Dowa Hotline Desk disasters, such as large-scale earthquakes, typhoons, ﬂoods caused including large-scale earthquakes occur. Safety check training by torrential rains etc., and is making efforts to avoid risks so that is held every year at the headquarters. We set up the DOWA Hotline Desk and inform the existence privacy of the consultations business activities can continue when there is an emergency. of the Desk through in-house posters for the purpose of and opinions that were asked, Consultation making workplace safer and more comfortable. Through this and responds quickly and Opinion Relationship with Central and Local Governments and Industrial Groups Hotline Desk employees can consult about general business appropriately. ethics directly with corporate lawyers. The service protects the The DOWA group participates in committees and forums sponsored by central and local governments and the industrial community and promotes activities related to public policies including reviewing proposals and measures, formulating and reviewing legal systems and international cooperation, aimed at resolving social concerns. Further, we actively participate in international conferences held by Japanese and other overseas governmental agencies and contribute to preparing policies from the viewpoint of the industrial world. Our Efforts for Human Rights and Corruption Prevention Example of participation The DOWA group is committed to prohibiting discrimination against nationality, race, ethnic group, religion, sex, age and disability; child labor; forced labor; and tackling corruption under the ten principles of the UN Global Compact. We strive to DOWA Holdings, President and representative director Masao Yamada understand the circumstances relating to human rights considerations by continuing to conduct surveys in our subsidiaries both February 2013 until present: Member of the Central Environment Council, Ministry of the Environment in Japan and other countries. Further, in FY2014, the CSR department conducted a local visit and interviews at our overseas December 2012 until present: Chairman of the Waste Recycling Subcommittee, the Environmental business subsidiary in Thailand. Safety Committee, Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) Lecture at the Environmental Summit in India Study Session for Human Rights Risks In November, 2014 the “Wastech International Summit Co. Ltd., was invited as a A study session with the theme “Corporate Social this company. Further, they & Expo” was held in the state of Gujarat in India. Many guest speaker. Under the title Responsibility and Human Rights” targeting employees was deepened their understanding stakeholders participated from Asian and Western countries, “Experience & Best Practices held in December, 2014 in DOWA Group's E&E Solutions. on labor and human rights including the Chief Minister of Gujarat, Mr. Patel. Solutions i n Wa s t e M a n a g e m e n t i n In the study session, employees attended lectures on “UN r isks in a supply c h a in b y based on the 4R principles were explored for the various Japan”, he introduced the history and techniques of waste guiding principles on business and human rights” etc., in implementing a workshop using the bow-tie method of risk problems related to waste management being faced by India, management in Japan since the high-growth period and the order to introduce the viewpoint of human rights risks in management, using the 2 cases of occupational accidents and proposals and ideas were exchanged for sustainable new initiatives of “Waste to Energy” etc. environment and social considerations confirmation and and child labor outside Japan as examples. development. Mr. Yamada, President, DOWA Holdings environmental due diligence, which are the businesses of 21 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 22 Safety Safety Safety Focus Measures Safety Activities of Business Safety Priorities Occupational health and safety is one of the most important themes in helping DOWA group to expand the business. The DOWA group puts in place a “safety and health committee” in each of its business entities in Entities outside Japan The DOWA group is aiming to build an occupational health Japan and other countries to promote safety activities according to the annual health and safety plan, and safety management system of the same level as Japan based on our basic philosophy of “Safety is the top priority.” even in locations outside Japan. While the legal systems and standards for safety and health differ for each country, and the measures and initiatives are not uniform, we believe that it is most important to understand the principle of “Safety takes precedence over all” of the group-wide policy. To that end, we are striving for the penetration of the policy, Local staff will ● All employees will take part in safety activities with their own initiatives to improve the level of have to strengthen the support system of education so that they CSR Policy health and safety in the workplace, based on our basic philosophy of “Safety is the top priority.” can implement the voluntary safety activities. ● To prevent work-related accidents and support the sound health of employees. Safety Conferences outside Japan The local staff announced the achievements of the safety activities in each company in English. Presentations were given on a wide range of ■ Safety Conference in China Progress of Activities The “Safety themes, such as risk assessment, near miss incidents, 5S activities etc., and it resulted as a place of mutual Following is the progress of our safety activities and issues in 2014 and plans for 2015. Conference in China” learning. Further, since employees in charge of safety at is being held every each company met, it is also helping to create a network 2014 year since 2011. The between employees in charge of safety beyond the <Results> management and framework of their own companies. employees in charge FY2014 Safety of safety from all the Focus Measures Issues Target Evaluation Main Results business entities in China participate in the conference. Global Risk Assessment Presentation Half the number of There they strive to share information through reports ● Enhancement of district activities Accidents causing absence of work increased A t t h e “ 4 th Enhancement of risk accidents causing and discussions etc. on the most recent cases of accidents absence of work C slightly, injuries that did not cause absence of management ● Follow-up of project development of work were halved and disasters. Further, each business entity takes turns Risk Assessment (Compared to the each business entity previous fiscal year) Presentation” held at to host the conference, and cross-checking safety patrol 16 persons were accepted for the first trainees from China sessions are conducted in the business entity which is the Tokyo headquarters Accepting 20 ● Start programs to visit Japan for training persons for the A and Thailand education by dispatching the trainer was hosting the conference, as a part of the safety conference in June 2014, around Enhancement of safety first trainees implemented 9 times in China, Thailand and Indonesia education program program. Sharing of objective comments by persons in 50 employees in charge throughout the company ● To continuously implement educational 300 persons take charge of different departments and business entities o f s afety gather e d the course A 306 persons took the course courses to experience risks annually widens perspective, and results in the improvement of from various business entities in and outside Japan. 8 safety level in the entire district. announcements were made. The overseas staff of Jiangxi 2015 Dowa Environmental Management Co., Ltd. and DOWA <Initiatives and Goals> METALTECH (Thailand), which were rated highly at the ■ DOWA Safety Award in Thailand Strengthening of transverse initiatives respective safety conferences in China and Thailand, gave Raising the company-wide safety level Frequency rate 1.0 or less, Severity rate 0.02 or less Safety conferences presentations on risk assessment examples and safety in district units started in Thailand activities in the company. At the venue, opinions were from FY2014. At exchanged actively on the initiatives at each company in Strengthening of safety education in Continued implementation of education by visiting No. of times: 5, No. of persons: 50 the “DOWA Safety overseas subsidiaries Japan and education by dispatching the trainer each country, and it was an enriching presentation. Award in Thailand” In future too, we will provide opportunities for conferences held at training human resources responsible for occupational hotels in Bangkok in health and safety management at locations outside April, 2014 and January, 2015, there was participation Japan, and for information exchange and learning in and from the business entities in Indonesia and China also, outside Japan. in addition to the participation from within Thailand. 23 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 24 国際機関・国際コンソーシアムへの参画 Safety Occupational Safety Initiatives State of Occurrence of Work-related Accidents 4.0 Trends in occupational accidents frequency rate Frequency rate 2.89 The DOWA group holds “Joint Cross-Checking Safety Patrol” sessions, environmental safety compliance seminars and risk Compared with ﬁgures for ofﬁces of comparable size in the 3.0 2.79 2.45 2.43 2.53 assessment presentations jointly with its business entities in Japan every year on a periodic basis and promotes safety activities Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare accidents statistics, in throughout the group. FY2014, frequency rate was 1.21 against 2.53 and severity 2.0 2.36 rate was 0.03 against 0.24. Both values are lower than accident 1.31 1.8 1.21 statistics. from September to November. 14 trainees from Thailand and * Compared with FY2013 accidents statistics definite value 1.0 1.21 Initiatives in Japan China visited Japan and attended lectures and practical training when number of employees was 30 ~ 99 (average number of on safety, such as educational courses on facility maintenance and employees in our ofﬁces) As a specific extension of the “Company-wide Safety 0.0 experiencing risks etc., over a period of 4 days. The Technical 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 （FY） Campaign Project” launched in FY2012, we checked the Training Center of the DOWA group and Safety Training Center current gap between “Vision” = “The most effective safety of DOWA Metals were utilized for this training program. Indicator representing the frequency of accidents activity approach”, and formulated improvement plans for 1.0 Trends in work related injuries severity rate In January 2015, we held a follow-up meeting targeting the Frequency based on number of casualties due to industrial realizing the vision in each business entity in FY2013. In rate 0.89 training participants in Thailand. In the activity reports of selfaccidents per 1,000,000 total working hours Severity FY2014, each company implemented speciﬁc initiatives based 0.8 rate maintenance of facilities and 5S activities that were developed on the formulated improvement plans. in-house etc. after the training, examples of in-house lecture Indicator representing the severity of accidents 0.6 development utilizing Severity based on number of labor days lost due to industrial ■ District Meetings rate 0.35 the course text and selfaccidents per 1,000 total working hours 0.4 0.28 To s t r e n g t h e n t h e production of risk simulation 0.24 0.21 activities of the companytraining equipment etc. were 0.2 0.12 0.09 0.06 0.03 wide safety campaign introduced, and we found that 0.05 project, executive offices 0.0 the learnings of the training 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 （FY） (representative companies) were being utilized locally. were setup in each district, Average of offices of comparable size DOWA group and “District Meetings” ■ Local Education of Safety Activities were launched to share and give mutual advice etc. on the With the safety level improvement of our Southeast Asian activity status of each company in the district, from FY2013. In companies as a key theme, we are providing guidance and FY2014, we are aiming to improve the activities in each district, support by business trips from Japan. We expanded the 5S such as cross-checking patrols or feedback of precedents across the group etc. based mainly on this district meeting. activities kickoff support and individualized education of employees in charge of safety in FY2014. We are regularly Promotion of Health Management implementing these by focusing on safety activity awareness In DOWA group, we believe that it is important that all the employees work in a healthy and lively manner in both mind and body, and Initiatives outside Japan and specific methods to proceed in the OJT format. We will that Health is the basis of Human development . continue effective local We have started initiatives education in future also to share the issues and by linking it with the Visit Health Check Up Mental Health Initiatives activities of each business Japan for Training program, entity, through joint crossso that the activities of the We are developing a variety of initiatives in order to raise For health management of minds of the employees (Mental checking safety patrol local staff take root. the awareness of all the employees towards health, so that Health Management), we operate a mental health counseling sessions between locations they can maintain their physical and mental health. In addition system, and have provided a dedicated line where employees from FY2013, in Southeast ■ EHS Initiatives in India to working in departments and business units to ensure all can receive telephonic and in-person consultations by a Asia where many of the business entities of the DOWA group employees visit the regular health checkup every year, we are professional counselor (clinical psychologist).Also, since Environment, safety and disaster prevention education are located. In FY2014, we made efforts in educational activities, making most of various subsidy programs such as complete FY2013, we have also introduced self-check tools that can is being implemented continuously, based on the EHS such as training by visits to Japan of employees in charge of medical checkups and gynecological medical checkup etc. be used for self-diagnosis policy (Environment, Health and Safety policy), in India’s safety at overseas locations. The objective of this was to train Also, we have carried out various initiatives directed at of mental health, for HIGHTEMP Inc. Particularly, a lot of effort is being put in for human resources responsible for enhancing workplace skills. improving consultation rate of specific medical checkup achieving prevention occupational safety, such as establishing safety guidelines for intended for insured person aged 40 or more and nonworking o f men tal illn esses by each facility and operation, publishing accident checks using ■ Visit Japan for Training Program and Follow-up Meetings dependents. Further, through sports and exercise, we also enhancing the awareness of checklists on a bulletin board, conducting daily EHS meetings, provide a subsidy system for sporting events for employees so own stress condition. A “Visit Japan for Training Program” targeting staff outside installing multiple ﬁrst aid boxes with easily visible contents that they continue to maintain and promote a healthy body. Japan was launched newly from FY2014. It was conducted thrice in the factory etc. 25 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 26 Environment The DOWA regards environmental conservation as a key issue in our business management Environment Environment Focus Measures Our activities towards Biodiversity and is committed to its promotion. In our environmental activities we are responding to environmental and social issues directly through our main business and at the same time we are DOWA group formulated a Code of Conduct and biodiversity basic policy in reducing the environmental burden produced by our business. We will strive for environmental FY2013 in order to enable employees to understand the relationship between conservation and to create economic value of the conservation activity at the same time. business activities and ecosystems, and social trends, and continuously reﬂect those in business activities throughout the company. <Biodiversity policy Web>http://www.dowa-csr.jp/about/biodiversity.html ● We will provide customers with products and services that contribute to building a resource-recycling society. ● We will reduce environmental burdens and risks in our business activities. CSR Policy tree species such as Quercus serrata, Japanese Oak, In-house Survey about Biodiversity Conservation ● The management and employees together take part in environmental conservation activities. and Japanese beech, under the guidance of Center for I n D O W A International Studies in Ecology, which is engaged in plant ● We will promote business activities considering biodiversity. <Example of results> group, initiatives ecology research. Since 2007, we have started tree planting Understands the for protection of water sources activities with local residents as Reforestation of Kosaka / nature and regional and watershed area being used Chooses procurement of Hometown tree-planting ceremony , which is taking roots Progress of Activities contribution focused as a place for local communication. So far, we have planted by our company environmentally on tree planting 25% friendly paper a total of 140,000 trees of 25 different species in past 8 and management of 52% years. Saplings that were 50 cm initially have now grown Following is the progress of social activities and issues in 2014 and plans for 2015. forests owned by us Carries out nature to 2 m. Forestation of the hometown is thus taking place 2014 were the mainstay conservation activities surely and steadily. < Results > s o f a r. H o w e v e r, 27% by developing the Consideration to Biodiversity during Procurement Environment FY2014 biodiversity basic Focus Measures policy, we have started initiatives further intended at Supply of paper, which is a forest resource, is one of Issues Target Evaluation Main results understanding the relationship between our business and the important ecosystem services. It is a challenge that Total greenhouse gas emissions CO2 Equivalent 1,740 tons 総排出量 the biodiversity. also involves climate change and waste materials. ● Total greenhouse gas emissions reduction Gross emissions B Total greenhouse gas emissions in Japan Year-on-year 0.3% increase In FY2014, we conducted a survey for conﬁrming the Since the manufacturing business of DOWA Group biological conservation areas and water source areas etc. is centered on the non-ferrous metals, it does not use Global warming ● Increase in renewable energy power Electric-generating Solar power increased 304MWh Year-on-year increase of 1% 発電量 generation (solar and hydro) capacity B Hydroelectric power decreased 63GWh Year-on-year decrease of 6% in our workplace and the neighborhood, and status of any biological resources apart from water as primary システム導入 tree planting and nature conservation activities in all the raw material. However, paper is used in all the ofﬁces in ● Sharing by visualization of information System Introduction B System introduced already, full-scale operation since FY2015 offices. In future, we would like to use this information Japan and abroad. The group as a whole purchases a large Promotion of Slight increase in spent catalyst shipment volume リサイクル量 for developing an action plan, by organizing the initiatives amount of paper every year. Therefore, for copy papers resources recycling ● Expansion of material recycling Recycling volume B Strengthening of the collection utilizing overseas bases possible on ofﬁce level and those that need to be managed and pamphlets, we use papers made from a combination Expansion into and promoted by the HQ, based on the information of waste papers and forest-certiﬁed wood pulp. Increased silver powder sales volume (First half 100%, Second half 135%) environmentally 売上 obtained. In addition, CSR Procurement Guidelines of DOWA ● Increased sales in renewable energy field Sales A Increased number of orders for solar related business friendly products and group requires disclosure of environmental activities new energy field Offshore wind EIA conducted. Revival of Rich Vegetation at Mining Sites such as conservation of nature and environmental impact ● Implementation of biodiversity conservation current situation survey Survey and evaluation Biodiversity survey planned in FY2015 調査・評価実施 Conservation of B reduction to the suppliers whenever needed. At the time ● Implementation of the water risk assessment implementation Water risk assessment carried out biodiversity O u r c o m p a n y, of tenders for central purchasing of paper we confirm ● Continued implementation of forest development and management Number of trees planted A About 5,000 trees planted in Kosaka in Akita Prefecture 植樹本数 which experienced the that suppliers companies are doing a responsible paper * Evaluation: A: Accomplished, B: Fair forest destruction due procurement based on CSR procurement policy. 2015 to mining activities <Initiatives and Goals > in the past, considers activities such as planting trees and Checklist Resource recycling Strengthening overseas collection recycled materials Increase compared to previous FY reviving the indigenous vegetation as our ・A procurement policy for wood raw material is in place Current state of 1st tree planting area Total greenhouse gas emissions decreased mission, and a big (8 years before) ・Management system to verify the legal compliance of wood Environmental impacts and environmental risks Reduction potential survey etc. in large-scale emission offices 1% from the previous fiscal year challenge that need to be tackled continuously. raw materials is operational In 2006, we began planting trees in the smelter site in ・Information about the source of raw materials pulp is Kosaka, Akita Prefecture. Nurturing plants at a mining available Environmental conservation activities Firmly establish the environmental risk assessment 5 office visit guidance site is difficult. While cooperating with local forestry associations and seed dealers, we have selected indigenous Biodiversity Formulation and execution of Conservation Action Plan Planning and execution 27 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 28 Enviro Envir onmen ntt Material Balance of DOWA Group The DOWA group identifies the input of resources and energy into the business activities of the DOWA group (“INPUT”) and the output of products produced and the discharged amount of substances imposing environmental burden (“OUTPUT”) in each stage of its lifecycle in a quantitative way and conduct business considering material balance. Material Balance of 2014 In FY2014, overseas environmental impact increased INPUT DOWA group OUTPUT compared to the previous year as 6 factories from 2 overseas Compared to (as converted to CO2) Total Energy 17.6PJ previous year Compared locations (Thailand, India) were added. However, overall trend has not changed significantly. For more information, please Fossil fuel consumption 119 (1,000 KL) up 1% Business activity Greenhouse gas 1,741 (1,000 t) to previous year up 1% Derived from electricity 774 (1,000 t) refer to PP.33-34. (as converted to CO2) Purchased power 1,304 GWh Derived from fuel 330 (1,000 t) Thermal power generation 2.6 GWh Manufacturing business (as converted to CO2) Hydraulic power generation 63.4 GWh Derived from wastes 636 (1,000 t) (as converted to CO2) Resource-Recycling in Society and Our Resource Recycling Solar power generation 304 MWh Smelting business Purchased steam 408 GJ There are mainly 3 recycling in DOWA group. Compared to Products 578 (1,000 t) First recycling is in-house generation and in-house Electronic materials the previous year up 2% utilization. Here, the waste material generated in our Compared to business Manufacturing businesses such as smelting and metal Raw material 979 (1,000 t) previous year down 3% processing is recycled in our Environmental and recycling Metal processing Compared to Raw material 768 (1,000 t) Sale of electric power 1.8 GWh the previous business , and either sold or re-used as raw materials for the business year Subsidiary material 142 (1,000 t) down18% company. Second recycling is carried out using scrap metal generated Materials for heat treatment on consignment Heat treatment 69 (1,000 t) during processing in manufacturing plants of other companies. business Chemical materials 2614 tons Compared to the previous Receiving such material from customer factories that pay for Packaging material 1.4 (1,000 t) year up 3% our materials and parts leads to reduction in volume of new resource input such as by re-using the waste as raw material. Compared to Compared to Third recycling is recycling of used ﬁnal products. Through Water resource 90 million m3 previous year -13% Water discharge 106 million m3 the previous year up 2% home appliance recycling, automobile recycling, and small Sea water 76 million m3 Environment and appliances recycling etc., used products widely collected Recycling Business from the society are passed on to the society again as metal Other than sea water 14 million m3 Compared to material. Discharged waste 519 (1,000 t) the previous year up 0.3% In this way, The DOWA group strives for effective use of limited resources through three loops, starting with our Compared to company's production stage to the waste generated from Accepted wastes 1,186 (1,000 t) previous year up 6% Compared to the previous society. At the same time, as a social responsibility in resource Wastes 1,182 (1,000 t) year down 17% recycling, we aim for a sustainable resource circulation in Material recycling 270 (1,000 t) Contaminated soil 4 (1,000 t) Power generation by waste heat 80 GWh consideration to environmental protection and energy saving, Thermal recycling 433 (1,000 t) such as utilizing the heat generated in manufacturing processes Power generated from recovered heat 723 TJ Destructed CFC 48 (1,000 t) as steam or electric power, along with striving to minimize the environmental impact at every stage in recycling, such as appropriate water treatment, detoxiﬁcation of the waste, secure ﬁnal disposal. Use and disposal Process emissions In-house recycling End users Manufacturing and sales Customer 29 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 30 国際機関・国際コンソーシアムへの参画 Envir Enviro onmen ntt DOWA Group's Environment Policy Environmental Communication The DOWA group has pointed out that the efforts for environmental protection is an important challenge in corporate The DOWA Group has provided the opportunity to listen to direct opinions and requests from stakeholders management and we have established Environment Policy , and as a basic idea of this policy, we are promoting such as briefings and council at business sites in Japan and overseas. In addition, we send the environmental environment management throughout the Group. information via home page and we are actively involved in participation in local environmental events, exhibitions etc. ■ Akita Eco & Recycling Festival DOWA Group promotes the establishment of a recycle-oriented society and also aims to Environmental Communication in FY2014 In September 2014, success the good global environment to the next generation through business activities. ■ Visit by Thai Industry Ministry (Department of Industrial Works) group companies in Akita 1. We provide the products and services to customers (customers and regions etc.), which contribute to the establishment of a recycle-oriented society. Prefecture were exhibiting In October 2014, 2. We reduce the environmental burden and environmental risk in business operations. jointly in 14th Akita Eco officials from Thailand 3. From top management down to the employee, we work together for environment protection activities. & Recycling Festival , Ministry of Industry, which which was held at Agora <Environment Policy Website> http://www.dowa-csr.jp/about/csr_policy.html conducts management and Square near Akita Station. guidance for the waste We addressed the importance of recycling and environment disposal, recycling and soil protection to local people who have visited the exhibition, Environment Management System contamination, visited the Eco system Hanaoka, Ecosystem Akita and Eco -Recycle in Akita through exhibiting the familiar metal products surrounding us and giving them the actual experience of weight of gold ingots The CSR department and the planning department of each business office, which perform the environment protection Prefecture, Odate city in order to deepen the knowledge about the that we manufacture. activity, carry out the environment management activities of DOWA group co-operatively. DOWA Holdings conducts waste disposal processing conditions and equipment in Japan. the adjustments and compilation in between each business office and also carries out the environment management and compliance management as an entire DOWA group. In addition, we have acquired ISO14001 for major domestic production sites and international offices, and for proper implementation of the environment management, we are taking Environmental Workshop in Indonesia efforts for development assistance of internal auditors through the implementation of periodic internal audits & external audits and auditor training courses. PPLi Company, which was founded in 1994, is the country's Indonesian government officials first and only environmental and recycling company having and major customers attended permission of final disposal of hazardous waste that conforms this workshop and lively DOWA Holdings to international standards in Indonesia. exchanged their views. PPLi In October 2014, to commemorate the 20th anniversary, an not only obtainedd a high evaluation from the participants for Executive management committee President environmental workshop was held with a theme of proper the high compliance and reliability in business so far but also a Director Management strategy committee disposal of the waste and environment protection for future mutual understanding about the commitment to environmental sustainable development. 200 participants including Kambuaya issues has deepened further through this workshop. Operating company CSR department Ad ju stmen t / co m p i l a ti o n Environment Minister, former Ministers of the Environment and Safety environment personnel meeting Co-operation between business companies Environment and Society Friendly Product Development Each operating Planning office The DOWA group is contributing to the creation of a sustainable society through energy conservation and renewable Safety environment meeting company (safety environment in-charge) energy, reduction of hazardous materials, and research & development of materials such as metals, alloys, semiconductors and magnetic materials, which leads to higher efficiency and longer life of the product. Each operating Safety environment in-charge Deep ultraviolet LED that has achieved world's-top class characteristics Safety environment in-charge safety environment meeting subsidiary Ultra-Violet Ray is a light that is invisible to a human eye and long life having world’s top■ Environmental Education education, such as Act on the Rational Use of Energy & and has peculiar characteristic that it has a very high energy, class in March 2015. Wastes Disposal and Public Cleansing Act, training related and depending on its wavelength region it is used in many Conventionally, the light source The DOWA group is working to increase the environmental to global warming, internal study sessions for environmental industries and medical cares for various applications such as of ultraviolet region was mainly awareness of employees and to strengthen the execution and social considerations etc. We also conduct environmental sterilization (265~280nm), medical care (310nm), analyzing the mercury lamp, usage of LED has merits such as longer life, power to reduce the burden on environment by proactively (265~340nm) etc. Especially in deep ultraviolet LED below power saving, space saving, and the most important is it leads conducting the environment management system (EMS) education and compliance programs for our business partners. 350nm, which is mainly expected in sterilization, it was to enabling a human body free from harmful mercury. education. In each office, we are actively carrying out an announced that DOWA Electronics has achieved a high output environmental education including environmental law-related 31 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 32 国際機関・国際コンソーシアムへの参画 Envir Enviro onmen ntt Our Measure to Fight against Global Warming Promoting Resource-Recycling The DOWA group set a goal of “15% reduction of specific consumption of CO2 by 2020, compared to 1990” according The DOWA group is contributing to the creation of a sustainable society, through controlling the consumption of natural to the Action Plan to Implement Low Carbon Society by Keidanren (Japan Business Federation) and the Japan Mining resources as well as by promoting the cyclic utilization of used sources. Industry Association (published as of January 2013) as a measure to fight against global warming. <Raw materials> In fiscal year 2014, the amount of raw <Material recycling> In fiscal year 2014, the amount of materials used was 0.979 million tons and it has decreased material recycle was 0.270 million tons and it has greatly Changes of Emission of GHG Utilization of New Energy approximately by 3% as compared to the previous ﬁscal year. decreased approximately by -28% as compared to the previous fiscal year, but as there was an increase in amount Greenhouse gas emissions for the entire DOWA Group in In addition to global warming measures such as energy <Accepted waste> In fiscal year 2014, the amount of approximately by 29% last fiscal year, so we can say the fiscal year 2014, was approximately 1.741 million tons CO2 conservation and fuel switching, we are actively promoting the accepted waste was 1.186 million tons and it has increased situation has returned to the original average level. On the (domestic 1.682 million tons CO2 and overseas 59,000 tons use of renewable energy resources, which have less impact on other hand, thermal recycling has decreased approximately by approximately by 6% as compared to the previous ﬁscal year. CO2), which was almost at the same level as compare to the the environment. 8% and become 0.433 million tons. This is mainly due to the increase in acceptance amount at emissions in previous year in Japan. At overseas, there is an ■ Power generation from waste overseas. increase of approximately twice as total 6 factories added than fiscal year 2014, and greenhouse gas emission of the entire Power from waste is generated by INPUT OUTPUT Raw materials Process producing a high-temperature, highgroup was increased by approximately 1%. <Products> In ﬁscal year 2014, the amount of products was 0.979 million tons Product pressure steam by heat at the time of 0.578 million tons and it has increased approximately by 2% Waste heat utilization 0.578 million tons incineration of garbage and turning the Accepted waste <Derived from fossil fuel> as compared to the previous ﬁscal year. Waste heat power generation Recycling turbine. Currently, this type of power 1.186 million tons CO2 emission (1,000 t) Basic unit (100 t/¥0.1 billion) 400 4.0 is generated at 5 places; 4 domestic Thermal recycling and 1 overseas, and the amount of <Discharge waste> In fiscal year 2014, the amount of 0.218 million tons 0.421 million tons to internal Material recycling GL * waste disposal was 0.519 million tons and it has increased to external 12,000 tons to external 0.170 million tons to internal 300 3.0 power generation from waste was 0.100 million tons to external ES 79.7GWh in fiscal year 2014, which approximately by 0.3% as compared to the previous ﬁscal year Waste MM was approximately 7% increase as and it was almost at the same level. 200 2.0 EL 0.301 million tons to internal compared to the previous ﬁscal year. Water Environment Conservation MT ■ Hydraulic power generation 100 1.0 TH 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 Hydroelectric power that HD utilizes renewable energy has DOWA group has casted that the water is an indispensable factor and an important source in daily life, so we are implementing 0 0.0 Basic unit 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 become an important source the measures, such as water saving or water recycling by taking into consideration the different water risk areas. (FY) * GL: overseas base of power to cover the energy <Water resources> In fiscal year 2014, the amount of <Drainage> In ﬁscal year 2014, the total amount of drainage requirements of our smelting <Derived from electricity> water resources input was 90 million m3, it has considerably was 106 million m3, which was increased approximately business. decrease by approximately 13% as compared to the previous by 2% than new office at overseas and as compared to the CO2 emission (1,000 t) Basic unit (100 t/¥0.1 billion) This power generation has 800 4.0 fiscal year mainly due to the decrease in usage of cooling previous ﬁscal year. started in 1897, and currently there are 6 hydroelectric power water (seawater) in smelting process. 700 GL plants in Akita Prefecture. The amount of power generation in 600 3.0 ES fiscal year 2014 was 63.4GWh, which shows approximately 500 MM 6% decrease as compare to the last ﬁscal year. Efforts for Water Environment in India 400 2.0 EL ■ Solar power generation 1.7 1.7 In India, as compare to the expansion of water demand due to the population growth and the economic 300 1.4 1.5 MT In case of solar power, though the amount of solar power development, the development of infrastructure in many areas has been delayed; and in addition, the supply of safe 1.3 200 1.0 TH generation is affected by weather, but it is useful as generated water from the viewpoint water quality and appropriate wastewater treatment are the social problem. 100 HD power volume can be confirmed in visible form, employee's ■ Efforts for Water Environmental Conservation ■ Provision of Safe Water to the Local Community 0.0 Basic unit energy conservation awareness improves and also helps in I n H I G H T E M P c o m p a n y ’s In Nelamangala factory, we are 0 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 environmental problems such as global warming and energy Nelamangala factory (Bangalore), providing water from the wells in (FY) which produces heat treatment that particular area, so that the local problems. furnace, we are strengthening the residents can use the water for their We accept wastes from other companies outside the DOWA Currently, we have introduced a solar power generation efforts towards the water recycling daily needs. group for incineration in our plants. Therefore, their CO 2 system in 4 ofﬁces in Japan, and in ﬁscal year 2014 the total and rain water usage in addition to We have setup an electric pump emission accounts for a large part of our CO2 emission. As it is amount of power generated by 4 companies was 304MWh. thorough enforcement of water conservation activities in the so that anyone can pump up the water easily, when water is factory, for conservation of water environment. needed gate is open any time and residents can use water difﬁcult to control the amount of wastes we receive from other * As a rule, the amount of CO2 emission is seek based on the emission factors in Law (Global Warming any time. By providing the indispensable water in daily life, companies and reduce CO2 emission, we try to increase thermal Law) concerning about the promotion of global warming measures for system power purchase amount, we have eliminated the work of bringing water from faraway recycling through power generation using heat and steam from fossil fuel consumption and accepted waste. With regard to CO2 emissions from accepting waste, as places in two neighborhood villages. calculation conditions are set while preparation of this report, it may not necessarily coincide with the incinerating those wastes. reported value to the government. In addition, the classification of waste in Japan and overseas is different; it is difficult to set an appropriate emission factor for the accepted waste at overseas sites, so amount of CO2 emission of waste origin is displayed only for the domestic sites. Other detailed environmental data and efforts are posted in our Web version. 33 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 34 Society The DOWA group enhances the relationship with society through CSR activities, aimed at being Society Social Focus Measures Social Contribution Pakistan Delhi Nepal China Bhutan Activities in India Bangladesh a company trusted by all stakeholders. We believe it important that not only each of our business Gurgaon factory (Heat treatment processing) India entity but also each employee of DOWA is aware of his/her responsibility as a corporate citizen. Pune factory (Heat treatment processing) Mumbai We also regard that promotion of activities in local society is one of our focus ﬁelds. As for DOWA group, a sustainable development of the Nelamangala factory Chennai factory (Industrial furnace manufacturing) (Heat treatment processing) countries and regions is a foundation for survival and ● We respect in the diversity and human rights of employees and we aim at creating a workplace that will growth in which we are expanding our business. For this Bangalore factory Yeswanthpur factory (Heat treatment processing) (Industrial furnace manufacturing) allow each one to show their maximum capacity with challenge and pride. reason, at each site, we focus on the social issues that CSR Policy ● Promoting social contribution considering unique characteristic of each local community each of the countries and regions are facing, and we are together with local people. working to resolve them in co-operation with the local communities. only for the employees but also for their families, and we Efforts by HIGHTEMP FURNACES Company Progress of Activities support daily health maintenance and promotion, we also support monitory assistance to the employees who need In HIGHTEMP Following is the progress of social activities and issues in 2014 and plans for 2015. urgent medical care. FURNACES Ltd. 2014 (HTF), which has developed the heat ■ Regional Community <Results> treatment business in In each factory, we promote Society FY 2014 India in four regions the aggressive efforts such Focus Measures Issues Target Evaluation Major Results and 6 factories, we as blood donation activities, ● To offer information on life planning Number of 150 people participated in the Holdings group are promoting CSR activities for employees and their provision of safe well water after retirement (Holding seminars) reemployed persons A グループで 150 名参加 Promoting diversity families including local residents. Each of the project to nearby villages, laying of management ● To implement the plan to promote Progress rate of plan B Employment rate unchanged is making deliberate efforts in wide range of ﬁelds such road for local residents to use, employment of the disabled 雇用率横ばい as community development, hygiene, environment, provision of scholarships and ● To promote implementation of the action plan to Working hours management strengthening by attendance support for fostering the next generation Progress rate of plan B system revision and system operation 勤怠システム改定・制度運用による労働時間管理強化 education by CSR team, which was created based on uniforms to local school in Promoting work-life balance ●Thorough internal knowledge of institutions 年次休暇取得率 59% CSR policy. accordance with the respective Acquisition rate Annual leave acquisition rate 59% A location and depending on the ●Encouragement of annual leave usage (As compare to previous fiscal year 6% increase) （前年度比 6% 増） ■ Employees and their Families local circumstances. Well opened to ● To conduct interviews in our business entities Survey on business entities outside Japan Thailand 5 companies, India 1 company, Indonesia 2 タイ 5 社・インド 1 社 5 工場・ the neighborhood Contribution to local outside Japan and support for local contribution and the number of A companies Visit and intervews In HTF company activities in the business entities outside Japan visits there インドネシア 2 社 訪問ヒヤリング communities various CSR activities ■ Co-operation with NGO ● To continue to promote events with local communities A Marathon, cross-country skiing competitions, Cherry Blossom Festival マラソン大会、クロスカントリースキー大会、さくらまつり are implemented In Pune factory, in ● To expand CSR education A Monthly more than 2 times 月 2 回以上 such as Annual Promoting in-house Frequency of co-operation with the CSR education ● To improve in-house portal site and renewal Sports Day, which NGO EKansh Trust , to use group news letter A Post a safety feature to group report グループ報に安全特集を掲載 is h eld es p ecia lly which preforms * Evaluation: A: Accomplished, B: Fair for employees 2015 comprehensive Family Health Check Up Camp (cricket tournament) support for disable <Initiatives and Goals> and Women's Day people, we have Expansion of global human resources Celebration (events implemented the Activity of EKansh Trust Growing strength of overseas hires only for female Diversity 2.0% employment support to educate mainly the disable Aggressive deployment of career Promotion of internal social gathering for female employees 2 Times employees) which people such as blind or deaf in order to get a better is combined with job. This effort was initiated 4 years ago and currently Thorough internal knowledge of institutions International Women's Encouragement of annual leave usage 60% (on April 2015) 14 disabled persons are employed. In Work-Life Balance Promotion of working hours reduction measures Day. addition, we are also carrying out training not only for In addition, we Women's Day Celebration the disabled people, but also for the people who perform Implementation of training of appraisers and evaluators Number of training participants as conduct Medical job assistance. Human resource development, Implementation of system survey appraisers and evaluators Health Check Up Camp (periodic health examination) not evaluation and treatment Expansion education of internal education target layer <Website of EKansh Trust> Training system development of hierarchy wise education 600 persons http://www.ekansh.org Internal knowledge of overseas office advance case Social contribution Information shared by the portal site Support of office efforts 35 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 36 Sociieety Relations with Society Together with our stockholders and investors The DOWA group promotes communication with major stakeholders including our customers, shareholders, investors, The DOWA group recognizes that explaining corporate and business management information to our stakeholders partners, local people and employees using various tools in each business entity and department. including shareholders and investors is one of the important points in terms of our corporate governance and we are committed to timely and proper disclosure of the information. Our management holds results briefings on quarterly basis. We also offer opportunities to communicate with both Japanese and international investors directly on our business information. We try to make proper and highly transparent disclosure of information, by publishing our annual In relation to the main stakeholders report and IR reports in Japanese, English and Chinese. All the customers using products and services Communication with shareholders and investors explained and site visit was organized. In the question session offered by this company after visit, many questions were asked about features of the heat treatment project and fields of main focus in future. Assurance of quality and safety of ■ General Shareholder’s Meeting products and services The strength of DOWA THERMOTECH that handles both All the shareholders, individual and Offering eco-friendly products The regular general marketing and maintenance of equipment and processing Responsibility institutional investors of this group Pursuing customer satisfaction (CS) meeting of shareholders services was thoroughly explained. Appropriate management of customer is held in June every Optimization of business valuation information year in Hotel Chinzanso, Responsibility Dividend ■ DOWA HD Website (IR information) Information disclosure, interaction Seminar, exhibition and factory visit Tokyo and around 400 Shareholders, Customers Opportunity Various types of public relations shareholders attended IR information has been put up on this website for the General meeting of shareholders Information disclosure on Web site investors the same in 2014. After shareholders and investors to understand the management Results briefing, presentation and field visit Opportunity for investors the general meeting situation and business strategies of DOWA group better. Issuing of annual report or business report of shareholders, a social gathering is held with the aim of Other than summary of ﬁnancial results and securities report, Information disclosure on Web site All the partners of this company who are encouraging communication between shareholders and material such as annual report and communication with collaborating with us in offering the providing a platform for interaction with employees. A product shareholders has also been posted. In future also, we will take DOWA products and services display corner for each project was setup too. efforts for easy-to-understand timely information display. Employees working with this Group Based on just and fair standards A separate presentation room was setup where employees http://www.dowa.co.jp/jp/ir/ group and their family Employees Selection of supplier (employees and Clients explained the themes of DOWA group. A presentation on the Responsibility In supply chain Appropriate valuation and treatment family members) Supporting CSR and efforts was taken for overseas expansion of heat treatment Ensuring diversity of human environmental activities business and Research and Development was given in Year resources and personnel training Responsibility Guarantee of labor’s safety and hygiene 2014. Seminar, exhibition and factory visit High regard for human rights Various presentations to Promoting work – life balance Regional clients such as CSR supply etc. society Opportunity Quality, environment and Administrative meeting CSR inspection ■ Field Visit for Investors Social gathering for labor and management personnel Business ethics window Opportunity Personnel and environmental training A field visit is organized Group information and portal site every year for constitutional Factory visit with focus on family of employees Regional society having association with this company investors and investment through offices and headquarters analysts to facilitate better understanding of business Eco-friendly activity and training activity Responsibility Contribution to regional development through aiding cultural and sports activities activities of DOWA group. Information disclosure, interaction In July 2014, a factory visit was organized for Factory visit with focus on various regional people Participation in regional organizations constitutional investors in DOWA THERMO ENGINEERING, Opportunity Sponsoring, planning and aiding regional events Oota Plant (Gunma prefecture). A site visit is organized every Risk communication year for investors as a part of PR activity which is very popular for “deepening the understanding of how to speciﬁcally handle each project”. During the field visit, entire operation of heat treatment was explained after which operations of Oota Plant was 37 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 38 国際機関・国際コンソーシアムへの参画 Sociieety Together with our customers and partners Together with the Regional Society Sports event DOWA group contributes for a better society by offering high quality products and services and strives to improve Contribution to the regional society is an important policy of the DOWA group. At each Recruiting customer satisfaction. DOWA Group also works towards showing mutual cooperation with the clients as a good of the base stations within Japan and abroad, we are expanding CSR activity rooted in interns partner by building a long-term trust relationship. the respective region such as hosting communication such as regional social gathering Factory visit “DOWA Group CSR Supply Guidelines” which contain summary of CSR supply policy, code of conduct etc. of the or sports events, factory visit or recruiting interns for regional development. Regional company has been distributed to clients. We promote CSR for entire supply chain such as requesting understanding of society concept of CSR of this Group. gathering waste disposal and responsibility of waste generator towards Activity for Regional Contribution its treatment through quiz and games on the theme of “Let’s Quality control Dealing with the conflict minerals end illegal waste disposal!” in Year 2014. In the card game I n Ye a r 2 0 1 4 , w e for understanding plan of illegal waste disposal, opinions of The DOWA group positions “quality” as the core of our DOWA group considers responsibility of business relating sponsored events such children were sought on how to reduce illegal waste disposal. business in manufacturing products. The group’s major plants to conflict minerals as one of the important CSR problems as marathon race and obtained the ISO9001 certiﬁcates, the international standard on and is working towards ensuring transparency in supply Cherry Blossom festival in Okayama prefecture ■ Receiving Work Experience Workshop quality management system. We endeavor to improve quality chain in the supply activity and materializing supply of the of products and services by continuously operating this quality same minerals by cooperating with the group company or and junior cross-country D O WA M e t a l management system based on PDCA (Plan Do Check Act). the clients. In Year 2014, a survey was conducted and reply skiing tournament in Akita (Shizuoka) that processes 25th DOWA Junior Cross-country Products provided by DOWA range from smelting to to inquiries from customers was sent based on the policy of prefecture in collaboration Skiing Tournament metals conducted a work powdering, plating, semiconductor, heat treatment and management of this company for conﬂict minerals. with the regional people, experience workshop for recycling. We must respond to defects, improve quality and where we saw lot of the neighboring three develop new products with high level evaluation technology participation in each region. 2 nd -year middle-school Client Policy of Inquiry to maintain top class quality in each area mentioned above. We surveyed situation of students for 2 days in management For this purpose, we have a technology center within each for conflict social contribution through October 2014. This work business entity with advanced analytical and evaluation Survey minerals Reply questionnaire as an effort experience workshop is conducted every year in line with the facilities and human resources to conduct chemical analysis, towards overseas business. school policy of “Do the work yourself while watching the surface analysis and physical property evaluation. social workers in action and choose your future course and 6th Lake Kojima flower corridor plan your future”. In 2014, the workshop was conducted in 3 ■ Acquisition of CFS Certification (Conflict-Free Smelter Program) Cherry Blossom Festival departments and particularly in quality management section, ECII which is a CSR ■ Business Trip to a Local School children enthusiastically took part in the workshop of using Contact and Response to Comments and Opinions promoting group of the Eco-system Chiba measuring apparatus (tensile strength, hardness, plating We make improvement electronic industry and that is waste treatment measurement) that are not seen in ordinary schools. responding immediately ICT sector and GeSI that plant visited Nakagawa to opinions and comments promotes sustainability of Primary School, Nagaura from our customers and Analysis economy, environment and Primary School and 2 strive to offer products that society, inspect smelter and local primary schools in satisfy them. We put the run program that certifies Sadegaura city in February Classification 2015. We conducted an enjoyable study on problem of illegal information sharing and “Conﬂict-free smelting” (CFS Certiﬁcation System). DOWA management system in place, group received CFS certiﬁcation for Kosaka Smelting in Year classify, analyze and evaluate 2012 for gold and for eco-system recycling of rare metal information collected from each entity for improvement and recycling (secondary smelting) in Year 2013 and we have development of products and services. started offering gold as a conﬂict-free mineral. Valuation from Society “Contribution Towards In 2014, we also received CFS certification for Kosaka Society through Sports” Smelting for tin which is in lot of demand for promoting In April 2014, a letter of thanks was presented by Akita Olympics. Various contributions mineral supply for the customers. Prefecture Skiing League for the efforts taken by DOWA towards growth and group for “DOWA Cup Junior Cross-country Skiing Lake development of children and Towada Tournament”. DOWA Cup started in 1991 entered improving their competitiveness into its 25th edition in February 2015. It has grown into a such as newly organizing skiing national top class tournament in the junior Nordic competition competition for disabled (sit skiing) from 2007 were evaluated. where primary and middle school students are selected for 39 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 40 国際機関・国際コンソーシアムへの参画 Sociieety Together with our employees Personnel Training and Utilization Just and Fair Valuation and Treatment The DOWA group sets forth in Standards of Conduct that human resources are the basis of business activities and DOWA group takes efforts to continuously conduct In DOWA group, just and fair valuation and treatment are employees should be evaluated with their ability to conduct their jobs regardless of education, age and gender. We are training at every workplace from the aspect of personnel practiced based on the following policy according to the idea promoting various activities with the following goals so that employees can exercise their full potentials. training, aiming at “continuing to be a valued personnel of “valuation by the ability to take the work forward” which team that works hard for global business” and is expanding is present in the code of conduct. Efforts are being taken with its personnel training and activity policy through promoting focus on circumstances that are utilized for training. Go back to the origin of organization function to create a competitive team. Make company a place where employees want to work, with their own initiatives. the strengthening plan for young employees as On The Job The rank givers and candidates must have thorough Training (OJT), expanding practical training opportunities, understanding of structure and standards of company system promoting experience of different professional duties (planned and they must continue to put in efforts for utilizing this change), planning voluntary staff assignment etc. knowledge for rank giving and training. global expansion and proportion of overseas employees Employment Status ■ Main Achievements of FY 2014 became approx. 35 %. Sharing of organization targets and improving of business The DOWA group tries to promote proper allocation Besides step-wise training, DOWA group conducts execution ability has been planned while showing ability and of employees, considering our business plan and employ extensive training in technology, environment and conduct that is demanded for improving personal ranking. diversiﬁed human resources who have talents and capabilities Overseas safety for every ofﬁce. necessary for our business. Increase on 300 The rank givers and the candidates engage themselves in No. of employees in Japan at the end of FY 2014 (March persons from <Situation of conducting personnel training> last year just valuation, treatment and training by continuously creating 31, 2015) was 5686, which saw an increase of 275 from the Domestic positions and opportunities in the entire group. The rank giving last year. Out of the regular domestic employees, 3,651 are No. of participants Total training time No. of Targeted at Training details * Only training time practice is conducted every year for new managers. However, men (92 %) while 318 (8 %) are women. (no. of persons) (hours) employees is training of rank givers and candidates has been planned for No. of local employees that work mainly in Asia also 5,686 entire group for 3 years from Year 2015. increased by approx. 300 as compared to last year due to Management staff Top management training 60 480 (continued) System survey will also be conducted every year for understanding the status of application of system so as to Next-term management staff Business leader development training 15 1,350 recognize problem areas and achieve improvement. (continued) < Domestic employment situation > Management staff Management training, 71 1,677 FY FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 (continued) subordinate training Attributes Men Women Men Women Men Women Mid-level Entire group employees Leadership training 46 736 Employees 124 0 121 0 130 0 (continued) Appropriate valuation Management Domestic regular employees employees 707 8 715 9 735 12 Fresher’s training, OJT, Up to 3rd year after follow-up training Treatment Year 2014 General 2,727 294 2,703 296 2,786 306 joining (continued) (skill improvement, 226 14,768 employees self-establishment within Dispatched 318 405 479 organization) Acceleration of growth New managers employees Domestic non-regular employees Part time Rank giver’s practice employees 846 291 859 303 924 314 Total 5,315 5,411 5,686 ■ Plan for FY 2015 A review of the every year’s training is taken with focus < No. of region-wise employees > on making the training more strategic and more patronage■ Career Matching System driven for training the personnel who can deal with the A system that has been introduced with the aim to develop FY FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 Attributes frantically changing times and environment. For FY 2015, and support career of employees and fluidizing human Japan 5,315 5,411 5,686 we have planned systematic restructuring of the step-wise resources, wherein the subject person conducts a PR (results Asia (except Japan) 2,520 2,622 2,903 training conducted in DOWA group for the employees that achieved till now and desire to materialize these results) for join as fresher and step up the management ladder to become his career and a change is made if both agree in the interview Europe 4 10 16 managers. Expansion and training of personnel for global with the ofﬁcial of the interested company. The subject person North America 92 80 92 operation is being mainly undertaken with the expansion of can directly express his desire to change to the recruiting 1 1 overseas business. Strengthening of engineering capacity and department without going through his superiors and his own Central and South America 3 site capacity has been planned as the most important task with department. Total 7,932 8,124 8,700 focus on strengthening of business competitiveness and more diversiﬁed and multifaceted efforts will be taken than last year. 41 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 42 国際機関・国際コンソーシアムへの参画 Sociieety However, ratio of women employees is increasing every Promotion of Diversity Work-Life Balance year with change in business and working atmosphere. There is no sexual discrimination in the working method Amid global expansion or expansion of business areas in The DOWA group endeavors to improve the workplace for ■ Promoting Policy for Reducing Working Hours and women employees are also very active in the ﬁelds such the group, employees with multifaceted personality showing as manufacturing, research and development, production employees. Our work life balance program aims at helping In Japan ofﬁces, a labor-management agreement in relation their ability is closely linked to the growth of the company. management, administration, finance irrespective of being all employees to exercise their abilities to the fullest extent to the overtime work has been made according to the law, based in Japan or overseas. Similarly for recruitment and according to their life style both at work and at home. We which has been submitted to the administrative authorities ■ Expansion of Global Human Resources Pool promotion, the valuation is done as per merit and efﬁciency. implemented a more flexible working system like flexible of the respective jurisdiction. In the Year 2014, diligent DOWA Group is progressing from recruiting stage to In offices, infrastructure and system that can handle various working hours and leave of absence system for raising children management system was reformed whereby a reformation planning based on the concept of working globally without lifestyles have been put in place for making the working and caretaking of family members. must be submitted to the manager if ﬁxed working hours are depending upon nationality as a part of promoting diversity. atmosphere easy-to-work for women. A project will be started exceeded. Work management training was conducted for While recruiting new graduates, Japanese students or foreign for further promoting women activities in the Year 2015. ■ Supporting Diverse Ways of Working new manager who is the main person who manages working students that have graduated from foreign universities or hours. Moreover, we are also working towards strengthening foreign students from abroad are recruited and recruit result is ■ Utilization of Veteran Employees Flextime system with no core timing has been introduced in DOWA group so as to make the working timings ﬂexible. management of working hours from the aspect of hardware rising every year. A training is given for making them familiar An environment where employees who have reached with the concept and policy of this company with consideration Besides, volunteered holidays or recreational holiday system and software in order to reduce long working hours. their retirement age can work such as reformation of reof human rights at the time of recruitment that is happening that can be availed of after a ﬁxed no. of years of continuous employment system, new creation of system that treats the rapidly with expansion of employment of personnel from service, support policy that is more than legally stipulated for ■ Internal Questionnaire employees according to their role was put in place in the Year various countries and regions. A training is conducted prior 2013 for employees who wish to work in DOWA group even paid paternal leave (up to 5 days) and restrictions on change CSR department every year conducts a questionnaire on to appointment even for employees that are newly appointed after retirement. A seminar was held for employees who have in case of moving residence due to children has also been put work-life balance for newly joined employees. In Year 2014, in foreign offices and diversity reception training such as reached retirement age so as to provide information on life in place. persons wishing to avail of the nursing leave including men understanding different culture is also conducted. In future too, plan after retirement in the Year 2014. Refresh we plan to expand our global human resources pool. (recreational) crossed 80 % for the ﬁrst time. We also understood that more holiday than 70 % employees desire to utilize no-overtime-day or ■ Employment for Physically Challenged Flextime ﬂextime and at the same time, wish that working environment ■ Training of Overseas Staff system Volunteer In the Year 2014, the ratio of employing legally physically holiday wherein these systems can be used easily needs to be provided. DOWA group promotes challenged persons could not be attained in the entire We will work towards attaining work-life balance in future training of the entire group Group. Easy-work environment cannot be materialized while considering these opinions. including employees for physically challenged in smelting or metal processing ■ Situation of Use of Multiple Systems stationed in overseas factories of this Group and hence, we are working towards offices. In the Year 2014, No. of system users is rising every year and persons taking increasing employment through creating high-quality working local recruited staff of environment or promoting work experience without focusing paternal leave in the Year 2014 were 16. 9 men and 3 women China and Thailand was on equality in the ofﬁce. took nursing leave. invited to Japan for the As the situation of availing of the annual salaried leave, 59 60 2.0 training on equipment maintenance and safety in technical 50 % employees took this leave as against 20 average granted 50 45 training center (Shizuoka) and mid to long-term training was 41 1.5 days. We are working towards improving availing ratio conducted in Japan for management candidate employees. 40 through promoting planned annual holidays and asking for 30 1.3% 1.2% 1.2% 1.0 feedback on availing situation throughout the year according ■ Promotion of Women Activities 20 0.5 to the working situation in each of the ofﬁces. 10 No. of women recruited for comprehensive work is 10 25 80 to 20 percent of the entire no. of recruits which is not high. 0 0 2012 2013 2014 （%） (Persons) (year) 21 20 20 No. of recruits Employment ratio 20 70 15 Valuation from Society 12 11 11 60 59 “Public recognition for Kumamoto prefecture as 10 excellent working place for physically challenged” 54 53 50 5 Act B Recycling that is into recycling of home appliances in the format of training conducted by a neighboring facility. was awarded as an excellent working place for physically These activities were valuated this time and reached public 0 40 challenged for Year 2014 by Japan Organization for Employment recognition on the recommendation of Kumamoto Labor Bureau. (Days) FY 2012 FY 2013 FY 2014 （％） of the Elderly, Persons with Disabilities and Job Seekers, In the future, we plan to put up a system for direct employment Kumamoto Branch in September 2014.The same company of the physically challenged in order to take the efforts taken till No. of average granted days (days) No. of average availed days (days) Availing ratio (%) conducts training on dismantling and selection of substrate and now a step forward. personal computer by accepting 25 physically challenged persons 43 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 44 Opinion of Stakeholders Questionnaire Results Opinion of a Third Party Comments, Opinions & Requests for the DOWA group’s DOWA CSR Report 2015 CSR Report 2014 We distributed our CSR reports to our stakeholders including shareholders, investors, partners, About the CSR Report 2015 customers and local people at the general shareholders’ meeting, exhibits and environmental This is the 4th year of being associated with third party events. In addition, we also post all of our CSR reports published so far on our website. opinion of CSR report of DOWA group. The progress status The DOWA group conducted a survey to ask comments and opinions from the readers of our CSR of “ideal situation of Year 2020”was clearly understood in reports. We reflect them and the opinion of a third party expert of last year in preparation for this the mid-term plan of CSR which was newly created this year by setting index and numerical target linked to each of the report as follows. important policies. Almost all important problems related to Chief Executive, E-SQUARE business get covered if point of view of global human rights Comments and Opinions for the Questionnaire is added to the details of important policies. Hiro Motoki We received many valuable comments and opinions from ■ What is Expected from Our Efforts for CSR It was reported that “CSR procurement plan” will be readers and we appreciate those replies very much. Following reviewed for supply chain and management, essentials of are those comments and opinions (overall comments were 3% 3% Promotion of recycling 3% S (sustainability) will be added to the traditional QCD and summarized). 3% Resource and energy saving Development of products and services distribution of CSR supply guidelines and self-checklist to E-SQUARE Inc. is a consulting company, aimed at Employees OB Customers useful for environment or society main customers will be started. Their details and execution realizing a sustainable society by supporting strategic 10% 10% 9% 28% Global warming measures results will be presented in the next year’s report which will CSR and environmental management of companies. NGO/NPO 10% Prevention of environmental contamination further raise the disclosure level. The company supports many leading business 9% Expected efforts Workplace safety establishments in the fields of strategy, communication, Status of those Towards Further Improvement Contribution towards regional society and education and BoP business in developing who commented 9% 12% Work-life balance countries. Mr. Motoki assumed his office of Chief Ethical, transparent activities, Executive in October 2011. He has been working as a 9% 12% disclosure of information 35% of the total employees of DOWA group are already Shareholders and investors special lecturer for the Graduate School of Environment Governance working overseas and it is reported that they are working 70% Studies, Tohoku University since 2005 and also is a Personnel training towards overseas training of young employees and expansion frequent lecturer on CSR. ■ About our CSR Report of global utilization frame, aiming at diverse growth of global ■ Main Opinions human resources and also putting in efforts into conducting Less 0% Difficult-to-understand 0% ○Page of efforts towards society shows approach of training of overseas staff in Japan. Viewpoint of CSR must Ordinary Shortage 0% fields is an important task for DOWA group. However, it information disclosure of the business. not be missed out for making progress while considering 10% Ordinary diversity of human resources such as showing concern for is extremely important to have a stable governance system 20% ○It was business of raw materials. But, introduce them as More culture, eating habits, religion etc. Understanding of the in place to form a business atmosphere that does not allow Length 33% products that we feel familiar with. Contents (number of pages) Explicitness local human rights problems and human rights due diligence injustice. The ideal state currently is the integration of ○Company that society needs. required for operation must also be combined in case of CSR policy in the new separately setup mid-term plan of Full Adequate Easy-to-understand management. Stakeholders can be made to understand the 90% 67% 80% assuming expanding business in countries with high human rights risk such as Myanmar. More efforts are desired for state of achieving strong business values if how to pursue tackling the global human rights problems that includes CSR can be shown in the business strategy. Main Improvements in CSR Report 2015, Reﬂecting Comments from Our Stakeholders concern of diversity. The biggest strength of DOWA group lies in the business ■ From Questionnaire Results point may be stated. structure that can offer services consistently from highest ⇒ Mid to long-term target “Ideal situation of Year 2020” was My Expectations to DOWA’s Initiatives in the Future to lowest stream of value chain on the basis of high ・Very little has been written about work-life balance than set along with reviewing CSR plan in Year 2014. Objectives technological competence. It is essential to construct a other ﬁelds. Also wish to know situation of use of system. So many scandals are being discovered now-a-days the Circular Economy considering the restriction on buried ⇒ “ W i t h t h e e m p l o y e e s ” p a g e i s i n c re a s i n g a n d and targets and activity plan for achieving the same for a single year was published. (P.15-16) world over in fine businesses and businesses that draw amount of mineral resources. In future, DOWA group will thoroughness of information such as diverse efforts, graph of attention and corporate governance should be addressed strive to cross the frame of ordinary business by reviving its situation of availing of annual holidays was achieved. (P.41-44) ・A report on how to concretely expand CSR supply plan from the root and vision of the society towards business has strength and to pull the industrial ﬁeld while showing social ■ Third Party’s Opinion is desired. become tough. As shown in the new mid-term plan, continual model that supports leading business. ・Only items were mentioned in the list of activity results ⇒ Current situation and future plans regarding important policy of governance for “CSR supply” were mentioned. (P.18) growth by overseas expansion and advancing to new growing as target. Hence, concrete target with mention of arrival 45 DOWA CSR REPORT 2015 46
