2015 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORTING ENTITY: TRAFIGURA GROUP PTE LTD Trafigura has become one of the world’s leading commodity trading firms by delivering reliable and efficient services to its customers and by making the global supply chain work better. Integral to this process is our commitment to acting responsibly. I am pleased to confirm Trafigura’s ongoing support of the UN Global Compact and, as presented in this Communication on Progress, our commitment and efforts to continuously integrate the 10 principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption within our business strategy, management frameworks, organisational culture and values. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our principal channels of communication and engagement. Trafigura is a committed and active member of the Swiss and International UN Global Compact communities and supports the advancement of the broader development goals of the United Nations. As one of the world’s leading commodity trading firms, we are leveraging our experience and expertise to develop a more responsible business. We have set ourselves an important ambition: to be acknowledged sector leaders in corporate responsibility. Each division and operating company CONTENTS of the Trafigura Group are required to implement, measure and report performance against our health, safety, environmental and community (HSEC) priorities and targets determined by the Trafigura HSEC Steering Group and endorsed by the Trafigura Management Board. INTRODUCTION4 Our 2015 Responsibility Report forms part of our first formal HUMAN RIGHTS 5 Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact, which should be ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS 5 read alongside supporting documents that feature online at http://www. IMPLEMENTATION6 trafigura.com/responsibility. Trafigura’s HSEC Policy and HSEC Business MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 8 Principles, along with our Code of Business Conduct, encapsulate our approach to corporate responsibility and align with the UN Global LABOUR9 Compact principles. ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS 9 IMPLEMENTATION11 Jeremy Weir MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 11 Chief Executive Officer Trafigura Group PTE. LTD. ENVIRONMENTAL12 ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS 12 IMPLEMENTATION12 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION16 ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS 16 IMPLEMENTATION17 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES 19 2 3 INTRODUCTION HUMAN RIGHTS At Trafigura, we are constantly leveraging our experience and expertise informing our business strategy, decision making processes and ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS We are committed to continuously strengthening our social performance. to develop a more responsible business. We are committed to being an management approach to promote continuous improvement in HSEC Physical trading is at the core of our business. With a significant fixed Our focus in 2016 will include: active member of the UN Global Compact and to the ongoing performance across the group. We are building a more robust and asset base in developing economies, we are acutely aware of the impacts • Deepening our understanding of human rights issues amongst our implementation of its 10 principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, resilient business model by taking account of what matters most to of our operations on nearby communities. Understanding local contractors and business partners. Environment and Anti-Corruption within our business strategy, our stakeholders. contextual issues and engaging respectfully in our operating environment • Strengthening our human rights due-diligence approach and social management frameworks, organisational culture and values. Trafigura’s is critical to maintaining our social licence to operate. Our activities performance in line with the UNGPs and other internationally HSEC Policy and HSEC Business Principles, along with our Code of Trafigura’s governance framework aims to ensure our HSEC Policy, HSEC stimulate socio-economic development in local communities and for recognised principles. Business Conduct, encapsulate our approach to corporate responsibility. Business Principles and Code of Business Conduct are implemented their national economies. We create employment, develop skills, build • Contributing to the development of UNGPs for the commodities consistently across our diverse organisation. Our HSEC Steering Group infrastructure and procure from local suppliers. At the same time we trading sector. We are continually strengthening our approach to Health, Safety, promotes best practice and drives HSEC performance. A Supervisory recognise that our activities can also have an adverse impact on local • Developing a Group-wide community engagement standard and social Environment and Community (HSEC) risk screening, management and Board member and the Global Head of Corporate Affairs are the cocommunities and their way of life. We seek to minimise or mitigate such strategy to support its implementation in strategic locations. performance assurance across our direct operational activities and chairs. It includes Trafigura’s CEO as well as COOs and functional Heads negative consequences. • Strengthening community-level incident reporting, investigation relationships with our business partners across our value chain. We face from across the organisation. and responses. growing expectations from stakeholders. Our partners and investors are Basic human rights are understood as the rights outlined in the United • Assessing the local social and economic benefits associated with key increasingly risk-sensitive. Governments and regulators are more The following index tables have been designed to show our stakeholders Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Trafigura is committed infrastructure development projects. conscious of the commodities sector. Counterparties, lenders, NGOs, how Trafigura is upholding the principles of the UNGC and demonstrates to respecting human rights across all of its business operations and value • Formal implementation of our Group-level grievance mechanism and local communities, insurance providers and the media, amongst others, Trafigura’s commitment to transparency and accountability. This chain activities. Our approach is enshrined in our HSEC Policy, HSEC strengthening of project-level grievance processes through roll out of expect us to demonstrate that we are operating responsibly. Our document is to be read alongside Trafigura’s 2015 Responsibility Report Business Principles and Code of Conduct and is informed by the UN guidance aligned with principles of international good practice. engagement with internal and external stakeholders is critical to available at www.trafigura.com/responsibility. Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs) and other internationally recognised principles and standards. Our expectations in relation to human rights are detailed within employee (and selected 2015/16 UN Global Compact Communication on Progress, covering the period October 1st, 2014 – September 30th, 2015. contractors) HSEC awareness raising training in English, French, Spanish, Portuguese and Chinese. In addition, we require business partners to apply comprehensive, comparable and complementary policies and principles, as outlined in our contractor HSEC code of conduct, contractor screening and engagement processes. 4 5 IMPLEMENTATION to enhanced contractual terms and are subject to an enhanced HSEC UNGC PRINCIPLE: HUMAN RIGHTS As outlined in our 2015 Responsibility Report, Trafigura has established due-diligence process managed through Safeguard, our HSEC information Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and a human rights strategy and roadmap as part of its corporate management system. Contractors are required to provide detailed Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. responsibility to respect human rights. Combined with our internal and responses and supporting documentation. Contractor responses are external stakeholder engagement efforts, our strategy is helping us to evaluated and verified, as appropriate, through assurance visits to 2015 Responsibility Report Web Supporting business processes prioritise our human rights due diligence focus at corporate, divisional contractor facilities. Reference and operational levels. Furthermore, our focus on human rights, stakeholder engagement, transparency and social license to operate is Our Approach (p6-13) http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • HSEC Incident Reporting and Investigation Guidelines helping to clarify the roles and responsibilities and organisational • Third-Party HSEC Incident Reporting and Investigation arrangements across the Group and its core functions in relation to Society (p20-25) http://www.trafigura.com/media/3076/ Guidelines respecting human rights. trafigura-hsec-policy-in-english.pdf • Trafigura Employee Handbook People (p46-49) • Contractor HSEC Code of Conduct We are reviewing and strengthening our grievance management http://www.trafigura.com/media/3144/ • Trafigura HSEC Contractor Terms processes, organisational arrangements and guidance at both Group and Transparency (p14-17) trafigura-hsec-business-principles-in• Trafigura HSEC Contractor Screening and Management operational levels of the business. This work is an important element of english-tc00253e.pdf Process our ongoing human rights due diligence efforts. We aim to ensure Health & Safety (p30-37) • Online HSEC Awareness Training appropriate processes are in place to enable affected stakeholders to http://www.trafigura.com/ • HSEC Assurance Programme raise concerns, and for the relevant Group operation to contribute media/1599/20141112-trafigura• Group and Operational Level Grievance Mechanisms towards the resolution of grievances associated with our operations, payments-to-governments-policy.pdf products and services. In addition to enhancing stakeholder dialogue in 2015 at a Group level, we are rolling out a globally accessible hotline, http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ managed by an expert third-party, for the receipt and reporting of transparency/ externally generated comments, feedback and grievances 24/7 and in multiple languages. At an operational level, our larger industrial assets http://www.trafigura.com/ and infrastructure development projects have effective grievance responsibility/2015-responsibility-report/ mechanisms in place. As an example, Impala Terminals has an established grievance mechanism in Colombia as a key component of the stakeholder http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ engagement and risk management process. conduct/ Over 2015, Trafigura’s Trading Division strengthened its contractor http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ screening and selection processes across the following activities: handling stakeholder-engagement/ of waste materials; trucking of commodities; ship-to-ship transfer of oil products; and storage of oil products, concentrates and ores. Work http://www.trafigura.com/about-us/ included the development and launch of a ‘Contractor HSEC Code of leadership/ Conduct’, which conveys our Group-wide social performance and broader HSEC expectations, and a ‘Contractor Screening and Management Process’ which outlines Trafigura’s approach to the selection and management of contractors. Both are complementary to detailed ‘Know Your Counterparty’ checks carried out by Trafigura’s Compliance Department. As part of this process, contractors are required to commit 6 7 LABOUR MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS IMPLEMENTATION Key monitoring and performance highlights in 2015 to support alignment At Trafigura, we maintain a working environment based on integrity, In July, a total of 2,193 employees from across all Group companies and of our business with the UN Global Compact Principles on Human Rights ethical conduct, equal opportunity and mutual respect. We have built up geographic regions contributed to Trafigura’s materiality assessment for and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights have included: a distinctive culture that binds our global organisation and drives the 2015 Responsibility Report and are helping to frame our strategy for • Roll-out of HSEC awareness training globally across the business. performance across regions and disciplines. Being able to recruit, retain 2016. In addition to existing grievance processes, our expectations in • Assessment of two major infrastructure projects in Colombia and and develop skilled and high performing people is critical to maintaining relation to labour practices are detailed within the employee handbook Indonesia against International Finance Corporation (IFC) Performance our competitiveness. Respect, diversity and competitiveness are and in the HSEC awareness raising training. We respect the rights of Standards and development of corresponding Environmental and Social fundamental tenets. We engage with employees and contractors, both workers to bargain collectively and associate with unions, and our Action Plans. directly and through their trade unions and other representatives, on managers are responsible for ensuring that the Equal Opportunities • Contractor HSEC Code of Conduct and Contractor Screening and issues that may affect them. Policy and other labour principles are adhered to in their divisions. Management Process developed and piloted. • Development, piloting and delivery of an HSEC Construction Checklist, We oppose discrimination of any kind. We treat all employees fairly, and Health and safety is of the utmost importance to the Trafigura Group. and roll out of key performance indicators. with dignity and respect. We do not tolerate any form of child labour, forced The protection and wellbeing of our employees, suppliers, contractors, • Strengthened Group-level and operational-level grievance mechanisms or compulsory labour across our direct business activities or those of our partners and the communities within which we operate are nonand guidance. business partners. Where there are staff grievances, whether individual or negotiable priorities. We regard strong health and safety performance as • Roll out of third-party HSEC Incident Reporting and Investigation collective, we address them promptly and collaboratively. We are fundamental for our sustained commercial success. Our goal is to Guidelines to contractors. committed to full operational compliance with applicable labour legislation eliminate fatalities and prevent occupational injuries and disease. We and regulations, ILO core conventions and associated company standards have a robust, targeted approach. We work hard to eliminate risks or and requirements. Furthermore, we maintain and support the rights of our keep them to a minimum, whether they relate to our employees or to employees to bargain collectively and to freedom of association. others carrying out or overseeing duties on our behalf. We comply with national and international health and safety laws and the specific Our approach to managing our people and our contractors is enshrined requirements outlined in our HSEC Policy and HSEC Business Principles. in our HSEC Policy, our HSEC Business Principles, our Code of Business We are meeting these commitments through strong governance at Conduct and employee handbook (which forms part of your terms and Group and operating levels, supported by external assurance. We focus conditions of employment with Trafigura). The employee handbook on skills development and risk management, and share good practice provides documented coverage of employee rights, conditions and across the organisation. We make no distinction between the safety of responsibilities, including work environment expectations in relation to our contractors and that of our own employees. Contractors operating at equal opportunity and diversity, and discrimination, health and safety at Trafigura Group owned or operated sites are included in our safety work and code of conduct. Trafigura’s HSEC Contractor Code of Conduct performance data. outlines Trafigura’s expectations in relation respecting human rights, labour practices and health and safety. Trafigura's Human Resources team oversees our people strategy on behalf of the Group. Our people strategy in 2016 will focus on: • Building the technical capabilities and interpersonal skills of our staff. • Improving the efficiency and productivity of our workforce through continuous improvement of processes, systems and work organisation. • Career development opportunities for our employees who have demonstrated they are ready and able to take on increased responsibilities. 8 9 UNGC PRINCIPLE: LABOUR MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES As detailed in our 2015 Responsibility Report, Trafigura has established a Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; range of labour KPI’s, which are aggregated at Group level and Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; represented by division. These relate to employment statistics, including Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour; and diversity in the workforce and the development of local skills and talent Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation through company programmes (Future Talent, training and professional 2015 Responsibility Report Web Supporting business processes development opportunities). These are considered key to Trafigura’s Reference successful growth. People (p46-49) http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • Trafigura Employee Handbook Trafigura’s Employee Handbook outlines the key steps to be followed in our-people/ • Contractor HSEC Code of Conduct relation to raising concerns and complaints pertaining to harassment, Our Approach (p6-13) • Trafigura HSEC Contractor Terms unacceptable behaviour or any other form of discrimination of violation http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • Trafigura HSEC Contractor Screening and Management of its company procedures, expectations and labour commitments. In Focus (p28-29) health-and-safety/ Process • HSEC Assurance Programme At our operations we hold regular ‘tool-box’ sessions where we focus on http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • Employee and contractor engagement (directly and sharing best practice, challenging assumptions and refining behaviour in through trade unions and other representatives) response to specific risks. Our office-based employees participate in a http://www.trafigura.com/media/3076/ • Group and Operational Level Grievance Mechanisms six-monthly performance review. Employees and their line managers trafigura-hsec-policy-in-english.pdf • Future Talent: Graduate Development Programme evaluate each individual’s performance and discuss any development • Leadership development programme, e-learning needs and how these can best be addressed. Where needed, the HR http://www.trafigura.com/media/3144/ department puts in place the required training interventions. We are trafigura-hsec-business-principles-in-englishproud of our bespoke leadership development programme, e-learning tc00253e.pdf and virtual training for employees, but these are not the only mechanisms for developing skills and capabilities. We have a strong culture of on-thejob training. Line managers devote significant time and energy to providing guidance to staff around technical and soft skills. To support the sharing of experience and deepening of skills, we frequently relocate employees and their dependents internationally to new roles. Our senior managers travel extensively to be close to our business operations and support colleagues by lending their expertise. 10 11 ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS • Impala Terminals developed tailored oil spill response contingency UNGC PRINCIPLE: ENVIRONMENTAL Trafigura requires that the planning, design and operation of all Group plans for barging operations on the Magdalena and Paraná Rivers Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; activities and facilities explicitly consider and target environmental risk (Colombia and Uruguay). in its many forms. We are committed to pollution prevention and • Trafigura Group developed a global Greenhouse Gas (GHG) inventory. 2015 Responsibility Report Web Supporting business processes compliance with all relevant domestic and international environmental • Reporting and investigation requirements strengthened for Reference legislation and regulations. Furthermore, we are committed to promoting environmental incidents across the Group. environmental protection and minimising the impact of our business Environment (p38-41) http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • HSEC material risk registers activities on the environment where we operate. Our Shipping and Chartering Desk has taken a number of measures to environment/ • HSEC Working Group Terms of Reference counter the threat of spills to the marine environment: • HSEC Incident Reporting and Investigation Guidelines Our HSEC Policy and HSEC Business Principles define our commitments http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • Third-Party HSEC Incident Reporting and Investigation for our direct operations and those of our business partners in relation to 1. We require that ship owners undertake to comply with the Guidelines environmental protection and responsibility. Our commitments are International Management Code for the Safe Operation of Ships and http://www.trafigura.com/media/3076/ • Contractor HSEC Code of Conduct further articulated through a range of risk screening, management and for Pollution Prevention (The International Safety Management (ISM) trafigura-hsec-policy-in-english.pdf • Trafigura HSEC Contractor Terms performance assurance processes. Trafigura’s commitments extend to Code). Every vessel we charter must have earned at least two oil major • Trafigura HSEC Contractor Screening and Management our business partners, as articulated within our HSEC Contractor Code of approvals using the Oil Companies International Marine Forum http://www.trafigura.com/media/3144/ Process Conduct, contractual clauses and HSEC risk screening processes. (OCIMF) Ship Inspection Report (SIRE) Programme within the previous trafigura-hsec-business-principles-in• Online HSEC Awareness Training six-month period. english-tc00253e.pdf • HSEC Assurance Programme IMPLEMENTATION • Project level community consultation/ stakeholder For those divisions and subsidiaries that operate industrial assets, our 2. Our strict vessel screening policy mandates the chartering of doubleengagement goal is to eliminate or mitigate any adverse environmental impacts and hulled vessels when storing or transporting oil products for • WBCSD/ UNGC industry forums maximise the opportunity to improve environmental conditions. This international trade. requires the maintenance of environmental management processes and systems appropriate to the products we handle and the activities we 3. We restrict the age of chartered vessels to 25 years – promoting the undertake. A number of our existing facilities are certified to the use of a modern fleet not only reduces immediate cost, as vessels burn International Standard ISO 14001. less bunker fuel, it also reduces emissions. Employee training on our expectations in relation to the environment is 4. We require vessel owners to report all serious incidents, including oil also critical. In this endeavour, 5,143 HSEC awareness-raising modules spills and to follow agreed incident response and investigation were completed by employees in English, French, Spanish, Portuguese protocols. Doing so enables us to make better informed decisions as to and Chinese in the month of July 2015 alone. the partners we work alongside. Trafigura is committed to setting indicators and targets to further Our focus in 2016 will include reducing the GHG emission intensity enhance our management and reporting of environmental impacts, associated with Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions and extending the improvement measures and achieved performance. Key highlights in inventory to include key Scope 3 activities (e.g. contractors). For Trafigura, 2015 included: mitigating adverse impact also means investing in and exploring more • Strict vessel screening policy implemented for the chartering of vessels. efficient forms of transportation infrastructure, alleviating logistics • Trafigura’s Trading Division strengthened existing screening and selection bottlenecks and in so doing reducing carbon emissions. of contractors overseeing the ship-to-ship transfer of oil products. 12 13 UNGC PRINCIPLE: ENVIRONMENTAL UNGC PRINCIPLE: ENVIRONMENTAL Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 2015 Responsibility Report Web Supporting business processes 2015 Responsibility Report Web Supporting business processes Reference Reference Environment (p38-41) http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • Trafigura HSEC Contractor Terms Environment (p38-41) http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • Vessel screening policy for chartering of vessels (which environment/ • Trafigura HSEC Contractor Screening and Management environment/ mandates maximum age of vessels permitted of 25 years Our Approach (p6-13) Process Business Model & Structure (p4-5) and the chartering of double-hulled vessels when storing http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • Environmental Management Systems, including ISO14001 http://www.trafigura.com/media/3076/ or transporting oil products for international trade) certification at a number of existing facilities In Focus (p36) trafigura-hsec-policy-in-english.pdf • Centralised fleet management processes (Transfuel, http://www.trafigura.com/media/3076/ • Oil spill response contingency plans Angola) trafigura-hsec-policy-in-english.pdf • Greenhouse Gas (GHG) inventory http://www.trafigura.com/media/3144/ • Contractor HSEC Code of Conduct • HSEC Incident Reporting and Investigation Guidelines trafigura-hsec-business-principles-in• Trafigura HSEC Contractor Terms http://www.trafigura.com/media/3144/ • Third-Party HSEC Incident Reporting and Investigation english-tc00253e.pdf • Trafigura HSEC Contractor Screening and trafigura-hsec-business-principles-inGuidelines Management Process english-tc00253e.pdf • Group and Operational Level Grievance Mechanisms • Shipping and Chartering Desk requirements and measures on ship owners and chartered vessels (including compliance with the International Management Code for MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES management system, Safeguard, which extends to our contractors, to the Safe Operation of Ships and for Pollution Prevention, In 2015, we evaluated the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) inventory of the ensure that any environmental incidents that occur are formally reported Oil Companies International Marine Forum (OCIMF) Ship Group’s divisions and operating companies with a view to determining and investigated such that appropriate mitigation action can be taken. Inspection Report (SIRE) Programme approvals) our overall carbon footprint and, more importantly, charting a course for Our performance in relation to defined key performance indicators (KPIs) • Oil Spill Response Ltd (OSRL) Membership improvement targets for the years ahead. This evaluation highlighted the is also managed via Safeguard. • Oil spill response plans in place across relevant assets and significance of emissions from contracted shipping and HGV associated training and desk top emergency response transportation to the overall footprint associated with our value chain. In In 2015, we introduced a Group-wide HSEC Assurance Programme to exercises line with our commitment to trade responsibly, leverage greater assess the extent to which our HSEC Policy and HSEC Business Principles • Vessel screening policy for chartering of vessels (which efficiencies in logistics chains and in expectation of the introduction of are being effectively implemented. This included a comprehensive selfmandates maximum age of vessels permitted of 25 years carbon pricing mechanisms for global shipping in the medium term, a key assessment process in which all Trafigura Group entities participated. An and the chartering of double-hulled vessels when storing improvement target for 2016 is to work with our transportation providers external advisor, ERM, was commissioned to assess the output and also or transporting oil products for international trade) to deliver marked reductions in our environmental footprint across our undertake a programme of HSEC assurance audits. These evaluated the • Stakeholder engagement & involvement in WBCSD/ UNGC supply chain. material HSEC risks, stakeholder concerns and significant incidents at industry forums operations and assets in Athens (Shipping and Chartering Desk), • Online HSEC Awareness Training Trafigura paid no fines and received no notifications of violations Johannesburg (Oil and Petroleum Products and Metals and Minerals • HSEC Assurance Programme associated with environmental regulations in 2015. From a strategic Trading divisions and Impala Terminals) and the Mining Group's remote perspective, as outlined in our responsibility report, we have taken a Catalina Huanca mine in Peru. Incident data and the outcomes of the number of proactive measures in recent years to mitigate the risk of assurance programme are shared with Trafigura’s HSEC steering environmental pollution. We have a robust HSEC Incident Reporting and committee on a regular basis and are informing key areas of HSEC Investigation process in place via Trafigura’s online HSEC information priority and focus across the business in 2016 and beyond. 14 15 ANTI-CORRUPTION ASSESSMENT, POLICY, GOALS Our 2015 materiality review process underlined the importance that IMPLEMENTATION Our KYC procedures, which seek to reduce the risk of collaborating with Trafigura is committed to doing business in accordance with high Trafigura’s stakeholders ascribe to ethical business conduct. The process To support the implementation of our anti-corruption expectations, inappropriate counterparties, are directly comparable to those adopted standards of ethics and integrity. Our Code of Business Conduct is a highlighted a need for Trafigura to significantly enhance its policies and processes, as a means of reducing the potential for our by major banks. The Compliance Department oversees three different cornerstone of Trafigura’s approach. It defines what is expected of our communication in this area. In 2016, Trafigura’s Compliance Department activities to be exposed to corruption risks and incidents, we undertook levels of due diligence – short, standard and enhanced – according to the business and our people. It promotes good business judgement and will lead on progressing: the following in 2015: perceived risk posed by each partner, supplier, customer or trading compliance with relevant laws and regulations. All our employees are • Ongoing development of our KYC programme, efficiencies to the • Over 5,450 KYC checks carried out in 2015. partner. We conducted over 5,450 KYC checks during 2015. Our required to abide by our Code of Business Conduct. It is a commercial processing of associated intelligence and the programme’s effective • Anti-money laundering training delivered to over 1,700 staff members methodology follows Joint Money Laundering Steering Groups (JMLSG) imperative for Trafigura that our business is, and is seen to be, one that coverage of Group activities. in 54 locations. guidance for UK-regulated companies. According to their risk status, acts with integrity and maintains high ethical standards. • Continued development and extension of anti-money laundering and • Anti-bribery and corruption training delivered to over 2,000 staff selected counterparties are required to provide details in respect of, for anti-bribery and corruption training to all new staff members across all members in 54 locations. example, company registration, ownership structure, named directors, Trafigura’s Zero Tolerance Policy strictly prohibits the offer or acceptance Group companies. • 1,755 vessels screened by IMO number to mitigate risk associated with and business activities. of a bribe in any form, including kickbacks or the use of any route of • Enhanced coverage and depth of stakeholder engagement, particularly the reflagging of vessels by sanctioned countries, entities or individuals. which the intention is to provide improper benefits to third parties, in amongst the financial community, with respect to commercial, • Over 2,780 Trafigura employees trained on our Code of Business Conduct. We monitor those countries that have transposed the EU’s Third Antiboth public and private sectors, whether made directly or indirectly. Our financial and market compliance. Money Laundering (AML) Directive (2005/60/EC) and through a further management teams work together with Compliance, Legal, Human • Work with regulators to identify, analyse and manage any systemic filtering process, we incorporate some of them into our own AMLResources and Corporate Affairs departments to promote ethical risks posed by the commodities trading sector. approved Country list. As required by the Directive, Banks in AMLbehaviour amongst our employees and business partners. Risk • Active engagement with international forums, industry bodies and approved countries will already have conducted customer due diligence, assessment and management processes that support our approach are trading partners on ethical business conduct. taking into account the risk of money laundering and terrorist financing. detailed within the table below. We conduct a series of ‘short-form’ KYC AML checks by way of follow-up. In November 2014, Trafigura formally declared its support to the EITI – As a matter of course, we also screen each counterparty and maintain Trafigura is a global company, which operates within the local and the first privately held commodities trading company to do so. In a ongoing compliance screening via the ‘Thomson Reuters Accelus’ international regulatory frameworks. We are committed to operating in further step, Trafigura published a ‘Policy on Payments to Governments’, enterprise risk management software. In June 2015, we moved Trafigura’s accordance with international and national legislation, relevant financial drawn up in consultation with the EITI International Secretariat. The KYC application process online and adopted a new best-in-class system standards, exchange rules, sanctions and trade restrictions. We are policy committed the company to disclosing Trafigura’s payments to operated by Newgen Software to complete and upload relevant constantly evolving our business model to adapt to shifting cultural National Oil Companies (NOCs) for crude oil and petroleum products, documents prior to processing. This has reduced the administrative norms, geographies and regulatory regimes. We have adopted five key including gas, as well as associated corporate taxes and, where relevant, burden on compliance personnel, allowing us to focus more resources on principles, namely integrity, care and diligence, best practice, market licence payments to governments. We will continue to review our policy risk assessments. We receive daily updates from Thomson Reuters conduct, and management and control that define the way we conduct on payments to governments and our disclosure strategy in consultation World-Check on all counterparties. ourselves worldwide. with the EITI Secretariat and our stakeholders. 16 17 UNGC PRINCIPLE: ANTI-CORRUPTION MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Our Compliance Department oversees Group activities and counterparty Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. due diligence and develops risk based global systems and safeguards to 2015 Responsibility Report Web Supporting business processes ensure we adhere to our principles, code and regulatory obligations Reference wherever we operate. The Compliance Department focuses on three main categories of exposure: commercial, financial, and regulatory Conduct Chapter http://www.trafigura.com/responsibility/ • Code of Business Conduct (please refer to our 2015 Responsibility Report for further insights). We (P50-53) conduct/ • Code of Business Conduct for Suppliers comply with sanctions that are applicable to our company. Our • Trafigura Compliance Committee Compliance Department works closely with Trafigura’s Corporate Affairs Our Approach (p6-7) http://www.trafigura.com/media/3250/ • Trafigura Group Compliance Department and Legal teams to track the introduction and evolution of sanctions, to trafigura-2015-responsibility-report-en. • Know your Counterparty (KYC) Screening Process & raise questions where clarity is required, and to ensure we have correctly Grievance Management (p21) pdf Procedures understood and applied the rules. • Counterparty Due Diligence (Short, Standard and Transparency Chapter (p14-17) Advanced) of partners, suppliers, customers, trading partners • Contractor HSEC Code of Conduct • Trafigura HSEC Contractor Terms • Trafigura HSEC Contractor Screening and Management Process • Group Compliance Policy • Anti-money laundering policy & training • Anti-bribery and corruption policy & training • Group and Operational Level Grievance Mechanisms • Trafigura Employee Handbook • Impala Terminals Confidentiality Information Barrier (CIB) Policy • Vessel Screening processes • Engagement with Banks and other stakeholders (including involvement in debate regarding emergence and evolution of regulations relevant to Trafigura) • Monitoring of those countries that have transposed the EU’s Third Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Directive (2005/60/EC) • Daily updates from Thomson Reuters World-Check on all counterparties 18 19 Trafigura Group Pte. Ltd. 10 Collyer Quay #29-00 Ocean Financial Centre Singapore 049315 Trafigura Group Pte. Ltd. and the companies in which it directly or indirectly owns investments are separate and distinct entities. In this publication, the collective Email: enquiries@trafigura.com expressions ‘Trafigura’, ‘Trafigura Group’, ‘the Company’ and ‘the Group’ may be www.trafigura.com used for convenience where reference is made in general to those companies. Likewise, the words ‘we’, ‘us’, ‘our’ and ‘ourselves’ are used in some places to refer to the companies of the Trafigura Group in general. These expressions are also TF/0171.1e used where no useful purpose is served by identifying any particular company Last updated: March 21, 2016 or companies.
