SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2016 FOOD. PEOPLE. FUTURES. Our approach Food People Futures 2 TETRA PAK AT A GLANCE Countries where Employees Tetra Pak packages our packages worldwide sold in 2015 are available >170 23,500 184 billion Litres of products sold in Tetra Pak Net sales in 2015 Market companies packages in 2015 €11.9 billion 32 78.2 billion Technical Sales offices R&D centres training centres 80 11 6 Our approach Food People Futures 3 CEO REFLECTIONS For Tetra Pak, sustainability improving the standard of living for I am pleased to report that the injury goes hand in hand with our thousands of smallholder farmers, but and illness rate among our employees brand promise – PROTECTS also improving nutrition and food safety and contractors remains very low; but WHAT’S GOOD™ – and more widely across local communities. we are keen to reduce it further. During the three pillars on which With the support of the Tetra Laval Food the past year, we have continued to that promise stands: food, for Development team, Dairy Hubs are implement our global occupational people and futures. running in Bangladesh, Nicaragua and health and safety management Sri Lanka, with further projects under policy, including rolling out procedures Protecting food way in Senegal and Kenya. covering Technical Service and Protecting food is the core focus of our Processing Systems work at our business. From the beginning, we have The team also continues to support customers’ sites. been driven by the vision of making the practical implementation of food safe and available, everywhere. school feeding programmes. The Protecting people is also about Realizing that ambition means helping first programme using Tetra Pak retaining and nurturing talent. Around to find sustainable ways to feed a fastpackages began in Mexico in 1962; 85% of our employees took part in our growing population – one of the most now programmes using our packages latest employee engagement survey at pressing development challenges facing span the globe. In 2015, new school the end of 2015, in line with the highthe world today, and one that calls for a feeding programmes started in the performance norm. We made further wide-ranging response. Philippines and Peru, increasing the “The best way to make a progress too in improving the diversity number of children that regularly receive lasting positive difference of our workforce, and ensuring that we We are working around the world food or drink in Tetra Pak® packages provide a respectful, inclusive working to build capacity and strengthen to more than 70 million worldwide. is through collaboration environment for everyone. value chains, including through our Studies show that such schemes not and partnership” Dairy Hub initiative. This helps only improve children’s health, they also Dennis Jönsson, CEO & President Looking beyond our own organization, customers in developing countries boost their capacity to learn and help we continued to play an active role access better-quality, locally produced stimulate the local economy, too. in the communities in which we milk while at the same time helping employees, the communities in which operate, from providing apprenticeship smallholder farmers become profitable Protecting people we work and society as a whole. More schemes and supporting local supplier dairy producers. It is a concept that Our second pillar, protecting people, than 23,500 people work for Tetra Pak; development, to health education and has proved very successful; not only focuses on our commitment to our they are the engine of our success. emergency relief. Our approach Food People Futures 4 Protecting futures of 200 billion FSC-labelled packages including our ambition to cap carbon Our third pillar is about protecting produced since 2007. emissions in 2020 at 2010 levels. Last futures, by developing products and year our emissions were 15% lower services that will support the future We also continued our efforts to than they had been at the turn of the business growth of our customers, and save energy and resources, further decade, while the number of packages by acting and operating in ways that reducing impact along the value chain. we sold was 16% higher. best protect the future of our planet. Technological breakthroughs, including Once again, 2015 was an important our next generation Tetra Pak E3 Following the 2015 Paris Climate year for us in this regard. The Tetra platform, plus continued improvements Conference, we signed the Paris Pledge, Rex Bio-based package – our first ever in the water and energy efficiency committing to playing our part in package made entirely from plantof our packaging and processing helping to ensure that global warming based materials – continued to generate equipment, all played their part. remains below 2°C, as outlined in the enthusiasm among customers and Paris Agreement. We also joined the consumers, and to win awards for both Throughout the year, recycling global business network RE100, with innovation and sustainability. Following remained in sharp focus. We have a promise to procure 100% of our determination and a strong sense of its success in Europe, we recently introduced new reporting guidelines electricity from renewable sources by obligation across the entire company, launched the product in the US, to across the whole company to improve 2030, and we became a member of the which is why we have a well-defined a very positive response. data collection and ensure that the Ellen MacArthur Foundation’s Circular corporate governance framework. information we receive is accurate and Economy 100 (CE100), reflecting our But we also know that the best way to We continue to maintain our Forest robust as we work towards our goal of commitment to maintaining a leadership make a difference is not by acting on Stewardship Council™ (FSC™) doubling our recycling rate to 40% by position in recycling and the use of our own, but by working with other certification. All of the wood fibres 2020. As a result, our recycling rate for renewable materials. For the first time in like-minded organizations. used in our paperboard 2015 fell slightly to 23.6%, 2015 we reported in to the CDP’s forests now come from FSCor 43 billion packs, programme, and raised our overall CDP On that note, please read on and certified and controlled compared with 25.7%, or disclosure score to 99B, compared with explore the rest of this report, which sources, and 29% of the 46 billion packs, in 2014. a CDP supply chain average of 60C. gives greater insight into the progress packages we sold in 2015 The underlying trend, we’re making in all areas of our carried the FSC logo, up however, remains positive. These new agreements build on our sustainability journey; our commitment from 25% in 2014 and existing commitments to the UN to continuous improvement; and less than 6% just six years At all times, we are Global Compact and the Sustainable the achievements of our remarkable ago. Early in 2016, we guided by our long-term Development Goals. We know that employees, on which our continued reached the milestone environmental objectives, achieving our own goals requires success depends. Our approach Food People Futures 5 FOOD.PEOPLE.FUTURES. Our brand promise, PROTECTS for example, extends from the sourcing Employees engagement collaborations. We are WHAT’S GOOD™, plays out of base materials to the end of life We employ more than 23,500 people, constantly developing new products and in three key areas: protecting of used cartons. We have developed and their engagement and dedication processes to help customers reduce their food, protecting people and robust systems and methods to reliably is essential to our success. We environmental footprint, and we work protecting futures. These are collect data; and our results, audited provide learning and development with them to manage and minimize the pillars of our brand; and and validated by independent external opportunities for all, strive to ensure impact throughout the value chain. they are also the chapters consultants, show steady progress that every project and activity we do is of our sustainability story. towards our targets for 2020. injury-free and undertake to include Consumers and respect every individual. To ensure Our food packaging and processing Our future success depends on our Suppliers we are meeting our responsibilities, we solutions make food safe and available ability to provide safe, secure and Since 2011, all our suppliers must sign conduct an employee engagement for consumers everywhere. Many of sustainable nourishment to consumers, and adhere to the terms set out in our survey every other year. our product innovations are made which means finding new ways to meet Business Code of Conduct for Suppliers. in response to demand for lower the evolving expectations of the market We also assess suppliers against the high Customers environmental impact and better and the diverse needs of our customers. standards of performance defined by We work with customers across the recycling solutions. At the same time, At the same time, we must strive to the UN Global Compact. Every year, we globe to achieve our shared business we develop and promote campaigns be socially responsible, providing evaluate our key suppliers’ operations and sustainability goals, including on sustainability-related topics, such opportunities for all our employees and and environmental performance through through school feeding programmes, as recycling and renewability, and supporting communities everywhere audits and self-assessments. Dairy Hub initiatives and community the benefits of packaged milk. we operate. And we must address our environmental responsibilities, driving efficiency, cutting waste and lowering our environmental footprint. The value chain A sustainable value chain Our responsibilities extend beyond our own operations and our business with our customers; so our approach to sustainability encompasses the whole value chain. Our 2020 climate goal, Suppliers Tetra Pak Customers End of life Our approach Food People Futures 6 GOVERNANCE We believe that good corporate processes for managing and responding governance is fundamental to a TETRA PAK GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK to risks. Our state-of-the-art Governance successful, sustainable business. Risk Compliance (GRC) system is a major That’s why we have a wellstep towards securing an effective and MANDATE INTERNAL CONTROL ORGANIZATION AND defined governance framework AND VALUES ENVIRONMENT DECISION MAKING STRUCTURE transparent internal control environment. that guides everything we do. The GRC creates a single platform for Tetra Pak Charter of Responsibility Risk Management Top Decision Making risk management, bringing mitigating The Tetra Pak Governance Framework policies, procedures and detailed is designed to help ensure that we controls together with assurance Group policies, procedures and guidelines deliver on our brand promise PROTECTS Core Values Global process controls Global Leadership Team processes, assessments and reports. WHAT’S GOOD™, that we abide by Strategic initiatives relevant regulations and legislation, and Organization and decision that we behave ethically and responsibly. Code of Business Conduct Assurance Processes Councils making structure We believe that good governance is Our Global Leadership Team (GLT) fundamental to building a sustainable is responsible for implementing the business, and to creating long-term, Framework, supported by a Corporate shared value with our customers. Governance Office and a network of • Charter of Responsibility: Issued • Code of Business Conduct: This local governance and risk officers. Mandate and values by the Tetra Laval Group Board, this sets out requirements on working In addition, the GLT has set up four This section of the Framework provides a outlines the roles and responsibilities conditions, anti-discrimination, councils to manage decision-making in structure for setting company objectives of the Board and Tetra Pak. The CEO confidentiality, conflicts of interest, the following areas: strategy; products and strategies, and for how we go of Tetra Pak is ultimately responsible financial reporting, compliance with and technology; transformation and about achieving them. It also guides for the Governance Framework. the law, anti-corruption, bribery, child capability; and corporate governance. how we operate and act with colleagues • Core values: These form and shape exploitation and environmental issues internally and with our stakeholders our corporate culture and guide our in all parts of our operations. Every year, our CEO and the GLT submit across the value chain. At the highest behaviour internally and externally, a signed Management Declaration on level, it includes: uniting people from different cultures, Internal control environment our adherence to the Framework to the countries and backgrounds. Shared The Framework includes a comprehensive Tetra Laval Group Board. This is based and lived core values are essential to risk management methodology, on reports and self-assessments from good governance. with policies, procedures and global heads of markets and operating units. Our approach Food People Futures 7 International frameworks Whistle-blowing As signatories to the UN Global Anyone in Tetra Pak can anonymously Compact since 2004, we are committed report actual or suspected breaches to the implementation, disclosure and of our Code of Conduct or any other promotion of its 10 principles on human unethical behaviour directly to either the rights, labour, the environment and Corporate Governance Officer or Head anti-corruption, and submit an annual of Audit, without being penalized in any Communication on Progress. Defined way. Every case of breach of our Code corporate functions have a coordinating of Conduct is handled individually and role for: investigated appropriately, depending on its severity. If the incident is criminal, • Human rights: Human Resources/ we report it to the relevant authority. Corporate Communications • Labour: Human Resources Zero tolerance for corruption • Environment: Environment Anti-corruption is an important part of • Anti-corruption: Corporate our approach to corporate governance, Governance and we take a zero tolerance approach to corruption, bribery and fraud. We also actively contribute to the UN’s Corruption is unethical; it undermines Sustainable Development Goals. the fairness of the market, distorts transaction costs, destroys an open, Awareness, understanding honest and decent society, and harms and compliance economic, social and political progress. we are members of Sedex, the Supplier All employees, at all levels of the Combating corruption is a vital part of Ethical Data Exchange. Sedex is a company, are responsible for complying building trust with customers, suppliers not-for-profit membership organization with the Governance Framework in their and other stakeholders, and fostering a dedicated to driving improvements everyday decisions and actions. Details responsible, transparent business culture. in responsible and ethical business of the Framework are available on our practices in supply chains. intranet, and a mandatory eLearning Trust and transparency programme is in place. To build trust and transparency with our customers and as part of our approach to responsible sourcing with suppliers, Our approach Food People Futures 8 STAKEHOLDERS AND REPORTING Our approach to sustainability extends across our entire External assurance value chain. We work with Our practices, processes and stakeholders at both global and performance are verified externally local level to develop solutions through World Class Manufacturing, and create shared value. We ISO 9001 and 14001, OHSAS 18001, also ensure transparency by and Forest Stewardship Council reporting regularly on our Chain of Custody and Quality responsible business practices Assurance Management certification. and performance. Our GHG emissions data has been audited by a third party since 2006. We actively engage with stakeholders at all levels to find new ways to reduce our impact and make our business more We continuously work to improve our competitive and sustainable. data collection and management on Council™ (FSC™), the World Wide and waste, sustainable production and key environmental measures. We have Stakeholders Fund for Nature (WWF), the UN World consumption, and dairy sustainability. introduced new software to support the As the leader in our industry, we play a Food Programme (WFP) and the Global reporting of environmental data from our key role in industry organizations and Alliance for Improved Nutrition (GAIN), Reporting sites and suppliers, and implemented partnerships, facilitating awareness along with many more. We provide data and information global management of recycling campaigns, conferences and seminars, on our sustainability performance and information through our SAP Business establishing methodologies and We have long-standing collaborations goals in an annual Sustainability Update. Warehouse system, which both improves standards, and developing public policy. with governments, ministries and These updates form our Communication the quality of reporting and provides departments to support school feeding on Progress to the UN Global Compact, access to the latest local and global data We work with non-government programmes around the world showing how we are integrating across the company. organizations (NGOs) and multithrough our Food for Development its 10 principles on environmental stakeholder initiatives on a wide variety function. We are also industry leaders performance, labour and human rights of issue-specific projects. Key partners in environment advocacy globally, practices, and anti-corruption into and initiatives include the UN Global particularly in areas such as packaging our business strategy as well as our See our full list of partners Compact, the Forest Stewardship sustainability and recycling, resources day-to-day operations. Our approach Food People Futures 9 SUSTAINABLE Goal How we are Goal How we are Goal How we are DEVELOPMENT contributing contributing contributing GOALS (SDGs) Our processing and packaging solutions enable food and We seek to minimize water usage in our operations and We are investing in renewable energy and drink to be distributed and reduce the water consumption increasing the use of The UN has introduced a new set stored without refrigeration or of the equipment we renewable electricity in preservatives. School feeding develop, sell and operate our operations. We have of goals aimed at ending poverty, programmes improve health at our customers’ sites. Our joined RE100 and the protecting the planet and ensuring and stimulate development. Environmental Benchmarking Business Renewables Center, prosperity for all. Our DEEPER IN THE Services help customers to committing us to sourcing PYRAMID offering is making increase efficiency and reduce 100% of our electricity from healthy food accessible to all. their own consumption. renewable sources by 2030. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) build on the Millennium We employ a diverse We work to improve the We prefer to use materials Development Goals (MDGs), addressing workforce, and strive to environmental profile of from renewable sources, a wider sustainability agenda and keep all colleagues free our products and solutions, and are working towards a seeking to address the root causes of from harm. Our Code of and to adopt sustainable 100% renewable package. poverty and meet the universal need for Business Conduct sets practices throughout the Our aseptic packaging helps mandatory requirements on value chain. Our equipment to reduce food waste. We development that works for everyone. human rights and labour, is designed to provide adopt responsible practices environment and antioutstanding performance throughout our value chain We are committed to supporting and corruption, complies with and to minimize energy and have been reporting on working to achieve the SDGs, just as we applicable legislation and and water use. these since 1999. encourages suppliers’ own did the MDGs. We are currently focusing sustainability initiatives. on those goals that relate directly to our core business and our work to promote We actively engage with We are working to minimize We work closely with our sustainability, and where we believe we our climate impact across suppliers and other partners stakeholders across our can make a positive difference. the value chain, setting a to ensure sound forest entire value chain and at all goal to cap this by 2020 at management practices. levels in order to develop 2010 levels despite business Our minimum requirements common solutions and growth. We develop go beyond legislation, and create shared value. products and solutions that we expect our suppliers to help reduce climate impact. comply. We use credible certification systems to Read more about the UN’s See our full list of partners Sustainable Development Goals improve forest management. Our approach Food People Futures 10 TAKING THE LEAD WALKDRAGON/SHUTTERSTOCK.COM As part of our ongoing work to minimize our climate impact and increase our use of renewable resources, we have signed up to a number of initiatives that demonstrate our commitment to sustainability. We recently added our name to the Paris Pledge for Action, set up following the Paris Agreement on climate change. The businesses, cities, civil society groups and others that have joined the Pledge are committed to working to ensure that the ambition set out in the Agreement – to limit global warming to 2°C or less – is met or exceeded. In early 2016, we signed up to RE100, a global network of leading companies set up by The Climate Group and CDP. In joining, we have committed to increase our use of renewable electricity from 22% today to 100% across all our global operations by 2030. As a member, we will benefit from expert guidance and the opportunity to share learning on renewable energy 100% of our electricity is options in different markets around the world. We have set to come from also signed up to the CE100, an innovative programme renewable sources set up by the Ellen MacArthur Foundation to support the by 2030 long-term development of a circular economy: one that is restorative and regenerative by design. Our approach Food People Futures 11 2015/ AT A GLANCE Tackling food insecurity Reducing food loss and wastage at every stage of the supply chain is key to tackling food insecurity and meeting the challenge of feeding a growing population. In the Netherlands, we are working with the government to raise consumer awareness of “sell by” and “use by” VRSTUDIO/SHUTTERSTOCK.COM dates and reduce the amount of safe food being wasted. Read more Supporting communities Recycling matters We work with partners around the world We are working to promote to provide solutions to local problems, recycling around the world, including building capacity among educating consumers, building smallholder plantations, supporting infrastructure and helping to apprenticeship programmes and delivering create business opportunities for support in the wake of disasters. Read more recyclers. Read more Recognizing excellence FSC milestone The engagement and As a major user of commitment of our 23,500 paperboard, we have a employees is the engine responsibility to ensure the of our success. Our latest world’s forests are managed Excellence Awards recognize in a sustainable way. This year, Stronger value chains and reward colleagues who 100% of our paperboard was Dairy Hubs are transforming the lives of local are making an exceptional FSC™-certified, and we also farmers in developing countries such as Sri difference to our company reached a significant milestone, Lanka, and building capacity all along the and our customers. delivering 200 billion FSC-labelled dairy value chain. Read more Read more packages since 2007. Read more Our approach Food People Futures 12 FOOD We are driven by our vision to make food safe and available, everywhere. Our innovative and market-leading food processing and packaging solutions are making that vision a reality worldwide, in the following areas: Challenges > Finding sustainable ways to feed a fast-growing population is one of the most pressing development challenges facing the world today. Safety and quality > We aim to keep our promise to PROTECT WHAT’S GOOD™ every day by working with our customers to ensure the safety and quality of their products. Availability > We believe that the most effective way to tackle global challenges relating to food and nutrition is to build sustainable food value chains.  ead more about how we are protecting food R Our approach Food People Futures 13 Challenges FEEDING A BUSY WORLD Finding sustainable ways to feed a fast9.6bn Estimated global growing population is one of the most population by 2050, pressing development challenges facing according to the world today. UN figures The world population is projected to grow from around 7 billion in 2012 to around 9.6 billion by 2050 – and with this will come an increase in demand for food. It is a major challenge to meet this demand at the same time as protecting and strengthening rural economies, reducing emissions and preventing further damage to fragile ecosystems. There is no one solution that can create a sustainable food future. Closing the food gap requires a range of strategies, involving governments, businesses and a broad spectrum of other stakeholders. Tetra Pak, along with our partners in the food and drink industry has a significant part to play. Playing our part We have the opportunity to make an important contribution in helping to improve food security worlwide, including by: KICHIGIN/SHUTTERSTOCK.COM • Making food production more efficient • Supporting farmers • Cutting food loss and waste Our approach Food People Futures 14 Challenges Case study FOOD LOSSES AND WASTE The UN Food and Agriculture opinion-formers, at the same time as Organization estimates that encouraging public debate by setting around a third of food produced up a campaign through online channels for human consumption is lost or and social media. We then invited wasted. There is an urgent need the public to vote on different forms to tackle this issue, to reduce of wording to replace TGT/THT. In hunger and mitigate the impact December 2015 we announced the on the environment. winner: ‘Quality guaranteed until…’. We also wrote to the Ministry of Economic In developing countries, food loss Affairs requesting support to make and waste is often linked to lack of this change in labelling. Meanwhile, infrastructure and resources, while in we continue to feed our social media A brainstorm session engaged stakeholders and opinion-formers developed countries the challenge channels to keep the campaign in lies in educating consumers to avoid people’s minds.” throwing good food away. In the Netherlands, Tetra Pak is working with Birgit believes the initiative has helped the Ministry of Economic Affairs to strengthen Tetra Pak’s position as a raise awareness of Te Gebruiken Tot thought leader in the area – and open (TGT) and Ten Minste Houdbaar (THT) up new business opportunities. “The labelling – the Dutch equivalent of “sell campaign has reinforced our position by” and “use by” dates. Our research as a promoter of food safety and waste showed that consumers found labels prevention,” she says. confusing, and were unsure when food was still safe to consume. “We decided on a two-pronged approach,” explains Birgit Kamp, Communications Director North West Read more about how we are working Europe. “We organized a brainstorm to meet food challenges session with industry stakeholders and The consumer campaign set out to explain clearly when food is still safe to eat Our approach Food People Futures 15 Safety and quality FROM SOURCE TO SHELF We aim to keep our promise to PROTECT WHAT’S GOOD™ every day by working with our customers to ensure the safety and Trust and traceability quality of their products. Our Food Safety Policy helps us to maintain the highest standards of safety – and achieve Food safety means handling, preparing and storing full traceability – throughout the entire food in such a way as to protect it against contamination processing and packaging value chain, and and avoid food-borne illnesses. For our customers, that ensure compliance with all relevant legislation means being in full control of all production parameters, and regulatory requirements. We back this from the sourcing of raw materials right the way through commitment in a number of ways, including to the retailer’s shelf. through automated solutions such as Tetra PlantMaster™, a factory-wide control We use our experience and expertise to support them system that fully and seamlessly integrates in this, including by developing innovative solutions intelligence from each unit of the dairy such as Tetra Recart , the first package to make production line. it possible to sterilize foods with particles inside a carton. We are also pioneers in the development of technologies such as juice pasteurization and ultrahigh-temperature (UHT) treatment. Ensuring quality By food quality, we mean the taste, colour, texture and We also work directly with our customers to provide nutritional value that consumers rely on. Quality starts at guidance and practical support. We carry out rigorous tests the beginning, with the rigorous auditing of raw materials at every stage to ensure that products are fully protected suppliers. All Tetra Pak processing and packaging during transportation and distribution, and support the equipment is designed to meet advanced hygiene training of operators to handle, store and display products standards, satisfy legal parameters and minimize waste, correctly. We also work with our customers to promote and all packaging materials are fully compliant with food quality as a benefit to consumers, including through relevant food contact legislation. Plant automation and innovative packaging design and promotional activities. integration supports quality control where products pass through several steps in the plant, and provides valuable Read more about food safety and quality feedback to optimize operations. Our approach Food People Futures 16 Availability DEVELOPING THE DAIRY VALUE CHAIN The Dairy Hub concept goes to the heart of food safety and dairy development, by helping strengthen the dairy value chain in developing countries. The goal of Dairy Hubs is to help our customers in developing countries access better-quality, locally produced milk. At the same time, it helps smallholder farmers become profitable dairy producers, raising income and improving nutrition in areas that need it most. Already active in Bangladesh and Nicaragua, our Food for Development team recently launched a new project with local partner Cargills in Jaffna district in northeast Sri Lanka. Two years on from the initial set up, and the project is delivering significant results. For Cargills, it has provided a way of increasing volumes in a country Tapping the potential where demand currently far exceeds supply, while Nearly 1 billion people live on farmers have seen a dramatic increase in returns. dairy farms, smallholdings or in One farmer sums up the impact of the project on landless households keeping individuals and their families: “We are finally able one or a few animals. The milk to stand on our own two feet and provide for our and dairy industry therefore children adequately without being in debt. The holds huge potential to create project has been a godsend to us.” jobs and increase incomes for farmers, dairy processors, distributors, shopkeepers and Tetra Laval’s international Dairy other stakeholders. Expert Morgan Tinnberg with Read more about our work to develop Dairy Hubs dairy farmers in Sri Lanka Our approach Food People Futures 17 Availability Case study DIRECT TO THE CLASSROOM School feeding programmes deliver nutrition direct to the classroom, improving children’s health and boosting their capacity to learn, while also helping to stimulate economic development. Tetra Pak has been supporting governments and dairy processors in developing school feeding programmes around the world since 1962. Programmes address hunger and malnourishment, at the same time as stimulating local demand for agricultural products. In 2015, food or drinks in Tetra Pak packages reached 70m children around the world as part of a school feeding programme, 70m children received including via a new programme in food or drink in a Peru where 175,000 children are now Tetra Pak package receiving local milk fortified with cereal via school feeding and DHA in Tetra Brik® Aseptic 200 Slim programmes packages, processed and packed by our local customer. The Food for Development team is providing technical support, while Tetra Pak Peru is running an environmental education and recycling initiative in some of the schools as part of our ongoing commitment to raising awareness of sustainability issues. Read more about school feeding programmes Our approach Food People Futures 18 PEOPLE We make social responsibility a priority when it comes to people. We seek to support communities wherever we operate and provide opportunities for our employees around the world. Our work focuses on the following areas: Health and safety > Diversity > We strive to ensure that individuals are free We undertake to include and respect every from harm in every project and activity, individual, regardless of age, gender, and we believe that working as a team is ethnicity, nationality or sexual orientation. the best way to achieve our aim of zero A diverse workforce enhances our ability accidents and work-related illnesses. to understand the different cultures and languages of our customers and consumers. Employee engagement > Our success depends on our people Community engagement > performing at their best – and for this they We strive to play a responsible and need to feel motivated, connected and active role in the communities in which valued. By making sure our employees are we operate around the world, getting engaged, we create a culture of personal involved at a local level through a wide responsibility, diversity and innovation. range of initiatives. Learning and development By promoting a culture of learning and sharing knowledge and experience across the business, we enable our people to R  ead more about how we are reach their full potential, while we continue protecting people to attract and retain the very best. Our approach Food People Futures 19 Health and safety A GLOBAL APPROACH We strive to ensure that individuals are free We also made good progress towards our challenging from harm in every project and activity, and target of achieving OHSAS 18001 certification for all we believe that working as a team is the best our manufacturing sites by 2017. So far 60% have been way to achieve our aim of zero accidents and certified, up 22% from 2014. At the same time, we work-related illnesses. achieved a 25% reduction in the Lost Time Accident Rate (LTAR) across all our manufacturing sites. We continue to implement our global operational health and safety (OHS) management system based During 2015 we launched global procedures for on OHSAS 18001, the international standard for OHS workplace transport (e.g. forklift trucks) and introduced management systems. As part of the programme, we lock out and tag out (LOTO), designed to eliminate launched a set of standardized global procedures for the risk of safeguards being bypassed and prevent Technical Service and Processing Systems operations machinery and equipment being started accidentally. at our customers’ sites and a new Tetra Pak Group Individual factories are using self-assessment checklists OHS Policy which is now being communicated to all to measure progress in rolling out these new employees with the message that we must all stay safe global procedures. and healthy, every day and everywhere we work. 9.5 Lost Lost time due 9.5 time due to accidents to accidents 2013 2013 100 GenderGender 100 diversity diversity 60% in development in development programs programs of our manufacturing Men Men 60% 50% 95% Women 2014 60% 50% sites95% worldwide have Lost days per million working hours 2014 Women 7.5 7.5 2015 2015 80 80 now achieved OHSAS 18001 60 60 certification 4.9 4.9 4.1 4.0 3.7 3.8 4.1 4.0 40 3.7 3.8 3.5 40 3.1 3.5 3.2 3.1 2.9 3.2 2.4 2.9 2.4 2.4 2.0 2.4 1.8 2.0 20 1.8 20 40% 50% 5% 40% 50% 5% 0 Packaging Additional Supply chain Processing systems Manufacturing Read 0more about LAP LAP and safety health Mentees Mentees Mentors Mentors Packaging Additional Supply chain Processing systems Manufacturing materials operations production sites materials operations production sites Our approach Food People Futures 20 23,500 people work for Tetra Pak worldwide, and their Employee engagement engagement and dedication is essential to help us MOTIVATED, CONNECTED, VALUED develop and maintain our competitive edge Our success depends on our people in which we can check how we are delivering The proportion of positive responses performing at their best – and for this they against the promises we make to them. on sustainable engagement – 82% – also need to feel motivated, connected and puts us on a par with companies performing at valued. By making sure our employees are The survey covers a wide range of areas, including world-class level. We are delighted to have been able engaged, we create a culture of personal diversity, leadership and sustainable engagement. to maintain such a high score at a time of considerable responsibility, diversity and innovation. The participation rate for our latest survey, at the end organizational change. of 2015, was 85%, which compares favourably with Our employee engagement survey is a key element in the high-performance norm and demonstrates our helping us to measure how connected and motivated our employees’ commitment and willingness to share Read more about employee engagement people are to perform at their best, and one of the ways their opinions with us. Our approach Food People Futures 21 Employee engagement Case study RECOGNIZING EXCELLENCE Recognizing good work is Communication comes first global projects, for example, that important to us, and one of the The first step towards great teamwork people can participate in and where ways we do this is through our is to make communication a top they can acquire new skills. yearly Excellence Awards. The priority. “You shouldn’t be afraid to 2015 Excellence in Leadership over-communicate, especially in times Team spirit and trust Award went to Alesya of significant change,” she says. “I set “Team spirit is also vital for motivation. Fedoseeva, HR Service Centre clear expectations, make sure everyone The bond between us is strong – we Director for Russia, Ukraine, understands our strategic goals – and enjoy each other’s company and we Belarus and Central Asia. knows how they can contribute to those enjoy working together. I’m always with goals through their everyday activities.” my team through all their hardships and The citation for the 2015 Excellence challenges. They rely on me and I rely in Leadership Award highlighted three But while there can never be too on them, so trust between us is very elements as key to Alesya’s success: much communication, there is such a high. We have a common agenda and her commitment to encouraging thing as managing too closely. “To be we share the same goals.” professional growth within her team, motivated, people need to be given her focus on individual development clear, challenging and interesting The team also makes a point of and the continuous feedback she tasks,” says Alesya. “They should be celebrating its successes together – provides on performance. And it is aware of the direction the company is something Alesya sees as absolutely a significant success. Under Alesya’s Communication and empowerment are taking and their role in achieving that critical to excellent performance. leadership the HR Service Centre key to success for Alesya Fedoseeva – then they should be empowered to “Individuals need recognition,” for Russia, Ukraine, Belarus and make their own decisions.” she says. “When we completed the Central Asia has achieved nearly is quick to credit her team for their business transformation project that 99% on-time ticket resolution, with contribution: “I owe this to my That extends to making decisions about we’d been running for a couple of internal stakeholders praising its team for their hard work, drive and their own personal and professional years, it was a major celebration. It’s so outstanding contribution to supporting dedication,” she says. She makes a development. “In terms of motivation important that people feel valued for organizational changes critical to point of recruiting people who radiate it is also for the employee to the contribution they make.” Tetra Pak’s future. enthusiasm. “For me it is important that understand how he or she can the person I bring to the team shares develop,” says Alesya, “and to Given the content of the citation, it the same values, philosophy be proactive in seeking out those is not surprising to hear that Alesya and attitude as the rest of us.” opportunities. There are so many Our approach Food People Futures 22 Diversity GETTING THE BALANCE RIGHT We undertake to include and respect Like many manufacturing companies, though, every individual, regardless of age, gender, we face the challenge of improving the gender ethnicity, nationality or sexual orientation. balance within our organization. At the end A diverse workforce enhances our ability of 2015, 22% of our total workforce and 23.5% to understand the different cultures and of our managers were women, while the languages of our customers and consumers. proportion of women in senior management roles rose from 6.5% in 2013 to 9% in 2015, Our products are sold in more than 170 countries mirroring the proportion of women in the and our employee base is similarly international, workforce as a whole. giving us a cultural and national diversity that contributes to our success. More than one-third We are increasing our focus on hiring women (34.7%) of our top management comes from and providing developmental opportunities non-European backgrounds. aimed at increasing gender diversity. Key management processes, such as succession Diversity can also be defined in terms of age planning, our Leadership Acceleration distribution: looking at our entire company, Tetra Pak Programme and our mentoring programmes has a balanced and stable age mix across our provide these opportunities for women and also different businesses and markets. for employees from outside Europe. We believe our core values, along with our Code of Business Gender balance 2015 (%) Gender balance 2015 (%) Conduct training, promote an inclusive and Men positive company culture, and contribute to the 93% 70.6% 76.5% 91% 77.6% 93% 70.6% 76.5% 91% 77.6% Women Men lack of reported incidents of discrimination. Women 7% 29.4% 23.5% 9% 22.4% Blue7% collar White collar 29.4% Managerial 23.5% Senior 9% Total 22.4% Blue collar White collar Managerial management Senior Total management Our approach Food People Futures 23 Community engagement A POSITIVE CONTRIBUTION We strive to play a responsible and active role in the communities in which we operate around the world, getting involved at a local level through a wide range of initiatives. Our community engagement work is often based on longstanding connections, such as our partnership with the World Wildlife Fund. With them, we are supporting smallholders in plantations around the world, boosting capacity and helping them develop the competences they need to manage forests effectively. In China, for example, we are supporting the establishment of the China Sustainable Paper Alliance and the roll-out of a Sustainable Paper Campaign later in 2016. In Indonesia, we are working with local NGOs to raise awareness of sustainable sourcing, including through the revamped Eyes on the Forest website. We also maintain strong links with a number of charities. Over the past few years, we have donated €250,000 to Hand-in-Hand, an international non-profit organization that aims to reduce poverty through social mobilization and business training, and a further €150,000 to support a poverty reduction project run by Caritas in Kenya. We are also partners to Mentor, a leading international NGO fighting drug use and substance abuse throughout the world, as well as supporting FoodBank in Australia. Read more about our work with communities Local initiatives to raise awareness of environmental issues and promote sustainable livelihoods form an important part of our engagement with communities Our approach Food People Futures 24 FUTURES We strive to play an active role in shaping a better future, supporting the long-term success of our customers’ businesses and driving environmental excellence across our whole value chain. Our work to protect futures covers the following areas: Customer focus Responsible sourcing > Our goal is to create and share value for and Responsible sourcing means taking into with our customers through our products account social, environmental and ethical and services. We believe that true value is considerations, as well as cost, quality and generated through active collaboration and delivery time. Our goal is to minimize real partnership working. negative impacts and make a positive contribution to the businesses, people and Environmental innovation > communities that make up our supply chain. We’re constantly striving to develop new products and processes that meet our rigorous Managing our impact > quality and safety standards but with a lower We are working to minimize our environmental environmental footprint. Innovation is the key impact across the entire value chain, from to addressing new and emerging customer sourcing to production to the use and disposal needs, staying competitive and doing business of our products, working in partnership with our in a sustainable way. suppliers and customers. Recycling > We believe that our responsibility does not end when we sell our packages. By supporting recycling, we can give used beverage cartons a new life, protect natural resources and reduce R  ead more about how we are protecting futures climate impact. Our approach Food People Futures 25 Environmental innovation AND THE WINNER IS... Throughout 2015, Tetra Rex® Bio-based Ethical Corporation: Green Star Packaging continued to win plaudits for innovation, and Sustainable Innovation Award: Sustainability for its contribution to the development of Tetra Rex Bio-based outshone its rivals in The judges’ favourite from the start, truly sustainable packaging. this highly competitive category. In the Tetra Rex Bio-based took first place in the citation, Ethical Corporation announced: “Environmentally friendly product” category. International Forum: Packaging “This award went to the company that The IF design awards were established in 1953, and most clearly demonstrated incorporation Pro2Pac Excellence: Gold Award are recognized worldwide as setting a standard for of sustainability into commercial The Pro2Pac awards were set up to discover the design excellence. Tetra Rex Bio-based won the 2015 objectives. The winner showed that they most exciting products, services and business Packaging award, following on from the success of have created a definitive new product that solutions in the food and drink packaging Tetra Evero® Aseptic the previous year. has been incorporated into operations industry. Entries are assessed by an independent panel across the company.” of experts, who are looking for all-round excellence World Beverage Innovation: Best Carton in the field of packaging. The World Beverage Innovation Awards are regarded as Packaging Europe: Sustainability among the most credible and influential in the industry. This is our second Packaging Europe Sustainability DuPont Awards for Packaging: Tetra Rex Bio-based was awarded the prize for Best Award in the “Bio-Based” category. The judges spoke Silver Award Carton or Pouch. of our commitment as a market leader and household Judges at the 28th DuPont Awards for Packaging brand in investing to put a package on the market that Innovation commented: “With effective on-pack Packaging Industry Awards: is 100% derived from renewable feedstocks. communication, this package offers dairy and beverage Packaging Sustainability brands a competitive advantage as consumers “At a time when we are using raw materials at a Oscar dell’Imballaggio: Special increasingly demand sustainably produced products. rate far beyond what the Earth can produce, it Environment Prize With it, Tetra Pak has shown a true commitment to becomes important to reduce the use of these The so-called Oscars of Packaging aim to sustainable packaging solutions that will inspire materials,” said the judges. “To create a largebring awareness and recognition to remarkable others to believe stretch targets on environmental volume product such as a drinking carton in a innovations in packaging. This is the second performance are achievable.” fully renewable material has a clear effect on the consecutive year that Tetra Pak has received an environment and creates resonance that goes award, confirming our reputation as a company Read more about our work to develop beyond the packaging industry.” at the forefront of sustainability. sustainable products Our approach Food People Futures 26 Environmental innovation Case study TETRA TOP®: THE SUSTAINABLE CHOICE US customer JUST® water chose the new Tetra Top® The new package The reaction to date has been very carton bottle with bio-based reflects JUST® positive: at the end of 2015, JUST plastic for the launch of its 100% water’s values of water was named a favourite new responsibility and pure spring water. beverage of the year by the readers transparency of Beverage Industry magazine. The new Tetra Top® carton bottle is comprised of 82% materials from “Consumers choose JUST water renewable sources: the latest in a long because they appreciate its brand line of environmentally responsible values and want this to be reflected packaging innovations. The cap and top in the whole user experience,” of the carton are made of high-density says Charles Brand, Executive Vicepolyethylene bioplastic (HDPE) derived President Product Management from sugar cane. This, along with the and Commercial Operations. Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC™)certified paperboard used for the main “We are pleased to have come up sleeve of the carton, has significantly was a crucial factor for our customer says Grace Jeon, CEO of JUST. “We with a package that is aligned with increased the proportion of materials JUST® water in choosing first Tetra Top found a true partner in Tetra Pak.” this focus without compromising from renewable sources from 53%. and now the new bio-based version of convenience and functionality. Packages The package is also recyclable where the package for its sustainably sourced Not only does the package itself break made from materials that come from facilities are available. 100% spring water. new ground, the product – 100% spring renewable sources are not only good water sourced from upstate New York for the environment but also offer our The use of materials from renewable Focus on sustainability – represents a new category that offers customers a competitive advantage as sources – resources that can be The Tetra Top Bio-based carton significant opportunities for the future. consumers increasingly look to make replenished over time like wood bottle reflects JUST water’s values of As Product Manager Helena Kronmore environmentally friendly choices.” fibre from trees or bio-based plastic responsibility and transparency, while Benteke notes, now that Tetra Pak has from sugarcane – plays an important delivering a great environmental profile. broken into the US market with Tetra role in reducing resource scarcity “This bottle innovation significantly Top, “We are hoping to pave the way R  ead more about our work to and mitigating climate change. The reduces the product’s carbon footprint, for carton bottle with other customers develop sustainable products environmental profile of carton bottles which aligns with our business ethos,” and other categories, such as dairy.” Our approach Food People Futures 27 Responsible sourcing Case study MILESTONE FOR FSC™-LABELLED PACKAGES Tetra Pak reached a significant 200 billion milestone in early 2016, with the total number of FSC™-labelled packages delivered passing the FSC™-labelled packs delivered by Tetra Pak 200 billion mark. since 2007 The first Tetra Pak package to be labelled as made from Forest Stewardship Council™ (FSC™)-certified paperboard – meaning that it comes from FSC-certified and controlled sources and is traceable back to its origins – was delivered in 2007. This was a first for the industry, and we Growing demand have continued to break new ground ever The number of FSC-labelled packages since, as well as working to find renewable delivered has grown exponentially alternatives to the other materials that make since we produced the first such up our packages. On average, more than package in 2007. By 2009, the annual 70% of a Tetra Pak carton package is made total had climbed to 1.5 billion, up of materials from renewable sources. In reaching 18 billion in 2011 and 2014, we achieved FSC Chain of Custody 54 billion by 2015. By spring 2016, certification for all our sites, so we can supply we had delivered a total of FSC-labelled packages anywhere. 200 billion FSC-labelled packages for our customers worldwide since © EGGER FORESTRY The FSC logo enables consumers to make a production began. conscious choice when it comes to choosing packages. Increasingly, consumers are looking to companies to make a public commitment Read more about responsible sourcing to protecting the environment – and to communicate that in a transparent way. Our approach Food People Futures 28 Managing our impact MAKING EFFICIENCY A PRIORITY Our biggest single climate impact results from energy consumption in our own operations and elsewhere in the value chain, so improving energy efficiency is a top priority for us. 63% of identified energy savings implemented Electricity consumption in our factories has remained across our factories almost flat since 2005, while our business has grown by the end of 2015 over 30% during the same period. Audits of our own factories carried out by external energy experts have identified additional opportunities to reduce energy use by 10-12%. We are currently implementing these ISSARAWAT TATTONG/SHUTTERSTOCK.COM recommendations and sharing best practice across all our sites. By the end of 2015 we had implemented around 63% of identified savings and were on track to reach 91% by the end of 2017. At the same time, the 2015 climate efficiency result for Supply Chain Operations Packaging Material showed an improvement of 21% compared with the Clearer calculations 2010 baseline. Our work to increase efficiency covers We have recently launched a new version of use of all resources, as well as energy, and includes our Carton CO2 calculator, which shows the our customers’ operations. CO2e footprint of our cartons under European 50% of the water from the machines’ compressors – conditions up to the moment when the So, for example, when we learned that our customer has increased efficiency by reducing stoppages, and packaging material leaves our factories. Ultrajaya was facing stoppages at its factory in West significantly cut water consumption. The calculator now includes more cartons and Java, Indonesia, due to a low water supply, we caps, including those made from bio-based set out to identify ways of reducing the amount of materials, and reflects our latest data on water being consumed by their filling machines. performance and emissions. Read more about how we are managing our impact Our proposed solution – which involved reusing Our approach Food People Futures 29 Recycling BUILDING STRONGER INFRASTRUCTURE We are working to develop and strengthen infrastructure, making it easier for consumers to recycle and creating new opportunities for recycling companies. Brazil: putting recycling on the map Tetra Pak Brazil celebrated eight years since the launch of its Recycling Route by partnering with Waze, the world’s biggest community-based traffic and navigation app, to make it even easier for people to dispose of their discarded packages in a responsible way while they are Tetra Pak is working to build capacity among waste-picker co-operatives in Brazil on the move. So far the app has been downloaded by 2,500 Panama: spreading the word Colombia: investing in business people in São Paulo and Tetra Pak has supported the creation of three Tetra Pak is supporting seven recycling plants in Rio de Janeiro. new mobile recycling stations in Panama City Colombia which, between them, have capacity to deal and is working with the Municipality on an with 90% of the packages sold in the country. In total, Brazil: taking care of the future awareness campaign, including mapping stations we have invested more than 1.2m Colombian pesos Two projects are increasing capacity among waste-picker online at rutadelreciclado.com. Plans are in supporting seven companies to build businesses co-operatives to develop their business. “Taking care of under way to expand the scheme and to based on recycled materials. ProPlanet, which operates the Future” provides leadership and technical training, further develop sorting centres. the plant in La Estrella, turns discarded packages into and is now in its third year, while “Cooperativa em Ação” items of furniture, including for schools in poor areas focuses on boosting productivity and encouraging of the country. So far the company has succeeded in co-operatives to adopt a more business-like approach. creating nearly 30 new jobs and is also working to raise awareness of recycling in local schools. Our approach Food People Futures 30 Recycling RAISING AWARENESS OF RECYCLING We are working to raise awareness of recycling Portugal: “Yellow is fun” and encourage more consumers to dispose of Tetra Pak and dairy producer Agros are working with their packaging in a responsible way. Lipor (the organization that manages urban waste in the Oporto region of Portugal) on the “Yellow is fun” Malaysia: educating the next generation initiative. For each 10kg of Agros milk cartons recovered For the past 10 years, Tetra Pak Malaysia has worked from the region’s yellow recycling containers, Tetra with local government and businesses to run a recycling Pak and Agros will donate €10 to a fund to construct a competition for school children. To date, an estimated children’s playground in Póvoa de Varzim. 900,000kg of recyclable waste has been collected, and all schools in the Shah Alam area, just west of the capital Hungary: “Flatten your carton” Kuala Lumpur, now have collection facilities on site. The Hungarian Association of Beverage Carton Producers – of which Tetra Pak is a leading member – Korea: promoting carton collection and has invited school children to make and upload short recycling in Sejong videos showing creative ways to flatten a beverage Tetra Pak Korea is working with Sejong City government carton. Tetra Pak offered prizes and also encouraged and Sejong YMCA to educate pre-school children about celebrities and bands to submit videos, which have recycling and run a scheme where consumers can swap been compiled on Facebook. The resulting short film used recyclable cartons for recycled toilet paper. Between has had over 12,000 views. April 2014 and April 2016, around 172 tonnes of used cartons were collected. China: new eco-park in Shanghai A new eco-park next to Shanghai’s Disneyland Resort Croatia: a creative approach is showcasing the creative possibilities of recycling, Eko Paket (part of the international Eco Schools Programme featuring benches and waste bins as well as a series of on environmental awareness) has been running in Croatia Czech Republic: towns lead the way sculptures of the traditional Swedish Dala Horse, for three years. 2015 saw the number of participating Six towns in the Czech Republic have been chosen all made from some 4.38m recycled Tetra Pak cartons. institutions double, with 5,000 children from 70 schools to host the campaign “Where do beverage cartons The partnership between Tetra Pak and the park’s directly involved in the project. Activities included a belong?” The campaign uses local events and festivals managers, Shanghai Shendi Group, includes public recycled art competition, workshops and demonstrations to increase awareness of carton recycling and local education campaigns and developing souvenirs made showing how used cartons are turned back into pulp. facilities and collection services. from recycled materials. Our approach Food People Futures 31 Recycling Case study CARETON – A LASTING PARTNERSHIP Through its CAREton Project, Tetra Pak Malaysia is working Positive impact to promote products made Tetra Pak Malaysia first introduced from recycled materials – carton recycling in 2005. At and help build better lives the time, recycling rates were for local people. negligible: the latest figures show a rate of 28.4%. “Our achievements The CAREton Project was launched to date must be attributed to our in 2012, with the aim of building on recycling partners, KPT Recycle; Tetra Pak Malaysia’s existing work our collection partners who make to promote recycling in partnership it easy for consumers to drop off with our customer Nestlé. While their used cartons; and of course the initial campaign focused on the consumers themselves who collect, environmental benefits, CAREton rinse and drop off their used shows how recycling can help local cartons,” says Environment Director communities, too. Terrynz Tan. “We are committed In helping local people, CAREton is also creating a market for recycled products to keeping the momentum up. We The project works by teaming up provides rural housing for indigenous Terrynz Tan, Environment Director can still do better!” with community organizations and Orang Asli people. A further 20 new for Tetra Pak Malaysia, Singapore, transforming used cartons into new homes were completed in 2014. Philippines and Indonesia. “While products that directly support their many evacuees have since returned, campaign exceeded its target, and work. In its first year, CAREton provided An opportunity to help they remained homeless. We saw an gathered enough material to build 50 10,000 exercise books and 100 pieces In 2015, the focus shifted to the east opportunity to help them.” new homes in the Kelantan region. of school furniture made from recycled of the country, which had been badly cartons to an educational organization affected by floods. The campaign set Each roofing tile, measuring around At the same time, CAREton has supporting poor children in Malaysia’s a target of collecting 8.5m cartons 2.7m by 1.2m, requires 7,247 recycled continued to expand its collection cities. In 2013, it delivered 460 sections and recycling them into 1,150 roofing drink packs to make. The drink packs network. New partner Hilton Petaling of recycled polyAl roofing material, tiles, enough for 25 new homes. “The are recycled by KPT Recycle, Malaysia’s Jaya hotel boosts the network to more enough for 10 new houses, to EPIC east coast floods were devastating, largest carton recycling facility and one than 20 commercial partners and over Homes, a social enterprise that displacing over 100,000 people,” says of our recycling partners. In fact, the 470 collection points nationwide. Our approach Food People Futures 32 Measuring and reporting SETTING TARGETS, MONITORING PROGRESS We set clear targets and work hard to • Scope 1: Direct emissions from our own monitor progress against them, ensuring operations, including fuel consumption and the transparency about our impact in all areas. use of solvents and refrigerants. • Scope 2: Indirect emissions related to purchased Since 1999, we have reported on our environmental electricity, heat, steam or cooling. data according to the following principles: • Scope 3: Indirect emissions in our value chain • All data presented covers a full calendar year, from sources not owned or controlled by us. January to December. • We report on our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions Our Scope 2 total for 2015 was calculated using the according to the GHG Protocol principles. “market based” methodology. This means that we • For selected data we also present an eco-efficiency have used supplier-specific emission rates where indicator reflecting the environmental impact in available, in line with the GHG Protocol Scope 2 relation to a certain parameter. Quality Criteria, and that our results reflect the use of • In some cases, we have corrected previous years’ renewable electricity at our sites. Under Scope 3, we data when sites have reported corrections to account and report emissions across our value chain, historic data. showing the total climate impact from the sourcing, production, use and disposal of our products. Reporting on GHG emissions Since 1998, we have been collecting data from Our CDP score the different parts of our organization annually, and We disclose our climate performance data and consolidating the information in a central database. progress towards our target through the CDP. Up to 2010, we measured only the emissions from In 2015, we improved our CDP disclosure score our own operations. Then in 2011 we established from 97 to 99, compared with a CDP Supply our new climate strategy, committing us to reducing Chain average of 60, and our performance – emissions across the entire value chain. In 2013, we based on progress against our own targets – was began verifying our emissions data through external rated B compared with an average C. We also auditors. The GHG Protocol requires us to report on reported into the CDP’s forests programme for the emissions in three areas: first time, and were recognized as a sector leader – one of just nine from a total of 180 companies. Our approach Food People Futures 33 Measuring and reporting OUR 2015 RESULTS Energy use (GJ) Greenhouse gas emissions Energy (input) Our 2020 climate goal is to cap greenhouse gas (GHG) The energy use reported includes purchased electricity, the Energy use (GJ) emissions at 2010 levels while continuing to grow our use of fossil fuels such as natural gas and district heating 4,330,972 4,161,063 4,152,004 4,066,244 4,017,812 4,129,005 business. In 2015 we made significant progress against (hot water/steam). Electricity is the main source of power 4,330,972 4,066,244 4,017,812 4,129,005 4,161,063 4,152,004 this target, achieving a 15% reduction against the 2010 for our operations. Fuels are used both for heating and for baseline, at the same time as achieving a 16% increase process-specific purposes such as drying printing inks. in the number of packages sold. The chart (top right) depicts total energy use across our GHG emissions across value chain* operations around the world. Energy use has remained relatively stable, despite increases in production. Our converting factories consume 80% of the total energy 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Pack P k kagin i material Packaging used across our operations. 13,131 12,494 11,810 12,070 10,934 11,172 production volume 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 kt kt kt kt kt kt (standard packs) CO2e CO2e CO2e CO2e CO2e CO2e Energy use by function 2015 (%) We monitor the energy efficiency of our packaging Index Index Index Index Index Index GHG G targ target Support 100 96 91 92 84 85 material operations by measuring the energy used to operations produce a million standard packages. As shown in the Plastics 4% 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 chart below, this indicator has remained stable in recent 11% Market companies 1% *Target 100 years, with no major fluctuations. 2010, 2013 and 2014 data verified by third party (Ecofys) Machines and 4% 2011 and 2012 data not verified by third party equipment Energy efficiency, packaging material production Tetra Pak operations (GJ/million standard packages) 50 GHG emissions (scope 1+2) total ktonnes 44.1 44 1 43 GHG emissions (scope 1+2) total ktonnes 42 40.6 40 0.6 6 38 8 38.4 38.8 38 4 413 406 412 412 407 40 35 9 3 35.9 413 412 412 381 34.7 33 34.7 33.9 9 33.8 33 8 80% 406 407 3 32 7 32.4 32.7 32 4 32.2 3 32 2 381 3 31 7 30.7 31.7 0 30 3 7 0.7 32 Packaging material 30 converting 20 10 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Our approach Food People Futures 34 Measuring and reporting Raw materials Waste The data presented in this section covers the raw Material waste is measured as the difference materials used to produce our carton packages, between raw material consumed and the packaging including laminates, closures, straws, strips and film. material produced. The material waste rate is the factory weighted average waste percentage. Raw material use per main base material 2015 The figure below shows the steady reduction of Aluminium packaging material waste over the years. 5% Polymers Packaging material waste (%) 23% 10 8.3 8.0 8 7.5 7.3 7.3 6.7 6.4 6.3 Bio-based 6 5.7 polymers 1% 6 5.4 5.1 4.9 4.5 4.2 4.0 4 71% Paperboard 2 The chart shows the relative proportions of each type of raw material that goes into our packages. 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Raw material use for packaging material production (1000 tonnes) Waste handling 2977 Waste handling covers the Incineration without 2905 2923 energy recovery 0.1% Landfill 2.1% 2841 2730 2781 handling of all solid waste Incineration with energy recovery 1.8% produced in operations, including production waste and any other types of waste from sites. The chart shows the proportion of waste that is recycled, incinerated either with or without energy 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 recovery, and sent to landfill. 96% The increase in total raw material use is mainly Recycling attributed to increased production levels. Our approach Food People Futures 35 Measuring and reporting Water Ozone depleting substances The table depicts total water consumption Emissions from ozone depleting substances across the Tetra Pak sites. The amount of water result from CFC/HCFC leakages when we use is modest; nevertheless, we seek to refilling the equipment in our production minimize usage as far as possible. lines. Emissions also result from accidental Water use (1000m33) releases, including the release of halon when Water use (1000m ) refilling fire extinguishers. Our policy is to 2204 2107 2121 2125 2107 2121 2027 2125 2204 2068 replace CFC, halon and all other substances 2027 2068 with high ozone depleting potential with alternatives that have a lower environmental impact. Since implementing this policy, our emissions from ozone depleting substances have dropped to marginal levels. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Ozone depleting substances (kg of CFC-11 equivalents) 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 1636 Our converting factories account for the largest percentage of water use, followed by those operations that assemble machines and equipment. 868 Water use by function 2015 (%) Support 408 433 Market companies 4% 269 6% 92 93 48 76 36 20 33 39 45 27 44 Plastics 8% 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Machines and 15% equipment 67% Packaging material converting Our approach Food People Futures 36 Measuring and reporting Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Compliance and certification Environmental incidents VOC emissions arise mainly from solvents used in printing With regard to environmental compliance, and compliance with inks and, to some extent, from printing plate production. Tetra Pak goes well beyond legal environmental legislation The data below represents total VOC emissions to air, after requirements by applying international An environmental incident is defined as the abatement equipment.VOC emissions (tonnes) environmental standards to ensure that release or threatened release of a chemical, environmental issues and impacts are physical or biological agent that may cause VOC emissions (tonnes) managed in a systematic way. At the end harm to the external environment. 1237 1170 of 2015, 92% of our factories were certified 1075 1237 1006 according to the ISO 14001 standard, with Compliance reporting refers to incidents where 1170 862 1075 certification in progress for the remaining 8%. sites have been subject to official notices of 1006 654 deficiency or non-compliance (e.g. notice of 862 violation, improvement notice, prohibition 654 notice) in regards to environmental legislation. Fines are reported separately. 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 The chart depicts the total numbers of 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 environmental incidents, fines or penalties, The graph below shows our VOC emissions per million as well as official notices delivered to our standard packages produced. operations around the world. VOC emissions per standard packages produced 24.7 (kg / million standard packages) Environmental incidents and penalties Environmental Environmental incidentsincidents and penalties and penalties 25 Official notices 20.3 Official notices Official notices Fines or penalties Fines or penalties 20 Fines or penalties Environmental incidents Environmental incidents 15.6 5 Environmental incidents 5 5 13.1 36 15 12.6 36 3 11.6 36 3 10.4 3 3 9.9 1 3 3 9 8.4 251 3 10 8.1 8 1 2 12 3 7.3 7.4 25 12 3 23 6.8 6.9 25 2 12 23 2 23 3 2 3 2 3 15 2 5 15 13 15 12 13 12 13 12 0 2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Our approach Food People Futures 37 OUR FUTURES JOURNEY We’re constantly striving to develop innovative new products and processes that meet our rigorous quality and safety standards but with a lower environmental footprint. Here’s a snapshot of some major milestones over the last decade First bio-based caps First Tetra Pak FSC™-labelled introduced. We have package produced. produced more than Our renewable energy We have since delivered 6.4 billion caps made purchases since 2005 have more than 200 billion from such sugar resulted in avoided emissions FSC-labelled packages cane-derived plastic equal to 400,000 tonnes of CO2e 2007 2011 2016 Sur  Sur  Wd fi 2010 2015 Sur  Climate goal and CO2e baseline established. We have since avoided Tetra Rex® Bio-based package 6.7m tonnes of CO2e across our value chain – equivalent to the launched. In 2016, we expect annual emissions of 1.4m passenger vehicles* to pass the 100m package milestone Suppliers Tetra Pak Customers End of life Suppliers Tetra Pak *www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator SUSTAINABILITY UPDATE 2016 tetrapak.com/sustainability
