Critical machining and welding since 1982 UN Global Compact Communication On Progress February 12th, 2016 Statement of continued support To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that HTS maskinteknikk reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours Nina C. Solberg Managing director Communication on Progress Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our Code of Conduct, covering our core values, ethical guidelines and the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, is our governing document on Human Rights. The Code of Conduct clearly states our support for human rights, and responsibilities for each employee. All potential breaches are to be reported directly to company management. HTS maskinteknikk supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, and has been an Amnesty International Supporter though several years. Goals for the upcoming year: For the upcoming year HTS will continue to raise awareness throughout the organization by promoting our Code of Conduct, and support of the Human Rights Principles. Implementation Through the past year, HTS maskinteknikk has taken several steps to implement the human rights principles in the organization. Examples are as follows:  A summary of our Code of Conduct is included in company presentations, and handed out to new hires.  Through our TPM program, all employees are encouraged to participate and promote ideas that will support the Human Rights Principles.  Awareness has been increased throughout the organization by communicating our work on ethical principles. Measurement of outcomes HTS maskinteknikk evaluates its performance through annual management reviews, and our non-conformance system. In the past year HTS maskinteknikk has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. No incidents on violations of the Human Rights principles have been reported to the Company Management. Labour principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Communication on Progress Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals HTS maskinteknikk is ISO 9001 and OHSAS 18001 certified, which are important standards in our work to continuously improve quality and HSE throughout the organization. In addition to complying with international standards, laws and regulations (as the Temporary Agency Work Directive, and the Norwegian Working Environment Act), our Code of Conduct clearly defines our roles and responsibilities within labour principles. Our Working Environment Committee has a strong cooperation with the Occupational Health Care, and the committee regularly meets to discuss labour related, and work environment related issues. There is also a strong focus on gender equality at HTS maskinteknikk, and the development of young talents. Goals for the upcoming year: For the upcoming year, HTS will continue to develop its talent program in order strengthen labour principles and promote career development. Implementation Through the past year, HTS maskinteknikk has taken several steps to implement the labour principles in the organization. Examples are as follows:  A summary of our Code of Conduct is included in company presentations, and handed out to new hires.  Through our TPM program, all employees are encouraged to participate and promote ideas that will support the Labour Principles.  Awareness has been increased throughout the organization by communicating our work on ethical principles.  A talent program has been launched where all employees to an even larger extent have the power to affect his/hers own career development in the company. In order to eliminate discrimination, career development is achieved through objective criteria and the evaluation of SMART goals and outcomes. Measurement of outcomes Our Working Environment Committee regularly evaluates performance, and discusses labour related issues at HTS maskinteknikk. Findings are reported directly to the HSE manager, and included in annual management reviews. Communication on Progress In the past year HTS maskinteknikk has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving labour violations. No incidents on violations of labour principles have been reported to the Company Management. Environmental principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals HTS maskinteknikk is in compliance with ISO 14001, and our policy on environmental principles is described in our Code of Conduct, and a part of our management system. We follow a robust waste management and recycling program, and are a member of Renas – a private voluntary organization which runs nationwide collecting and processing of EEwaste on behalf of its members. We continuously perform risk assessment on environmental related issues, and necessary actions are taken to reduce risk. Goals for the upcoming year: For the upcoming year, HTS will invest in several technical solutions in order to further reduce emissions. A new water treatment center as well as new improved structure for waste storage will both be installed in 2016. Implementation Through the past year, HTS maskinteknikk has taken several steps to implement environmental principles in the organization. Examples are as follows:  A summary of our Code of Conduct is included in company presentations, and handed out to new hires.  Through our TPM program, all employees are encouraged to participate and promote ideas that will support environmental principles.  Awareness has been increased throughout the organization by communicating our work on ethical principles.  The amount of paper-based documentation has been drastically reduced by increasing the amount of electronic documentation throughout the organization.  An emission reductions committee has been initiated to work on how to further decrease emissions. Communication on Progress Measurement of outcomes Risk assessment on environmental related issues is carried out, and actions are implemented if necessary. Findings are reported directly to the HSE manager, and included in annual management reviews. In the past year HTS maskinteknikk has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving environmental violations. No incidents on violations of environmental principles have been reported to the Company Management. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Our policy on anti-corruption is well described in our Code of Conduct, as well as by Norwegian legislation. HTS maskinteknikk will not accept any corruption, and commit to follow all relevant laws, and regulations. In addition, HTS maskinteknikk has a written no-gift policy. Goals for the upcoming year: For the upcoming year, a training session for employees on anti-corruption commitment will be carried out. Implementation Through the past year, HTS maskinteknikk has taken several steps to implement anticorruption principles in the organization. Examples are as follows:  A summary of our Code of Conduct is included in company presentations, and handed out to new hires.  Through our TPM program, all employees are encouraged to participate and promote ideas that will support anti-corruption  Awareness has been increased throughout the organization by communicating our work on ethical principles. Measurement of outcomes Findings are reported directly to the HSE manager and company management, and included in annual management reviews. In the past year HTS maskinteknikk has not been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving corruption. No incidents involving corruption have been reported to the Company Management
