UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS OF THE FREUDENBERG GROUP 2015 | 2016 CONTENTS I. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FROM THE CEO DEAR SIR OR MADAM, I. Statement of continued support from the CEO 3 As a global, values-based technology group, Freudenberg shareholders and the company itself donated a total of 1.6 II. The Freudenberg Group 4 is committed to its responsibility to society. This principle million Euros. With these and other means, Freudenberg will characterizes our business model and is firmly anchored be supporting a wide variety of refugee integration projects i. Group profile 4 in our Values and Principles. Together with our customers, focused on language teaching over the coming years. our partners and the world of science, we develop leadingii. We all take care 5 edge products, solutions and services and contribute to In all areas, we still constantly strive to become even better – improving the living conditions of people worldwide. We and expressly commit to implementing the ten principles of iii. Innovation 6 live responsibly in everything we do. To this end, we are the UN Global Compact and to driving these efforts further constantly investing in research and development and are forward. iv. Risk management 7 able to steadily increase our sales with new and sustainable products. Dr. Mohsen Sohi III. Human rights and labor 8 CEO of Freudenberg Group For Freudenberg, responsibility begins with our own IV. Environmental protection 18 processes and systems. We make all our actions as environmentally friendly as possible. This also means that V. Anti-corruption 22 we use the natural resources needed in our production processes, products and services as sparingly and carefully VI. Social responsibility 24 as possible. In addition, during 2015, we continued to develop the organizational framework for monitoring our compliance with laws, rules, voluntary and other obligations. The Freudenberg Compliance Management Council (FCMC) is working to convert the existing compliance initiatives of The cover picture shows Nedal Idies and Hiroyuki Sato, employees of Freudenberg the Business Groups in a Group-wide structure. We have Sealing Technologies in Berlin. They are checking steering bellows – protective seals published a mandatory internal Code of Conduct and have for socket joints, ball joints and articulated shafts – which are used for example made it available to all employees worldwide. for cylinders, in machine-building, in agricultural machines and construction equipment. Through our long-term social commitment in numerous small and larger initiatives, we actively contribute to the wellbeing of society and are a good neighbor in the communities around our sites worldwide. In 2015, we launched the international “e²” initiative. All employees worldwide are encouraged to get involved in non-profit educational and environmental projects. Over the next five years, the company will be supporting these projects with ten million Euros. In addition, Freudenberg has become increasingly involved in refugee aid since 2015. As part of a Group-wide initiative, employees, retired former employees, 2 3 II. THE FREUDENBERG GROUP i. GROUP PROFILE their own responsibility. These individual companies in turn ii. WE ALL TAKE CARE The mobile safety friend belong to Business Groups. Freudenberg is a global technology group that strengthens With the launch of “We all take care” in 2002, Freudenberg The safety team at Freudenberg Home and Cleaning its customers and society long-term through forwardFreudenberg has two management companies: Freudenberg started an initiative based on the principles of the Group Solutions (FHCS) in Aurora, USA, introduced the mobile looking innovations. & Co. KG is the strategic management company of the that calls on every employee to personally engage in security friend. With this trolley, managers walk through the Group. Under its roof, Freudenberg SE assumes all the tasks improving environmental, health and safety performance. production halls several times a day. Among other things, Freudenberg offers its customers in the passenger car of operational group leadership as the parent company of Key themes of the initiative also include an awareness of the trolley is equipped with “Stop-Think-Act” cards, which and commercial vehicle industry, mechanical and plant the various Business Groups. social responsibility and dealing with risks at Freudenberg are intended to help reduce the number of behavior-related engineering, textile and apparel, construction, mining and sites. accidents. The mobile safety friend enables managers to heavy industry, energy, chemical, and the oil and gas sectors Freudenberg is a family company and is currently owned maintain direct contact with employees and, if necessary, excellent innovative technological products and services. by some 320 heirs to the founding father Carl Johann Every employee is personally responsible for implementing to give immediate feedback. In fact, staff are providing more In the year under review the customer base also included Freudenberg. the “responsibility” Guiding Principle in his or her work feedback and making more suggestions for ways in which to companies in the medical technology, civil aviation, and rail environment. Via the Freudenberg portal, all employees can improve safety at the site. They are also increasingly getting vehicles sectors. access details about successful projects and thus accelerate involved in the “Stop-Think-Act” concept and internalizing it the improvement processes. As part of the corporate Health, more, with the result that accident rates in comparison to Together with its partners, customers and the world of Safety, Security, Environment (HSE) meeting, the initiative the previous year have fallen by half. science, the ten Business Groups (previous year: twelve will continue to be developed with the involvement of top Business Groups) of the Freudenberg Group develop management and the respective senior managers of the leading-edge technologies, and excellent products, Business Groups. solutions and services for more than 30 market segments and for thousands of applications: seals, vibration control Each year, Freudenberg honors employees who have shown components, nonwovens, filters, specialty chemicals, particular commitment, success, progress and exceptional medical products, IT services and the most modern cleaning performance within the context of this initiative with the products. “We all take care” award. The innovative strength of Freudenberg has many facets. Among the 2015 winners were the following projects: One key aspect has always been the culture of close cooperation that exists between our more than 40,000 employees, our customers, partners and the world of Healthy in spite of shift work science. As a result, innovations run like a red thread through the history of the company – from the development Shift work carries an increased health risk compared to of chrome tanning and the Simmerring to sophisticated and working regular hours. With the help of a new shift model, highly technical medical products. Striving together for the energy technology department of Freudenberg Service solutions that contribute to the sustainable development (FSV) is targeting a reduction in employee sickness levels. of the environment and society worldwide is at once our The model is based on task-oriented capacity planning, motivation and the basis of the company’s success. In from which specific staffing needs are derived. This in turn this respect, Freudenberg lives the concept of “Innovating provides the basis for shift and staff scheduling. Employees Together” through all Business Groups and across all global now receive a schedulable model with fixed leisure blocks. regions. It is this that enables the company to offer its FSV expects to see a decline in classic “shift illnesses”, such customers solutions and answers today to the questions as cardiovascular disease and long-term illness, as well as a of tomorrow. reduction in overtime. Freudenberg sees itself as an enterprise of entrepreneurs. Operational business is in the hands of independent companies whose management conducts business under 4 5 II. The Freudenberg Group II. The Freudenberg Group iii. INNOVATION Corporate Innovation was realigned during the year iv. RISK MANAGEMENT under review, and the corporate function is now tasked with fostering innovation and technology at Group level Freudenberg is exposed to numerous risks and opportunities in line with the new positioning. To that end, Corporate inseparably associated with entrepreneurial action. A risk Innovation identifies and implements tools, structures and management system is in place throughout the Freudenberg processes for improving innovation-related competences Group to help the company deal with risks. The Freudenberg and optimizing cooperation between the Business Groups. Group’s risk management system is a decentralized system Corporate Innovation comprises Corporate R&D, Corporate oriented to the Group’s organizational structure, which was Scouting and Corporate New Business. further developed in 2014. The system covers all companies fully consolidated in the Freudenberg Group Annual Report, The research specialists at Corporate R&D provide materials and includes all Group measures addressing the main risks. and technology expertise for projects undertaken jointly with the Business Groups as well as offering analytical One such measure is the Freudenberg risk management services. Young scientific talent can become integrated in process. This process in particular ensures the structured Freudenberg’s scientific community through these projects identification, assessment, control and monitoring of (junior program for scientists). main risks that might jeopardize the continued existence of the company. The process also includes appropriate risk Corporate Scouting involves translating new themes communication and the continuous improvement of the and ideas into projects and, ultimately, solutions that risk management system. Freudenberg can use to generate lasting business in the future. One instrument for finding such themes – in Various measures to safeguard liquidity are in place which addition to systematic analyses – is the ideaTrophy idea allow Freudenberg to react swiftly to unexpected liquiditycompetition. This competition encourages internal and related risks. Such risks are hedged by solid banking and external experts to submit business ideas for the following Partners’ financing and high liquid reserves. Freudenberg defined search fields: renewable energies, water, health, has an above-average equity ratio, a stable level of Partners’ surface technologies, oil & gas. reserves through Freudenberg & Co. KG Partners and comprehensive credit lines. Corporate New Business contributes to reinforcing the innovative strength of the entire Freudenberg Group. The Binding internal guidelines for companies in the objective is to identify and develop new areas of business Freudenberg Group clearly specify that derivative financial that are not directly focused on the Business Group’s current instruments may not be used for speculative purposes, In 2015, the Freudenberg Group conducted research and Technological innovations have been and still are the driving main fields of activity. This is to be achieved by harnessing but only for hedging risks in connection with underlying development activities in the amount of €315.3 million force behind Freudenberg’s success. The Business Groups the Business Groups’ core technologies and existing knowtransactions and associated financing operations. (previous year: €270.3 million) based on the pro-rata have always invested in developments and technologies how. consolidation of the joint ventures. During the year under that have broken new ground for each particular Business As a globally active manufacturer of functionally-relevant review, an average of 2,772 employees (previous year: 2,582 Group. In addition to that, the Freudenberg Group has The Freudenberg Innovation Council is a platform for technical components, specialty chemicals and final employees) were employed in research and development established technology platforms for the Group as a whole exchange among the Business Group CTOs – with the aim user products as well as a service provider for industry, throughout the Freudenberg Group based on the pro-rata – these overarching platforms reflect the spirit of the new of strengthening the Group’s innovation and technology Freudenberg is exposed to various legal risks, including risks consolidation of the joint ventures, with the regional focus company slogan “Innovating Together”. The aim is to further performance as well as driving forward the Freudenberg relating to competition and antitrust law, anti-corruption in Germany, where 1,573 employees (previous year: 1,542 develop Freudenberg’s materials and system competence Group’s innovation strategy and strategic initiatives (for regulations, and environmental protection. employees) were employed. beyond the boundaries of individual Business Groups. In example: “Globalization of Research & Development” and the 2015 financial year, Freudenberg closely addressed “Innovations for Sustainability”). In addition, the Council The significance of innovation for Freudenberg is also five technology platforms: nonwovens, sealing technology, fosters exchange among young technical talent. Each reflected in the Group’s new brand positioning as set out molding, friction/wear & lubrication, and surface Business Group compiles an annual Innovation Review in the benefit statement: “Freudenberg is a values-based technologies. These are knowledge transfer platforms and in cooperation with Corporate Innovation, addressing its technology group that best serves its customers and enable the creation of synergies. progress with regard to innovation and technology and society” and in the company slogan “Innovating Together”. defining its challenges. 6 7 PRINCIPLE 1: Businesses should support and respect the PRINCIPLE 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and protection of internationally proclaimed compulsory labor; III. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR human rights; and PRINCIPLE 2: businesses should make sure that they are PRINCIPLE 5: the effective abolition of child labor; and not complicit in human rights abuses. PRINCIPLE 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. PRINCIPLE 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; BUSINESS PRINCIPLES AND ETHICS OFFICE People As a family company, we are devoted to our employees’ well-being and their personal development. We reject all forms of discrimination and harassment and show understanding and respect in our dealings with each other. We provide a multi-cultural environment where employees work together in worldwide teams to enrich our culture and capability. We believe in the value of enduring relationships with customers, suppliers and industrial partners. Responsibility Our company and its family shareholders together are committed to protecting the environment and being responsible corporate citizens in all countries and We also need to survive in fierce competition. Our success implemented at all levels, starting from the Members communities in which we do business. We take all must be based on performance. We do not have any of the Management Board of Freudenberg & Co. KG and possible care to ensure the safety of the workplace and dealings with businesses in which illegal or unethical means the Board Members of Freudenberg SE, the executive our products. are employed. officers of the respective Business Groups and all other superiors. As a family company, we strive for the highest standards We will not manufacture products that have the purpose of of personal behavior. Fairness and integrity guide our harming people (for example, weapons). Infringements are not acceptable and may result in conduct amongst ourselves, towards our business disciplinary action from Board level down through the Business Principles partners and the general public . Acting responsibly towards the environment and the safety management of the Business Groups to the respective of our employees are important corporate objectives and superiors. This is especially true in cases of active and The principles of the Freudenberg Group are value for should not be limited to bare compliance with the relevant passive corruption, breaches of antitrust rules, violation customers, leadership, responsibility, innovation, people Leadership principles laws. of relevant legal environmental and technical safety and and long-term orientation. These are the foundation labor law rules (for example, breach of the principle and benchmark of all actions within the Group. The The Freudenberg Group upholds a social commitment Compliance with applicable laws and regulations, as well of equality) and violations of the privacy rights of the implementation of this benchmark in daily work is regularly to all its employees in Germany as well as in other as with the applicable Business and Guiding Principles employees (for example, personal degradation or sexual reviewed. countries. In this regard, it is impossible to define a of the Freudenberg Group and the observance of nonharassment). uniform standard. The way this commitment is applied contradictory, supplementary in-house (e.g. codes of In the areas of “human rights” and “labor standards”, depends rather on the laws, practices, needs and conduct, employee handbooks) and external local practices the principles people and responsibility are especially opportunities in each respective country. Discrimination (together “Corporate Principles”) is an indispensable emphasized. These express the fundamental understanding and exploitation of vulnerable people is explicitly condition for good cooperation between all employees of of the Freudenberg Group regarding these topics. prohibited anywhere in the Group. the Group and forms the binding basis for relationships with third parties, in particular with suppliers, customers The Guiding Principles are part of the Business Principles of The business policy of the Group requires compliance and authorities. They thus form the basis for the economic the Group (see also under V. Anti-corruption). with standards of conduct, with which both success of the Group. The Business Principles are mandatory shareholders and employees can identify: for all employees and must be actively exemplified and 8 9 III. Human rights and labor III. Human rights and labor Ethics Office WORKER REPRESENTATION Freudenberg European Works Council (FEBR) EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT Services that arise in disregard of Corporate Principles, or Freudenberg signed a global agreement for social dialog Informal exchanges regularly take place with the various behaviors that run counter to these, are undesirable. To with the International Federation of Chemical, Energy, works councils at Freudenberg sites. As far back as 1996, Top employer ensure that such situations are avoided, the Freudenberg Mining and General Workers’ Unions (ICEM) and the a first European employee representative body was set up Group has set up Ethics Offices to act as an enquiry and Mining, Chemical and Energy trade union (IG BCE), which based on a European directive and a voluntary agreement. contact point for all employees for reporting and checking recognizes the international standards and conventions of Known as the Freudenberg Euro Forum, this body provided a such infringements. the International Labor Organization (ILO). Since the merger platform for delegates drawn from workers’ representatives of the ICEM and other unions into the IndustriALL union, across Europe to discuss transnational issues with the The ombudsman role that formerly existed at Freudenberg which was founded in 2012, an annual exchange on issues Group management. has been further developed and internationalized through of social dialog now takes place with this body. the contribution of experience gained so far. In the With the establishment of Freudenberg SE in 2012, the Freudenberg Group, there are now one central and four Freudenberg European Works Council (FEBR) replaced regional Ethics Offices (Corporate Ethics Office and Regional the previous Euro-Forum, according to the terms of its Ethics Offices). The existing international agreements of the ILO act as constitution. Because different national and also European guidelines for the Freudenberg Group. These include in legal bases need to be observed, the FEBR has more In 2016, Freudenberg & Co. was certified as a top employer The Corporate Ethics Office is staffed by four people, at least particular the following conventions with respect to: extensive rights to information and consultation than in Germany for the fourth year in succession. To be certified one of which must be a woman. It is located in Weinheim, its predecessor body. The continuation of the standards as a top employer, companies need to meet stringent Germany. The Corporate Ethics Office is supplemented yy Equality of opportunity and equal treatment in employachieved also includes in particular common responsibility, requirements in the context of a multi-stage certification by Regional Ethics Offices, which are located in the ment, in accordance with ILO Conventions 100 and 111 promoting and monitoring of compliance with the aboveprocess. Above-average employee orientation is the basis Freudenberg Regional Corporate Centers. Regional Ethics mentioned global agreement on social dialog, and the for entry. Via an extensive questionnaire, the areas of HR Offices have been established in North America, South yy The principle of safeguarding freedom of association and joint promotion and monitoring of the principles regarding strategy, implementation of HR policies and practices, America, India and Asia (China). the respect for basic trade union rights in accordance health and safety. monitoring and communication of working conditions and with ILO Conventions 87 and 98 employee development are all judged by the Top Employers The relevant Ethics Office receives the notifications sent to Institute. The requirements for obtaining the certificate are it and checks their substance and that of the associated yy Prohibition of forced labor as defined in ILO Conventions increased each year with the goal of firmly anchoring the infringements of Corporate Principles. In the process, the 29 and 105 concept of continuous improvement in the process and to office works together with a wide variety of areas within encourage companies to constantly strive to get better. the Group to correct the suspected or actual infringement yy Prohibition of child labor as defined in ILO Conventions The entire evaluation process and all participant details as far as possible, and to prevent similar infringements 138 and 182 are audited by an independent, external auditing company through appropriate measures. Disciplinary measures may according to international standards. be taken in the event of an infringement. The right of Freudenberg employees is recognized to freely join trade unions of their choosing, to elect workers’ repreCompanies that meet the requirements for certification An activity report for the previous calendar year is created sentatives and to engage in collective bargaining concerreceive individual feedback including an HR Benchmark once a year. In addition to the processing of any reported ning common interests. The basis of this recognition is ILO Report. Certified top employers are permitted to use the violations of applicable labor laws, cases of discrimination Convention 135: Prohibition of discrimination against shop certification seal and enjoy other special benefits for have thus far been a particular focus of the office’s activities. or union employee representatives. the period of one year. These include publication of the company profile on the Top Employer website and a report in a special publication of the Financial Times. 10 11 III. Human rights and labor III. Human rights and labor Balancing work and family life Fair Company Vocational training at Freudenberg Talent management In Germany, Freudenberg opened a daycare center near the In 2015, the Freudenberg Group was once again In 2015, 126 young people (previous year: 142) began their Competition to recruit the best minds is one of the biggest company’s Weinheim headquarter in November 2014. This awarded the Fair Company quality seal, which it has vocational training at Freudenberg’s German companies. In challenges facing any company. Freudenberg’s response to has enabled the Group to make an important contribution held continuously since 2009. The Fair Company seal is total, 464 people were training at Freudenberg in Germany this challenge is excellent talent management. to the work-life balance of parents. an initiative of karriere.de, a portal run by the business as at December 31, 2015. The spectrum ranges from a twopublications Handelsblatt and Wirtschaftswoche. Fair year commercial or technical apprenticeship to dual studies The online service portal benefit@work provides links Company represents a voluntary commitment on the part at a university of cooperative education. Freudenberg has Group-wide development programs for top executives to quality-assured services in all areas of family and of participating companies. The aim is to comply with acquired a reputation for the high standard of its vocational household, in particular childcare, elderly care and certain rules that help to ensure fair working conditions training, as is confirmed by the fact that companies located Launched in collaboration with the renowned business assistance with house and garden. All Freudenberg on entry into the working world. These rules include: in the vicinity of Freudenberg operations send their young school INSEAD in 2014 with great success, the Group-wide colleagues in the Weinheim area are able to access the people to Freudenberg for training. management development programs for the two top benefit@work offerings. The service providers involved are yy Fair companies do not replace full-time positions with management levels of the Freudenberg Group were run currently seeking to extend the offer to other locations. interns, volunteers, guests or permanent-temporary staff. In July 2015, the Board of Management approved the once again in 2015. 22 people took part in the Strategic concept for the new vocational training center. The Leadership Program (SLP), aimed at managers who The objective is to improve the family-friendliness of yy Fair companies offer internships primarily for professioobjective is to teach in-depth technical competence report directly to the Board, while 36 people participated Freudenberg. The service portal supports colleagues in nal orientation, mainly during the training phase. combined with a state-of-the-art curriculum including in the Business Leadership Program (BLP) for secondbetter balancing their work and family lives. content such as Industry 4.0 technologies in combination level executives. Candidates for participation in the yy Fair companies pay interns an adequate allowance. with a forward-looking learning environment featuring two programs are identified through the global talent advanced equipment. management process and are presented at the Global yy Fair companies are transparent and communicate their Talent Management Conference. To meet demand, the BLP participation in the initiative. will be run for two groups in 2016. The next SLP is planned for 2017. In addition, the Freudenberg Group received an award for the “Engagier dich” (“Get involved”) initiative from Campushunter. This scheme honors extracurricular student activities. The additional soft skills acquired in the process are especially recognized. 12 13 III. Human rights and labor III. Human rights and labor Business Groups. Two key elements of this concept are a DIVERSITY MANAGEMENT Group-wide learning management system, which was introduced in 2015, and the Freudenberg Training & Development Forum, which was first run in 2014. To bring the different leadership development programs offered in the Business Groups and regions together in a consistent and coherent framework, Freudenberg’s Training and Development Community has developed a leadership framework to facilitate cooperation in management development within the Freudenberg Group. Freudenberg Leadership Development Program The Freudenberg Group offers training programs for young executives in all regions of the world. For the first time in the reporting year, Group-wide development programs for young executives were run with standardized contents under the name Freudenberg Leadership Development Program (FLDP). The target group includes young professionals who have assumed their first leadership position or will shortly do so. At Freudenberg, diversity has been on the agenda for a In addition, one key element of the talent management To sustainably nurture the network, the aim is to establish long time and the Group’s Guiding Principles state that we process is a diversity statement issued by each Business FLDP alumni organizations in all regions. This has already actively promote a multi-cultural environment. And, with Group presenting the composition of management with been done in China and Europe. During the course of the the increasing globalization of our business we believe it regard to gender diversity, cultural diversity and generation reporting year, several highly successful network meetings is critical to actively build the capability of associates to diversity. A second key element of talent management is or FLDP alumni days were held in these regions. effectively navigate this reality. identifying concepts which will increase the composition of women in management. In addition, management trainees have also been supported Freudenberg launched the first top management leadership Group-wide via Regional Talent Dialogs in all global regions development programs (Strategic Leadership Program and since 2013. These events are used to discuss Group-wide Business Leadership Program, see page 13-14) which bring development prospects for identified talents in the regions. together executives from all business areas, regions and Freudenberg has also further expanded the Functional functions. The programs have a full session dedicated to Talent Dialogs, which will extend talent development into educating the Group about the benefits of diversity and technical careers. how to decode cultural differences. Understanding the benefits of diversity is the baseline necessary to actively The concept of a corporate university for the Freudenberg promoting the hiring of diverse talents. Also, the decoding Group was developed in 2014 under the Freudenberg skill is critical to opening a healthy dialog regarding Academy name. The aim is to promote and expand diversity and in enhancing our ability to work effectively cooperation between the academies of the individual with customers, suppliers and colleagues around the world. 14 15 III. Human rights and labor III. Human rights and labor ACCIDENT RATE (LDIFR) OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND in which Freudenberg seeks continuous improvement. [per 1 M hours worked] Alongside environmental protection, this means health in SAFETY Freudenberg Group particular. The company is pursuing projects for preventive 2 health management with increased vigor. 1.8 1.7 The HSE Guideline contains the HSE principles and defines the stipulations laid down in the Freudenberg Group’s 1.4 1.3 Values & Principles in relation to HSE issues in more concrete terms. The primary objectives are the prevention 1 of all accidents, preventive health care, and the continuous reduction in the negative impact of business activities on the environment. At the same time, positive environmental effects are to be intensified, for example by ensuring that the Group’s products have less negative impact on 0 the environment than their predecessors or competing 2012 2013 2014 2015 products or make a positive contribution. HSE Week is held once a year and calls on all Freudenberg Freudenberg Chemical Specialities in Zurich conducted context of SafeStart is playing a major role in changing Group sites to implement HSE actions. During the reporting workshops in partnership with an external consultant habits within the factory. The HSE results achieved so far year, employees were trained among other things in where employees learnt among other things how to have significantly exceeded expectations. occupational safety measures and ergonomics in the recognize stress in the workplace as well as learning how workplace, and were encouraged to make these things part to cope with stress in their own individual work and family The total number of accidents resulting in at least one of their daily working lives. environments. day’s absence from work during the year under review was 96 (previous year: 95). In 2015, Freudenberg began using the LDIFR (Lost Day Incident Frequency Rate) based Preventive health care Occupational safety on the pro-rata consolidation of the joint ventures in its internal reporting. On this basis, the LDIFR in 2015 was 1.3, The Group further expanded preventive health care Occupational safety measures focus on safety awareness representing a further improvement on the previous year management in 2015, and the health care principles were among employees. One example of these efforts (1.4). This indicator serves as a non-financial performance implemented under various programs and initiatives. is the numerous projects implemented under the “We indicator for the Freudenberg Group. It measures all Health care performance indicators, such as the all take care” initiative. At the Freudenberg Performance accidents at work involving at least one day’s absence per sickness rate, have been recorded since 2011 to identify Materials site in Parets del Vallés, Spain, for example, million working hours. Starting with the 2015 financial year, improvement potential and derive suitable measures. the safety culture was strengthened by ensuring that all the indicator also includes data for temporary employees Freudenberg is committed to the welfare and personal The transparency brought by this process has already led employees take personal responsibility for identifying and agency staff. Based on the equity consolidation method development of its employees. Health and safety are to a series of improvement projects. Two examples are safety deficiencies for the good of everyone. A mixed team for joint ventures, the LDIFR was 1.4 (previous year: 1.5). promoted and lived at Freudenberg in accordance with presented below. of two or three people (supervisors, department heads, There were seven serious accidents in 2015 (six in the internal regulations at all levels. Health, occupational safety employees) was given the task of observing colleagues previous year). In the year under review, direct investments and process safety are a routine part of daily operations. At Freudenberg Home and Cleaning Solutions in the UK, at work in defined situations once a week – for example, in occupational health and safety amounted to €12.1 office staff were encouraged to make small changes in their the use of tools, protective equipment, posture – and then million (previous year: €12.0 million). This approach has enabled the number of accidents in daily lives that were easy to adopt and to maintain over giving direct feedback. the Freudenberg Group to be reduced to a low level in the long term. The project focused on two aspects: healthy comparison with industry averages. Existing measures are eating, and sporting activities and physical wellbeing. The EagleBurgmann (EB) Brazil is working with DuPont’s being stepped up and complemented by new, targeted goal was to encourage a more active and balanced life­ SafeStart training method. This advanced program will approaches to continuously improve safety. style – in the office and outside. The results were extremely help to strengthen the safety culture at the Campinas site positive: the number of sick days, for example, has been in Sao Paulo state. Through the program, employees learn The success of HSE serves as an example for other areas halved compared with the previous year. to recognize when they are more prone to errors and how to avoid risks. At EB Brazil, intensive communication in the 16 17 PRINCIPLE 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; IV. ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION PRINCIPLE 8: businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and PRINCIPLE 9: businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ENERGY CONSUMPTION/SALES EXAMPLES OF PRODUCT ments, EB can offer its customers a reliable, cost-effective [KWh/€] solution that doesn’t require a complicated supply system. Numbers for Freudenberg SE DEVELOPMENTS 0.4 The new generation of pump seals from EB the eMG1 Freudenberg Sealing Technologies supports the auto elastomer bellows seals is fully-compatible with the 0.35 industry in its work on alternative powertrains. In addition, MG1 which has already proven itself millions of times. Key new materials for seals are required to meet the more features were optimized and new functions added. eMG is 0.3 stringent limits for emissions and the need for sustainable identical with eMG1, but its installation length is approx. solutions. One typical example of this support is the sealing 20 percent shorter. That gives manufacturers new openings 0.25 solutions in the cooling circuits for electric motors. Plug & in pump design, e.g. more compact architecture thanks to 0.2 Seals made of EPDM (ethylene propylene diene rubber) shorter shafts, which also saves material and improves are used here. These mechanically mountable, externally efficiency. 0.15 rubberized plug connections for housings, tube ends and assemblies ensure the secure transport of the coolant. They During the year under review, various products and 0.1 compensate for axial tolerances, seal even at high pressures, services from Freudenberg Chemical Specialities supported and contribute to acoustic and mechanical isolation. customers’ efforts to meet their sustainability targets. 0.05 The selective substitution of biodegradable products Freudenberg Sealing Technologies has therefore developed for mineral-oil based solvents, for example, increased 0 2012 2013 2014 2015 an EPDM rubber compound that is 45 percent bio-renewable environmental compatibility. Furthermore, customers and thus significantly reduces the manufacturing carbon saved energy through the use of adapted high-performance footprint. What is special about the new EPDM rubber lubricants and the development of environmentally compound is that a sugarcane-based feedstock is used neutral substitution technologies to replace conventional instead of fossil fuels. EPDM is normally manufactured using environmentally-critical processes in chemical surface Freudenberg is committed to protecting the environment searching for alternatives or substitute substances before ethylene and propylene based on crude oil. Now, 45 percent coating technologies. and assumes responsibility for making its actions as a statutory provision comes into effect while at the same of the ethylene is based on sugarcane. The new material is environmentally friendly as possible. time forestalling the effects on production of a possible even suitable for use in modern injection molding processes. Klüber Lubrication develops and manufactures new ban on a given substance. In addition, many product Possible applications for the new rubber include seals for high-performance specialty lubricants for the baking, This includes using natural resources for production developments are subject to a stage gate process which coolants, as well as synthetic hydraulic and brake fluids confectionery and snack industries. Specialty lubricants processes, products and services as sparingly and prudently among other things ensures that new products have a for aerospace applications. The newly developed material made to precisely match specific production conditions as possible. Environmental protection is firmly anchored better environmental performance than their predecessors. is capable of withstanding temperatures up to 150°C, and contribute decisively to production line process and energy in Freudenberg’s business practices. The aim is to steadily has outstanding compressive stress force retention. efficiency. reduce the consumption of raw materials through the Internal and external audit processes monitor the optimization of processes. This principle also applies to the implementation of programs to improve occupational FPM presented the world’s first nonwoven interlining The “Energy Efficiency” service concept, winner of the redesign and modernization of buildings, the manufacture health and safety, environmental protection or fire made from 100 percent biodegradable polyester fiber. Freudenberg Innovation Award, measures the energy of products and their use by customers. protection by the Business Groups. One objective of these The Business Group was the first company ever to receive saving potential of industrial plant. It is based on methods programs is to raise awareness for fire protection and to a certificate for the biodegradability of a PES nonwoven to analyze energy consumption and on the use of highFreudenberg uses various raw materials and processes in prevent personal injury, operational interruptions and the interlining from the renowned Hohenstein Institut test tech lubricants from Klüber Lubrication which reduce production that have differing effects on the environment associated potential delivery disruptions. The findings laboratory. The nonwoven interlining can be degraded twice friction between individual components compared with and workplace safety. Freudenberg manages these risks of the audits are systematically evaluated and measures as fast as a standard polyester interlining. conventional oils, thus saving energy. Projects to date in many ways. The objective is to continually reduce the implemented throughout the relevant Business Groups. indicate that energy costs can be cut by some five percent. physical risks for the site and their environmental impact. Through the use of a thermo-sensitive valve (BestFlow), EB offers its customers the opportunity to partially or even Highly-efficient Viledon® air filters for the food industry not With regard to hazardous substances or substances completely save seal water consumption, depending on only reliably separate bacteria, spores and other harmful which have become the subject of debate as a result of operating conditions. At a paper and pulp mill in Belgium, germs. These air filters also reduce electricity requirements legislative initiatives such as REACh (European Regulation for example, water consumption was reduced from more by around 14.5 percent, thus lowering operating costs. on Registration, Evaluation, Authorization and Restriction than 8 liters/min to 0.1 liter/min. Because saving water is Moreover, the filters have a longer service life than of Chemicals), Freudenberg proactively engages in increasingly coming into focus as a result of legal re­qui­re­ conventional filters. 18 19 IV. Environmental protection IV. Environmental protection The use of recycled polyester and polypropylene instead of Key environmental protection indicators “virgin material” conserves natural resources and reduces environmental impact. Around 1,900 tons of recycled fibers In 2015, Freudenberg consumed 1.6 million megawatt and 2,200 tons of recycled plastics form the raw material hours of energy (previous year: 1.6 million megawatt for various products at FHCS each year. For example, the hours). The break-down by sources of energy is as follows: bristles for Vileda brooms have been produced worldwide using recycled polyester (PET) since 2004. In addition to the yy Outsourced energy supplies (power, steam and district environmental benefits, they are more heat resistant than heat generated outside Freudenberg; 1.05 million meconventional PVC bristles. gawatt hours) yy Natural gas (0.52 million megawatt hours) Energy management yy Fuel oil (0.03 million megawatt hours) In terms of reducing the environmental impact of operations and increasing HSE policy orientation, the sustainable use This energy consumption of 1.6 million megawatt hours of energy is the subject of many site projects and initiatives translates into costs totaling approximately €110 million. of the Business Groups. In many Business Groups, energy Energy costs accounted for 1.7 percent of total sales managers have initiated numerous improvements to (previous year: 2.1 percent). existing systems, such as heaters, compressors, ventilation and steam utilities. The introduction of management systems relating to occupational health and safety (OHSAS 18001) and A growing number of Freudenberg sites are introducing environmental protection (ISO 14001 or EMAS) continued in energy management systems certified to DIN EN ISO 50001 the 2015 financial year. Some 90 percent of the Freudenberg to improve energy consumption. The Freudenberg Sealing Group’s production facilities now operate an occupational Technologies and Freudenberg Performance Materials health and safety management system pursuant to OHSAS Business Groups established such management systems 18001 and some 90 percent of production sites operate an at their German production sites. In addition, energy audits environmental management system pursuant to ISO 14001 pursuant to DIN EN 16247-1 were conducted at all relevant or EMAS. European sites to identify energy saving potential. Direct investments in environmental protection amounted The Freudenberg Group uses energy from renewable to €2.7 million (previous year: €1.8 million). The share resources, including solar energy. In Judenburg, Austria, of direct investments in environmental protection, EXAMPLES OF PROCESSES AND If consumption peaks arise, for example during the EB operates a solar system for water treatment. At EB in occupational health and safety in total investments in simultaneous startup of several plants, utility companies Lakeside (California, USA), a roof-mounted solar system tangible assets, intangible assets and investment properties METHODS need to use reserve supplies to compensate. Newly provides the plant’s entire electric energy needs. In EB amounted to 4.9 percent (previous year: 5.1 percent). introduced by FST, an energy saving “traffic light” is India’s research and development center in Pune, 50 The Freudenberg Performance Materials facility in preventing load peaks on six reheating furnaces. Yellow modern industrial LED light emitters have been installed, Novedrate, Italy, processes several million PET bottles indicates that staff should wait before starting another two wind turbines erected to generate electricity and a new from all over Europe daily, turning them into plastic flakes. furnace. The red light indicates that the last-started furnace service water system built. These flakes are the base material for various Freudenberg should even be temporarily taken off-line. Only when green products, particularly household products and nonwovens. is showing is everything okay. A new feature of Simmerring The integrated production cycle not only means that waste manufacturing is the energy instructions attached to which would otherwise end up as landfill is recycled – it also individual machines. Like the well-known operating, hazard brings a substantial 50 percent reduction in atmospheric and health instructions, they provide employees with carbon dioxide emissions. Using recycled polyester and specific rules of conduct and increase their awareness of polypropylene instead of virgin material also conserves energy consumption. natural resources and thus reduces the environmental impact. 20 21 PRINCIPLE 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. V. ANTI-CORRUPTION Principles and Guidelines Principles clarify that, as a family business, Freudenberg sets To that end, training events are held at regular intervals. high standards of personal behavior, fairness and integrity Modern communication tools such as web-based training that together determine relationships both within the and e-learning tools are used to reach as many employees company and with business partners and the public. The as possible. Business Principles and Guiding Principles are brought to the attention of all new employees in Germany and abroad, and are also published on the Freudenberg website (in Training and anti-corruption measures addition to the Guiding Principles, see also III. Human rights and labor standards). Also in 2015, classroom training courses were held in Germany and abroad, in which employees received faceto-face training, including the use of case studies. In Code of Conduct collaboration with the newly established Freudenberg Regional Corporate Center in India, employees of Indian Alongside the Business Principles and Guiding Principles companies were trained in workshops. In the course of this is the Freudenberg Group’s Code of Conduct. This is made training activity, the Freudenberg Values and Principles available to employees worldwide in 26 languages. In the were presented alongside national and international laws chapter “Anti-corruption, Gifts and Entertainment”, the and requirements, in particular on the subject of invitations Code of Conduct makes clear that fraud, acceptance of and gifts. advantages, bribery or any other form of corrupt business behavior is strictly prohibited at Freudenberg. Clear rules The eLearning tool on the subject of anti-corruption governing dealings with government officials have been developed by Freudenberg was integrated into the Learning laid down and secure guardrails set in place concerning the Management System (LMS) in 2015 and can now be granting and acceptance of gifts and invitations. allocated for targeted use with individual employees or groups of employees. Through the Group works council, a Group-wide agreement was reached on the use of eLearning Freudenberg Compliance Management Council initiatives. This makes it possible to check whether an individual employee has passed the final test. Compliance with laws, internal guidelines and Freudenbergspecific values (Guiding Principles, Business Principles, Code of Conduct) is given high priority at Freudenberg and is the Risk management und process audit subject of regular training. For this reason, the Freudenberg Compliance Management Council was set up in early 2015. Anti-corruption measures and the review of their Since then, this body has drawn up Group-wide guidelines effectiveness continued to form part of the risk On the occasion of the entry of his sons into the family and developed the Code of Conduct. The Compliance management strategy and the work of the Corporate business, company founder Carl Johann Freudenberg first Management Council consists of nine members: three Function Freudenberg Process Audit. The objective is to formulated the company’s business principles in 1887. senior managers, three regional representatives and three uncover corrupt practices in Germany and abroad, to On this basis, the Freudenberg Group has developed ten Corporate Function heads. In addition, the head of the Group review the effectiveness of the measures taken and, where business principles with which the shareholders and Function Process Audit regularly attends the meetings of necessary, to improve them. employees identify. One of these principles is that success the Compliance Management Council. must be based on performance. Freudenberg will have no dealings with businesses in which illegal or unethical means Furthermore, the Business Groups take the initiative in are employed. sensitizing their employees’ perception of the relevant legal risks. From the Business Principles of the Freudenberg Group, Guiding Principles were additionally derived. These define In addition, the Corporate Functions and the Freudenberg the value basis for behavior towards employees, business Regional Corporate Centers ensure that laws and regulations partners, stakeholders and third parties. The Guiding as well as internal rules are observed and complied with. 22 23 VI. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility is part of Freudenberg’s DNA. Under students gain an insight into careers in IT, production and the heading “Responsibility”, the Group’s values and sales as well as getting to know FPM and FIT. In the schools principles state: “Our company and its family shareholders themselves, FPM and FIT run “Technology Days” with the together are committed to protecting the environment assistance of mobile tech labs, which give students handsand being responsible corporate citizens in all countries on learning experiences. and communities in which we do business and to be seen as a good neighbor.” This aspiration goes back to During the year under review, numerous projects to help company founder Carl Johann Freudenberg and is now lived refugees in Germany and Europe again demonstrated that worldwide by the company’s employees. Freudenberg offers support where aid is needed. Employees, retired former employees and Partners donated around €540,000. Freudenberg tripled that figure. In addition, the company is making one million euros available for integrating refugees over the coming four years and donating a further half a million euros to the Freudenberg Foundation for its refugee initiatives. The projects aim at integration through education, and focus in particular on children and teenagers, families with children, and older people. Furthermore, Freudenberg employees engage For Freudenberg social responsibility is more than the direct and indirect in helping the refugees, for example by commitment that goes with direct entrepreneurial action: organizing fundraising at their sites or by teaching German. during the year under review the Group launched e², the new international program to strengthen social engagement. The Freudenberg Group has also joined the German The objective is to give people access to education and work Business “Wir Zusammen” (“We Together”) integration The following two examples illustrate the long-term nature An elementary school was rebuilt with Freudenberg’s help and to encourage environmental protection. The initiative initiative. This involves more than 30 companies in Germany of the local projects: Freudenberg gives young people the and opened in 2009 in Haijin, a village in Sichuan province, supports a broad range of projects from small actions to making a public statement of solidarity with refugees. The opportunity to complete dual study courses to qualify as China, almost completely destroyed by an earthquake in major education programs in the direct neighborhood of aim is to make a long-term contribution to integrating welders, plumbers, engine mechanics and machine fitters May 2008. “Freudenberg Help”, the association established Freudenberg sites. e² complements existing individual refugees into society. at a nonprofit training center in Nagapattinam in the Indian specially for the elementary school project, is therefore initiatives based on a catalog of specific criteria. Over the state of Tamil Nadu south of Chennai opened in 2009. So far, continuing its assistance and supporting students in next five years, Freudenberg is making available funds Aside from this commitment, many of the Group’s more than 400 young people have successfully set out on Haijin – both financially and personally – as their education totaling ten million euros. Here are two examples: companies, sites and employees again engaged in local a career since the center was founded. The Nagapattinam progresses. projects in 2015 – from small initiatives to complex projects. region, with a population chiefly comprising low-income “The Greening of Detroit” aims to make the city a green and All activities are tailored to meet local needs and usually agricultural workers and fishermen, was very hard hit by healthy center. Among other things, the initiative has turned involve the engagement of local Freudenberg employees. the tsunami in 2004. unused land into vegetable beds. It has also organized Furthermore, numerous internal assistance and support excursions to farms for school children, during which they programs are available to employees. can see firsthand how food is grown and learn more about the importance of fresh produce. FPM and Freudenberg IT (FIT) jointly launched the Communities in Schools (CiS) initiative, an e² project in Durham, North Carolina, USA. Each of the two companies operates a respective location. In Durham, more than 400 students drop out of school each year. 40 percent of them subsequently depend on social assistance while 30 percent of male dropouts end up in prison. FPM and FIT support vulnerable students, look after them and run various events. These include the “Freudenberg Opportunity Days”, in which 24 25 VI. Social responsibility VI. Social responsibility TANNER, Freudenberg’s youth exchange program, offers organization provides social-psychiatric support for around the meeting four years ago to expand the network of the Enactus, the world’s largest student organization, focuses employees’ children worldwide the opportunity to 500 mentally ill people and their relatives. region’s many volunteers. The volunteers meet once a year on social and ecological projects. The Freudenberg Group encounter different cultures, to broaden their horizons and during the week of civil commitment. has been a committed Enactus partner for over ten years. to learn for life. Over the past 16 years, more than 1,000 EB in South Africa embraces its social responsibility In 2015, the team from the University of Mannheim again young people have traveled the globe with TANNER. In the and tries through very different projects to help the To mitigate the rapid progress of global warming, which became the Enactus National Champion in Germany process, the young participants, their parents and their host disadvantaged people of South Africa, a country with high is attributed to the increase in greenhouse gas emissions, and reached the semi-final of the Enactus World Cup in families have gained a stronger sense of belonging to the unemployment, major economic and social differences it is necessary to capture the CO2 produced. This can be Johannesburg. The winning team from the “city of squares” global Freudenberg community. and social development problems. The aim is to support done for example through the planting of trees. During the is mentored by Cornelius Bossers from Freudenberg Home less fortunate people of all ages through education and reporting year, EB continued the “6,000 colleagues = 6,000 and Cleaning Solutions. Freudenberg’s engagement in Since 1984, Freudenberg Foundation has been promoting training wherever possible. All projects have the goal of trees” initiative from 2013. Colleagues from Freudenberg Enactus is also being steadily intensified in China, for long-term structural change and contributing to more helping the local authorities to create jobs and to offer New Technologies in Weinheim, Germany, and Chemexample through workshops with students at several inclusion, education and democracy with its programs. As a better opportunities to people and businesses. The five Trend in Singapore and Bangkok, Thailand, planted some Chinese universities. nonprofit limited company, the foundation is a shareholder largest projects are scholarships for young people from sensitive tree species and were informed about the impact of Freudenberg & Co. KG. All projects focus primarily on disadvantaged families, the training of artisans selected of environmental changes on the planted trees. In this way, Examples in 2015 included the second Service Day children and young people and their social, language, through a national training center, the promotion and the Freudenberg Group is making an active contribution to organized by Freudenberg in North America. Employees educational and vocational integration. support of two small companies, the financial support of climate protection. in more than 50 locations in Canada, the USA and Mexico a home for abused, abandoned children, and the increased spent time helping in educational institutions, local Through the “Wir tun was” (“We do something”) initiative, procurement of goods from domestic enterprises. communities and agricultural businesses – bringing social Freudenberg supports targeted projects that deal with responsibility to life in their neighborhoods in many ways. the issues of tolerance, charity and community spirit. The To discuss new impulses in volunteering and other donation has been ring-fenced and projects will be funded issues, meet like-minded people and develop ideas for with a maximum of 5,000 Euros each. Projects funded in new projects, around 90 participants from 30 volunteer 2015 include financial support for the social-pedagogic initiatives and associations from across the region met family aid work of the “Arbeiterwohlfahrt (AWO) Rheinat the Freudenberg Group in Weinheim, Germany, for the Neckar”. In Weinheim and the surrounding area, this fourth network meeting. The Freudenberg Group set up 26 27 Legal notice Freudenberg & Co. KG Höhnerweg 2–4 69469 Weinheim, Germany Published by Corporate Communications A service for Corporate Health, Safety, Security, Environment Questions concerning content should be addressed to: Ismet Kutay Phone: +49 6201 805853 ismet.kutay@freudenberg.de www.freudenberg.com June 2016
