Sustainability Report 2015/2016 1 Contents 04 04 Introduction 06 Message from the Founder and Group Chief Executive Arif Naqvi 08 2015 Sustainability Highlights Around The Group, Around The World Partnership Capital: A Model for Growth Markets 12 In Conversation with Wahid Hamid and Jane Nelson 12 Sustainability at The Abraaj Group 16 ESG in Growth Markets: The Abraaj Approach 18 Building Strong Businesses: 22 An Interview with Tania Choufani Stories of Value Creation 20 Koba, Colombia 22 Hepsiburada, Turkey 24 Crossland Logistics, Thailand 26 Libstar Holdings, South Africa 28 Mouka, Nigeria 30 Oncologie and Diagnostic du Maroc, Morocco 32 Building Alliances to Deliver Global Goals Innovating Sustainable Business Models 38 Emerging Consumers, Emerging Cities: In Conversation with Sev Vettivetpillai 38 40 Strong Returns, High Impact: The Healthcare Paradigm 44 Accessible Energy, Sustainable Power 46 Meeting the UNGC Principles 2 3 Introduction 1 Firm | 5 Regions | 20 + Local Ofﬁces c.US$ 9.5bn The Abraaj Group is a global institution AuM1 investing in select markets across Africa, Asia, Latin America, the Middle East US$ 6.6bn and Turkey. Deployed c.170 We currently manage c.US$ 9.5 billion Istanbul Investments across targeted private equity strategies. US$ 6.3bn By combining deep local reach, a global Dubai Realized2 platform and underwriting standards, with extensive operating capabilities, Mexico we generate industry-leading returns and City Singapore Nairobi create value in market-leading companies. Our Markets Our Strategy Sustainable Value Creation Abraaj focuses on global Abraaj invests in emerging The Group has a dedicated team of growth markets characterized consumers and the fastoperating professionals who work hand by consumption-driven growing cities where they live. in hand with investment teams to actively economies, pro-business Our mid-market private equity drive value creation in partner companies, policies, rapid urbanization, strategies focus on consumerhelping them institutionalize and grow. favorable demographics and facing businesses capitalizing growing consumer classes. on increasing disposable Environmental, Social and Governance Our target markets are income, lifestyle changes and (ESG) factors are deeply embedded in ultimately select cities within supply-demand gaps in cities our investment process and this has our regions, where economic across our markets. proven to be a value driver in our partner activity, consumption and companies. entrepreneurial talent are Our sector-themed Funds concentrated. are focused on addressing Responsible investing that enhances the needs of growing cities ﬁnancial returns is at the core of our from all types of real estate philosophy – we aim to leave a positive and power plants to soft footprint in our markets and are a infrastructure like hospitals. signatory to the UN-backed Principles for While we target markets with Responsible Investment and the United compelling fundamental drivers Nations Global Compact. at the macro level, our core view is that strong returns are generated by the ability to ﬁnd, build/grow and exit exceptional companies and assets. As of December 31, 2015. 1Assets under Management (AuM) includes Net Asset Value (NAV) of all Funds managed by The Abraaj Group, undrawn capital together with NAV of co-investments managed by the Group, and the balance sheet capital of the Group. 2Including Network International and Saham exits which were signed in 2015 and proceeds realized in 2016. Past performance is not indicative of future results and there can be no assurance that any Fund managed by Abraaj will achieve comparable results or be able to avoid losses. 4 5 Message from the Founder and Group Chief Executive Arif Naqvi Fellow stakeholders, helps build market brand. Even more compelling, it generates new revenue Welcome to the 2015/2016 streams and product categories. Sustainability Report. Since our Our commitment inception 14 years ago, much has For example, in this report, you will to sustainability is changed at Abraaj and the world read about the efforts of Mouka, in which we operate. We started the second-largest Nigerian foamas unwavering as as a private equity firm focused mattress manufacturer, which the day we founded on markets surrounding our Dubai devised an environment and zeroheadquarters. Today, we are a waste plan that led it to channel our company. It is global financial services firm with discarded scrap foam into a new a business driver investments and a stakeholder product line for low-cost pillows. in our markets. The community that span the globe. Though our mandate and capital An additional important differentiator sustainability first base have grown rapidly, our for Abraaj and its approach to approach has been investment thesis remains the same. sustainability is the importance we validated by the value place on benchmarking ourselves We are squarely focused on growth against international best standards we have helped our markets where partnership capital rather than the requirements of an partner companies deployment, value addition and individual market. In our markets, create and the returns local engagement lead to we want to go beyond the minimum meaningful, sustainable outcomes. required. Elevating the standards is we have generated for Where others might see frontier one of our ultimate goals and is what our investors. markets ripe with uncertainty, we led us to embrace and ultimately see opportunity to help shape the become a signatory to the United very nature of new economies, ones Nations Global Compact on human we firmly believe are determining the rights, labor, the environment and world’s future course. anti-corruption. Our commitment to sustainability As you will see in the report, at is as unwavering as the day we Crossland Logistics, a crossfounded our company. It is a border trucking company based business driver in our markets. in Thailand, we translated this The sustainability first approach has responsibility into an action plan time tools to measure impact at our been validated by the value we have with company management to partner companies and then jointly helped our partner companies create make sure primary and secondary agree on a plan to improve, often and the returns we have generated (contract) drivers are both paid fair in geographies where governments for our investors. I encourage you to and equitable wages and receive usually have little regulation and explore this report and see how our full benefits. Though Thai law has consequently weak enforcement. investment professionals go about no such labor provisions, we have But Abraaj is a firm that has built making that happen. seen a commitment to that equality its reputation and success for its measure lead to a fall in attrition stakeholders by putting our faith In growth markets, sustainability and rates of 30% and accident rates in global growth markets. Their strong performance go hand in hand. of 14% since we instituted the plan. economic story in the modern era We invest in companies whose own is now unfolding. We are here for investment in sustainability will have None of this is to suggest the long haul as are our investors, an outsized impact and encourage sustainability is an easy endeavor many of whom share our belief that others to commit to similar standards in our markets. Sustainable sustainability is a requirement for to be competitive. When introduced outcomes do not come fast and productive and inclusive economic by our partner companies, an they do not come easily. Patience growth. We look forward to emphasis on sustainability often often requires us to introduce firstcontinuing on that journey together. 6 Arif Naqvi 7 Founder and Group Chief Executive, The Abraaj Group 2015 Sustainability Highlights Around The Group, Around The World The Abraaj Group Recent Activity Abraaj Partner Companies c.US$ 810mn Amount Deployed c.US$ 950mn Amount Realized 120,405 US$ 6,386,201 Number of Employees Amount Spent on Training 12 Number of Investments 39,029,107 10 Number of Exits Number of Customers Served (B2C) Hypermarkets Airlines Drug Retail Awards 443,640 ‘Private Equity House of the Year for Number of Clients Reached (B2B) Electric Utilities Packaged Hypermarkets North Africa’ by Private Equity Africa Foods Awards 2016 Special recognition award for ‘Large 23,447 Total Suppliers Cap Deal of the Year for the North Africa 64% % of Micro 30% % of SME 6% % of Large Hospital Holdings Group’ by Private Suppliers Used Suppliers Used Suppliers Used Equity Africa Awards 2016 Formal SMEs contribute up to 45% of total employment and up to 33% of national income (GDP) in global growth markets and c.70% of MSMEs GGMs lack access to credit. (World Bank, 2015) Abraaj’s partner companies are proud to support and provide access to national and regional markets by actively engaging MSMEs over the course of their operations. Note: Information presented herein is from July 1, 2015 to June 30, 2016. Past performance is not indicative of future results. Nothing contained herein should be deemed to be a prediction or projection of future performance. Note: Information presented herein is as of December 31, 2015. 8 9 Partnership Capital: A Model for Growth Markets 10 11 In Conversation with Wahid Hamid and Jane Nelson There is a huge Wahid Hamid, Partner, The Abraaj Jane Nelson, Director of the Corporate Group. Wahid Hamid leads the Abraaj Social Responsibility Initiative at the opportunity to Performance Acceleration Group (APAG). Kennedy School of Government, Harvard demonstrate how the The APAG team is central to The Abraaj University, and a non-resident senior partnership capital Group’s active involvement in driving the fellow at the Brookings Institution. She growth agenda and ensuring scalability is a Board member of The Abraaj Group. model can measurably of our partner companies. help achieve specific development goals and generate strong financial returns. GROWTH MARKETS build trust with them. That’s why we APPLYING THE MODEL given, as its introduction is one of the impact on these challenges, such Why does Abraaj believe that its take a broad approach to stakeholder As a Board member of Abraaj, main reasons they want to partner as healthcare, consumer goods and partnership capital model thrives engagement and why we ensure how do you see this approach with us in the first place. Better labor energy infrastructure. Secondly, in growth markets and what are that ESG standards are critically We are looking at put into practice across the practices and health and safety through our community investment its key elements? embedded in our partner companies. a variety of models markets and businesses that standards also get adopted quickly, activities and our employees Abraaj invests in? as companies know that word can engaging with partners, which range Wahid Hamid In our view, the In many growth markets, local that would allow spread rapidly in the local community from Junior Achievement to the partnership capital model has companies can’t solely rely on us to invest even Jane Nelson It gets put into if they don’t get this right. World Economic Forum and Royal three key elements. The first is our their country’s governance or longer which makes practice in three ways. The first is College of Art, with a particular commitment to being strong and legal systems for protection when through the world-class strategy, Improving environmental emphasis on initiatives to support trusted partners for the companies dealing with third parties, so they our model of private management and operations advice performance is more difficult, entrepreneurship. Finally, we are we invest in. The second element do business with people they can equity well suited to we are able to provide to our partner particularly in companies that active in multi-stakeholder, thoughtis a focus on helping the private trust. This is why vertically-integrated companies. The second is by using are not energy-intensive, where it leadership alliances that promote the sector contribute not only to family businesses are so common a partnership capital the proprietary Abraaj Sustainability hasn’t been prioritized, and where role of business in society. Abraaj’s growth but also to improvements and why they want not just capital approach. Index and other ESG tools to support responsibility for these issues has Founder and Chief Executive, Arif in governance, legal frameworks but a trusted partner to help develop these companies to become better not been allocated. We have also Naqvi, is a member of the Global and government accountability. The their business. also operating and business-building performers on sustainability issues. found that some of our partner Commission on Business and third element is our unique ability to capabilities. We’re also looking at a The third way is by using our shared companies are limited in their ability Sustainable Development, which bring together a mosaic of investors: WHY PRIVATE EQUITY? variety of models that would allow us learning platform so that partner to measure their energy and water was established in 2016 to develop traditional investors alongside Why is private equity best to invest even longer which makes our companies can learn from others usage, for example. This is why we’re a compelling economic case for philanthropic and development placed to operate with this model of private equity well suited to operating in the same sector or looking at introducing simple tools businesses to engage in achieving finance institutions. These institutions model in mind? a partnership capital approach. geography. and technical assistance programs the Sustainable Development Goals. bring not only capital but expertise to help companies measure and Arif was also recently appointed in sustainable development and in Wahid Hamid We don’t believe it is a Jane Nelson The partnershipPARTNERING WITH ESG IN improve their environmental footprint. as a member of the B Team, which building relationships with local and one size fits all. Hence, not all private oriented, longer-term manner in which FAMILY-OWNED BUSINESSES champions the need for businesses international stakeholders. equity firms can make this model we approach private equity is well Family-owned businesses are PROMOTING THE MODEL to be a driving force for social, work as most firms focus on buying placed to operate with this model. We common in growth markets. How How does Abraaj promote the environmental and economic benefit, These three elements make us low, selling high and adding value bring together a variety of different readily have they incorporated partnership capital model with and he serves on the Board of the distinct and enable us to be a trusted in the process. At Abraaj, we invest investors to invest in high potential sustainability? stakeholders in order to address UN Global Compact. These are catalyst for institutional development for the long-term. Our healthcare growth companies, not only providing global development challenges? valuable platforms and I know that and for sustainable growth in the strategy has a 10-year horizon, for these companies with capital but Wahid Hamid We have found that the leadership at Abraaj is committed companies and communities we example, and not the regular seven advising them too, helping them to family-owned businesses incorporate Jane Nelson We do so in a number to driving real progress through such partner with. Our partner companies years that you see in other cases. This strengthen their business capabilities sustainability most quickly when they of ways. The first is through our core forms of stakeholder engagement. are often introducing new products, is partly because we are doing both and performance as well as their appreciate the direct links with their business of investing in and building brands and ways of doing business buy and build: pulling together various environmental, social and governance strategic and commercial wellbeing. partnerships with companies in in communities, so it’s important we traditional investment capabilities but capabilities and performance. Acceptance of better governance is a sectors that can make a measurable 12 13 Sustainability at The Abraaj Group 14 15 ESG in Growth Markets: The Abraaj Approach We ensure that our partner companies adhere not only to + + + = the local regulations in the countries in which they operate but also to international best practices. Enabling Sustainable Identifying Challenges and Opportunities for Incorporating ESG Business Principles into the Creating Value and Growth, Accountability Responsible Investing Abraaj Business Model Investing in Sustainable and Engagement Growth The Abraaj Group is a leader in the The markets we invest in, particularly liabilities and given the company Our ESG Business Principles We then undertake an evaluation Once we make an acquisition, private equity industry in many of the Asia and Africa, are predisposed to a stronger brand as a result of its underline our ESG risk management of the exposure of our prospective we assess what matters most in growth markets where it operates. a challenging environment when it commitment to protecting its workers. approach to investing. These investments to these sector risks creating value and then set clear comes to sustainability as a result principles are clearly outlined in as well as the key ESG gaps and targets linking environmental and Our strong track record in Asia, of population growth, an increasing In our e-commerce platforms, the Group’s Environmental, Social needs of the company to meet social performance to operational Africa, Latin America, the Middle middle class, growing pressure we have been proactive in guiding and Governance Management our business principles. A partner efficiency, human development East and Turkey has enabled us on resources and direct impacts our companies to formalize System (ESG MS). As formalized company’s exposure to risk is impact and strong corporate to foster continued market growth on climate change, water scarcity environmental policies, implement in our ESG MS, we incorporate a function of factors such as its governance. Abraaj invests in growth and identify compelling investment and labor practices. Cognizant of energy efficiency programs ESG considerations into traditional management strategy, value chain markets with a long-term horizon. opportunities. This mindset has this, we have taken an ESG riskspecifically with their logistics due diligence processes in order and geographic location. Our Therefore, our investment teams allowed us to build a platform in management and value-creation operations, and institutionalize to understand how ESG risks and investment teams undertake a consider not just the valuation of which we can leverage the skillsets approach in our investment strategy. health and safety practices. opportunities could impact the comprehensive assessment of all a company during due diligence of our in-country investment teams, We recognize the potential risks of financial and strategic value of these risks in order to develop a but also the nature of ESG risks, regional execution teams and central investing in companies that do not We further ensure that our partner an investment. corrective action plan and identify liabilities and value-add associated global functions to add value to our have a formal environmental and companies adhere not only to the priority ESG enablers. These ESG with the company’s operations and partner companies. social policy or management system, local regulations in the countries Our ESG MS is a holistic approach enablers are then incorporated into growth plans. thereby missing opportunities for in which they operate but also to to the Abraaj investment model. our value-creation plans. implementing energy efficiency international best practices led by We evaluate ESG risks through an As an institution, Abraaj strives programs. We are also mindful that development finance institutions and assessment of the impacts from a to invest in businesses that will companies which lack adequate life international organizations such as sector and company level. As part maximize shareholder value through and fire safety systems or have poor the International Labor Organization. of our initial screening, we consider strong operational growth and workforce engagement and training specific risks of each sector, such substantial capital appreciation. can result in liabilities, risks to health Through our commitment to as regulatory/legal requirements, Our ultimate objective is to realize and a dissatisfied workforce. responsible investing we require that marketplace (such as changes in We aim to grow value through structured exits to our partner companies adhere to the consumer or investor behavior) and strategic and trade buyers or to For example, in the mattress industry Abraaj ESG Business Principles. The material risks. businesses which go public markets in the region in Nigeria, we have been actively Group is a signatory to the UN Global beyond commercial and beyond. In doing so, we aim engaged with a family-run business Compact and PRI, and sustainable success and become to grow businesses which go to improve the fire safety measures businesses are core to our culture beyond commercial success and of the company which in turn has and values. sustainability leaders become sustainability leaders reduced operational risks and in their own markets. in their own markets. 16 17 Building Strong Businesses: An Interview with Tania Choufani ESG drives the creation of systems and practices essential for sustained growth Abraaj works closely with its healthcare businesses such as Al Kindy in Morocco to embed robust sustainability practices Tania Choufani developed a bespoke set of ESG into their day-to-day operations. By We enable companies e-commerce or retail, so they require Likewise, there are stronger Head of Environment, Social and tools, including a governance tool being a strong partner and having more in-depth due diligence. Greater opportunities for making real Governance, The Abraaj Group based on the South African King III representation on the Board, we can to integrate ESG not due diligence is also needed in improvements in key sectors code. We help companies progress drive performance improvements. just into their business markets with weak enforcement like healthcare and energy, to Q1. What defines Abraaj’s through its four levels of governance models but also into of environmental regulations. This generate measurable social approach to ESG and sophistication, as we introduce It is also invaluable to get companies puts pressure on companies to and environmental benefits. sustainability and what is codes of conduct and the right to recognize the impact ESG can their day-to-day have to apply and monitor best particularly distinctive about it? anti-bribery measures, for example. have on their financial performance. operations. practice ESG themselves. This can Major improvements could be This progression is especially useful An integral part of our role as a create capacity issues, particularly made by encouraging innovation We believe that ESG is a growth with family-owned businesses where responsible investor is to identify for small companies trying to grow in ESG. For example, we facilitated driver and the prerequisite of a minority shareholder interests and a company’s key ESG risks and their business. sourcing of technical assistance for sustainable, vibrant and marketother ESG issues are typically not opportunities and work with one of our partner companies – a oriented private sector. reflected in their governance models. management in developing a Q4. On what ESG issues have women’s hospital in Kenya – to install robust action plan. you seen the most progress in a state-of-the-art incinerator after We embed ESG throughout Q2. What methods have you growth markets and what are our due diligence identified issues the investment process, from found most effective in helping Q3. Are there specific challenges the priorities for improvement? with its disposal of medical waste. due diligence and operational partner companies build relating to different types of The incinerator not only minimized management to exit, so that we stronger businesses? markets and sectors? We’re seeing a lot more interest in the environmental, health and safety leave a legacy imprint on the renewable energy, partly because it impacts and reduced disposal costs, companies we invest in. Direct engagement is essential to Sectors like manufacturing, has reached price parity with fossilbut also gave the hospital a revenue build regional champions. We enable construction and extractives have fuel-powered generation. stream by extending use of the What makes us really distinctive as companies to integrate ESG not just higher environmental and social incinerator to third parties. a private equity firm is that we have into their business models but also risks and impacts compared to 18 19 Koba Company Overview and Investment Rationale Number of Stores 461 415 Koba operates a chain of medium-sized retail 254 315 stores offering food and basic staples under 168 the Hard Discount format. The stores handle 41 69 c.500 different high-quality products (“SKU”) 6 offered at the best prices in the market. 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 The company locates its stores in densely populated areas predominantly in Country middle-income neighborhoods, across several cities in Colombia. Koba’s low Colombia prices are achieved through its high buying power per SKU (stock-keeping 4,849 units), its own distribution network, the elimination of intermediaries and by applying simple management principles at the stores and across all functions. 4,037 The Abraaj Group, through its Fund, invested in Koba in late 2010. At the time of 2,532 2,394 the investment, the company had around 20 stores, an incipient organizational 1,982 1,424 structure and a fragmented shareholder base, without the capacity to handle 964 1,184 420 720 its ambitious growth plan. However, after studying successful Hard Discount 414 180 Sector cases in other regions, such as BIM in Turkey, Abraaj was convinced of the growth potential for this model in Colombia. Since the first Abraaj capitalization Consumer Staples in 2010, Koba has grown at an accelerated pace, with the company’s stores 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 expanding from 20 to 461 in less than six years. Total Employees Women Employees Sustainability Progress Looking Ahead Impact on Households formalization of its HR policy and As Koba expands its geographic Date of Investment and Communities: Since procedures to ensure the consistent footprint, more communities will December 2010 Abraaj’s investment, Koba has had application of the policy and benefit from affordable basic goods a noticeable impact on households practices across its regions. and job opportunities. In Bogotá and communities by giving access alone the company will expand by to high-quality food and basic Multiplier Effect: As part of the another 200 stores in the next two consumer goods at more affordable Hard Discount model, Koba has years. Based on current growth prices, which can be up to 50% developed over 300 private labels or projections, Koba could become cheaper than those of traditional exclusive products, manufactured Colombia’s third-largest retailer retailers. Combined with its by local suppliers, which account for by 2020. expansion, Koba has been able to almost 70% of company sales. The increase the number of customers rapid growth of the company has Abraaj will continue to support served (tickets) to over 9 million encouraged suppliers to invest and Koba in the implementation of ESG per month. expand their businesses alongside improvements to become more Koba, creating additional jobs. energy-efficient, reduce waste, Since inception, Koba has been an provide better on-the-job training engine for employment generation, As the Hard Discount model has and opportunities to employees and creating over 4,800 formal jobs gained traction with consumers, offer flexible working conditions of which 49% have been filled by dynamics in the basic staples retail to accommodate single-parent women. Koba pays above-average space have shifted and traditional households, among others. wages, offers on-the-job-training, incumbents have been forced to and provides unique opportunities become more competitive and for growth and career progression offer higher value to customers. across the company. The company complies with stringent local labor standards, beginning with the 20 Koba has grown at an accelerated pace across Colombia, with the 21 company’s stores expanding from 20 to 461 in less than six years Hepsiburada Company Overview and Investment Rationale Looking Ahead In 2015, The Abraaj Group invested in Abraaj will partner closely with Hepsiburada to help implement Hepsiburada, the largest online retailer in ESG best practices with the primary Turkey, through its Fund. Hepsiburada is focus centered on obtaining the ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 the only multi-category retailer among the certifications by the end of 2016. Furthermore, Hepsiburada is top five e-commerce players in Turkey. committed to aligning its policies and procedures with established Hepsiburada represented a compelling investment opportunity for a number best practices by implementing its Country of reasons. The company enjoyed a strong brand equity in the rapidly formalized supply-chain management Turkey expanding Turkish online retail sector which is highly underpenetrated procedures and finalizing its external with online sales comprising 2.0% of the total retail market, compared communication procedures. to the UK and US averages of 12.6% and 9.2% respectively (as of 2015). Additionally, Hepsiburada enjoyed a dominant leadership position with Hepsiburada firmly believes these a growing customer base significantly attributable to traffic from repeat ESG practices will enable it to visits and unpaid traffic sources. holistically support the growth of Turkish SMEs by providing them In 2014, Hepsiburada had a product offering of over 500,000 stock-keeping with a platform to access millions of Sector units (SKUs) and served over 1.5 million customers. This has since increased potential customers across Turkey. to 1 million SKUs and over 2 million customers served in 2015. For example, there are currently more Internet Retail than 1,000 SMEs actively selling goods on Hepsiburada’s marketplace platform. Additionally, these bestin-class ESG practices will enable Sustainability Progress Hepsiburada to become a choice online retailer and one of the top five non-grocery retailers in Turkey. Striving Toward International on-site contractors and the Date of Investment Best Practices: Hepsiburada operations department. February 2015 opened its new custom-built 50,000 m2 warehouse in 2015. At Establishing Higher Standards Abraaj’s recommendation, following Along the Supply Chain: Prior its relocation the company hired to Abraaj’s investment, Hepsiburada certification advisors and began did not have a formal policy for the process for obtaining the ISO supply-chain management. At 14001 (Environmental Management Abraaj’s recommendation, it is Systems) and OHSAS 18001 currently developing an extensive (Occupational Health and Safety) supply-chain management plan certifications which is anticipated that includes an exclusion list of 2,000,000 to be completed by Q4 2016. certain goods, a checklist-based system to identify supply-chain 1,500,000 Enhancing the Health issues and risks, and a Code of and Safety Culture: Since Conduct for all suppliers. investment, Abraaj has worked with 1,000,000 Hepsiburada’s management to build Hepsiburada now includes an ESG a health and safety culture at the firm Code of Conduct as a mandatory which includes over 1,500 hours of annex to all supplier and contractor 500,000 training provided in 2015 covering agreements and seeks strict a range of topics, including general compliance from its suppliers. health and safety, proper use of This ensures that goods sold on personal protective equipment, and Hepsiburada’s platform (e.g. apparel emergency response. Additionally, and electronics) are not sourced daily on-site audits are undertaken at from suppliers with a poor record of 2014 2015 the new warehouse to capture gaps labor working conditions and health with corrective action plans regularly and safety practices. Stock-Keeping Units circulated to senior management, Customers 22 Hepsiburada has embedded a strong HSE policy in its 23 warehouse and is in the process of obtaining OHSAS 18001 Crossland Logistics Company Overview and Investment Rationale Looking Ahead Crossland Logistics Co. Ltd is a leading Abraaj will continue to drive the cross-border trucking (CBT) operator implementation of ESG best practices particularly relating to in Thailand operating c.75 trucks with the company’s new fuel-tracking and management system, and c.175 employees. Crossland provides an driver-training programs which integrated door-to-door logistics solution are of critical importance. The company has seen the benefits of across Singapore, Malaysia, Thailand, Laos, implementing ESG best practices which have helped improve its Country Vietnam and Southern China. EBITDA and gross profit by a CAGR Thailand of 60% and 16%, respectively, from 2013 to 2015. The Abraaj Group, through its Fund, invested in Crossland in April 2012. The investment was premised on the fact that Thailand is a strategically located logistics and infrastructure hub in the Greater Mekong Sub-Region and would benefit from greater public and private sector investment. Moreover, Crossland was an early mover within the region having established Sector a profitable business supported by a fast-growing customer base. Crossland represented an attractive opportunity for Abraaj to grow the business into a Logistics larger regional logistics service provider. Sustainability Progress 30% 14% Employee Focus: Shortly set up a 24-hour Command Center in Fall in Reduction in Date of Investment after investment, at Abraaj’s early 2015 to monitor its trucks and attrition rates accident rates April 2012 recommendation, Crossland adjusted the driving patterns of its drivers in driver compensation levels to match real time, resulting in better security industry standards and hired alternate and precise and faster delivery times. drivers directly on to its payroll. This Fuel Efficiency is uncommon in an industry where Improving Efficiency: As part of companies only pay their main drivers, the value creation plan, Crossland Before: 2.8 km per liter who in turn pay the second drivers – replaced its old fleet with higherusually at a significant discount and standard (Euro 3) trucks, reducing After: 3.2 km per liter without the security of employment the company’s carbon footprint and benefits. Crossland remains one of improving energy efficiency. Abraaj the few companies in the Thai CBT helped Crossland to put in place logistics space to provide direct regular maintenance programs which employment to its secondary drivers. reduced the probability of frequent Having two drivers is critical on longtruck breakdowns. haul journeys as it improves driver safety and security and enables higher In addition, Abraaj helped design utilization of the trucks. As a result and implement a fuel-tracking and of these two initiatives, attrition rates management system to improve fuel have fallen by 30% and there has been efficiency and reduce fuel costs. a reduction in accident rates by 14%. Fuel efficiency has improved from an average consumption of 2.8 km per Abraaj worked with Crossland to liter to 3.2 km per liter. As a result of upgrade the overall talent and skill these initiatives, attrition rates fell by level of its driver pool through the 30% and there has been a reduction establishment of regular training in accident rates by 14%. programs. In addition, the Group played a key role in helping Crossland 24 Location, profitability and a fast-growing customer base made 25 Crossland Logistics an attractive investment opportunity Libstar Holdings Company Overview and Investment Rationale Looking Ahead In 2014, The Abraaj Group invested, through For the remainder of 2016, Libstar its Funds, in Libstar Holdings (Libstar) – will focus on the continued implementation of its corrective a leading fast-moving consumer goods action plans. Libstar has addressed 75% of the action plans identified company in South Africa which manufactures by Abraaj at the time of investment. a broad range of quality private label and As part of its supply-chain own-branded products for the rapidly management strategy, Libstar has held three-day training sessions Country growing South African food, fast-casual and workshops in Cape Town, South Africa dining, household and personal care markets. Johannesburg and Durban to educate its workforce in the Supply Chain Governance Manual. Libstar has a portfolio of over 3,500 products and a high-quality customer Libstar intends to complete these base which includes McDonald’s South Africa, Woolworths and Tiger Brands. training sessions with five sessions expected to be delivered over the With strong potential for organic growth, Libstar is well positioned to take next two months. In addition to advantage of key market trends such as grocery consolidation, the rise of these initiatives, Libstar will roll Sector private label and quick service restaurant (QSR), which are forecast to expand out five core standards across all steadily given current low penetration rates. A compelling attribute of the its companies by December 2016 Fast-Moving investment opportunity was Libstar’s long-standing relationship as a leading (Product Quality, Product Safety, Consumer Goods supplier to major retailers and global QSR chains with a consistent track Occupational Health and Safety, record as a safe and reliable manufacturer in a market characterized by small Environmental Management players. Further, the management team has demonstrated a unique ability to Systems and Physical Asset Care). identify, bolt on and successfully grow complementary businesses, expanding Libstar into a 28-business-unit conglomerate in the past 10 years. Sustainability Progress Date of Investment October 2014 Improving Health and Safety: Manual which includes all the As a company dedicated to Group’s policies and requirements incorporating good ESG practices, including a system of mandatory Libstar has embedded ESG into its compliance with internationally business model to address gaps accepted standards. This will be and drive long-term value. Firstly, required of each of the individual Libstar appointed a Group-level EHS operating companies. The core Manager as an initial step toward standards include Product Quality, building a deeper ESG culture. The Product Safety, Occupational EHS manager has oversight over Health and Safety, Environmental Libstar’s diverse business units and Management Systems and Physical ensures consistency of practices Asset Care. The implementation 3,446 3,500 and procedures across these units target date is the beginning of 2017, and reports directly to the Social and with compliance audits to take place 3,000 Ethics Committee and to the Board in Q2 2017. of Directors. 2,500 Additionally, a Social and Ethics 2,000 Strengthening Governance: Committee has been established to As a next step to further augment monitor the company’s activities with 1,171 1,042 1,500 its ESG practices, Libstar is in the regard to relevant legislation, legal 963 1,000 765 process of developing a supplyrequirements and prevailing codes of chain governance strategy which will best practice. The Social and Ethics 500 cover all of its operating sites. This Committee meets biannually and strategy was initiated by developing provides an update to the Board, 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 the Supply Chain Governance where ESG is a key agenda item. Number of Employees Trained 26 Libstar is developing a supply-chain policy for each of its 27 operating sites as part of robust quality management Mouka Company Overview and Investment Rationale Minimizing Wastage: From a product sustainability perspective, Founded in 1959 by the Moukarim family, Mouka has also developed a line of Mouka is a leading manufacturer of mattress and pillow products that are 100% made from recycled scrap mattresses and bedding products. The material. The production process of the foam mattress naturally company has grown to become the creates wastage in the form of second-largest foam-mattress manufacturer foam crumbs. Mouka recognized an opportunity to compress them in Nigeria. to create high-density mattress products and pillows using Country specialized equipment at each of Nigeria The mattress manufacturing industry in Nigeria is highly fragmented, with its factories. As a result, none of Mouka retaining a c.15% market share. Mouka’s product categories are the foam waste produced from the mattresses, raw foam blocks and lifestyle products. primary product lines is disposed of. This in turn has reduced the Aligned with the Group’s mandate of investing in well-managed, high-growth company’s total waste and improved businesses, Abraaj identified an attractive opportunity to invest in Mouka efficiency. Additionally, these through its Fund. In engaging with Mouka, the Abraaj investment team saw products contributed c.5% to the an opportunity to leverage the company’s market position and leading brand company revenues during FY 2015. Sector name to grow and capture additional market share. Furthermore, the Abraaj team saw clear areas for value creation that could be achieved with the Consumer Group’s support. Discretionary Sustainability Progress Looking Ahead Date of Investment June 2015 Enhancing Fire Safety HSE Culture and Corrective The Abraaj team has been actively Practices: Mouka lacked adequate Action Plan: Abraaj has worked engaged in the implementation of the fire safety practices, which resulted with Mouka to develop a robust company’s corrective action and value in a number of fire incidents health and safety culture beginning creation plan. Since 2015, Abraaj has prior to Abraaj’s investment. with the appointment of a Health, worked with Mouka to achieve 62% Abraaj assisted with identifying Safety and Environmental (HSE) of the targeted action items. and selecting an international Manager. Abraaj engages with the health and safety consultancy to HSE manager on a bi-weekly basis For 2016, the main goal is to conduct a comprehensive review to review progress against the continue to achieve progress of the company’s fire-prevention/ action plan developed at the time with these corrective actions. The suppression mechanisms and of investment. The action plan has key tasks include implementing electrical infrastructure. Following a wide range of initiatives including recommendations such as the review, the company has rolled improving the working conditions, undertaking an electrical and fire out a proprietary method to segment environmental performance and safety audit, installation of additional its curing hall (area where foam operational efficiency of the eye-wash stations for employees blocks cool off after being formed) company. Key achievements to who work with and around with fire-resistant brick walls to date include: upgrades to the chemicals, and training of the prevent fires from spreading across storage infrastructure; improved Mouka truck drivers on road safety. the curing hall and improved firebunding around above-ground tanks; resistant roofs within the production improved procedures related to areas. As a result, there have been the transportation and handling zero fire incidents to date since of chemicals; and implementation Abraaj’s investment. of waste-management plans at each facility. 28 Worker safety and a strong HSE culture is a 29 priority in Mouka’s factories Oncologie and Diagnostic du Maroc Company Overview and Investment Rationale Oncologie and Diagnostic du Maroc (ODM) is Formalizing HR policies and procedures: Since its investment, the largest healthcare platform for oncology Abraaj has supported ODM at the and diagnostics services in Morocco. Group level in formalizing written contracts to ODM employees across In 2015, ODM served more than 56,000 its facilities, increasing wages for patients and offered more than 43,000 employees earning below minimum wage and providing social benefits radiotherapy sessions. insurance to employees that were not covered before. This goes beyond Country the standard practice in Morocco Morocco The platform is composed of two centers, Clinic Al Kindy and Clinic Menara, where declared employees only that an Abraaj managed Fund acquired in December 2014 and September represent c.30% of the employed 2015 respectively. ODM offers cancer treatments including radiotherapy, population in the private sector. chemotherapy, brachytherapy, medical imaging, as well as a number of related oncology services. Abraaj recognized the Moroccan oncology diagnostics and treatment market as being underserved and identified ODM as a highly scalable opportunity with the capacity to become a leading national platform for oncology and diagnostic services. Sector Healthcare Date of Investment Sustainability Progress Looking Ahead December 2014 Improving Patient Safety and Standardizing Environmental, Abraaj’s objective is to build the Wellbeing: Abraaj’s sustained Health and Safety Practices: leading oncology and diagnostics support to ODM has been ODM has appointed a Group platform in Morocco. Abraaj’s instrumental in the enhancement Head of Operations responsible investment and ESG teams will of ODM patients’ comfort and for implementation and monitoring continue to actively support ODM employees’ security. In late 2015, of environmental, health and in finalizing the standardization of Abraaj invested in an extension of Al safety (EHS) practices. The Group EHS practices and formalizing HR Kindy to launch new services and to Head of Operations, with Abraaj’s policies and procedures. By early offer a larger and more comfortable guidance, is in the process of (1) 2017, ODM aims to have a fully waiting area for patients with a upgrading Clinic Menara’s practices integrated environmental, health section reserved for children. As a to Al Kindy’s alleviated level and (2) and safety management system; to result, there has been a reduction standardizing the EHS practices have ensured the installation of a in obstruction of staircases and through the development of a comprehensive fire alarm system in emergency exit routes which were formalized Environmental and Social both centers and the creation of a previously blocked due to the large Management Systems (ESMS) formalized emergency plan; and to volume of families in this area, at the holding level – which will have completed an energy audit for optimization of the flow of traffic, then be implemented across the the Al Menara Center. and a reduction in health and whole platform. In addition, the Al safety hazards. Additionally, patient Kindy Clinic recently completed an separation and waiting times have energy audit and identified several been improved, thereby enhancing opportunities for cost savings, the patients’ treatment conditions and benefits of which are currently being improving employees’ working assessed prior to implementation. conditions and security. 30 Patient-centered care is a key feature across 31 Al Kindy and Al Menara Clinics in Morocco Building Alliances to Deliver Global Goals In the last 50 years the world economy has expanded sixfold and average per capita income has almost tripled. Yet not everyone has benefited from this growth and our world remains plagued by growing levels of inequalities. With an increasing population aspiring to improve living standards and quality of life, our societies and communities face immense challenges which must be tackled today if we want to leave a more sustainable and prosperous world for our future generations. Business and the Social Compact In order to deal with the magnitude, urgency and complexity of these Our investments in educational platforms in South East Asia provide affordable and quality education to students challenges, an unprecedented unity and alignment between private Private sector, governments and civil Sector society is needed. The Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) provide • Our focus on investing in cities a framework developed by all and our strategic stakeholder Forging Global Alliances stakeholders to contribute their partnerships contribute to SDG 11 skills, intellectual property, capital At Abraaj we have which calls for sustainable cities The recognized leadership of Abraaj and funds to long-term sustainable always believed that and communities. Our current and our Founder and Group Chief models for growth across all nations. energy infrastructure strategy Executive resulted in Arif Naqvi being our business and the which is focused on renewables invited to join the newly created At Abraaj we have always believed Governments Civil companies we invest supports SDG 7 which calls for Global Commission on Business that our business and the companies Society in are part and parcel affordable and clean energy for all. and Sustainable Development. Cowe invest in are part and parcel chaired by the former United Nations of a broader social and economic of a broader social and • Our healthcare strategy is using Deputy Secretary General Lord Mark fabric. Our ultimate objective is economic fabric. Partnership Capital (SDG 17) Malloch-Brown and Unilever CEO to reward shareholders whilst to build a healthcare services Paul Polman, the Global Commission serving our stakeholders at the group that delivers sustainable, has been launched with five same time. Our track record affordable and accessible objectives at hand. since inception consistently As a private equity investor across Some examples include: services to lowand middledemonstrates our commitment to a multitude of sectors in growthincome communities in South Asia • To decode the Sustainable building partnerships and alliances market cities, Abraaj contributes to • Our investments in educational and Sub-Saharan Africa (SDG 3). Development Goals (SDGs) with NGOs, international and numerous SDGs through the core platforms in North Africa and Asia As with all Abraaj investments, our and show why it makes sense regional organizations and national of our business. We follow a provide affordable and quality healthcare strategy is focused on for businesses to engage in governments to offer our thought disciplined approach to best education and contribute to SDG supporting local entrepreneurs sustainable development at leadership, innovative capabilities practices, launching our partner 4 which calls for inclusive and to grow their businesses and a far more strategic level than and business acumen to create companies on to a journey of equitable quality education and increase local hiring (SDG 8). they have to date. an environment for resilient longlong-term sustainable growth. the promotion of lifelong learning term growth. opportunities for all. 32 33 Abraaj executives participated in several forums to advance long-term value-creation thinking in the industry. •  To show how new business models can align profitability with social purpose. Frederic Sicre, Managing Director at The Abraaj Group, speaks on tackling key challenges around food security and health at the FT-IFC Transformational • To map out how new financial Business Conference in June 2016 tools can crowd in private capital and align economic and social returns. From left to right: Prime Minister of Norway Erna Solberg, The Abraaj Group Founder and Group Chief Executive Arif Naqvi, In July 2016, Abraaj’s Founder and Group Chief Executive Arif Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise Director-General Kristin Skogen Lund and Unilever CEO Paul Polman with the pledge • To show how business, Naqvi was invited to become a member of the B Team, and join to support the SDGs at the Oslo Business for Peace Summit in May 2016 government and society can co-founders Sir Richard Branson, Jochen Zeitz and 18 other global work effectively together to leaders from business and civil society in their collective effort to build the partnerships needed redefine the role of business as a force for social, environmental and for SDG delivery. economic benefit. business leaders attending the annual gathering of Business Looking Ahead • To quantify the efficiency Mr Naqvi’s particular areas of focus will be the ‘100% Human at Work for Peace could endorse as gains in achieving sustainable initiative’, which seeks to inspire a movement of business leaders a sign of their commitment to Our passion for At Abraaj, we recognize our role development if business is who will lead their businesses through the principles of equality, contribute to the SDGs through building sustainable and ability to affect long-term fully aligned with the SDGs. respect, growth, belonging and purpose. He will also be working with their business activities. Our economic and social development fellow B Team leaders on the ‘Fostering Collaboration’ and ‘Creating Founder and Group Chief communities mirrors in growth markets as agents of The conclusions and proposals of Thriving Communities’ initiatives. Executive Arif Naqvi and Paul our passion for change. This is exemplified in the the commission will be released Polman, CEO of Unilever, led this developing sustainable way in which we deploy capital, over the next 12 months. initiative in Oslo which resulted with strong ESG practices and a in over 180 business leaders companies. focus on enhancing productivity In order to launch momentum formalizing their commitment. and creating regional champions behind the SDGs, Abraaj On May 2, Arif Naqvi and Paul through strong commercial discipline, collaborated for a third year Business cannot Polman presented the pledge as well as through our engagement running with the Business for Peace Foundation in Oslo. The succeed in societies to Norwegian Prime Minister, Erna Solberg, in her capacity as Abraaj executives participated in a myriad of meetings and forums to in stakeholder dialogue and partnerships, to strengthen the field Business for Peace Foundation was initiated in 2007, in the that fail. Being part of co-chair of the SDG Advocacy Group at the United Nations. advance long-term value-creation thinking in the world of finance of sustainable investing more broadly. belief that socially responsible the B Team enables us and industry throughout the year. We have an active year ahead as and ethical initiatives should not The convictions with which we In 2016 we spent substantial time we work collaboratively with our be merely window-dressing, to amplify our collective run our business at Abraaj blend contributing to the formulation partners to deliver on our longbut must stand the test as a business case. The aim of the efforts in building a passion to build sustainable business with a passion to build of the SDGs through UN-led roundtables. Abraaj was present term objectives. The SDGs have given businesses the opportunity Foundation is to accelerate the development of business sustainable businesses sustainable communities. Our approach, track record and keen at the Financing for Development Convention of the United Nations in to bring their expertise, networks and resources to bear in achieving practices through increasing and communities that desire to share our views on the Ethiopia in July 2015 as well as at goals that can be transformative for role of business in development the awareness of the strengths of the ethical business case. ensure dignity, respect lead to many invitations by the historic UN General Assembly in September 2016 which saw 180 society. We are committed to playing our part in this endeavor and to In May 2016, Abraaj collaborated and fair values. governments and international organizations to participate in heads of state endorse the SDGs. demonstrating how the private sector can create financially sustainable with the Foundation and Unilever gatherings, task forces business models that deliver strong to develop a pledge that and conferences. returns and achieve high impact. 34 35 Innovating Sustainable Business Models 36 37 Emerging Consumers, Emerging Cities: In Conversation with Sev Vettivetpillai local firms, human capital, skill levels in the health system and further and the availability of technology. compounding the situation. But some of these issues can only be properly addressed by working Likewise in our energy infrastructure closely with governments and other strategy, we recognize that cleanstakeholders, which is why it is so energy sources in growth markets important for us to have teams on typically have to be introduced the ground that understand the alongside conventional systems local environment and can help that crucially offer sufficient base shape ecosystems to support the loads – i.e. energy available 24/7, development of particular sectors. 365 days of the year. Our aim then is to address the need for more What does sustainability mean power in a responsible manner. for Abraaj across its thematic Sev Vettivetpillai businesses? In real estate, we look to invest in Partner, The Abraaj Group mixed-use developments that will Healthcare is at the core of the have a wider beneficial impact on economic equation. You can’t expect a city’s development. Warehouse Cities in growth markets offer the government is to private sector poor healthcare services not to space, for example, is in short supply some of the greatest investment involvement. Today, governments be a brake on growth in the main in many cities and is crucial to the opportunities and challenges. Can in many of the markets where we economy. That is why we address distribution of goods and to growth. you outline these and how you invest recognize that they have to the triad of affordability, accessibility Hence, we look at developments assess cities’ ability to make the be accountable to their electorate. and quality, so that we can reach that can contribute positively to the most of these opportunities? So we are seeing liberal and reformthe mass market. But we also have human and economic landscape of oriented governments that are to create models that are financially our markets. To put it very simply, the encouraging the development of new independent and sustainable. opportunities are that these business models that can reach the How does Abraaj address cities have young populations, mass or middle-income markets. It is also vital to ensure that our corporate governance challenges an expanding middle class and investments don’t take anything in its partner companies? increasing disposable incomes. How can private equity help away from the rest of the system. The challenges are that many of address factors relating to In Lagos, for example, there are Our starting point is that governance these cities lack basic services historic underinvestment? just 600 private hospital beds for a is more about mindsets than and sufficient infrastructure. This population of over 13 million people. systems. If you choose the wrong creates a huge vacuum, but also an At a macro level we can work with If you expand private provision there, partner, who doesn’t share your opportunity for the private sector to governments to improve policies. without training more doctors and mindset, it doesn’t matter what go in and create a positive economic In Ethiopia, for example, foreign nurses at the same time, you risk processes and practices you put and social impact. This is why we investors have not been allowed creating a hole somewhere else in place – you will face an issue are looking to invest in healthcare ownership rights in healthcare, so with that company. and energy infrastructure in targeted we have been working with the cities in Sub-Saharan Africa and Ministry of Health to understand Our external due diligence can’t South Asia. their needs and show them what really tell us whether a potential we have been doing for healthcare partner shares our mindset. It’s Sustainability is at the heart of provision in other parts of Africa. You can’t make only in the discussion phase with a our strategy for Abraaj’s thematic The government is now willing to successful company, when you’re developing a investments. It has to be. You can’t put structures in place that allow investments in relationship, that you can really test make successful investments in the private sector to build healthcare this. So we look to see how open, sectors that have enormous impact ecosystems in the country. sectors that have forthcoming or closed a company is without addressing the broader enormous impact when discussing difficult issues with concerns of external stakeholders. Private equity can also play a critical without addressing the us. We would probably walk away role in addressing some of the from an investment if a potential In my view, a key criterion for city issues at a micro level, such as the broader concerns of partner didn’t reveal a contentious selection is how open and receptive management capability of existing external stakeholders. issue with us upfront. 38 Wind energy is an important component 39 of Abraaj’s clean energy strategy Strong Returns, High Impact: The Healthcare Paradigm Historic underinvestment, complemented by a rising middle class and urbanization in growth markets, is driving a need for infrastructure and innovation that can deliver quality healthcare that is accessible and affordable. As Abraaj continues to expand its healthcare portfolio, a focus on ESG remains paramount. We believe that a sustainability-driven approach with an emphasis on long-term impact is fundamental to the success of our healthcare strategy. Abraaj is committed to bringing the highest standards of care to its hospitals in Sub-Saharan Africa The Building Blocks healthcare providers and Higher Quality, This is in addition to leveraging the facilities – for example, Safe Care, community healthcare workers. Lower Costs learnings from our strategic partners COHSASA (The Council for Health Delivering accessible, affordable who bring valuable experience and Service Accreditation of Southern and quality care is the centerpiece The aim of our broader strategy is Delivering accessible, Today, there is a growing body resources that can only be accretive Africa), NABH (National Accreditation of our healthcare strategy. However, to ensure that Abraaj’s healthcare affordable and of evidence that validates the to our aspirations. Board for Hospitals and Healthcare we recognize that this approach investments and their facilities deliver relationship between improving Providers), or JCI (Joint Commission can often be a challenge in the high standards of clinical safety, quality care is the quality and achieving a reduction in Integral to the success of our International) registration. Our markets where we invest. Clinical improved clinical effectiveness centerpiece of our healthcare costs. We are committed strategy are the action plans and commitment to these standards is care delivery is often fragmented and and positive patient experiences healthcare strategy. to ensuring that our healthcare frameworks that monitor, implement demonstrated by the fact that our there has traditionally been a dearth and outcomes. We believe that if investments work on a clinical and guide performance at multiple large tertiary greenfield facilities are of quality healthcare providers, we can deliver high-quality care effectiveness program regardless of organizational levels. A central being designed from the outset to particularly at attractive price points. in a sustainable manner from the the types of facilities available and component of this standardization follow JCI guidelines, still a rarity outset, then this is likely to have complexity of services delivered. is achieving, maintaining and across much of South Asia and The vision for our facilities over the systemic benefits in terms of Central to this is reducing avoidable monitoring internationally accepted Sub-Saharan Africa. next 10 years and beyond is to provide ensuring a healthier population, harm, ensuring low mortality and low accreditation of our healthcare high-quality, affordable care in: higher productivity and greater complication rates, and delivering To support quality and learning cost-effectiveness. care that is patient-centered. centrally, an Abraaj Chief Medical • Acute and outpatient primary, Officer Council consisting of all secondary and tertiary care This approach is particularly Where possible, our guiding the Medical Directors from our services across the specialties for important in an environment where principles around quality are based healthcare networks has been patients who need immediate and the affordability of quality care around adapting tried and tested established. The Council meets chronic care provided through is inexorably linked to financial models used in other major global regularly to ensure compliance and facilities that include ER, ICU efficiency. In order to achieve healthcare systems (for example, sharing of best practice and learning and mother-and-child facilities. this, our institutions also need to the Institute for Healthcare Our guiding principles across all facilities. The Council is embrace the right culture – one that Improvement; Institute of Medicine; around quality exploring the development of key • Integrated services developed values human capital as its greatest the National Health Service; or clinical practice and governance in conjunction with primary asset – so that our staff can deliver the Monitor Organization’s Quality are based around themes (e.g. developing an ethics care, social care and community these expected standards with Governance Framework). Many of adapting tried and framework and performance facilities and partners, so that compassionate care. our hospitals have initiated the WHO tested models used management) and the establishment clinical care can be delivered Safe Surgical Checklist and will use of tools to ensure a consistent quality within the community and is an early warning score to identify in other major global approach is cascaded back to the well supported by GPs, allied higher-risk inpatients more quickly. healthcare systems. providers of clinical care. 40 41 CARE Hospitals Company Overview and Investment Rationale CARE Hospitals was founded in 1997 by a team of leading Indian cardiologists and today operates 17 hospitals in nine cities with over 2,000 operational beds. It is India’s fifthlargest healthcare player. CARE represented an opportunity for Abraaj to invest, through Country its Fund, in one of the leading healthcare India providers in India with outstanding tertiarycare facilities and deep pools of talent, an established business model in terms of operations, systems and processes, and an innovation-oriented organization with a high Sector degree of visibility for its expansion strategy. Healthcare Embedding Quality and As Abraaj builds out its healthcare Efficiency: Quality clinical platform in South Asia and Suboutcomes are central to CARE’s Saharan Africa, CARE has the mission. CARE Hospitals follow potential to be truly catalytic, given Date of Investment evidence-based medical practice it is a center of excellence and can January 2016 with an emphasis on redesigning provide high-quality and accessible operational and clinical processes healthcare services through a to minimize costs particularly for referral hub to patients within India lower-income customers. By and subsequently to other markets. driving clinical efficiency, this allows CARE will act as a center and model CARE to reduce the per-unit cost for training and upskilling of medical by increasing the effectiveness of talent and ensure the deployment of the overall system. managerial best practices across our global healthcare network. Likewise, using standardized management protocols for a large In the longer term, Abraaj will further number of clinical conditions allows upgrade its healthcare investments CARE to maintain consistency by working together with the wider in quality treatment. Protocol CARE partnership in diligencing adherence is measured across facilities in other markets and CARE Hospitals to improve bringing the services, from both compliance and adherence to a facility and clinical perspective, quality. To support this, each to agreed standards of quality. hospital has a quality manager who helps track 64 core quality Over time, our objective is to raise measures that are discussed on a the local quality standards of facilities monthly basis, with an action plan and personnel to ensure a common set in place for improving these platform globally across Abraaj’s quality indicators. operating markets and assets. CARE Hospitals will play an instrumental role in furthering this goal. 42 Care Hospitals, Hyderabad is India’s fifth-largest healthcare provider 43 with a focus on serving middle-to low-income communities Accessible Energy, Sustainable Power Access to affordable, reliable and sustainable energy is vital to driving economic growth and ending extreme poverty. At present, World Bank statistics indicate that around 1.1 billion people worldwide still live without access to electricity. Demand for energy infrastructure is most pronounced in growth markets where macro drivers such as strong demographics, a rising middle class and urbanization, along with historic underinvestment, have significantly increased the need for We will be developing renewable energy greater investment. projects with sustainable practices Solar power is one of the preferred sources that will endure of renewable energy in growth markets beyond the term of our investment. The annual funding required to meet team and the Group’s understanding lifecycle and a focus on renewable • Furthermore, within power power through, for instance, safety, labor and working conditions, forecast energy demand in Africa to of the energy sector, both power generation. generation we have a strong hydroelectric power generation and security management. 2040, for example, is c.US$ 95 billion conventional and renewable, in preference for renewables to incremental wattages via and there is planned investment of growth markets. Abraaj firmly • Our geographic focus is built especially as advances in installations of wind-power plants). Embedding ESG at the development US$ 40 billion into India’s power believes that private sector around core markets that are technology have now made stage will ensure the deployment transmission network as part of solutions will provide much-needed benefiting from macro trends renewables a real solution to the ESG Considerations of sustainable practices throughout the government’s 13th Plan. capital and expertise to enhance such as urbanization, a rising energy needs in growth markets. Across the Asset Lifecycle the value chain of the energy efficiencies, reduce costs and middle class and demographics. Our aim, however, is to invest in infrastructure assets. We believe Unfortunately, current investment promote long-term economic growth. These markets present a deep and develop good-quality, cleanESG, as one of the key value levers, it is important that our partners in energy infrastructure in growth pipeline of actionable investment energy projects that contribute is a crucial component of every implement high standards of ESG markets lags far behind the levels Clean Energy: A Case for opportunities supported by to increasing the generation project. We actively engage with practices both at the company required to sustain GDP growth. Change favorable energy security policies capacity of the countries we our investment team from the time level as well as through their While governments have realized the and regulations by government. invest in (from baseload of development and appraisal engagement with third parties importance of energy infrastructure Our energy infrastructure strategy of a project to identify potential including contractors, suppliers to national competitiveness and is premised on establishing a • In terms of asset lifecycle, areas of risk and to ensure that and wider stakeholders. overall economic development, clean-energy platform dedicated we will focus primarily on our due diligence frameworks constrained public resources and to investing both development and greenfield projects. This is and impact assessments deepAs we focus on delivering our clean rising budget deficits have limited growth capital in clean-energy assets driven by the reality that in many dive into key areas such as the energy investments, Abraaj’s ESG their ability to allocate sufficient across growth markets. By deploying growth markets, new energy quality of consultation with local experts will be fully engaged, taking capital toward infrastructure early-stage capital, Abraaj will be infrastructure must be built given communities, protection of cultural a collaborative role to guide deal investment. Against this background able to support energy infrastructure 1) lack of existing operating assets heritage, human and land rights, and teams in the development of these and given the scale of the required projects from their inception, due to historic underinvestment biodiversity. greenfield projects. investments, governments are now unlocking a supply of quality energy and 2) where there are assets, actively enlisting the private sector assets developed on a proprietary often they tend to operate at Abraaj will be able We further require our partners to bridge the funding gap. basis that will enable us to effectively sub-par levels of efficiency and to develop comprehensive address the large power deficit in the exert a strong carbon footprint. to support energy environmental and social Abraaj is well positioned to capitalize markets in which we operate. Brownfield investments will also infrastructure projects management systems which go on the opportunity to invest in clean be considered in cases where from their inception, beyond local regulations and are energy infrastructure given the Our investment approach in energy growth capital is required for in line with IFC Performance deep sector expertise of the infrastructure is structured around expansion, rehabilitation and unlocking a supply of Standards and international best dedicated energy infrastructure key pillars such as geography, asset efficiency enhancement. quality energy assets. practice for occupational health and 44 45 Meeting the UNGC Principles Performance Notes Abraaj is committed to meeting the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact (UNGC). Past performance is not indicative Developed Countries: the term of future results. Certain information developed country is used to describe The table below directs readers to relevant sections of the Abraaj Sustainability Report 2015/16. contained in this presentation constitutes countries that have a high level of “forward-looking statements,” which development. According to the IMF can be identified by the use of forwardthe following 38 countries are classified Principle Definition Page looking terminology such as “may,” as “Developed Countries”: Andorra, “will,” “should,” “expect,” “anticipate,” Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bermuda, “target,” “project,” “estimate,” “intend,” Canada, Cyprus, Czech Republic, 01. Businesses should support and respect the protection 24-25 “continue” or “believe,” or the negatives Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, of internationally proclaimed human rights; and thereof or other variations thereon or Germany, Greece, Hong Kong, comparable terminology. Due to various Iceland, Ireland, Israel, Italy, Japan, risks and uncertainties, actual events Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Malta, or results or the actual performance of Monaco, Netherlands, New Zealand, 02. make sure that they are not complicit in human 24-25 any Abraaj Fund may materially differ Norway, Portugal, Singapore, Slovakia, rights abuses. from those reflected or contemplated Slovenia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, in such forward-looking statements. Switzerland, Taiwan, United Kingdom, There can be no assurance that USA. 03. Businesses should uphold the freedom of 16-17, 22-23 unrealized investments will be realized association and the effective recognition at the valuations shown or that the Our Markets: includes Abraaj’s target of the right to collective bargaining; IRRs or MoCs set forth herein will be growth-market countries. The following achieved. Actual realized returns will 29 countries are classified as “Our depend on, among other factors, Markets”: Bangladesh, Chile, Colombia, 04. the elimination of all forms of forced and 16-17, 22-23, 30-31 future operating results, the value of Côte d’Ivoire, Egypt, Ethiopia, Ghana, the assets and market conditions at India, Indonesia, Kenya, Malaysia, compulsory labour; the time of disposition, any related Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Pakistan, transaction costs, and the timing and Peru, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, manner of sale – all of which may Senegal, Singapore, South Africa, 05. the effective abolition of child labour; and 16-17, 22-23 differ from the assumptions on which Sri Lanka, Tanzania, Thailand, Tunisia, the valuations contained herein are Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Vietnam, based. Consequently, the actual Zambia. realized returns, may differ materially 06. the elimination of discrimination in respect 16-17, 20-21, 22-23, 24-25, 30-31, 32-33 from the current returns indicated in this of employment and occupation. presentation. Nothing contained herein should be deemed to be a prediction or projection of future performance of any Abraaj Group Fund. 07. Businesses should support a precautionary 12-13, 16-17, 22-23, 28-29, 32-33 Capital Deployed: Includes capital approach to environmental challenges; deployed by the Group through its Funds. 08. undertake initiatives to promote greater 12-13, 16-17, 18-19, 22-23, 24-25, environmental responsibility; and 28-29, 32-33 09. encourage the development and diffusion 16-17, 22-23, 24-25, 28-29, 32-33 of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Businesses should work against corruption in 16-17, 18-19 all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 46 47 Disclaimer The information contained in this The selected portfolio investments are and undertaken that: (i) you have brochure is given without any liability intended to be illustrative of the types read and agree to comply with the whatsoever to Abraaj Holdings, any of investments that may be entered into contents of this notice including, without of its affiliates or related entities or their by Abraaj through its Funds and Abraaj limitation, the obligation to keep this respective members, directors, officers does not intend to invest in any of the brochure and its contents confidential; or employees (collectively “Abraaj”) companies highlighted herein, unless and (ii) you will not subscribe for or for any loss whatsoever arising from otherwise noted. Certain information purchase any interests in any Fund any use of this brochure or its contents contained in this brochure concerning managed or sponsored by Abraaj or otherwise. economic trends and performance except on the basis of information in is based on or derived from information the private placement memorandum Unless otherwise indicated, information provided by independent third party for such Fund. presented here is as of June 30, 2016. sources. Abraaj cannot guarantee the accuracy of such information and This brochure is intended for discussion Information in this brochure is believed has not independently verified the purposes only and is solely for your by Abraaj to be fair and accurate but assumptions on which such information information and may not be reproduced Abraaj accepts no responsibility for is based. Abraaj disclaims any or further distributed to any other person such fairness or accuracy. No brochure responsibility for any errors or omissions or published, in whole or in part, for any or warranty, express or implied, is in such information, including the other purpose. If you were provided with made or given by Abraaj as to the financial calculations, projection, a copy of this brochure by a person accuracy, completeness or fairness of and forecasts in this brochure. other than a representative of the Abraaj the information or opinions contained in Group, it is not intended to be read by this brochure. In particular, no warranty This brochure does not constitute you and you should destroy the copy. is made that any projection, forecast, or form part of, and should not be assumption or estimate contained in construed as, or relied upon in respect By reading this brochure you agree to this brochure should or will be achieved. of, any offer for sale or subscription of, be bound by the foregoing limitations There is a substantial likelihood that or solicitation of any offer to purchase and restrictions and, in particular, will statements included in this brochure or subscribe for, any interests in any be taken to have represented, will prove to be inaccurate, possibly to of the Funds managed or sponsored warranted and undertaken that: (i) you a significant degree. In considering any by Abraaj. Any such offer, subscription have read and agreed to comply with performance data contained herein, or solicitation will be made by means the contents of this notice including, each recipient of this brochure should of an offering document to be issued without limitation, the obligation to bear in mind that historic returns, by Abraaj in connection with any such keep this brochure and its contents projected returns or financial market offering and any decision to purchase confidential; and (ii) you will not scenarios are no reliable indicator for or subscribe for such Funds should subscribe for or purchase or subscribe current or future performance, past be made solely on the basis of the for any investments, securities, performance is not indicative of future information contained in such offering investment advisory services or other results and there can be no assurance document. This brochure is being made transactions managed or sponsored that any future Fund managed or on a confidential basis and is intended by the Abraaj Group except on the sponsored by Abraaj will achieve for discussion purposes only and is basis of the information contained in comparable results or be able to solely for your information and may not the independent offering document. avoid losses. be reproduced or further distributed to any other person or published, in whole Members of Abraaj North America Nothing contained herein should be or in part, for any purpose. If you were are also Registered Representatives deemed to be a prediction or projection provided with a copy of this brochure of Blue Sand Securities LLC. Member of future performance including future by a person other than Abraaj, then it is FINRA/SIPC. Abraaj Capital Limited is Fund performance. Due to various not intended to be read by you and you a licensed holding company within The risks and uncertainties, including future should destroy the copy. The material Abraaj Group and is regulated by the operating results, the value of the assets herein is not directed at, nor intended Dubai Financial Services Authority. and market conditions at the time of for distribution to or use by, any person disposition, any related transaction or entity in any country where such costs and the timing and manner of distribution or sue would be contrary to sale, all of which may differ from the law or regulation or which would subject assumptions on which the information Abraaj to any licensing or registration contained herein is based, actual events requirements within such country. By or results may materially differ from viewing this brochure you agree to be those reflected or contemplated in bound by the foregoing limitations and this brochure. restrictions and, in particular, will be taken to have represented, warranted 48 Abraaj.com
