G4-22, G4-23, G4-28, G4-29, G4-30, G4-31 In accordance with the principles of transparency and Our priority issues, which were obtained in result of accountability, we have been offering the social, the Sustainability Survey Study realized in 2012 and economic and environmental impacts of our corporate are reviewed annually, constitute the mainframe of our activities to our stakeholders’ view in line with relevant report. In the reporting period, we have reviewed our management practices, performance results and sustainability priorities in accordance with the meetings targets since the year 2012. Our sustainability report we have realized with our department representatives, for the year 2015 involves our sustainability data obtained from standards and systems performance between the dates 01.01.2015 – implemented at Brisa and feedbacks conveyed to us by 31.12.2015. our stakeholders. Our report, prepared in accordance with Comprehensive We consider enhancing our sustainability performance option of the GRI G4 Guidelines, was designed by taking and accordingly becoming a more accountable and into consideration relevant requirements. As in the transparent organization to be among our indispensable previous repor ting period, we have received objectives. We believe in the signiﬁcance of stakeholder independent external audits for our 2015 report in the feedbacks to achieve these objectives. You may issues of energy consumption, carbon dioxide emission, communicate your feedbacks regarding our report to water consumption, training hours, employee surdurulebilirlik@brisa.com.tr in order to consistently breakdown, recruited employees, quitting employees, improve our reporting performance. senior management, occupational health and safety, and total amount of waste by type. 8 ABOUT BRISA 12 OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY 13 OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 15 SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT 21 VALUE CHAIN 22 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY DURING PRODUCT LIFECYCLE 23 RESPONSIBLE VALUE CHAIN PRACTICES 28 GENERATING AND DISTRIBUTING MORE ECONOMIC VALUE 29 INNOVATION AND CORPORATE ENTREPRENEURSHIP 31 DIGITALIZATION 33 ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH 35 ENERGY AND EMISSION MANAGEMENT 36 EFFICIENT USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND LESS WASTE 39 RESPECT FOR BIODIVERSITY 40 ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 44 WORK LIFE 45 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY APPROACH 47 DEVELOPMENT JOURNEY 52 EMPLOYEE RIGHTS 55 SOCIETY RELATIONS 56 CONTRIBUTION TO TRAFFIC SAFETY 58 CONTRIBUTION TO SECTORAL PRACTICES 60 CONTRIBUTION TO EDUCATION AND SPORTS 4 Dear Esteemed Stakeholders, 2015 was the year that we’ve received the fruits of our understanding amongst our stakeholders in our operations carried out with sustainability we regard supply chain we published our “Responsible as an inseparable part of our corporate identity. We Purchasing Policy”; and as a result of our responsible are happy share our achievements to our business practices published our “Anti-Bribery and G4-1 stakeholders with our fourth sustainability report. Corruption Policy”. In 2015, the global tyre market has reached to 1.7 Our sustainability report, which we share our billion pieces with a 1% increase, while Turkey tyre performance transparently with our stakeholders, market reached 22.4 million with 14% growth awarded as “the best B2B sustainability report” in a compared to 2014. Brisa with a 2.3% increase in total global organization by Ethical Corporation in UK by sales in comparison with 2014 on item basis, 7% welling away its global competitors. Listed in İstanbul EBITDA growth and 6% increase with 1,802 million Stock Exchange’s (BIST) sustainability index was Turkish liras net sales revenue protected it’s sector another important highlight of the reporting period. leadership Lassa brand’s export increased 5% and by We’ll be included by in the index for terms November the end of 2015 Brisa meets with vehicle owners at 2015October 2016. At index, companies with superior over 130 sales point with a signboard. sustainability performance are listed. In 2015 we’ve speed up the work of our new Our energy use in the reporting period showed a 12% production facility will be established in Aksaray. We decrease in comparison with the year 2008, while our plan a 30% increase in our production capacity with energy savings increased thirteen fold. As Brisa, we our Aksaray plant, which will be ready to operate in aim to reduce our greenhouse gas emission per unit 2018 with an 300 million USD initial investment. In production by 25% as against 2005, in 2020. As of 2015 reporting period we continue to create value with our yearend, we have achieved this target at the rate of new products. We began to serve Bridgestone seismic 22%. We reduced our well water consumption by 46% isolator to Turkey market as of 2015. as against the year 2008. Thanks to our works on less water use and wastewater recycling we achieved 46% With our Lassa brand, we launched collaboration one improvement in comparison with the year 2008, thus of the world’s most successful sports club of the we achieved 75% of our 2020 target for reducing our world, Barcelona. As of June 2015, with the water consumption. In consequence of the works agreement signed, club’s basketball, handball, futsal, conducted since 2009 for minimizing wastes, we have roller hockey teams use “FC Barcelona Lassa” name. achieved an improvement of 62% for hazardous BRISA 2015 Thus we carry our brand to more competitive and wastes. SUSTAINABILITY valuable state in global scale. REPORT As Brisa, we integrate our innovation and In reporting period, in order to integrate sustainability sustainability understanding with digitalization > CEO MESSAGE to our business processes more and support processes. By integrating our system and processes sustainability to be embraced by all individuals in to digital platforms we provide fair, efﬁcient and Brisa we published our Sustainability Policy; in order reliable use of knowledge, and we deliver analytical to collaborate more and increase sustainability and mobile solutions. We were selected “Digital 5 Sector Leader” in the categor y of “Other travelling to 155 villages in 20 provinces. Our Lassa Manufacturing” of the “Accenture Digitalization Index” team, which is formed under Brisaspor, has won 184 realized for the ﬁrst time in Turkey and were entitled medals in 13 national and 33 international for the “Digitalization Pioneers” award. competitions and achieved a great success as it did in the previous years. In 2015, we worked hard in order to develop healthy, safe, fair, transparent and happy workplace to our What we achieve is possible with our stakeholders. I G4-1 employees toward our strategies of becoming a commit that we will put utmost effort to carry the preferred workplace. We put detailed efforts into value we create further. practice inline with our strategy to reach prospective Brisa employees effectively and we ﬁnd the YİĞİT GÜRÇAY opportunity to tell about the value we created for our General Manager employees. In 2015, in order to share our knowledge and experience with all our stakeholders, within the scope of Brisa Academy, we have provided 33,200 man-hour of training in 2015, achieving a 40% increase as against 2014. We continued the Employment and Awareness Projects, as well as the Support Projects, which we started in 2013 by becoming a signatory of the United Nations Equality at Work Declaration, by including our value. We determine our social responsibility projects in the light of our sustainability vision and the principles of forming good relations with local communities and contributing to social, cultural and economic development. We are the ofﬁcial partner of Solar Impulse project in Turkey, which is realized in order to draw attention to the use of renewable energy resources. Within the scope of “Lassa Yola Sağlam Çık” project, which aims to increase the awareness of safe and secure driving, we visited 44 points in 32 cities in 2015. We realized the blood pressure, blood BRISA 2015 sugar and body mass index measurements of 5,501 SUSTAINABILITY long distance drivers. Within the scope of REPORT Bridgestone’s “#Emniyetimiziçin2dk” project, we realized the measurement and balancing of tread > CEO MESSAGE depth and air pressure of 30,000 cars. Within the scope of “Tarım Sağlamsa Gelecek Sağlam Projesi” we have reached out to 9,500 farmers by 6 We create positive value for our stakeholders by bringing our sustainability approach together with our strategies, core operations and competences. Our primary aim is to increase our performance by increasing the integration of sustainability and our business conduct and strengthening the relation between social, environmental and economic topics. BRISA 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT > MESSAGES FROM SUSTAINABILITY WORK GROUPS 7 SUPPORTING FUNCTIONS’ WORKING GROUP We realize our sustainability strategies by considering stakeholders’ opinions. While we manage our resources effectively in order to produce and distribute more economic value, we meticiluously evaluate social, environmental and economic risks and opportunities that might arise from our strategies. We strive for providing our employees with an honest, fair, secure and healthy working environment, which would enable them pursue their career in a happy, safe, healthy and efﬁcient way. We provide our employees with opportunities for self-development througout their career and jointly create values. MARKETING AND SALES WORKING GROUP We put the expactations of our stakeholders into the core of our business model. We realize social responsibility projects with our sustainability vision. Our main responsibility is driving safety, which is closely linked to our sector. In addition to these, we realize projects in sectoral development, education and sports areas. SUPPLY CHAIN WORKING GROUP Creating sustainable values by including the stakeholders in our supply chain, raising the awareness of sustainability in our supply chain and pursue our activities within this framework are among our praimary aims. In this line, we support our suppliers to carry out activities that parallel our sustainability strategy, and create sustainable values together. TECHNICAL FUNCTIONS WORKING GROUP BRISA 2015 SUSTAINABILITY In line with our understanding to continuously develop our activities, we focus on reducing environmental impacts of our REPORT operations. We constantly follow up and evaluate our operations and our performance and take measures to reduce our environmental impacts. In this regard, we evaluate the environmental impacts of our products and services starting from the > MESSAGES FROM SUSTAINABILITY design phase and reduce them in all other processes. WORK GROUPS 8 Brisa, established with the initiative of Sabancı Holding value of 133 million US dollars. Brisa’s brand Lassa, and its partners in 1974, started manufacturing tyres which ranked 82nd on the “Fortune 500 Turkey” list, is Tyres G4-3, G4-4, under the Lassa brand in 1978. In 1988, the company supported within the scope of Turquality, the brand G4-6, G4-8, was named Brisa with an equal partnership realized support incentive provided by the Undersecretariat of G4-17 between Sabancı Holding and the worldwide tyre Foreign Trade. industry leader Bridgestone Corporation. Brisa won its ﬁrst National Quality Award in 1993 and it became the We continue our journey, which started as an industrial ﬁrst Turkish company to win the European Quality company in 1974, as an innovation company leading in Award in virtue of the outstanding performance it its industry and “Designing the Future of Your Journey”. demonstrated in business excellence in 1996. In 2010, We add value to our national economy with our new Non-Tyre Products Brisa bought the American based rubber coating investments and limit our environmental impact in company Bandag's Turkey operations from order to leave future generations with a more habitable Bridgestone’s European subsidiary Bandag AG, thus world, we actualize sustainable practices in our value diversifying its service portfolio. Brisa, who signed chain, we implement practices to enhance our distributorship agreements with the worldwide leading employees’ satisfaction and maintain our social battery brand Energizer in 2013, thereby extending its investments. Sale Channels product range, developed a strategic business partnership in 2014 with Authority Group, the innovative TYRE PRODUCTION PROCESS company of Turkish automotive and service industry, expanding its business volume. Brisa, which has one of the largest tyre factories under a single roof worldwide, its Kocaeli production facility with an indoor area of 361,000 m2, and an annual production capacity of 11 million pcs, is one of the most important production facilities of Bridgestone. Together Click here to watch with the facility to be built in Aksaray for the production of passenger and light commercial vehicle tyres, which BRISA GENERAL MEETING is planned to be engaged in 2018, it is aimed for the total production capacity to be increased by 30%. The Services BRISA 2015 total amount of investment since 1988 made by Brisa, SUSTAINABILITY who provides direct employment approximately 2,600 REPORT employees, has reached the level of 1009 million US dollars. > ABOUT BRISA Brisa, which was on the 57th place in the ISO 500 list of Click here to watch the largest industrial institutions of Turkey in 2015, was ranked in the 40th place in “Turkey’s Most Valuable Brands Research” conducted by the International * 2014 data. Brand Rating Institution Brand Finance, with a brand 9 Our Mission To provide superior values to society through sustainable growth Our Values Safety, Innovation, Customer Orientation, Team Work, Business Excellence, Sustainability Our Motto Change to Change Our Vision We innovate your journey Supply Chain Marketing & Sales Finance We offer our We make our We lighten the road stakeholders the best leadership for the best journey value with the lowest sustainable through ahead. cost through fast and value creation. innovative supply processes. Technical Groups Human Resources We create the best and Labor journey ahead with a Relations BRISA 2015 sense of ownership. We, Brisa Family, SUSTAINABILITY create the roadmap to REPORT the best journey together. > ABOUT BRISA 10 1,802 MILLION TL 1,009 MILLION USD 1,065 NUMBER OF IDEAS COLLECTED OUR NET SALES THROUGH BRISA INNOVATION REVENUE FOR TOTAL AMOUNT OF INVESTMENT TEAM STUDIES THE YEAR 2015 REALIZED BY BRISA IN TURKEY 4 70 6.6 NUMBER OF TYRES NUMBER OF TYRES SOLD BY BRISA IN TURKEY SOLD BY BRISA 1,200 DURING 2015 ABROAD NUMBER OF MILLION DURING 2015 COUNTRIES OUR LASSA BRAND IS EXPORTED TO: MILLION NUMBER OF SALES POINTS FORMED WITH OUR CONCEPTS 12 10 46 % OUR ENERGY % OUR DIRECT AND INDIRECT % CONSUMPTION SAVINGS CO2 REDUCTION RATE OUR WELL WATER FOR PRODUCTION RATE FOR PRODUCTION CONSUMPTION SAVINGS PER TON PER TON SINCE 2008 RATE SINCE 2008 SINCE 2008 NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES NUMBER OF CUSTOMERS 37.35 NUMBER OF NUMBER OF FATAL INCLUDED IN OUR AVERAGE HOURS LOCAL CUSTOMER ACCIDENTS SUPPLIERS 2,591 45,000 SATISFACTION OF ANNUAL 1,791 SURVEY BRISA 2015 TRAINING FOR SUSTAINABILITY REPORT OUR EMPLOYEES > ABOUT BRISA 11 The second prize at “InovaLig” Innovation Strategies We received the Silver Effie Award with the “Sağlamsa We won 4 Crystal Apple awards with Lassa’s viral went to Brisa. We were deemed worthy of the second Lassa” campaign . We received the Silver Efﬁe Award, campaign “Don Duran-Arkamiz Saglam”. We received prize in the category of Innovation Strategies with our which is the best award in the Automotive Products 4 awards, including the Crystal Apple, in the categories innovation approach and corporate entrepreneurship Category, with our “Sağlamsa Lassa” campaign that we of Most Creative Real-time Action, Creative/Innovative model at “InovaLig” innovation awards organized within actualized to appropriate and develop the winter tyre Use of Social Media Platforms and Viral Movie with our the scope of the Turkey Innovation Week under the market at the 7th Efﬁe Turkey Advertising Activity movie that received 10 million views at the 26th Crystal initiative of Turkish Exporters’ Assembly. Competition where the best of the advertising and Apple award ceremony organized by the Advertisers’ marketing industry compete. Association Board of Directors since 1989, where We Received the Business Continuity Grand Prize of authentic and creative works are awarded. the Year in London. We won the grand prize in the Sustainable Activity award for Bridgestone . We won category of “Business Continuity/Resilience Strategy of the third best activity of Europe award in the category of the Year”, leaving behind our global competitors at the “Sustainable Activity” with the “Chill Out Festival” CHILL OUT FESTIVAL CIR Business Continuity Awards 2015 organized for the organized for the 10th time with the sponsorship of 17th time by “CIR Magazine” in England. Bridgestone at the European Best Event awards organized since 2006. Our 2014 Sustainability Report was selected the “Best B2B Sustainability Report”. We were deemed worthy “Lassa Cycling Team” within the body of Brisaspor of the “Best B2B Sustainability Report” award by the was riding high in 2015! Brisaspor competed in a total Ethical Corporation in England, surpassing our global of 46 competitions, of which 13 national and 33 competitors with our 2014 Sustainability Report, which international, in 2 different branches, namely mountain Click here to watch we have prepared meticulously in accordance with the bike and racing bike, in the categories of adult men, principle of transparency. junior men, ace men and women during the 2015 season. Our athletes won 77 gold, 66 silver and 41 “Climate Disclosure Leadership Award” in bronze medals, taking the podium a total of 184 times. CDP-Climate Change and The highest performance Our athletes played 42 times for the national team. range in CDP -Water. We are the top company from industry sector in “Carbon Disclosure Programme Brisa Customer Communication Center’s service (CDP) TurkeyClimate Change” by disclosure score of quality was registered with the EN15838:2009 98. We also achieved the highest performance range in Customer Communication Centers Service Certificate Turkey with the B rate in “Carbon Disclosure awarded by the Call Centers Association. Our Brisa Programme (CDP) Turkey Water” programme in the Customer Communication Center, which successfully ﬁrst year of reporting in Turkey. underwent a series of challenging audits involving numerous business processes, was entitled to receive “Digital Sector Leader” and “Digitalization Pioneer” the EN15838:2009 Customer Communication Centers award for Brisa.We were selected “Digital Sector Service Certiﬁcate from the Call Centers Association Leader” in the category of “Other Manufacturing” of the certiﬁcating that services are offered at European Union BRISA 2015 “Accenture Digitalization Index” realized for the ﬁrst standards. SUSTAINABILITY time in Turkey with the cooperation of Accenture, REPORT Vodafone, Turkish Informatics Foundation, Boğaziçi First prize in Energy Efficient Industrial Facility University and METU, and we were entitled for the category. By providing average savings at energy > ABOUT BRISA “Digitalization Pioneers” award. density by 34% between 2012 and 2014, we’ve awarded rubber and plastic products industry’s top prize in the “Database Transformation Project of the Year” Award. Energy Efﬁcient Industrial Facilities category of the We were considered worthy of the “Database Energy Efﬁciency Project Competition in the Industry Transformation Project of the Year” award at SAP organized by Ministry of Energy and Natural Resources. Forum with our database transformation project in corporate resource planning. G4-SO4 G4-DMA We form our Sustainability Approach based on the global accumulation of Bridgestone Corporation and the national experiences of Sabancı Holding. We combine the Bridgestone CSR-22 approach and the sustainability understanding of Sabancı Holding with our own corporate policies, strategies, processes and projects based upon international standards such as EFQM, GRI. We plan improvements aimed at consolidating the in-house integration of our sustainability approach. By means of this entire structure we update our sustainability strategies, plan our actions and continue to ensure their integration in all our processes with the contributions of all our employees in our journey, which we continue with the mission of “providing superior values to society BRISA 2015 through sustainable growth”. SUSTAINABILITY We have audited REPORT We joined Istanbul We published the Brisa 6 business Stock Exchange Sustainability Policy. processes out > OUR SUSTAINABILITY Sustainability Index. of 61. JOURNEY We have defined 1,350 processes, connections We organized Our 2014 Sustainability Report was between processes, process Brisa Risk selected the “Best B2B OUR CORPORATE GOVERNANCE representatives and main process basic Management Sustainability Report” performance indicators within our sharing meeting STRUCTURE at the organization held by the Risk Management “Brisa Process House” practice. We’ve won Ethical Corporation in England. Internal Auditing and We published the 12 awards Internal Control SUSTAINABILITY Brisa Policy for with our products MANAGEMENT Combating against and services. Our Stakeholders Bribery and Corruption. We’ve repeated We’ve determined improvement points for our 2014 Sustainability benchmark study Our Priority Issues We were deemed worthy PROGRESS PEPORT Report as a result of of the grand prize in evaluates our External Committee Review the category of Business Continuity / corporate Resilience Strategy of the Year at the performance. CIR Business Continuity Awards 2015. 13 Board bears the responsibility for the performance of management practices and we strive to manage them our company in economic, social and environmental in the best possible way. ﬁelds. Brisa Board of Directors is responsible for the effective You can reach detailed information implementation of our risk management system at the Our corporate governance regarding the corporate governance highest level. The Committee for the Early Identiﬁcation structure of Brisa, members of the Board of G4-2, G4-14, Understanding; Directors and senior level managers under of Risk, selected from among members of the Board of Directors, makes situation assessments for critical risks G4-34, G4-35, the “Corporate” tab at www.brisa.com.tr. G4-36, G4-38, in the report it gives to the Board of Directors bimonthly > TRANSPARENCY > FAIRNESS G4-39, G4-42, in light of the information received from the Risk Brisa Process Management Management Department of the company and the Risk G4-43, G4-44, We are aware that Process Management G4-45, G4-46, Committee. It also evaluates the efﬁciency of the is one of the most significant topics in G4-47, G4-EC2, > RESPONSIBILITY > ACCOUNTABILITY corporate risk management system once a year. institutionalization. We believe that G4-DMA defined, transparent and intra vires accessible processes contribute to the The Risk Management Department conducts the activities Corporate Governance Principles, namely transparency, internal audit and control setting. We aim of identifying and deﬁning the strategic, ﬁnancial, fairness, accountability and responsibility, constitute the operational and liability risks of the functions, measuring for the processes of all the work we do basic components of the successes we achieve in all areas as Brisa. In this regard, we observe national and to be defined. In consequence of our and prioritizing the impacts and probabilities of the international standards in our operations that we studies over the course of two years, we ﬁnancial, reputational, environmental and human loss conduct with our effective management systems and have defined 1,350 processes, connections scenarios of the risks, determining strategies and actions BRISA 2015 we maintain our leading position in our sector through among processes, process representatives aimed at reducing, eliminating or transferring the SUSTAINABILITY our understanding of fair competition and our business and main process basic performance negative impacts of said risks, identifying critical risk manner that goes beyond legal compliance. indicators in our “Brisa Process House” REPORT indicators and risk tolerances, and following up on application. The management structure of Brisa consists of a existing risk management actions through risk evaluation > OUR SUSTAINABILITY system involving a Board of Directors and an Executive Committee. At Brisa, the positions of CEO and Risk Management workshops organized with all function managers and employees every year. Details of operational risk JOURNEY Chairman of the Board of Directors are occupied by Our Risk Management approach aims to ensure that all management and business continuity planning and different individuals. Our Board of Directors, which is our employees focus on risks and opportunities alongside prospective risks can be found on our annual report. > OUR CORPORATE elected by the General Assembly, consists of 11 members, of which 4 have executive duties and 2 are their performances while conducting their daily GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE independent. operations and to create value for our stakeholders by In the previous reporting period, we had analyzed and > Risk Management contributing to the sustainable growth of Brisa, through evaluated the risks and opportunities that Climate Internal Auditing and All the members of our Board of Directors are the integration of corporate risk management in our Change might create for Brisa and we had identiﬁed the responsible for the performance of the company. Within Internal Control strategies and corporate culture. We take international areas we need to focus on as a company, as well as a SUSTAINABILITY the body of the Board of Directors, there is an Audit Committee, Corporate Governance Committee, and standards and best practices on a local/global scale as roadmap. In this regard, in 2015 we shared the projects MANAGEMENT Committee for the Early Identiﬁcation of Risks. There is reference within the framework of the risk management that we realized together with department managers in Our Stakeholders an Executive Committee consisting of the CEO, we have constituted to achieve this aim and for the relation to primary sustainability areas, their results and Our Priority Issues Executive Coordinator, Chief Technical Ofﬁcer, Assistant efﬁcient management of the system. PROGRESS PEPORT future plans at the meeting themed “Climate Change General Manager-Consumer Products Marketing and and Sustainability” with our senior management. Sales, and Financial Assistant, tasked with supporting Our works within our risk management program involve the Board of Directors in the planning and execution of ﬁnancial, strategic, operational and compliance areas. strategic orientations regarding the operations of our We actualize our strategies aimed at all the risks we company and in monitoring investments. Our Executive identify in these areas through our effective risk 14 We published Brisa Policy for Combating against Bribery Internal Auditing & and Corruption in 2015. Hereby we present the policies, Internal Control which are already practiced at Brisa and included in Sabancı Holding Business Ethics Guidelines, for Internal audits and internal controls are conducted for combating against bribery and corruption. the effective, reliable and uninterrupted execution of corporate activities and services, the development of You can access Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption G4-7, G4-57, risk management, control system and corporate Policy online at G4-58, G4-SO3, Brisa Risk Management governance applications of the Company, contributing G4-HR9, Sharing Meeting to the attainment of the corporate and economic targets You can reach detailed information regarding SA-ETIK G4-SO4, of the Company, and ensuring the integrity, consistency We organized Brisa Risk Management Business Ethics Guidelines at www.sabanci.com.tr G4-SO5, and reliability of the information provided by the G4-DMA sharing meeting in 2015, in order to accounting and ﬁnancial reporting system. The risk of irregularity constitutes one of our criteria enhance the awareness of Brisa employees about being equipped and within the scope of the auditing system. During the At Brisa, internal auditing and internal control activities prepared against risks. reporting period, we have reviewed processes against the are executed through the agency of the Audit Committee risk of irregularity and bribery and we have not within the body of the Board of Directors. The ﬁndings encountered any relevant cases. and suggestions obtained in result of the works conducted by the committee are presented to the Board of Directors. Another structure inﬂuential for the efﬁcient working of the Internal Auditing and control mechanism is the BRISA 2015 Internal Auditing Department. The committee and the SUSTAINABILITY Internal Auditing department evaluate the internal REPORT auditing system through periodically held meetings and present their ﬁndings to the Board of Directors. ERDAL TEKER Accounting Manager > OUR SUSTAINABILITY The processes to be audited throughout the year are JOURNEY 2015 Business Continuity identiﬁed by reviewing relevant risks on an annual basis. Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy Awards Grand Prize In 2015, we carried out the auditing of another our 6 We regard combating against corruption and bribery as OUR CORPORATE Brisa was deemed worthy of the grand business processes out of 61, reaching the level of 43% one of the basic responsibilities of Brisa before the GOVERNANCE prize in the category of “Business in total since 2012. Human rights issues were also society and humanity, as the rest of the business world. STRUCTURE addressed in the process audits being executed and the “Taking measures against corruption and bribery” and a Risk Management Continuity / Resilience Strategy of the relevant works were completed. Our target for the “business manner beyond legal regulations” are among > Internal Auditing Year” at CIR Business Continuity Awards forthcoming reporting period is to complete the auditing our prioritized issues. We have shaped the approach we and Internal Control 2015. The independent jury, among which SUSTAINABILITY of another 11% of our business processes, reaching the are implementing according to Sabancı Holding Business senior managers globally responsible for level of 54% in total. MANAGEMENT Ethics Guidelines, which is among the most signiﬁcant Our Stakeholders the business continuity and risk advisors of our responsible business manner, speciﬁcally Our Priority Issues management of companies such as BP, In accordance with our understanding of responsible for Brisa and we put it on paper by publishing our PROGRESS PEPORT General Motors, GE Capital and Deutsche business, we rigorously control all our business “Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy” in 2015. In this Bank, honored Brisa with the grand prize processes in order to oppose corruption and bribery. way, we have emphasized the importance we attribute to from amongst nine candidates. Herein, Sabancı Group SA-ETIK guidelines and Brisa the issue of opposing corruption and briber y on a Policy for Combating against Bribery and Corruption are different level. our most important advisors. 15 We consider sustainability to be an inextricable part of our primary business processes. In parallel with this understanding, we evaluate all our processes from the perspective of sustainability, starting with the planning G4-18, G4-48, stage. We constitute action plans by identifying potential WE INNOVATE YOUR JOURNEY by using OUR CAPABILITIES G4-49, G4-50 development points. We design our sustainability journey with our STRATEGIES to generate VALUE for our STAKEHOLDERS based on the accumulation we acquire from the experiences of Bridgestone Corporation and Sabancı Capabilities Strategies Value (outcome) Stakeholders Holding. (input) Economic Value We bring together our strategies with our fundamental • Divident Payment Shareholders Increase Sales, Manage Proﬁtability and Improve operations and competences through our sustainable • Value creation for business Business partners Cost Efﬁciency for Proﬁtable Growth business model approach, creating positive values for our partners Suppliers • Payment to supplier Employees stakeholders. • Employee payment Society • Taxes • Sector We use our sector experience, well-deﬁned Experience Preferred business partner and processes, competent workforce and strong ﬁrst choice of end user Mobility Partnership Customers procurement structure • Well Deﬁned Products and services Business Partners BRISA 2015 Processes SUSTAINABILITY Toward our strategies of becoming a preferred Channel Management Customer Experience REPORT business partner and the ﬁrst choice of the end user, and Network Loyalty Environmental friendly proﬁtability and sales increase, creating sustainable business value for our customers, shareholders, business • Competent • Energy saving Society > OUR SUSTAINABILITY Product and Service Operational Workforce • Waste reduction Customers partners, suppliers, employees and the society; Management Excellence JOURNEY • Water reduction • Efﬁcient resource usage Toward our strategies of customer experience, • Strong OUR CORPORATE operational excellence, product and ser vice Procurement Become Employer of Choice Competency Dev. & Opport. GOVERNANCE management and channel management, creating Structure • Career Opt. Employees STRUCTURE • Employment Business Partners sustainable value for our customers and business Risk Management partners; Manage Brisa Way Internal Auditing and Align IT around Internal Control strategy of Sustainability Social Responsibility >SUSTAINABILITY Toward our strategies of becoming a preferred • Cont. to trafﬁc safety Society MANAGEMENT workplace creating sustainable value for our • Cont. to sectoral practices NGOs Re-innovation and Our Stakeholders employees business partners and society; Manage Risks • Cont. to education and sport entrepreneurship Our Priority Issues PROGRESS PEPORT Toward our strategies of sustainability, information technologies, risk management and innovation, creating sustainable value for our customers, business partners, society and NGOs. 16 We closely follow national and international standards in order to preserve and enhance the value we create Sustainability Management Structure for our stakeholders. Our fundamental approach is to STRATEGIC execute our performance with a business manner that PLANNING goes beyond legal responsibilities. For this reason, we SUSTAINABILITY CEO EXECUTIVE and HRCD have evaluated our sustainability performance in line WORK GROUP COMMITTEE (Sustainability with benchmarking studies during this reporting SPONSORS G4-48 Management & period, as in previous periods, and we identiﬁed our Coordination) G4-49 G4-50 actions. We include sustainability increasingly in business processes every passing day through practices that Technology, we implement in accordance with the works of our Customer, Economic and Supply Production, Product Social Chain sustainability groups. Alongside structural OHS and Processes Processes Processes Environmental transformation, we have published our sustainability Processes policy in order to enhance its dissemination and manifest its appropriation by the senior management.. Brisa joined Istanbul Stock You can reach Brisa Sustainability Policy online. Exchange Sustainability Index. 2014 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT As Brisa, we are now being listed in the We are disseminating our primary responsibilities regarding Istanbul Stock Exchange Sustainability BRISA 2015 social, environmental and economic issues with our Index, which includes shares of companies sustainability policy that we have published in 2015. We traded at the exchange with high level SUSTAINABILITY share social issues under the headings of human rights, REPORT corporate sustainability performances. occupational health and safety, customer health and safety during product and service lifecycle, opposing corruption Brisa will be included in the index during Click here to watch > OUR SUSTAINABILITY and bribery, business manner beyond legal requirements, the period between November 2015 and information security, employee rights, journey of September 2016. JOURNEY development, relations with stakeholders and the society. We disseminate environment related issues under the We were elected the “Best 2B OUR CORPORATE headings of efﬁcient use of natural resources and less waste, energy and carbon management, environment friendly Sustainability Report” with our GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE products and services, respect for biodiversity. Responsible sustainability report, where we present Risk Management value chain practices and our innovation and corporate our sustainability performance and the entrepreneurship approach ﬁgure amongst the issues we Internal Auditing and prioritize in the ﬁeld of economy. value we create for our stakeholders Internal Control transparently, leaving behind our global >SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT Policies and related documents are put into practice by competitors at the organization held by divisional heads employing sub-units. These functions are Our Stakeholders the Ethical Corporation in England, in Our Priority Issues responsible for the communication of the policy, related trainings and other processes. Efﬁcacy of the performance 2015. PROGRESS PEPORT obtained by managers and reported to Board on a regular basis. 17 Our Stakeholders Communication with our stakeholders The expectations and views of our stakeholders, who evaluate our sustainability performance from different Sabancı Employees Sabancı Extranet, Media, Brisa Blog perspectives, identify varying points of improvement and provide feedbacks, are valuable facts for Brisa. As Employees required by the importance and value we ascribe to our Corporate Website, Social Media, Brisa Academy, Mailing List, Sabancı Extranet, Media, Brisa Blog, G4-24, G4-25, stakeholders, we strive to come together with them Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities, Corporate and Financial Communication, E-Newsletter G4-26, G4-27, through different communication channels. We G4-37 regularly evaluate the expectations and views we Media Corporate Website, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities, Advertising and Marketing Studies, receive from our stakeholders through the vision Interviews and Talks meeting and business partner meetings we regularly organize. Investors Corporate Website, Corporate and Financial Communication, Financial Reports, Investor Presentations, Financial Performance Reports We have presented our sustainability performance, which we share transparently within the scope of the Local Community reporting, to the views of our stakeholders in order to Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities, Donations and Sponsorships, Annual Reports further our performance. We have improved our 2015 Sustainability Report in accordance with the shareholder feedbacks we received. NGOs Corporate Website, Various Memberships, Joint Projects External Committee Evaluation BRISA 2015 We offered our 2014 sustainability Universities SUSTAINABILITY report for the evaluation of our Corporate Website, Scholarships and Training Opportunities, Sponsorships and Supports REPORT stakeholders, received their opinions and Business Partners identified points of improvement. Corporate Website, Social Media, E-Academy, Media, Brisa Blog, Corporate and Marketing Communication, > OUR SUSTAINABILITY Performance Magazine, Brisa Academy, Dealer Meetings As part of sectoral collaborations, we have the chance JOURNEY to come together with our stakeholders on various End Users platforms. During the 2015 reporting period, we Corporate Website, Social Media, Sabancı Extranet, Media, Brisa Blog, Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) Activities, Advertisement and Marketing Studies OUR CORPORATE participated in activities organized by platforms of which GOVERNANCE we are a member, receiving the expectations and STRUCTURE feedbacks of our stakeholders. Customers Risk Management Meetings and Conferences, Annual Reports Internal Auditing and We answer demands conveyed by public institutions and Internal Control SUSTAINABILITY participate in technical workshops within the scope of State Institutions Government Audits, Annual Reports, Meetings and Conferences MANAGEMENT the Tyre Subcommittee (LAK) that operates within the >Our Stakeholders body of the Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology, Our Priority Issues of which we execute the presidency. Besides, we also Suppliers PROGRESS PEPORT participate in Tyre and Life Safety workshops within the Face to Face Meetings, Annual Reports, Suppliers Audits body of the Ministry of Transportation, Maritime Affairs and Communication. We regularly attend European Tyre Potential Members of Brisa and Rim Technical Organization (ETRTO) and European Corporate Website, Social Media Tyre and Rim Manufacturers’ Association meetings concerning tyre regulations as a full member. 18 External Committee Review BAHAR ÖZAY KONCA ÇALKIVİK UN SDSN TURKEY DIRECTOR SKD Genel Sekreter G4-37 1CONTENT and VISUALITY 1CONTENT and VISUALITY The visuality and readability of the report is quite good. Visuals contribute positively to the The design format facilitates reading. Infographics, videos that can easily be opened and readability of the content and appear to be used appropriately. Messages being conveyed are watched, messages conveyed through icons are expressed clearly. Thanks to the development report presented at chapter ends, the achievement of targets can easily be followed. clear and understandable. The most important message I received from the report: “Brisa is Industry-speciﬁc benchmarking studies could be further detailed; particularly achieved gains carrying out signiﬁcant works in order to improve sustainability in Turkey and is performing the can be mentioned. statistical assessments of these works. It identiﬁes targets and works to achieve them.” The works that are accomplished and the criteria being satisﬁed are naturally relatively long. A BRISA SUSTAINABILITY ACTION separate abstract, such as an executive summary, could be useful for sharing the experiences We continued sharing our realizations and our targets for the forthcoming years through of Brisa with those who wish to be informed. Visuals pertaining to policies and declarations can development reports. For the data shared to be simple and comprehensible is among our be shared in a more readable format. signiﬁcant priorities regarding the report. Sharing studies devoted to industry-speciﬁc benchmarking is in our agenda as a point of development for the forthcoming reporting periods. BRISA SUSTAINABILITY ACTION We have carefully considered this feedback we received and we are simplifying our report 2TRANSPARENCY AND BALANCE content. Following our 2015 report, we are planning to prepare an “Executive Summary”. We I believe the report to be focused, transparent and balanced. Performing a materiality analysis BRISA 2015 have addressed policies and declarations directly to links on our website and improved the and putting the focus of the strategy on these priority issues are positive sides. As an design to render them more legible and detailed. improvement area, mid and long term strategy can also be included in the report based on the SUSTAINABILITY areas of focus. Social risks can also be measured alongside environmental risks and the REPORT 2TRANSPARENCY AND BALANCE results could be reﬂected to the report. The information included in the report seems transparent and balanced. Works to be BRISA SUSTAINABILITY ACTION > OUR SUSTAINABILITY accomplished toward targets could be expressed more quantitatively. In such a detailed report, We reviewed our materiality study together with our department representatives and ensured JOURNEY the steps of the works toward targets and numerical data can ﬁgure more extensively. the necessary revisions. In addition, we tried to further include our mid and long term targets in the reporting content. As part of the report, we presented our social, economic and BRISA SUSTAINABILITY ACTION environmental impact and we shared management models used to manage risks in relevant OUR CORPORATE We have included subject-speciﬁc performance realizations within the scope of our report as areas, as well as realizations transparently. We evaluated sustainability primary issues within GOVERNANCE transparently as possible. In order to ensure the reliability of the data, we received external the scope of risk management and presented our ﬁndings to the senior management. STRUCTURE auditing services as in the previous years. We shared numerical realization and targets in Risk Management 3STAKEHOLDER VIEWS relation to our projects and materiality issues in detail. Internal Auditing and The views of the society concerning Brisa, particularly those of customers and farmers Internal Control included in projects, could be included among stakeholder views. Also, the views of 3STAKEHOLDER VIEWS collaborated NGOs could be included. Periodical evaluation meetings could be organized with SUSTAINABILITY HIncluding everyone’s messages separately gives the impression that the same things are stakeholders to come up with new ideas to use in the sustainability journey of Brisa. MANAGEMENT >Our Stakeholders being mentioned repeatedly. The notes and messages from individuals can be presented by combining them in a better way. In this regard, reducing the perspective of the company on the BRISA SUSTAINABILITY ACTION Our Priority Issues In our report, we reached out to our stakeholder groups within the scope of different projects PROGRESS PEPORT issue of sustainability and the whole of the report to a single sentence slogan can contribute and practices, receiving their feedbacks. In this regard, ensuring the representation of diverse positively to memorability. stakeholder groups was among our priorities. Working on increasing the number of communication mediums within the scope of our operations, speciﬁcally in the area of BRISA SUSTAINABILITY ACTION sustainability, we have reached various stakeholder groups in the reporting period. With our We gathered messages from stakeholders on issues that are more speciﬁc and collected their 2015 reporting study, we have included expert external stakeholder opinions regarding our feedbacks in relation to projects or processes of which they are direct stakeholders. reporting practice in our reporting study. 19 Our Priority Issues We identiﬁed our sustainability priorities within the scope of the study we conducted views we received from our stakeholders, we have included the issue of in 2012 and we updated our priorities periodically in the following years. In this digitalization among our priority issues during the reporting period. regard, we organized workshops with the participation of our representatives from different functions. In addition, we evaluated our priority issues system in Our priority issues matrix shaped as a result of these studies and the breakdown of accordance with the feedbacks of both our internal and external stakeholders, using these issues by internal and external stakeholder groups/processes in this G4-18, G4-19, G4-20, G4-21, various dialog methods. In consequence of both our corporate strategy and the reporting period are as follows: G4-50 Sustainability Priorities According to Stakeholder Groups Executive Business Local •••High Secondary Priorities Primary Priorities Issues Customers Employees Suppliers Board Partners Managers Occupational health and safety approach Customer health and safety during product lifecycle Innovation and corporate Energy and entrepreneurship The importance for stakeholders emission management Anti-corruption BRISA 2015 and anti-bribery measures taken SUSTAINABILITY REPORT Development Efficient use Journey of natural Digitalization resources and ••Medium > OUR SUSTAINABILITY less waste JOURNEY Environment friendly OUR CORPORATE products and services Respect for GOVERNANCE biodiversity STRUCTURE Risk Management Employee Rights Internal Auditing and Carry on Responsible value chain practices business beyond Internal Control legal SUSTAINABILITY arrangements MANAGEMENT Our Stakeholders >Our Priority Issues Confidentiality of Generating and distributing Society Information PROGRESS PEPORT more economic value Relations Involvement in policy making for •Low environmental and social issues •Low ••Medium •••High The importance for Brisa 20 WHAT DID WE AIM 2015 PERFORMANCE OUR 2016 STATUS FOR IN THE YEAR 2015? DISCLOSURE TARGETS We aim to render the connection between In 2016, we aim to design corporate strategies and individual business We started conceptual design intergration of Strategy House plans more effective through our project of works to reveal the working and Personal Performance integrating Brisa Strategy House and Brinsan principles of the system. processes in a way to be Human Resources Portal, implemented in 2017. We aim to complete the auditing of To complete the auditing of 10% of our We completed the auditing of 10% of 11% of our business processes business processes in our auditing system, our business processes in 2015. within our auditing system, BRISA 2015 To publish the Brisa Sustainability Policy, We published the Brisa Sustainability SUSTAINABILITY Policy on our corporate website. REPORT We announced our policy on our To structure a Policy for Combating against website in order to inform all > OUR SUSTAINABILITY Corruption and Bribery, to announce the policy stakeholders. to all stakeholders through our ofﬁcial JOURNEY website, OUR CORPORATE We’ve determined improvement To continue our works for enhancing points for our 2014 Sustainability To continue our works for GOVERNANCE communication and stakeholder participation, Report through stakeholder review enhancing communication and STRUCTURE session. stakeholder participation Risk Management Internal Auditing and Internal Control SUSTAINABILITY To assess our relevant processes by taking ISO We evaluated the standards and MANAGEMENT 26000 standard as basis, identiﬁed the sections it will affect. Our Stakeholders Our Priority Issues To create an enhancement roadmap in order PROGRESS PEPORT We structured an enhancement to improve the Sustainability Management roadmap. process. Completed In Progress Incomplete BRISA 2015 We design the best journey ahead together with our stakeholders. We execute our operations with SUSTAINABILITY the aim of creating added value for all the components of our value chain. REPORT We act with the awareness of the responsibility we bear in all the stages of the lifecycle of our products and services; we monitor their social, environmental and economic impacts throughout the > VALUE CHAIN process. We aim for our performance to meet the objectives of minimum environmental impact and positive economic impact all along our value chain. CUSTOMER HEALTH We take the expectations and feedbacks of our stakeholders into account in all our processes. For AND SAFETY DURING PRODUCT this purpose, we get together with our business partners and customers on different platforms and LIFECYCLE receive their opinions. Wet Gripping The share of our RESPONSIBLE VALUE Consumer Tyres “Database CHAIN PRACTICES products with a Wet Transformation Customers 39.9% Project of the Year” Business Partners Grip label value of “C Our Rate of Local Supply Responsible Supply and over” in our sales award at SAP Forum Chain Practices portfolio: 81% We reduced the GENERATING AND weight of land 1200 number DISTRIBUTING transportation by of Sales Points with MORE ECONOMIC 86.3% our 52% as against the year 2008. a signboard VALUE INNOVATION AND customer satisfaction CORPORATE value We provided ENTREPRENEURSHIP 4,400 hours Brisa Innovation We have of training for Team Brisa Innovation provided 1833 2,200 subcontractor Portal man-hour of employees as part of our training for 2,467 store employees Orientation Training Program. Idea Competition DIGITALIZATION of 164 business partners through PROGRESS REPORT 47 different training programs. We published Brisa Responsible “Digital Sector Leader” Purchasing and “Digitalization Pioneer” Policy. award 22 BRIDGESTONE SAFETY TYRE G4-15, G4-EN27, G4-DMA, G4-PR1, G4-PR3 BRISA 2015 Click here to watch. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We maintain our understanding of product responsibility The issue of our products’ labeling also makes up a from the stage of the procurement of raw materials for signiﬁcant part of our customer informing approach. > VALUE CHAIN our products until they reach our end users, throughout Within the scope of the Tyre Labeling System, which the whole process. We introduce our products to the entered into force in 2012 within the framework of the >CUSTOMER HEALTH market with the highest safety standards; we conduct law of harmonization code of the European Union, tyre AND SAFETY constant improvement and development works aimed performance is evaluated under 3 main criteria, namely DURING PRODUCT at product safety. We attach great importance to fuel efﬁciency, wet grip and exterior noise. While we fully LIFECYCLE compliance with standards and management systems support these criteria, which reﬂect 30% of tyre Wet Gripping in our journey of quality, we execute the quality performance in terms of environmental responsibility RESPONSIBLE VALUE CHAIN PRACTICES management of our products at standards beyond those and driving safety, we also inform our customers Customers identiﬁed by legal requirements. regarding other signiﬁcant criteria. In the reporting Business Partners period, there was no case resulting from noncompliance Responsible Supply For the products we offer to our customers to be safe, with legal requirements in relation to product labeling. Chain Practices robust and of high quality and for our services to create GENERATING AND DISTRIBUTING added value for our customers are of primary signiﬁcance As Brisa, we focus on many parameters in the areas of MORE ECONOMIC for us. We work to offer our customers safe tyres with economy, safety and comfort with the mission of providing VALUE a low noise level that are efﬁcient in fuel consumption. vehicle owners with a balanced performance. When INNOVATION AND Besides executing our production processes with this choosing tyres, we recommend our customers to evaluate CORPORATE understanding, we also ensure that our customers are tyres that offer a balanced performance suitable for their ENTREPRENEURSHIP accurately and completely informed about our products driving habits and the road and climate conditions they Brisa Innovation Team and services. We regularly inform the Ministry of use their vehicles in, rather than a tyre that stands out Brisa Innovation Environment and Urbanization regarding the raw with one performance criterion. Portal materials we use in production in accordance with the Idea Competition Regulation Concerning the Inventory and Control of DIGITALIZATION Chemicals. PROGRESS REPORT *We hold ISO TS 16949, TS EN ISO-IEC 17025, ISO 9001, TSE EN ISO 9001, TS EN ISO 10002, OHSAS 18001, ISO 27001, ISO14001 management systems certiﬁcates and veriﬁed ISO14064 and ISO14046 standards. *Since we have one production facility, the coverage of all management systems (ISO etc.) is 100%. 23 Wet Gripping Bridgestone Run Flat Tire We execute all our marketing activities in Bridgestone has enabled the emergence accordance with our understanding of of the Run Flat Tyre (RFT) technology in G4-EN27, responsible salesmanship. We share the most accurate, direct and clear information with consumers consequence of the works it conducted G4-PR5 regarding our products and services; we take great in order to overcome the problem of flat care to avoid a deceptive atmosphere. We show regard to wet ground stopping distance in order to prevent tyre to increase the safety of drivers all BRISA 2015 rising trafﬁc accidents. We aim to decrease trafﬁc around the world. We act with the objective of disseminating our SUSTAINABILITY accidents that escalate in the winter months by sustainability understanding throughout our value REPORT focusing on this criterion, which encourages the chain. We provide support for the sustainable improvement of the stopping performance of tyres on The RFT technology eliminates all worries wet ground. In this regard, we continuously improve the development of our operational geography with our label values indicating the wet ground stopping regarding a blowout. RFT tyres, which responsible value chain practices, we implement > VALUE CHAIN applications grounded on the development of our distance parameter in the passenger vehicles segment. provide added safety, can travel safely By this means, we are increasing the share of our suppliers and business partners. We work to create a products with a label value of “C and over” for this for at least 80 km at 80 km/h even when perfect customer experience through our innovation CUSTOMER HEALTH parameter in our sales portfolio. flat. The production of Run Flat Tyres will processes, which are among the basic constituents of AND SAFETY our corporate culture; we lead in our sector with DURING PRODUCT Label 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 start in 2016 within the body of Brisa. innovative applications that we develop aiming for LIFECYCLE *WET Value TARGET customer satisfaction. >Wet Gripping GRIP C and >RESPONSIBLE CLASS %70 %69 %73 %81 %83 over We ground every stage of our value chain on stakeholder VALUE CHAIN (WET) BRIDGESTONE SAFETY TYRE communication and participation; we take into PRACTICES E-F-G %30 %31 %27 %19 %17 >Customers consideration the expectations of our stakeholders. In Business Partners The share of our “C and over” products for commercial this way, we act together with our stakeholders in the Responsible Supply management of social, environmental and economic tyres is over the level of 60%. Chain Practices impacts generated by our activities. * Consumer Tyres GENERATING AND DISTRIBUTING MORE ECONOMIC Customers VALUE Click here to watch. We act in accordance with a customer-oriented INNOVATION AND approach while executing our long term plans and CORPORATE strategies. In this way, we combine our customer ENTREPRENEURSHIP satisfaction understanding with our sustainability Brisa Innovation understanding and we develop solutions and services Team Brisa Innovation that create a difference for our customers. Portal Idea Competition DIGITALIZATION PROGRESS REPORT 24 We conduct customer management practices in order We further reinforce our customer orientation gradually to accurately identify the needs and expectations of our through our customer satisfaction and innovation customers; we focus on managing satisfaction, rather management approach. than complaints. With our communication activities, we We aim for customer experience to end the same way, G4-PR5 work for ensuring that our customers have the best that is in satisfaction, always and everywhere and to experience always and everywhere. We regularly make ensure its continuity. We work towards standardizing contact with our customers through our Customer customer experience through our management model, Contact Points application and by this means we which we collect under the 4 main headings of Store, BRISA 2015 support and inform them during the product lifecycle. Call Center, Online and Communicational. SUSTAINABILITY We record, analyze and deal with customer suggestions REPORT and opinions according to priority through our At our Model Store, which is designed as an Our ProPratik Store in Van Customer Application Management System. educational base for Brisa and our business partners’ In 2015, we have opened in Van our fourth Propratik store, employees and used for improving retail experience, we which offers sales and service for Bandag tyre retreading, > VALUE CHAIN We have improved the legal Guarantee Examination and realize exemplary studies and applications devoted to accumulators, spare parts and accessories for heavy Response Time for our products by 67% since the year enhancing customer experience and we provide commercial vehicles under a single roof. At our Propratik 2009 when we ﬁrst started the application, and we solution suggestions for our business partners. CUSTOMER HEALTH realized it as 4.4 days. We have conveyed photo stores, we offer sales and services for products of AND SAFETY responses to 98.5% of our customers as part of our Through the Call Center, which is one of our main Bridgestone and Lassa in the bus and truck segment, DURING PRODUCT tyre-speciﬁc personal photo letter writing practice, channels of communication with customers, we learn Bandag tyre retreading, accumulators, spare parts and LIFECYCLE which we started in 2010. about the expectations of our customers and we accessories for heavy commercial vehicles to our >Wet Gripping implement necessary improvements at short notice. customers under a single roof. >RESPONSIBLE Since 2009, we have been regularly conducting Besides, we identify points of improvement about our VALUE CHAIN the Consumer Satisfaction Survey aiming at products and services and take action to generate PRACTICES >Customers measuring the service and quality performance of Brisa solutions based on online surveys, focus group studies Business Partners dealers and determining the customer satisfaction level and the experience maps of our websites. Responsible Supply for our products and services. In the reporting period, Chain Practices our customer satisfaction level was determined as GENERATING AND 86.3% in consequence of the survey conducted with the DISTRIBUTING participation of 45,321 people. MORE ECONOMIC VALUE INNOVATION AND Customer Satisfaction Survey (%) CORPORATE ENTREPRENEURSHIP Probox Service for Fleets Brisa Innovation 86.3 Team 86.1 As part of Proﬂeet that gathers our ﬂeet management Brisa Innovation 84 Otopratik in Izmir with its New Concept 83.6 83.7 solutions under one roof, we put into service Probox, which Portal We continue to increase the number of our Otopratik Idea Competition was designed as a concept aimed at service rather than stores, which we actualized with the concept of “perfect DIGITALIZATION sales, particularly to provide a fast and practical solution customer experience”. In 2015, we have offered our PROGRESS REPORT 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 for the needs of our ﬂeet customers. Probox makes it Otopratik store concept, which was designed to enhance possibletoprovideon-siteserviceforcommercialvehicles, the experience of tyre purchasing through product variety, creating efﬁciency through fuel and time savings. sales and service processes and technological infrastructure satisfying customer expectations, to the service of our customers in Izmir. 25 Business Partners We share the results of consumer satisfaction surveys with our business partners and we provide support in In the reporting period, we have selected 40 business partners whose customer satisfaction evaluation rate We conduct several practices aiming at enhancing the identifying points of improvement. We produce projects was below Turkey average and we provided each business successes and competences of our dealers, for our dealers and organize national and local business partner with on-site trainings at least 4 times G4-12, G4-HR1, which constitute our most signiﬁcant point of contact campaigns in order to increase the preferability of our a year through Brisa Academy trainers. The awareness G4-DMA sales points through “Dealer Development Projects”. of our business partners regarding customer with end users, with the awareness of the signiﬁcant We regard the feedbacks of our business partners satisfaction was enhanced through the trainings; we role our strong dealer network plays in our success in regarding the environment, working conditions, observed that the customer satisfaction rates of the 40 the industry. In this regard, we constantly inform our business processes and our supplier practices as BRISA 2015 business partners elected this year have increased by dealers about our products, we organize trainings and important inputs, we inform our business partners SUSTAINABILITY 10% in average at year end evaluations. meetings and we implement a reliable auditing system. about the tyre lifecycle. REPORT Responsible Supply > VALUE CHAIN 1200 Number of Sales Points Chain Practices We act with the awareness that responsible supply with signboard chain practices play a signiﬁcant role in sustainability CUSTOMER HEALTH management. We develop practices devoted to AND SAFETY BETÜL DEMİREL collaborations with our business partners in our supply DURING PRODUCT Dalita Oto Lastik, İzmir chain and to raise their awareness. LIFECYCLE Wet Gripping I am glad to have participated in the “Brisa Family Companies Academy from Generation To Generation at We set an example for all our stakeholders in our supply RESPONSIBLE VALUE Work” 2015 program as a woman business partner and to chain with our approach and through the works we CHAIN PRACTICES Customers have received quality training. This program has deeply conduct in the issues of human rights, employee rights, >Business Partners affected my perspective on the future of my company. I occupational health and safety, business ethics and >Responsible Supply am particularly glad that a corporate company that cares environmental impacts. We continue to create added Chain Practices for the value of sustainability, such as Brisa, has opened value both for the industry and for the national economy GENERATING AND the doors of a professional working environment to its with our responsible supply chain practices and our DISTRIBUTING business partners. This program has provided me with ever-expanding supply chain. MORE ECONOMIC signiﬁcant information, knowledge and experience in VALUE terms of ﬁnance and personnel management at my INNOVATION AND business. I present my thanks to Brisa for its Purchasing CORPORATE contributions to business partners. ENTREPRENEURSHIP New Generation at Work We aim to be in cooperation with our stakeholders in Brisa Innovation Certificate Program We work to enhance the competence of our business our supply chain regarding sustainability management Team In 2015, we actualized the New Generation at partners through our “Customer Relations Brisa Innovation and its components, to enhance sustainability Work Certificate Program in order to Management and Guarantee Practices” trainings. In Portal awareness and to support our activities with contribute to second and third generations 2015, we provided 2,467 store employees of 164 Idea Competition environmentally sensitive exemplary approaches, while business partners taking over the business. business partners with 1,883 man-hour of training in DIGITALIZATION realizing sustainable growth. “Brisa Responsible PROGRESS REPORT As part of the program that aims for the the issues of basic tyre, product, retailing, wholesaling, Purchasing Policy”, which we have constituted and persistence and institutionalization of our ﬂeet approaches, effective presentation techniques and published during the reporting period in accordance business partners, experience sharing and service through 47 different training programs within with this objective, was shared on supplier portals and examples from the industry were shared the scope of Brisa Academy. announced to the public through a press bulletin. As of during classes, besides seminars shedding light on building up businesses. 26 the year 2015, we are conducting our relations with our with the policy. We terminate our trade relations with Supplier Management System Standard. We evaluate suppliers within the framework of this policy. We expect suppliers who do not agree to the compliance process our suppliers that have a share of 0.1% and over in our suppliers to fully comply with our purchasing policy, or fail to actualize improvements within the determined raw material purchases by using our “Supplier which also involves the issues of human rights, period. In this way, we guarantee the full compliance of Assessment Form”. We review the results in the G4-12, G4-EC9, employee rights, occupational health and safety, our suppliers with legal regulations; we lead them in context of the “Annual Supplier Evaluation Meeting”, G4-EN32, G4-HR1, business ethics and environmental impacts. We executing operations in parallel with the sustainability we identify the companies to be audited and we share G4-HR10, G4-HR11, demand suppliers determined to be noncompliant in strategy of Brisa. the evaluation results with our suppliers. We G4-SO9, G4-DMA this regard to provide a correction plan for compliance implement action plans concerning their improvement BRISA 2015 In the year 2016, we aim to form systems that will areas together with our suppliers in accordance with SUSTAINABILITY periodically confirm that our suppliers have read and evaluation results. In 2015, we have evaluated 67 of REPORT understood our Responsible Purchasing Policy. our raw material suppliers and we rewarded our best supplier with a “Thank You Letter”. Because a majority of the raw materials we use > VALUE CHAIN are only found at certain parts of the world, we Our suppliers from whom we procure machines, realize the bulk of our supply from abroad. On the equipment and service are assessed by our Domestic CUSTOMER HEALTH other hand, we conduct localization works devoted to Purchasing department with surveys ﬁlled by all Brisa AND SAFETY personnel. We evaluate our suppliers who exceed procure certain import dependent raw materials in DURING PRODUCT accordance with our principle of local supply, thereby 0.1% of total purchases for supplying other goods and LIFECYCLE Responsible Purchasing Policy generating economic value for local suppliers. We services or supply at least 50 item orders annually, Wet Gripping RESPONSIBLE VALUE Supply Chain Management Team raised our raw material localization rate, which was within the scope of the annual evaluation system. In CHAIN PRACTICES It is possible to see sustainability practices realized as 4% in 2011, to the level of 11% in 2015. In this regard, during the reporting period we evaluated Customers in every aspect of our business manner. consequence of our localization works, we increased 189 of our suppliers who ﬁt the related criteria from >Business Partners We aimed to increase the sustainability our local supply rate, which was realized as 38% in among 799 suppliers through a total of 1,200 surveys >Responsible Supply awareness of our stakeholders in our 2014, to the level of 39.9% in the reporting period. ﬁlled in by 193 personnel, as well as points calculated Chain Practices supply chain and exemplary activities in by the system. We awarded our ten best ranking GENERATING AND DISTRIBUTING this field through our “Responsible Supplier Audits suppliers with “Thank You Letters”. MORE ECONOMIC Purchasing Policy” which we prepared with this awareness. Hereby, we have also During the audits in the reporting period, there VALUE We regard supplier audits as an effective stakeholder was no supplier determined to have current or INNOVATION AND stated that, as Brisa, we will establish business partnerships with suppliers that communication method. We help our suppliers probable negative environmental impacts. CORPORATE ENTREPRENEURSHIP respect the society and environment, are improve their economic, social and environmental Brisa Innovation sensitive to climate change, conduct performances by focusing on improvement areas that In the reporting period, there was no supplier whose Team energy efficiency works, take steps for we identify in consequence of the audits we conduct. contract was terminated due to noncompliance with Brisa Innovation the protection of basic human rights, We conduct our audits in accordance with ISO 9001 basic human rights or business ethics principles. Portal business ethics, occupational health and and ISO TS 16949 quality standards. Idea Competition A self-evaluation form is sent to global suppliers once safety and employee rights. The continuity DIGITALIZATION PROGRESS REPORT of our business relations with our suppliers Companies from which we supply raw materials are every year by Bridgestone and is requested to be ﬁlled will be shaped in parallel with their evaluated by our Purchasing, Technology and Quality out by the supplier. compliance with our policy. In this way, Assurance departments, within the scope of our we aim to achieve mutual benefits together with our business partners, as well as ensure constant improvement in our operational processes. 27 Environmentalist Logistics Operations We take into consideration the environmental impacts of our products and services not only in the production G4-12, G4-EN30, G4-EN33, G4-HR10, stage, but also throughout the lifecycle of each product G4-HR11, G4-SO9, AHMET KILIÇ and service. We strive to minimize the environmental VAHİT YAZICI G4-DMA Uzer Makina – Deputy General Manager impacts of our storage and distribution processes; we Logistics Specialist prioritize seaway and railway transportation, which BRISA 2015 Acting in accordance with the win-win principle, Brisa have less environmental impact, in the transportation Authorized Economic Operator Status SUSTAINABILITY provides all kinds of training, auditing and evaluation of our products. We take care to choose optimum Authorized economic operator status (AEO) is an REPORT support for its suppliers knowing that both the suppliers locations for our warehouses thereby ensuring more international status that grants certain privileges and and Brisa will win by means of the principle of transfers with less fuel consumption. We try to increase provides conveniences in International Trade transactions localization. By inviting its suppliers to the sustainable > VALUE CHAIN the rate of motor vehicles with EURO5 and over in our to trustworthy companies which fulﬁll customs change conferences it organizes, it pioneers in information sharing and exhibits an exemplary approach. transports to minimize the amount of emission requirements, have a regular and traceable registry The sensitivity and leadership it displays regarding generated by our logistics operations. system, ﬁnancial capability, security and safety standards CUSTOMER HEALTH and are capable of self-regulation. occupational safety, employee health and environmental AND SAFETY As of the year 2015, we have increased the issues, which are among the most substantial subjects in DURING PRODUCT today’s business world, inspire us. share of seaway transportation by 83% as As Brisa, our A Class Approved Status Certiﬁcate is LIFECYCLE Wet Gripping against 2008. In the same regard, we decreased the currently available. Our objective is to qualify for the AEO RESPONSIBLE VALUE share of land transportation by 52% as against 2008, certiﬁcate during 2016. This process brought about CHAIN PRACTICES Subcontractor Approach continuing to lessen the environmental impact of our several liabilities and we started relevant works as of the Customers logistics operations. We plan to give more weight to year 2014. Following discussions conducted by >Business Partners We inform subcontractor company employees about seaway transportation and to extend the use of electric communicating with the Ministr y of Customs and >Responsible Supply our organizations and processes according to their Chain Practices forklifts in our warehousing operations, in the Commerce, we expanded the scope of our ISO 9001 positions, tasks and responsibilities. Besides, we forthcoming periods. certiﬁcate to fulﬁll the requirements for AEO and we GENERATING AND provide trainings in order to enhance their knowledge, received the ISO 27001 cer tiﬁcate. After these DISTRIBUTING MORE ECONOMIC skills and competences in the subjects of occupational implementations, we completed our works for forming VALUE health and safety, occupational-technical equipment the answers of the AEO Self-Evaluation Question Form INNOVATION AND and environment. As part of our Orientation Training and shared them with the Ministry of Customs and Trade. CORPORATE Program, we provided 4,400 man-hour of training to ENTREPRENEURSHIP We continue relevant works with the project group we 2,200 subcontractor employees during the reporting constituted following meetings held with the Ministry. Brisa Innovation Team period. Brisa Innovation Portal We observe criteria such as legal compliance, respect Idea Competition for basic human rights and compliance with our DIGITALIZATION business ethics principles in the selection of PROGRESS REPORT subcontractors. We endeavor for subcontractor company employees to achieve healthy, safe and digniﬁed working conditions; we track the accident-free performance of subcontractors. 28 MANEL ARROYO Vice President of FC Barcelona BRISA 2015 The agreement between Brisa and Barcelona forms part SUSTAINABILITY of the strategic plan to expand the Club's presence REPORT around the world.’ It is further proof of the Club's internationalization and is part of our strategy to expand > VALUE CHAIN FC Barcelona's presence worldwide. Our chosen partner, As a result of our understanding of being a responsible isolators, which are manufactured from rubber and Lassa Tyres, is a brand that shares our commitment to producer, we generate values for our stakeholders in metal raw materials with superior technology, are used having a global presence. CUSTOMER HEALTH different ﬁelds and we share these values with them. in many areas including hospitals, road structures, AND SAFETY One of these is the economic value we generate. Besides research and information centers, as well as residential DURING PRODUCT the ﬁnancial value generated in consequence of our buildings of differing elevation. LASSA-FC BARCELONA ADVERTISEMENT LIFECYCLE operations, we also create value through our Wet Gripping investments, projects and products. We signed a cooperation agreement with FC Barcelona, RESPONSIBLE VALUE one of the most successful sport clubs in the world, CHAIN PRACTICES While the annual combined growth rate of BRISA shares with our Lassa brand in its journey to become a global Customers processes at Istanbul Stock Exchange in the last 5 years brand. As part of the agreement that involves a 4 season Business Partners was realized as 24.5%; during the same period, Istanbul period and becomes effective on June 1st, 2015, the Responsible Supply Stock Exchange index has increased by 2% and the ofﬁcial names of the basketball, handball, futsal and Chain Practices >GENERATING AND industry index has increased by 7%. roller hockey teams of the club are used as “FC Click here to watch. DISTRIBUTING Barcelona Lassa”. In this way, we have made our brand In the reporting period, we forced the pace for the works more valuable, carrying the greatness of the economic MORE ECONOMIC VALUE of our new production facility to be established in value we generate to a more competitive position on INNOVATION AND Aksaray. We plan to increase our total production the global level. MORE ECONOMIC VALUE CORPORATE capacity by 30% with our Aksaray plant that will be ENTREPRENEURSHIP engaged in 2018 with an initial investment of 300 million Brisa Innovation US dollars. In this regard, we will provide direct Team employment opportunities. The achieved additional Brisa Innovation capacity will positively contribute to the current deﬁcit. Portal Idea Competition We continue to create value through our new products. DIGITALIZATION Click here to watch. We completed our works for using rubber seismic PROGRESS REPORT isolators, which proved to be extremely successful in Japan, in Turkey and we introduced Bridgestone seismic isolators to the market as of the year 2015. Seismic isolators prevent loss of life and property by providing high earthquake resistance and vibration damping in buildings where they are applied. Bridgestone seismic 29 The issue of innovation comes into prominence among G4-DMA the components shaping our future in our advancement CUSTOMER in the direction of our mission of “presenting superior EXPERIENCE values to society through sustainable growth”. We Summer tyres are taken back If the tyre thread depth is reduced and needs to be replaced, you can from where they were put last BRISA 2015 design our innovation processes in accordance with When summer comes year, Lastik Oteli, and winter renew them at our sales and service points throughout Turkey. Summer tyres are mounted. tyres are With Tripin application, our sustainability objectives. put instead. trip route is determined, SUSTAINABILITY shared with friends. All crew gets ready panoply. REPORT We work to make the innovation spirit that encourages Brisa employees to generate new ideas into an > VALUE CHAIN inextricable part of our corporate culture and business With lastik.com.tr, tyres are purchased with one click and renewed at the wished location. processes. We aim to create a difference in the sector Brisa Call Center is there for you for by going beyond industry standards with our innovative all your questions. We ride all summerat the beaches, CUSTOMER HEALTH processes, products and services that answer the Before the trip, our expert personnel on the sand, dust and earth all over the camp. vehicle control and maintenance with AND SAFETY latest-technology equipment in expectations of our customers and business partners. services aiming at DURING PRODUCT 100% customer satisfaction. LIFECYCLE We consider the needs and opinions of our stakeholders Wet Gripping to be instructive in our journey of transformation from Good times are enjoyedat the events we sponsor. RESPONSIBLE VALUE an industrial company into an innovation company. CHAIN PRACTICES LS Road Support Customers Steps of Brisa When winter comes, winter tyres are mounted. and BS Alo Yol Dostu are there with you 7 /24. Business Partners Innovation Management Methodology Summer tyres are put into Lastik Oteli. Responsible Supply Summer ends. Vehicle is cleaned Chain Practices 1 Establishing an innovation strategy beﬁtting the at OtoPak. The difference of winter tyres GENERATING AND are experienced in our strategies of Brisa special activities. DISTRIBUTING MORE ECONOMIC VALUE 2 Realizing the necessar y organizational >INNOVATION AND arrangements in accordance with the vision and CORPORATE strategy of innovation and disseminating the culture ENTREPRENEURSHIP of innovation throughout the organization Expired tyres are collected Brisa Innovation by LASDER, utilized with recycling and brought When time comes for tyre Team for reuse. change and rotation, Brisa Innovation 3 Identifying the innovation processes necessary for Brisa reminds via SMSs. Portal cultural transformation and setting forth tools such Idea Competition as Brisa Innovation Portal DIGITALIZATION PROGRESS REPORT 4 Providing innovation trainings to owners of the ideas collected through the Innovation Portal and developing business models together 5 Constantly following the business models being created and repor ting them to the senior management 30 We act through organizational tools in order to efﬁciently manage our innovation processes, we bring Brisa Innovation Team from our employees to the approval of our employees and the senior management, following the screening together employees from different functions and of Brisa Innovation Team. We reward the owners of areas of expertise and we receive the support of the selected ideas and we support them through innovation Brisa Innovation Team, which can be deﬁned as an G4-DMA senior management. We conduct our Innovation and environment enabling innovative ideas for designing and corporate entrepreneurship trainings. Corporate Entrepreneurship works through the the future of the journey of Brisa, our business agency of our Strategic Planning department directly partners and our customers, continues its works with After the training process, we enable our employees afﬁliated with our General Manager. We conduct idea a team of 12 people. Our Innovation Team, whose to build business models based on their ideas and studies, design processes, business models and BRISA 2015 fundamental objective is to add value to all our services under the leadership of Brisa Innovation prepare its prototype (Minimum Viable Product) to try SUSTAINABILITY Team consisting of experts in different departments. stakeholders through corporate entrepreneurship them on real customers. In this way, we lead the REPORT Besides, we conduct works for constituting and models, provides added value for both the corporate development of our employees’ ideas and realize disseminating a culture of innovation and corporate culture and the team members who gain experience follow-ups. entrepreneurship within the synergy groups within its lifecycle. > VALUE CHAIN composed of Sabancı Holding Industrial Group Brisa Innovation Team succeeded in proving that companies. In this regard, we prepared the Innovation innovation can be realized in the field of service, and Corporate Entrepreneurship Tools booklet. We LASTİK.COM.TR CUSTOMER HEALTH as well as product, to the whole industry by provided trainings for our employees and external AND SAFETY stakeholders aiming to transfer information and to producing 107 ideas, 19 solutions, 10 detailed DURING PRODUCT solutions and 4 prototypes. enhance their level of awareness regarding LIFECYCLE innovation. Wet Gripping RESPONSIBLE VALUE Brisa Innovation Portal CHAIN PRACTICES Customers We developed Brisa Innovation Portal, which was Click here to watch. Business Partners offered to our employees’ use in 2014, as an Responsible Supply Chain Practices idea-collecting instrument. In addition, the portal TYRE HOTEL GENERATING AND supports the stages of idea generation based on idea DISTRIBUTING development exercises, trends, risks, and department MORE ECONOMIC based needs and problems prior to the idea-collecting VALUE stage. As part of portal works, we organize competitions INNOVATION AND CORPORATE twice a year and we reward those with creative ideas. ENTREPRENEURSHIP >Brisa Innovation Team Inovalig Innovation Strategy Second Prize During the reporting period, we were worthy of Idea Competition Click here to watch. >Brisa Innovation Portal the second prize in the category of Innovation With the Idea Competition that we realize within the MOBİL FİX >Idea Competition Strategy with our innovation approach and scope of Brisa Innovation Portal, we encourage our DIGITALIZATION corporate entrepreneurship model at the “Inovalig” employees to share their ideas regarding our processes, PROGRESS REPORT competition award ceremony organized within the products and services. We actualize our employees’ scope of Turkey Innovation Week. innovative ideas that are suitable to our corporate strategies. As part of the Idea Competition that we also use as a stakeholder communication tool, we inform our employees regarding the subjects determined for Click here to watch. each competition period. We offer the ideas received 31 We aim for the accurate, effective and reliable use of information by integrating human resources systems and processes on digital platforms. We transfer records We are a company that follows global trends closely generated within the Brisa-MEC (Manufacturing and acts with the objective of becoming a pioneer for G4-DMA Education Center) training system to the SAP Human innovations in the industry by efﬁciently reﬂecting GÖKHAN ÖNCÜ Resources system. In this way, we ensure the timely, them on its business processes. In this direction, we Information Systems Director efﬁcient and accurate transfer of information. In are conducting works to harmonize with the addition, we enable simultaneous and bidirectional data phenomenon of digitalization that has triggered a BRISA 2015 transfer through the integration of Brisa Academy mass transformation all over the globe in the last Digitalization enables developing new business models SUSTAINABILITY years and to lead our industr y in this matter. and forming new products and services in many different training systems. REPORT Digitalization is deﬁned as developing new business areas by combining corporate resources and technology. models, applying technology on corporate resources We support the mobile use of Brinsan Integrated Human Digitalization also creates many beneﬁts for companies for unifying information, corporate resources and Resources portal aiming to ease fast and reliable access other than developing new products and services. In this > VALUE CHAIN digital technologies in new combinations to constitute to data and to enhance the efﬁciency of business regard, digitalization has become an indispensable unique customer experiences, enable new products processes. Our mobile system, which enables our process for today’s business world. Companies that and services and make the most efﬁcient use of employees to remotely access information and execute CUSTOMER HEALTH include digitalization in their corporate strategies and corporate resources. As Brisa, we integrate our update and approval processes, contributes to the AND SAFETY successfully integrate digitalization with their primary innovation and sustainability understanding with ﬂexibility of business processes. DURING PRODUCT corporate objectives, make use of digital products and digitalization processes with the awareness of the LIFECYCLE ser vices in customer communication to enhance BPC Project Wet Gripping efﬁciency digitalization provides in our time. By customer satisfaction and execute the internal Thanks to our finance BPC budget-planning RESPONSIBLE VALUE integrating our systems and processes with digital communication of the organization, internal processes project, we had the opportunity to make an CHAIN PRACTICES platforms, we ensure the accurate, effective and efficient budget and planning. We also expedited Customers reliable use of information and we develop analytical and operations most efﬁciently through digital the communication amongst our departments, Business Partners and mobile solutions. technologies get ahead of the game. Responsible Supply thereby shortening processes. Chain Practices As Brisa, we make use of digital processes within the GENERATING AND We offer online training opportunities for our scope of making more efﬁcient, reliable and accurate use DISTRIBUTING stakeholders, primarily Brisa employees, through Brisa MORE ECONOMIC of information, thereby producing more innovative Academy Training Portal. 993 people participated in VALUE solutions. We can manage the resources we use more and completed 8 different e-learning programs that INNOVATION AND efﬁciently through the intensive integration of technology CORPORATE were opened during the year 2015. Experience Talking in our business processes. Our solutions are not limited ENTREPRENEURSHIP Forum and Academy Tube Page were added to our to our own business processes. We also develop many Brisa Innovation Training Portal. The newly added forums, pages and Team innovative services for our customers and suppliers. In contents were actively used by our multi stakeholder Brisa Innovation this way, it is now possible to value the beneﬁt we create group. We offer the opportunity to learn regardless of Portal for our value chain in a much larger context. As Brisa, we Digitalization Awards for Brisa time and place with Mobile Academy, the mobile Idea Competition support our business strategies with digitalization and we >DIGITALIZATION We were deemed worthy of the “Digital application of Brisa Academy Training Portal. Sector Leader Award & Digitalization Pioneers are an innovative company “designing the future of your PROGRESS REPORT Award” at Accenture Digitalization Index, which journey”. was realized for the first time in Turkey with the cooperation of Accenture, Vodafone, Turkish Informatics Foundation, Boğaziçi University and METU, and the “Database Transformation Project of the Year” award at SAP Forum Awards. 32 WHAT DID WE 2015 AIM FOR PERFORMANCE OUR 2016 STATUS DISCLOSURE TARGETS IN THE YEAR 2015? BRISA 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We aim to complete our Responsible Constituting a system to Purchasing Policy and to share it through the We shared our relevant policies periodically conﬁrm that supplier portal with our suppliers alongside > VALUE CHAIN with our suppliers through the suppliers have read and SA-ETIK Business Ethics Guidelines, Brisa supplier portal. understood our Responsible Environmental Policy, Brisa OHS Policy and Purchasing Policy. Supplier Ethics Rules, CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY DURING PRODUCT LIFECYCLE Wet Gripping To ensure the participation of our suppliers in The participation of our suppliers Extending the use of electric RESPONSIBLE VALUE our Sustainable Change Conference to be held will be ensured when the forklifts in our storehouses. CHAIN PRACTICES in 2015, conference takes place. Customers Business Partners Responsible Supply Chain Practices GENERATING AND To conduct the Customer Include 47,000 people. 45,321 people were included in our DISTRIBUTING Satisfaction Survey with 45,000 people MORE ECONOMIC survey. VALUE INNOVATION AND CORPORATE ENTREPRENEURSHIP To realize the level of customer satisfaction at It was realized as 86.3%. Our 2015 target is 86.5%. Brisa Innovation the rate of 87%, Team Brisa Innovation Portal Idea Competition We aim to make Brisa DIGITALIZATION Innovation Portal available to our business Performing the evaluation of PROGRESS REPORT partners thereby both expanding information primary suppliers with a Infrastructural work started input through external stakeholder inputs and sustainability perspective. feeding the ecosystem surrounding us. Completed In Progress Incomplete G4-EN31, We implement our Environmental Management Systems works in accordance with the philosophy of G4-SO1, constant improvement. For this purpose, we make an extensive effort to minimize our environmental G4-DMA impacts generated by our production activities. Production in harmony with the nature, valuing natural resources and reducing CO 2 emissions constitute the basis of our environmental management systems. In this regard, the issues of climate change and natural resource use are of special signiﬁcance for us. Within the scope of our philosophy of constant development and improvement, we identify targets regarding these issues and we actualize projects that will further enhance our performance in accordance with the results we obtain. We responded to 869,000 USD Our The share of our Consumer Environmental Protection the “CDP Water” Tyres with a Rolling and Investment program in the Resistance label value of Expenditures reporting period and achieved “C and over” in our sales BRISA 2015 a performance score of B. portfolio 32% SUSTAINABILITY X13 The savings we REPORT achieved through Energy We reduced First price in Energy Efficiency Projects our well water Efficient Industria compared to the year 2008 consumption by 46% Facility category > ENVIRONMENTAL as against the year 2008. APPROACH We reduced our emission We started our We treated ENERGY AND amount per ton by second factory EMISSION 10% as against investment in Aksaray MANAGEMENT the year 2008. by paying special EFFICIENT USE OF NATURAL importance on work 127,000 tires within the RESOURCES AND We reduced our safety, fire safety and scope of Bandag service LESS WASTE organic waste environmental protection RESPECT FOR amount by 17.5% activities. BIODIVERSITY as against the year ENVIRONMENT 2014, as part of the We entered the FRIENDLY Green Office Program. “Climate Disclosure PRODUCTS AND Leadership Index”. SERVICES PROGRESS REPORT 34 As Brisa, our fundamental understanding is to execute Environmental Protection & Investment a business manner beyond legal requirements. In this Exepnditures (US Dollars) regard, we satisfy the requirements of national and international standards meticulously and by involving 1,198,410 1,098,097 our value chain in the processes. We reinforce our ISO 880,195 869,000 14001 Environmental Management Systems practices 847,566 G4-15, G4-EN31, with ISO 14064 Veriﬁcation of Greenhouse Gases, ISO G4-SO1, 14046 Water Footprint Veriﬁcation, ISO 50001 Energy Management Systems practices. As a result of our G4-DMA practices and our constant improvement approach, we 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 became the ﬁrst institution in Turkey, and the second in Europe, to be entitled for ISO 14001 Environmental Brisa Aksaray Investment plot in 2015. We will increasingly continue planting Management Systems Certiﬁcation. works in the forthcoming years and we will actualize We started our investments for our second production works for the protection of the interacted ﬂora and facility within Aksaray Organized Industrial Zone. Our fauna. technical, operational and systematic competences were evaluated by Bridgestone. In consequence of the Constituting an operation, which consumes less natural evaluation, it was concluded that we could effectively resources, generates less greenhouse gas emissions, manage the Aksaray investment. We paid special consumes less energy, generates less waste, includes attention to Occupational Safety, Fire Safety and a green habitat, is respectful of its stakeholders, BRISA 2015 Environmental Protection activities in the planning complies with legal regulations and international SUSTAINABILITY stage of our new investment with a production capacity standards regarding occupational safety, involves best REPORT of 4.2 million tyres. We started the ﬁrst stage with practice examples, complies with national and underground water pollution analysis and soil analyses. international standards of ﬁre safety, were our priority In this way, we prepared a current situation assessment issues in the design stage in order to be able to minimize > ENVIRONMENTAL and design criteria for the protection of the land. An environmental impacts that will occur during APPROACH Environmental Impact Report was prepared in order to operational stages. be able to control the probable environmental impacts ENERGY AND EMISSION of our operation in the construction stage and production MANAGEMENT phase; impacts were analyzed and measures to be taken EFFICIENT USE OF were identiﬁed. NATURAL RESOURCES AND Our facility, which will be operating in an Organized LESS WASTE Industrial Zone dedicated to industrial activities, is not RESPECT FOR located on natural protected areas identiﬁed by national BIODIVERSITY ENVIRONMENT or international agreements, special environmental FRIENDLY protection areas or RAMSAR (Convention on Wetlands PRODUCTS AND of International Importance) areas. SERVICES PROGRESS REPORT We started works for protecting biodiversity and species with the plot allotment. In this regard, 2,140 saplings of 11 different trees were planted in part of our facility 35 obtained internal auditor certiﬁcations. In 2016, audits 2009-2015 Direct/Indirect and certiﬁcation processes will be actualized. Thereby Energy Consumption we aim to handle our energy efﬁciency projects with a Breakdown %11.3 more systematic approach. Also during the reporting (%) (Total=100) period, we continued Green Ofﬁce practices at Izmit Production Facility, Altunizade Sales and Marketing %88.7 ofﬁces and executive building ofﬁces. DIRECT G4-EN5,G4-EN6, INDIRECT G4-EN15, Climate change is a signiﬁcant phenomenon today’s We provided 45% of lightening power (10% of total We are rewarded for the importance we attached to G4-EN18, business world combats against. We maintain our electricity power) of our Brisa Museum and energy efﬁciency in all our processes by the projects we G4-LA14, Academy buildings, which have LEED Gold actualized during the reporting period. We have reduced operations with the awareness of the responsibility we certificates awarded to sustainable buildings our direct energy consumption per ton by 4.1**% as G4-DMA bear in combating this phenomenon that carries a risk worldwide, from solar panels in 2015. Thus, energy against the year 2014, by means of our energy efﬁciency potential that could affect all operations. We follow indirect greenhouse gas emission was 0 (nil) as projects in 2015. There was a 1.7* % increase in our relevant technologies to be able to develop products with some energy of 15,741 kWh was generated by a indirect energy consumption and a 1.0* % increase in less environmental impact. renewable energy resource in 2015. our total energy consumption, due to heavy weather conditions in winter and increase in steam use, compared Reducing greenhouse gas emissions and impacts on Total Energy Consumption to the previous reporting period. global warming caused by our production activities is (Index Gj/Production ton, Base:2008=100) among our strategic targets and we conduct systematic We have achieved a 1.64% saving in production based 95 activities followed by our senior management. 91 energy consumption in 2015, through lighting automation, 89 enhancing efﬁciency in compressed air generation, 87 88 86 hydraulic system and new generation insulation BRISA 2015 We actively evaluate results put forth by national and practices. Considering realizations in 2015, we have SUSTAINABILITY international initiatives and ensure their adaptation to ensured a thirteen-fold increase in the amount of savings REPORT our business processes. We contribute to national policy we achieved compared to the year 2008. and target constitution works organized by TÜSİAD and TOBB. We maintain our works within the scope of 2011 2012 ** 2013 ** 2014** 2015 ** 2016 ** 1,812 employees, of which 112 white collar and 1,700 > ENVIRONMENTAL Target compliance with Bridgestone Global Climate Change blue collar, have participated in trainings we organized APPROACH targets. We increased our energy savings through Efﬁciency with the aim of creating awareness regarding energy Projects thirteen fold compared to 2008. efﬁciency during the year 2015. >ENERGY AND We carry on certiﬁcation works regarding the veriﬁcation EMISSION of the works we conduct aiming to reduce climate change Energy Savings Achieved Through Efﬁciency Projects MANAGEMENT (Cumulative Index Gj/Production ton, Base: 2008=100) EFFICIENT USE OF and greenhouse gases and their performances. In this NATURAL regard, we were entitled to receive ISO 14064 certiﬁcates 1383 1313 RESOURCES AND each year by conducting Greenhouse Gas Emissions 1222 1086 LESS WASTE Veriﬁcation since 2013. 968 RESPECT FOR 830 BIODIVERSITY Energy efﬁciency is among our signiﬁcant operational ENVIRONMENT strategies we carefully monitor in our business FRIENDLY processes. Rendering energy use in our processes more PRODUCTS AND We received the first prize in the rubber and plastic efﬁcient through regular reviewing and evaluation works 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 SERVICES Target products sector in the category of “Energy Efficient PROGRESS REPORT is of great signiﬁcance for us. * See Independent Limited Assurance Report Industrial Facility” for our works in the field of ** While related ratios are indexed with regards to 2008. Realvalues energy efficiency from the Ministry of Energy and belonging to years 2012, 2013,2014 and 2015 are incorporated in limited In the reporting period, within the scope of ISO 50001 we assurance stdies. Index information according to2008 is excluded from Natural Resources. released the energy management procedures and we limited assurance scope. 36 As Brisa, we aim to reduce our greenhouse gas emission per unit production by 25% as against 2005, in 2020. As of 2015 yearend, we have achieved this target at the rate of 22%. In the reporting period, our direct carbon dioxide emission HÜSEYİN ÇAVUŞOĞLU per production ton increased decreased by 5.4*% and Occupational Safety and Environment Manager G4-EN7, our indirect energy-related emissions increased by 0.9*%. G4-EN26, Thus, our carbon dioxide emission per production ton Turkey Climate Disclosure Leadership Award G4-LA14, was increased by 0.4 *% compared to the previous We conduct works to observe and measure the effectivity G4-DMA reporting period because of the cold winter and increase of the practices we implement on international platforms. in energy consumption. In this regard, we have been participating in the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) platform, which is one of the Total Carbon dioxide Emission (Scope 1 & Scope2) most active and well-respected environmental (ton CO 2-e/Production ton) (Index, Base: 2008=100) organizations worldwide, since the year 2011. As part of In accordance with our understanding of being a the CDP program, where we constantly improve our responsible producer, making efﬁcient use of natural performance, we started public reporting in 2015. 96 resources is quite signiﬁcant both for reducing our Our Brisa Environmental Management systems focus on 93 environmental impact and for the sustainability of our 92 the protection of natural resources, production in 89 90 harmony with the nature and reducing our CO2 business. With this understanding, we take care to emissions. We have the results of the works we conduct make effective and efﬁcient use of natural resources in this regard veriﬁed by third party independent through improvement works in our processes, BRISA 2015 institutions and we share them transparently with our practices devoted to enhance employee awareness SUSTAINABILITY stakeholders. We make an extensive effort to achieve our and our environment friendly products and services. 2011 2012 ** 2013 ** 2014** 2015 ** REPORT 2020 targets for reducing CO2 emissions, which is among signiﬁcant components of our sustainability works. We “Water” is among issues we give particular importance > ENVIRONMENTAL share the conducted works with our stakeholders as part in natural resources. of the Carbon Disclosure Project since the year 2011. The APPROACH works we offered for our stakeholders’ view in 2015 were We aim to ensure constant improvement regarding >ENERGY AND deemed worthy of “Turkey Climate Disclosure Leadership water consumption and to reduce our water EMISSION Award”. We work more and allocate more resources to consumption by 61% as against 2008, by 2020. In this MANAGEMENT achieve our targets thanks to this award that motivates >EFFICIENT USE OF us. I believe Brisa family achieved this success by direction, we implement efﬁciency projects as part NATURAL reﬂecting its sustainability approach on its business of our environmental management practices. RESOURCES AND manner. Brisa became the top company to LESS WASTE We started our studies for ISO 14046 Water Footprint RESPECT FOR receive the “Turkey Climate We utilize transportation alternatives with less Veriﬁcation Standard in order to have the practices we BIODIVERSITY Disclosure Leadership Award” in the environmental impact for the transportation of our conducted in the area of water management aiming for ENVIRONMENT Industry sector, We achieved the success products in order to reduce the amount of emission FRIENDLY the efﬁcient use of natural resources, as well as the of becoming the top company in industry caused by our logistics operations. In this regard, we PRODUCTS AND performances we achieved veriﬁed. Veriﬁcation study sector deemed worthy of the “Turkey have increased the weight of seaway transportation by SERVICES for 2014 were completed by an accredited institution, 83.3% as against 2008. In the same regard, we reduced PROGRESS REPORT Climate Disclosure Leadership Award” as while works for the 2015 results are still in progress. the share of land transportation by 52% as against one of the companies included in the 2008, thereby limiting the environmental impact of our locally determined in the Index. logistics operations. 37 We treat the waste waters generated in consequence of Water Footprint Performance Hazardous Wastes (Ton) our processes at a biological treatment facility and we We applied for the CDP Water discharge them to the Izmit Water and Sewer 761 Report, which is another global project of 681 Administration collector. As part of this process, we 661 CDP aiming at mobilizing the private sector observe and track the compliance of our facilities through 640 672 in the issue of water resources, during the periodical measurements we conduct in accordance with reporting period. We achieved a our business understanding that goes beyond legal G4-EN7, performance score of B in this project that requirements. G4-EN8, we participated for the first time. G4-EN10, Considering that the global average is BWe beneﬁt from integrated waste management practices 2011 2012 ** 2013 ** 2014** 2015 ** G4-EN22, and there are only 8 companies in the A to minimize wastes generated by our activities and to G4-EN26, strip around the world, we regard this rate eliminate the impact of wastes on the environment. Household Type Nonhazardous Wastes (Kg/Production ton) G4-DMA we received in our first year as an indicator Besides, we take into consideration environmental risks 3.82 of successful future periods. Our objective that will occur during the use and consumption of our 2.71 products in the designing stage and we take care to use 2.27 is to join A level companies on a global 2.64 raw materials free of contamination and health risks. scale in the forthcoming years. 2.37 We achieved a 46% improvement as against the year In relation to waste management, we switched to the 2008 in consequence of our works devoted to reducing “Zero Waste” practice in our Izmit facilities on December household water use and recovering wastewater and 1, 2015. As part of this practice; 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 we have realized our 2020 water consumption reduction BRISA 2015 target by 75%. The water usage increased because of We are not sending any solid waste from our plant to Green Office Program SUSTAINABILITY the improvements in process that cause decrease in waste ﬁelds, In 2015, we continued our projects devoted REPORT tolerances. We are reusing the solid wastes generated at our to enhancing employee awareness, as part of the Total Well Water Usage (m 3) facilities, Green Office Program conducted by WWF that > ENVIRONMENTAL Recycling them, we have started in 2014. In consequence of these APPROACH Recovering them. practices, we reduced our amount of organic waste 567,362 ENERGY AND 530,738 by 17.5% in comparison with the year 2014. 490,113 In consequence of the works conducted since 2009 for EMISSION 443,755 MANAGEMENT 438,486 minimizing wastes, we have achieved an improvement Green IT Practices >EFFICIENT USE OF of 62% for hazardous wastes. In the reporting period, we As part of the practice we implemented, we NATURAL achieved a reduction of 6% as against the year 2014. As completed the virtualization of 230 servers to date. RESOURCES AND a result of works being conducted since 2009, there was The energy savings we achieved in this way is at LESS WASTE 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 RESPECT FOR a 60% improvement in wastes generated by ofﬁce and the level of 1,520,544 kWh in comparison with BIODIVERSITY auxiliary activities. We achieved a reduction of 8.5% in physical servers. ENVIRONMENT this rate, compared to the year 2014. FRIENDLY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PROGRESS REPORT 38 END OF 1 LIFE 2 What is the meaning of End of Life Tyre? Recycling voyage starts at retailers. Tyres in which tread depth is less than 1.6 millimeter and/or can not be When you buy new tyres, used again under the vehicle are assumed to be end of life tyres. TYRES you leave old tyres in sales points where tyres are changed SALE POINT and help recycling of end of life tyres. 4 For greener environment, End of Life Tyres go to recycling center to be processed. 3 Contractor companies that are licensed by Tyre Industrialists Association (LASDER) collect the end of life tyres from sales and collection points ALTERNATIVE PYROLYSIS GRANUL FUEL END OF END OF END OF LIFE LIFE LIFE TYRES TYRES TYRES End of Life Tyres are rendered and GRANUL End of Life Tyres are rendered and become granul PYROLYSIS prepared for pyrolysis process. in different sizes in Granul Factories. BRISA 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRANUL PYROLYSIS END OF LIFE TYRES > ENVIRONMENTAL Granuls are used for synthetic pitch, playground as safe ﬂoor, Processed pieces under high temperature and pressure, APPROACH walking trail and animal bed for ﬁrst become gas and grease depending on usage purpose. increasing quality. Grease is used as a fuel in energy production and industrial facilities. ENERGY AND EMISSION MANAGEMENT ALTERNATIVE FUEL End of Life Tyres are processed and rendered in different sizes. Tyres rendered in different sizes is >EFFICIENT USE OF ready for energy conversion. End of life tyres NATURAL having low sulfur rate are used as alternative fuel in cement production. RESOURCES AND LESS WASTE RESPECT FOR BIODIVERSITY ENVIRONMENT ALTERNATIVE FRIENDLY FUEL END OF LIFE TYRES PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PROGRESS REPORT 39 We support the process of collecting, in compliance with regulations, and recycling of worn out tyres for the beneﬁt of the environment and economy carried out by Tyre Industrialists Association (LASDER). In this regard, we ensured the collection and recycling of 153,523 tons of tyres during the reporting period. In accordance with Packaging Waste Control G4-EN11, Regulations, we ensure that a certain ratio of the While conducting our operations, we avoid processes collaboration with WWF-Turkey (World Wildlife G4-EN12, packaging materials of marketed products are that might have a negative impact on biodiversity. In this Foundation) since 2013 to sustain the crane population collected and recycled through the agency of regard, we act in accordance with the Environmental in Anatolia. Works within the scope of the project are G4-EN13, Environmental Protection and Packaging Waste Impact Assessment Regulations in the implementation carried out in the Çukurova Delta where 95% of some G4-EN14, Recovery and Recycling Foundation (ÇEVKO). In this regard, we contributed to the recycling of 1 ton of of our new investments. We ensure that risks that might 10,000 cranes spending the winter in our country take G4-EN28, packaging waste in the year 2015. arise are audited and evaluated by accredited institutions. shelter. During the reporting period, a wildlife observation G4-SO1, Relevant studies show that no protected areas where camp was organized for teachers with the collaboration G4-DMA biodiversity might be harmed are located on or near the of the Ministry of Forestry and Water Affairs at Adana operation ﬁeld of Brisa. Akyatan Wildlife Development Field in order contribute to nature conservation awareness through the agency We continued the “Turnalar Hep Uçsun” (Let Cranes Fly of teachers in Çukurova Delta, besides observation Forever) project, which we have been conducting in studies conducted by WWF-Turkey. Brisa’s tyre wastes transformed into BRISA 2015 design by Tuğba Ergin WWW-F TURKEY AND BRISA ARE COLLABORATING IN LET CRANES FLY SUSTAINABILITY We make a genuine effort to carry FOREVER PROJECT FOR SUSTAINING CRANE (GRUS GRUS) POPULATION IN ANATOLIA. REPORT sustainability into every cycle of our lives and to internalize it; we conduct works to inform our stakeholders in this issue. While cranes spend winter in hot Migrate in Flock Cranes spend hot summer time to grow their child. > ENVIRONMENTAL southern countries, they settle in The collection prepared by Tuğba Ergin, watery lands like lakeside, reeds and rice fields at Anatolian lands APPROACH in spring to give birth. who is identified as among successful ENERGY AND fashion designers of the future in Europe, It represents 2 of 15 CRANES EMISSION especially Italy, as well as in Turkey, using WELFARE, FRIENDSHIP and LOYALTY in the world live in Turkey. 95 % of cranes in Turkey spend the winter in Çukurova Delta. in Turkish and Japan Culture. Every year approximately MANAGEMENT wastes generated by our production 50 to 100 THOUSAND Cranes pass from Turkey. EFFICIENT USE OF processes with the contributions of Brisa LIFE SPAN of CRANES(GRUS GRUS) NATURAL engineers within the framework of the Cranes spend winter in RESOURCES AND philosophy of sustainable fashion was In autumn, crane families migrate to place They like to feed with sand dune or muddy floor outside the city that they migrate, LESS WASTE We are collaborating with WWF-TURKEY where more food exists peanut in Çukurova. eed in cultivated area and prepare >RESPECT FOR presented with the “Tuba Ergin for Brisa” in Let Crane Fly Forever project. and climate is hotter. for the next summer. BIODIVERSITY parade within the context of Mercedes FOR MORE INFORMATION BAOUT LET CRANE FLY FOREVER PROJECT: We OBSERVE CRANES in field works. ENVIRONMENT Benz Istanbul Fashion Week. Brisa’s FRIENDLY baked tyres, pastes and filling ingredient PRODUCTS AND wastes were on the runway as accessory We INVESTIGATE their life threats. SERVICES PROGRESS REPORT and clothing designs, unlike their purpose We AIM TO make their existence continue. of production, at the parade that was WE ARE COLLABROTING FOR SUSTAINING attended by 600 invitees. CRANE POPULATION. 40 We contribute to the protection of the environment by reducing commercial tyre wastes with our tyre retreading services that we offer through our Bandag brand. TOLGA BAŞTAK BRIDGESTONE FUEL TEST G4-EN7, CEO WWF Turkey G4-EN27, Let Cranes Fly Forever! G4-PR1, In accordance with our strategy of “enhancing our WWF Turkey’s Crane Surveillance Team has observed G4-PR3, environmentalist product portfolio in order to ensure that at least 5000 cranes spent the winter Cilician Delta G4-DMA throughout 2015. During the study, which was conducted continued mobility”, we make an effort for our products under challenging climate conditions, we have collected and services to be “environment friendly” by taking into Click here to watch. several clues regarding the abnormal behaviors of consideration the environmental impacts of products cranes. In April, we announced our project in Adana during and after use. We work on new concept products Orange Blossom Carnival cortege via banners and the with lower rolling resistance, lower emission and noise help of our volunteers. With the activities and visits we levels and less weight; we monitor environmentalist FILOFIX INTRO organized, we delivered our “Crane is a Migratory Birdé product portfolio rate indicators. booklets to many teachers and students. In addition to all of these, we transported a crane, which We have a rich product portfolio composed of environment broke its leg during its migration from Europe to Africa, friendly Ecopia and Greenways series tyres which we BRISA 2015 to Istanbul University Veterinary School with the help of introduced to the market in accordance with our SUSTAINABILITY Brisa. After treatment, the crane was brought back to understanding of producing more environment friendly REPORT Adana Airport with the voluntary support from Atlas Jet. products. Click here to watch. Receiving the crane at the airport, we released the crane > ENVIRONMENTAL back to nature at Yumurtalık Natural Protection Zone, via By reducing rolling resistance in the tyres which we have We save the fuel and time that would be spent APPROACH our personnel. After recovery, the crane lifted off and developed with new generation pattern design and taking vehicles to the service by providing on-site mingled in the covey. With this project, which is conducted components without conceding the element of safety in service for fleets with our Mobilfix service. We ENERGY AND for the continuity of crane breed in Anatolia, we hope to EMISSION the segment of consumer products, we ensure direct provide their service needs and constitute service contribute to the survival of many other cranes with the MANAGEMENT improvements in fuel savings. We sustainably increase awareness in our customers. joint effort of all parties. EFFICIENT USE OF the share of products, whose label value for this NATURAL parameter is C and above , within our sales portfolio. RESOURCES AND We ensure that products are used with maximum LESS WASTE RESPECT FOR BIODIVERSITY efficiency by monitoring the tyres of our fleet *ROLLING RESISTANCE (RRC) RESPECT FOR customers through Aspects+. We calculate the BIODIVERSITY 2016 replacement time for tyres by measuring pressure Label Value 2012 2013 2014 2015 >ENVIRONMENT TARGET values and tread depth information. In this way, FRIENDLY C and Over %0 %5 %21 %32 %45 we intervene timely in tyres creating a positive PRODUCTS AND SERVICES impact for recoatability and correct usage E-F-G %100 %95 %79 %68 %55 PROGRESS REPORT of tyres Click here to watch. The share of our commercial tyre products labeled “C and over” is above the level of 25%. * Consumer Products 41 Ecopia EP150, nature’s Greenways Environment Friendly Tyre safety tyre We aim to combine durability, fuel efﬁciency and With Ecopia EP150, we provide high efﬁciency longevity through our ﬁrst environmentalist passenger car product Greenways that we will introduce to the in fuel consumption by reducing the rolling market under our Lassa brand in 2014. The nano-pro resistance of the tyre without compromising technology used in Greenways tyres reduces rolling G4-EN7, on safety. We aim to complete the localization resistance and accordingly fuel consumption. Thanks of our EP150 product in 2014. to its special environment-friendly pattern, Greenways G4-EN27, facilitates gripping on dry and wet ground and ensures G4-PR1, a quiet and comfortable ride with its light construction G4-PR3, 9% lighter construction and innovative design. 14% lower rolling resistance G4-DMA 1.7 % fuel efﬁciency 7 % lighter construction 5 % shorter wet ground stopping distance 37% lower rolling resistance 15% more durable 5.5% fuel efﬁciency 8% shorter wet ground stopping distance 30% more durable Under normal conditions: According to TUV test results, compared to the previous Under normal conditions: generation Bridgestone. According to TUV test results, compared to the previous generation According to Brisa ﬁeld test results; compared to Bridgestone. competing tyres According to Brisa ﬁeld test results; compared to competing tyres. BRISA 2015 SUSTAINABILITY We reduce natural resource use We offer fleet management REPORT with Bandag retreading service solutions with Profleet With our Bandag retreading service, which > ENVIRONMENTAL falls within the scope of our tyre We ensure the economical use of natural management, we save up to 40% in the tyre resources with Proﬂeet ﬂeet management APPROACH costs of ﬂeets while substantially contributing We have ensured 6% solutions, our consultancy service intended ENERGY AND 127.000 to the protection of natural resources and the national economy through quality materials fuel and 7.5 million TL for heavy commercial vehicle ﬂeets. Through EMISSION Bandage scope of service and the right production conditions. By worth of tyre savings our solutions within the scope of Proﬂeet, we coated tyre number retreading and reusing tyres, we triple their MANAGEMENT through vehicle and tyre ensure fuel saving and minimize EFFICIENT USE OF lifecycle and we contribute to environmental protection through less tyre waste. Through maintenances services environmental impact with less waste. NATURAL RESOURCES AND the retreading of a truck or bus tyre, 55 kg we provided within can be saved on raw material use, 60 kg of LESS WASTE waste can be prevented and CO2 emissions the context of Proﬂeet. RESPECT FOR can be reduced by 30%. In addition, the BIODIVERSITY retreading process consumes about 70% less >ENVIRONMENT diesel than the production process. During FRIENDLY the reporting period, we retreaded over PRODUCTS AND 120,000 commercial vehicle tyres within the SERVICES scope of our Bandag service, thereby saving PROGRESS REPORT 36,000 barrels of oil and 2,400 tons of steel in raw material consumption. We aim to retread 130,000 tyres in the year 2016. 42 BRISA 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT > ENVIRONMENTAL APPROACH ENERGY AND EMISSION MANAGEMENT EFFICIENT USE OF NATURAL RESOURCES AND LESS WASTE RESPECT FOR BIODIVERSITY >ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY PRODUCTS AND SERVICES PROGRESS REPORT 43 WHAT DID WE 2015 OUR 2016 AIM FOR STATUS PERFORMANCE TARGETS IN THE YEAR 2015? DISCLOSURE We aim to reduce our well water consumption We have completed our We aim to reduce our well water by 61% as against 2008, by the year 2020, relevant target by 46% as of consumption by 61% as against 2015 yearend. 2008, by the year 2020 Continue to respond to CDP-Water program, We achieved a performance Continue to participate CDP-Water score of B+. program To reduce our total carbon dioxide To reduce our total carbon dioxide emission per product ton by 25% emission per product ton by 25% as We achieved 22% decrease BRISA 2015 as against 2005, by the year 2020 against 2005, by the year 2020, compared to 2005 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We reduced our organic waste > ENVIRONMENTAL To continue Green Ofﬁce works, To continue Green Ofﬁce Program amount by 17.5%. APPROACH ENERGY AND To continue CDP-climate change reporting, We were among Turkey Climate To continue CDP-climate EMISSION Leaders. change reporting MANAGEMENT EFFICIENT USE OF NATURAL We released energy management RESOURCES AND To obtain ISO 50001 Energy Management Audit and certiﬁcation in 2016 procedure and we obtained LESS WASTE System certiﬁcation, RESPECT FOR internal auditor certiﬁcations. BIODIVERSITY ENVIRONMENT FRIENDLY To retread 158,000 tyres as part of We retreated 120,000 which To retread 130,000 tyres PRODUCTS AND our Bandag service. is below our target. SERVICES >PROGRESS REPORT Completed In Progress Incomplete We work in accordance with our primary strategies for our employees to carry on their work life happily, safely and efﬁciently; we design the future of our journey together with our employees “to become a preferred workplace”. BRISA 2015 We consider providing our employees with a working environment that respects employee rights, avoids SUSTAINABILITY discrimination in all business processes, and where they can work safely and healthily as one of our most REPORT signiﬁcant responsibilities. We offer our employees opportunities to improve themselves throughout their careers. > WORK LIFE In 2015, we actualized various works within the scope of “Becoming a Preferred Workplace”. We had the opportunity to tell about Brisa and the value we create for our employees in more detail by taking part in different OCCUPATIONAL social media channels. We reached out more effectively to future Brisa employees through career sites and visual HEALTH AND advertisements. We both transferred our experience to future employees and we had a chance to meet with them SAFETY APPROACH through University and Civil Society Organization collaborations. BRİSA-MEC (Manufacturing Education Center) Our accident frequency We provided 512 In Brisa Academy Activities rate 0.82* and our man-hour of we provided 32,935 Dealer Occupational accident severity rate is Suru-Raku training hours of training to 4,801 Safety Audit Works DEVELOPMENT 14.62* for 32 employees. attendees. JOURNEY Corporate We provided 37.35* Development Journey 103 employees Yearly per-employee Employees’ with disaster training hours Leadership and Development Journey prevention and We have ensured a saving 112 employees with EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Our 37 equivalent to 2.1 million liras Business Relations occupational safety employees received in interest yields by and Union Rights trainings thereby ensuring achieving an average Business Ethics feedbacks by attending all our employees have received development center improvement of 5.5 days for Approach these trainings in total. the year 2015, compared to PROGRESS REPORT We provided trainings for We increased female 2014, in the average cycle 744 employees as part of employee rate to time of the process “from “Occupational 16.67%. Ordering to Safety Simulation” Delivery” trainings during the reporting period. 45 Going beyond compliance with national legal regulations, we closely follow international standards. We actively implement the knowledge and accumulation of Sabancı Holding and Bridgestone G4-15, Corporation. We take active role in the Occupational G4-LA7, AYLİN ERDİL Health and Safety Work Group of Turkish Business G4-DMA Corporate Communication Manager World and Sustainable Development Association. The Occupational Health and Safety Committee constituted Equality at Work by Sabancı Holding Tyre and Tyre Reinforcement Group We continued the Employment and Awareness Projects, companies is maintained under the leadership of Brisa. BRISA 2015 as well as the Support Projects, which we started in 2013 by becoming a signatory of the United Nations Equality at SUSTAINABILITY Work Declaration, this year and we expanded our solution REPORT seeking to also include our value chain in accordance with this understanding. We wanted to gather our works, such > WORK as Safe Drive Techniques and various other trainings we LIFE provide for our women employees, “Design the Work You Love” workshop realized for our women executives and >OCCUPATIONAL special social responsibility activity for Women’s Day, as HEALTH AND well as all works we shall further actualize aimed at Occupational health and safety is of utmost importance SAFETY APPROACH women under a brand and visualize it. for the continuity of a working environment where our BRİSA-MEC employees can safely work, as well as the sustainability (Manufacturing We aimed for the perception that women, who are Brisa’s Education Center) of our business. For this reason, occupational health stakeholders, are designing the future Activities and safety has the ﬁrst priority in all our operations. of everyone they touch with the Dealer Occupational Women Designing the Future Our primary objective is to constantly achieve our “Zero Safety Audit Works Working Accident”, “Zero Occupational Disease” and brand we have formed in this direction. DEVELOPMENT We have organized a workshop with some of our women “Zero Fire” targets while improving our occupational JOURNEY Corporate dealers as representatives of women in the sector in health and safety performance. Development Journey 2015, when we formed our brand, and we received their Our Target is “0 Accident!” Employees’ opinions, suggestions and contributions. We laid the All our units dependent on the Brisa Leadership and foundation for a range of practices that will both bring the Development Journey Directorate of Technology completed sale and service experiences of our customers to EMPLOYEE RIGHTS 1,685 days and the Stock Preparation and perfection and contribute to our sustainability targets by Business Relations Maintenance Departments of the reinforcing the professional knowledge and experience of and Union Rights Directory of Production completed our women dealer employees, through the workshop Business Ethics respectively 1,325 and 1,625 days without where we discussed activities that we might actualize in Approach any working accidents. 2016 aimed at our dealers’ women employees. PROGRESS REPORT We monitor and periodically report the occupational safety performance of our production processes. We In the context of Bridgestone Safety Mission Statement, 16,67% actualize our relevant works beneﬁting from the we implement practices under the main headings of enhancing sensitivity (human behavior oriented We increased systematic approach of Occupational Health and Safety improvements), engineering precautions (machine and female employee Management Systems practices. All our facilities have infrastructure oriented improvements) and systemic OHSAS 18001 certiﬁcate. works. 46 reduction of wastes and performance of error-free As of the year 2015, a majority of subcontractor production. Within the scope of these activities, we are employees have become Brisa employees and applying the 3S program in all our production ﬁelds as their IR and SR values are monitored together with of 2015 yearend. In this way, we have realized our target our existing employees. G4-LA5, of increasing this rate, which was 52% in the previous G4-LA6, ERKİN KARATAŞ period, to 100%. Our primary target is for 3S practices BRİSA-MEC (Manufacturing Education G4-LA7, Development Engineer to become a way of life. Center) Activities G4-DMA I started to work at Brisa as a progress engineer in 2013. We identify and evaluate dangers that might be We provide trainings in 6 main areas at our center Since the day I started, my priority is occupational safety. originating from the working environment and that was formed to develop and apply training BRISA 2015 In all of the improvements we have done, our goal is to operations within the scope of our risk analysis practices programs devoted to enhancing the basic skills levels abolish or minimize the threats to human health. In and we develop preventions within the framework of and awareness of our technical group employees. SUSTAINABILITY addition to these improvements, we carry out studies to these evaluations. As part of our program that primarily Besides these activities, Team Leader Development REPORT bring solutions for activities which are ergonomically aims for the prevention of all accidents, we have trainings with the coordination of the Department challenging for the people. We have received numerous implemented 142 works during the reporting period. of Human Resources, as well as extra trainings arising > WORK positive feedbacks from occupational health and safety The realization rate of our prevention actions is 89% as from needs are also provided to our employees within LIFE level and observed improvements, with the project we the scope of our center. of 2015 yearend. started designing in 2014 and ﬁnished the ﬁrst phase in >OCCUPATIONAL 2015. We aim to ﬁnish this comprehensive project which We provide our employees with a 26-hour INCIDENT RATE (IR) OF BRISA HEALTH AND will affect many users positively as of 2017. With this training in 8 headings, such as occupational SAFETY APPROACH project, accident risks will be minimized in cutting and 0.86 safety, fire and disaster prevention, as part of our 0.82 >BRİSA-MEC calendaring areas and major improvements will be done 0.74 standard training program. Within the scope of the (Manufacturing 0.71 in the physical working conditions of active operators. In 0.69 program, which we started in 2013, we provided 103 Education Center) the future, we aim to provide more comfortable working employees with disaster prevention and 112 Activities environments with fewer health problems, with this sort employees with occupational safety trainings during Dealer Occupational of projects that would contribute to employee the reporting period, thereby ensuring that all our Safety Audit Works ergonomics. AS BRISA, we scale up our objectives to employees have received these trainings. With the DEVELOPMENT JOURNEY provide sustainable working environments with major 2011 2012* 2013* 2014* 2015* Suru-Raku and 3S trainings we provided to 1,106 Corporate projects that prioritize occupational health and safety. Incidence Rate (IR) = Lost work day incident * 200.000 / Annual working hours employees, 73% of all our employees have completed Development Journey these trainings. We aim for all our blue-collar SEVERITY RATE (SR) OF BRISA Employees’ Our Occupational Health and Safety Committee, which employees to have received the trainings within the Leadership and 15.13 scope of the Standard training program by 2018 represents our entire workforce, monitors our 14.79 14.62 Development Journey occupational safety performance periodically every 13.42 yearend. EMPLOYEE RIGHTS 12.27 Business Relations month. Together with the Occupational Safety and and Union Rights Environment Committee, our Committee performs the In the reporting period, we have provided training for 744 employees within the context of Business Ethics analysis of working accidents and prepares preventive Approach “Occupational Safety Simulation” trainings that we plans to avoid their recurrence. PROGRESS REPORT developed in 2014 with the purpose of enhancing 2011 2012* 2013* 2014* 2015* the awareness of all our blue-collar employees The 3S works we conduct as part of our Occupational Severity Rate (SR) = Lost work days * 200.000 / Annual working hours regarding risks in the areas of occupational safety Safety Basic Activities constitute the basis for and production. In this way, we have ensured that In consequence of this basic activity we implemented in accident-free and efﬁcient production works. The the reporting period, our incident rate was improved by all our blue-collar employees have received this primary objectives of these works are the constitution 5% as against 2014. In comparison to the year 2005, training. The objective of our program is to ensure of an accident-free workplace with no ﬁre starters, there is an improvement of 81%. that these trainings are repeated every two years. 47 We do not limit our Occupational Health & Safety practices with Brisa employees. We assume a similar responsible approach against subcontractors / suppliers, visitors and interns operating in our ﬁeld. G4-DMA As of the year 2015, a majority of subcontractor AYDIN DURMUŞ employees have become Brisa employees. These works, We continue our development journey by enriching our Production which were previously being conducted by subcontractor programs devoted to our organization, processes and companies, are being performed under the roof of Brisa Occupational safety is an irrevocable part of our lives. I employees and by increasing the effort we make. following the given date. Works related to the inclusion have been working in the Tyre Manufacturing department of these employees in the Brisa occupational safety BRISA 2015 since 2004. I continue my work life at Brisa, where I management systematics were among works of We attach great importance to training with all these SUSTAINABILITY started as an operator, as a Suru-Raku activity leader. We signiﬁcance in 2015. programs that directly contribute to the realization and have received much training under the roof of sustaining of our mid and long term corporate strategies. REPORT BRISA-MEC. Occupational safety simulation room Supplier and By combining approaches that will contribute to Incidence Severity Rate trainings, occupational safety, disaster prevention, Subcontractor Rate (SR) sustainability in the economic, social and environmental > WORK OHS Indicators quality, problem solving, analysis and leadership (IR) dimensions, we adopt an integrated approach in the by Years LIFE trainings have contributed immensely to our personal management of corporate sustainability. development. The occupational safety awareness that we 2012 1.60 36.16 >OCCUPATIONAL acquired through BRISA-MEC trainings instills in my 2013 0.62 10.43 HEALTH AND fellow workers and me the awareness that we have to go SAFETY APPROACH 2014 0.99 26.88 back to our homes well ever y day. I consider the >BRİSA-MEC 2015 0.82 14.62 knowledge I acquire essential in both my work and my (Manufacturing Education Center) private life. These trainings provided us with new points As of the year 2015 the IR and SR values of of view; in this way, our awareness regarding all kinds of Activities subcontractor employees are monitored together with >Dealer Occupational risks around us has advanced. Now we know very well our existing employees. Safety Audit Works that occupational safety is an irrevocable part of our lives. >DEVELOPMENT Dealer Occupational Safety Audit Works JOURNEY We ensure that all our employees can ﬁnd the dangers that might be situated in their work area and that they We formed a dealer integrated auditing Hayallerine olan yolculuğunda Corporate Brisa hep yanında Development Journey improve their danger recognition skills through our program for the prevention of working Employees’ danger recognition trainings. We can prevent potential accidents at dealers who are Brisa’s Leadership and working accidents through the similar accident business partners. As part of the program, Development Journey prevention approach that is part of Bridgestone’s global EMPLOYEE RIGHTS our business partners are audited by a knowledge accumulation. In this regard, in 2015 we have Business Relations third party independent institution within translated 30 working accident incidents / ﬁre-starting and Union Rights incidents experienced in other plants and shared them the framework of the annual plan. As Business Ethics with all the departments in the company. Our relevant Brisa, we expect our business partners Approach PROGRESS REPORT departments have shared these incidents with all their to take actions resulting from auditing employees through trainings. During the reporting period, programs and finalize them. as part of the Bridgestone Global Risk Evaluation project, we started the “Earthquake Risks Analysis Study” for Kalıplara uyma aradığın fark Brisa’da plants that have experienced earthquake with magnitude greater than 6 in the past within our body. EMPLOYER BRANDING ACTIVITIES 48 Employee Engagement Survey Corporate Development Journey We measure Employee Engagement every two years and we focus our improvement plans on its results. G4-LA11, On our corporate development journey, we aim to G4-DMA strengthen our communication with employees, to create According to our 2014 Employee Engagement good practice models and a participatory and dynamic assessment Turkey average was realized as 53%, working environment that has internalized innovation, while Brisa’s evaluation as 62. entrepreneurship and change, by ensuring the development of our organization and processes. Performance Management BRISA 2015 Becoming a Preferred Workplace -HR Team SUSTAINABILITY We strive to turn the approaches we form for We implement our Corporate and Individual “Becoming a preferred workplace” is among our REPORT primary strategies. We have continued our organizational and process development into best performance evaluation process through the practices within the scope of the strategy whereby practice examples. We act with the principle of fairness dissemination of corporate strategies and objectives we aim to preserve and develop the talents we in performance evaluation processes and we strive to among all functions, departments and employees. > WORK have and reach out to potential Brisa residents in strengthen the coherence of the individual objectives of LIFE the most effective way, in the year 2015. We made our employees with corporate strategies. We have performed 360° competence evaluation for a tremendous effort to provide our employees with a healthy, safe, fair, transparent and happy 42 employees. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND workplace. Organizational Development SAFETY APPROACH Career Management BRİSA-MEC We conducted extensive works with social media, Organizational Culture (Manufacturing newspaper and university collaborations regarding We create potential, backup and rotation maps of our Education Center) our first friends joining us for the Aksaray plant We conduct studies in relation to the process-based and our 32 new engineers took office as of 2015. company and plan organization scenarios involving Activities and customer-oriented culture, which we have been Dealer Occupational This year, we had the opportunity to tell about the our entire organization. We ensure that our employees value we create for employees at Brisa by making aiming at since 2009 when we started change Safety Audit Works are personally evaluated in relation to their strong and use of social media, career sites and visual management. >DEVELOPMENT developing skills and that they are offered feedback advertisements more efficiently. JOURNEY through the development center practice in the process >Corporate We have been investing in creativity and innovation We achieved numbers, such as 9,162 followers on of promotion. Development Journey and encouraging entrepreneurship since the year Employees’ Linkedin, 243,646 total views for HR Videos, 3,152 total number of access and shares of HR specific 2009, thereby approximating our current culture to Leadership and 37 employees participated in the development center content, through our 2015 Employer Brand and the culture we aim for. Development Journey and received personal feedback. advertisement works. EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Business Relations Climate & Management Styles We continued to reach out to future Brisa members and Union Rights through our Employer Branding project and Business Ethics Since the year 2007, we have been measuring Climate university collaborations. We had the opportunity Approach to come together with future members of Brisa and Management Styles. We create action plans by PROGRESS REPORT through our visit to Aksaray University, determining the difference between the ideal and our participation to ITU SBU Day, participation with current climate. executive talks at Boğaziçi, İTÜ, Marmara and Yeditepe universities, contribution to innovation, corporate entrepreneurship and risk management curriculums at Boğaziçi, Marmara and Yeditepe universities. 49 Our performance management process includes the Process House Suru-Raku Philosophy stages of target setting, mid-term evaluation and Suru-Raku is a philosophy that year-end evaluation. With our Brinsan project, we We model our processes in line with our strategies to emphasizes that standards must be ensure the consonance of our strategies deﬁned at measure their performance, make improvements and uninterruptedly complied with in all G4-LA11, Brisa Strategy House with individual performance actualize change. operational processes within the scope G4-DMA targets. In this way, we motivate our employees about of quality product and service production achieving their individual targets and contributing to We reviewed and modeled 940 (1,350 in total) and turns improvement activities into a our vision and strategic targets. We ensure that all our processes explaining detailed work ﬂows. component of this process. white-collar employees are interviewed at least twice We provided 41 employees with 476 hours of process during an evaluation period in relation to their management training. In 2015, 32 employees received 512 performance level and development needs and that man-hour of Suru-Raku training. BRISA 2015 Thereby, the number of employees we SUSTAINABILITY they receive feedback. We organize trainings and Process from Ordering to Delivery have trained to ensure the propagation REPORT development programs in order to generalize the of the Suru-Raku philosophy reached 189, culture of feedback. We ensure the effective As part of our Process Management works we conduct whereas the total hours of training implementation of the feedback process through process performance analyses and improvements. In > WORK reached 3,024 hours. Brinsan performance module. this regard, we worked on the process “from Ordering LIFE to Delivery” that starts with taking the order and Within the scope of the Brisa Suru-Raku Process Development continues until the delivery of the product. We modeled Conference we organized for the 11th time OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND Benchmarking the process from one end to the other and deﬁned it in the reporting period, 7 teams SAFETY APPROACH on the system. In this way, we have made every order constituted by 28 of our employees from BRİSA-MEC Every year, we realize interviews and form action plans measurable from beginning to end. We shared the different functions shared their projects. (Manufacturing aimed at prioritized areas. conducted analyses with relevant departments and Two project groups elected from Education Center) followed up the actions. We have ensured a saving production and marketing functions have Activities We performed 15 benchmarking studies for our equivalent to 2.1 million liras in interest yields by represented Brisa at the global Suru-Raku Dealer Occupational Safety Audit Works corporate development projects. achieving an average improvement of 5.5 days for the Conference. DEVELOPMENT year 2015, compared to 2014, in the average cycle time JOURNEY Brinsan of the process “from Ordering to Deliver y” in >Corporate consequence of the improvement work in the Development Journey Through Brinsan, we review all human resources refurbishment channel. Employees’ Leadership and processes and keep them under the same roof by Development Journey including improvements. Project House EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Business Relations We put the Recruitment Module and reminder system We determine and prioritize our projects and project and Union Rights into service. portfolio in accordance with our strategies. We Business Ethics Approach maximize the impact of our projects by making PROGRESS REPORT Strategy House adequate use of our resources. We make the connection between our strategies and We started conducting the tracking and individual targets and we make strategy management management of New Product Development Projects into everyone’s job. through the live system. 50 LGP Leader Development Program Brisa Academy Employees’ Leadership We support the leadership We convey our visions and processes regarding the and Development Journey competences of our supervisors and market and our business models to our business partners, sales and marketing teams through Brisa foremen through our development G4-43, We support the personal development of our program consisting of personal Academy. G4-LA10, employees in the process we refer to as our employees’ We provided a total of 32,935 hours of training to 4,801 development and follow-up programs. G4-DMA Brisa Journey and we design and implement people. development programs for future Brisa leaders 39 employees beneﬁted from personal interviews, according to their competences. Besides providing our Creativity and Innovation and Follow-up Meetings. Technical Professional Development & Management employees with professional competences, we offer Systems them environments that strengthen their motivation ELYP Team Leader Development BRISA 2015 and we carry out projects and activities that allow them We develop programs to support our change and SUSTAINABILITY to transfer their accumulation to the society. We support our blue-collar employees preparing for development processes in parallel with corporate REPORT team leadership through an extensive program strategies and convey them to our employees Leadership Journey supporting their personal, technical and leadership promptly. competences for their journey. > WORK SALT Sabancı Leader Team We provide our employees with a total of 109 hours LIFE The number of employees who attended our program, which of sustainability training in order to ensure the We evaluate our senior management is a ﬁrst in its sector, to this day is 140 popularization of the concept of sustainability in the OCCUPATIONAL based on the climate they create, their corporation and to enhance awareness. HEALTH AND Development Journey management style and 360° SAFETY APPROACH Global Training Program competences annually and we support Orientation BRİSA-MEC them through development programs such as personal Together with our partner, we provide an opportunity (Manufacturing We start off every employee with our orientation Education Center) coaching. for our employees to learn and gain global business process regarding Brisa and our practices. Activities We provided SALT Basic Training to three executives. experience by working at Bridgestone establishments Dealer Occupational One Executive attended our Board of Directors and Board * Brisa Overview (All Departments & Model Store & Field around the world. Safety Audit Works of Directors Members Development Program. Trip & Museum) * Occupational Safety & Environment DEVELOPMENT * SA-Etik * Competition Law * Information Security The participation of 1 employee in this program was We actualized the 1st module of SA-EXE with the JOURNEY * Sustainability planned. participation of two executives. Corporate We provided trainings for all our 109 new employees Development Journey within the scope of our orientation program. >Employees’ Leadership Workshop Leadership and BRISA-MEC Brisa Manufacturing Education Center Development Journey We include our mid-level managers in EMPLOYEE RIGHTS We support our Technical Groups function employees’ programs that will develop their Business Relations awareness in relation to occupational safety, disaster leadership competences and Union Rights prevention, environment, quality, efﬁciency and their Business Ethics technical knowledge and skills about analysis methods, Approach * Mentoring * 360 Evaluation and Leadership WS problem solving techniques and product information PROGRESS REPORT * Manager as Coach / Coaching Supervision within the scope of a systematic program with the * Performance Management / Recruitment Techniques * Development Planning / One-to-one Coaching * structuring of MEC. Management Simulation * Future Forums (Sabancı Market We provided 2,188 employees with a total of 9,108 hours of Orientation Program) training. 41 of our managers beneﬁted from various programs within the scope of the Leadership Workshop. 51 G4-LA10, G4-DMA MUSTAFA KEMAL ÜSTÜN ZEREN AŞAR The number of established laboratories in our project Brisa Academy Training Manager that we started as part of Vocational High School Sales Development Coach Collaborations reached 3 in the year 2015. Brisa Academy Designing the journey into the future is made possible trainers provided “Basic Tyre Knowledge” trainings in our I have taken important steps through both in-class with our stakeholders. We believe in the necessity of “Vocational High School Collaboration” project. trainings I personally attended and online trainings I sharing our accumulation and experience in order to BRISA 2015 received at Brisa Academy since 03.03.2014, when I ﬁrst better design this journey. While we continue to We work to reach larger stakeholder masses, support SUSTAINABILITY took ofﬁce. I continued the orientation trainings I received contribute our employees’ and business partners’ their development and leave our mark to the future. in relation to our sector, business models and development, we work together to achieve our goals, and REPORT sustain our activities in accordingly. sustainability issues with leadership trainings this year. > WORK Alongside these trainings that aim for enhancing the We particularly believe that opportunities we will provide competences of participators in business life, a for our employees and business partners will contribute LIFE development program was prepared special to me. to the attainment of our objectives and we maintain our OCCUPATIONAL Together with other colleagues receiving training, we activities in this direction. HEALTH AND gained motivation and consolidated our team spirit by SAFETY APPROACH attending business partner and customer visits, ﬁeld As Brisa Academy, our primary goal is to share our BRİSA-MEC knowledge and experience with all our stakeholders works aiming at creating value for customers and (Manufacturing thereby ensuring to create a difference in customer organizations held by Brisa, such as “Business Partners Education Center) experience. In this regard, we have provided 33,200 Meeting” and “The Best Get Together”. man-hour of training in 2015, achieving a 40% increase as Activities Dealer Occupational against 2014. 10% of these trainings were provided by our Safety Audit Works trainers within the scope of the Internal Trainer Project DEVELOPMENT we actualized in 2015. JOURNEY Corporate We attach importance to digitalization; we can manage all Development Journey our trainings and activities on one platform and support >Employees’ our stakeholders’ development with various digital Leadership and applications, such as virtual classroom and electronic Development Journey learning, through Brisa Academy Training Portal that was EMPLOYEE RIGHTS constituted with this perspective. In addition, we provide Business Relations learning opportunities regardless of time and place with and Union Rights our mobile application Cep Akademi. Business Ethics Approach In 2015, we came together with our business partners as PROGRESS REPORT part of our New Generation at Work program that was planned to ensure the continuity of our business partners and build brand engagement among the new generation. Besides, we increasingly continued the on-site trainings provided in stores in order to enhance the customer satisfaction level of our business partners. 52 Personal Retirement Insurance (BES), health In the reporting period, we have provided a total insurance, and life insurance for those not of 1,680 hours of training for our employees, of covered. We provide beneﬁts such as annual leave which 785 hours of Business Ethics, 785 hours of allowance, maternity beneﬁt, death beneﬁt, matrimony beneﬁt, education support, family-food Competition Law, and 110 hours of Sustainability G4-41, G4-56, G4-57,G4-58, aid, and child allowance only for employees training. G4-EC3, G4-LA2, Our irreplaceable value for the sustainability of our included in the Collective Labor Agreement. We G4-LA8, G4-LA15, business is our employees. For this reason, we consider We completely satisfy the requirements of laws, also provide food and transportation services for G4-LA16, G4-HR2, providing a happy, prosperous and productive regulations, labor legislation and initiatives of which all our employees. G4-HR4, G4-HR5, environment for our employees to work in to be among we are member. We expect the full compliance we G4-HR6, G4-DMA our primar y responsibilities. Accordingly, we Collective Labor Contract Practice The ensure in the issue of preventing child labor and continuously strive to constitute the communication 19th Period Collective Labor Agreement forced/compulsory labor from our stakeholders in our BRISA 2015 mechanisms that our employees can actively use, to between Turkish Union of Petrol, value chain, such as suppliers, business partners, and SUSTAINABILITY evaluate their feedbacks and to identify points of REPORT Chemistry and Tyre Industry Workers and subcontractors. In the reporting period, there was no development. As Brisa, we will continue to act with the the Company, covering the 24-month complaint conveyed to us in the related issues. awareness that our employees are one of the most signiﬁcant drivers of the success we achieve and to period between 01.01.2016 and 12.31.2017, > WORK Our Ethics Understanding LIFE maintain our environment of mutual love, respect and was started in the last quarter of the year trust. 2015 and is planned to end by the first Honesty: We conduct our relations with our OCCUPATIONAL quarter of the year 2016. employees and all our stakeholders on the basis HEALTH AND Business Relations and of transparency and honesty. SAFETY APPROACH BRİSA-MEC Union Rights Business Ethics Approach (Manufacturing Confidentiality: We care for the confidentiality of Education Center) Attaching particular importance to the basic rights Our business ethics rules are a signiﬁcant advisor in the private information of our customers, Activities of our employees and providing them with working our decisions and activities. We conduct our operations employees and other relevant individuals and Dealer Occupational opportunities where they will be proud and happy respecting human rights and workforce principles in institutions we work with. Safety Audit Works to work are among our prioritized issues as Brisa. accordance with the guidance of SA-ETIK “Business DEVELOPMENT In accordance with this understanding, we respect Ethics Rules”. In line with our principle of “Providing Conflict of Interest: We make use of our Sabancı JOURNEY our employees’ basic rights emanating from Corporate Equal Opportunities for People under Equal Conditions”, identity, not for our personal benefit, but to exalt constitutional and international agreements, and Development Journey we provide equal opportunities for our employees in the corporate spirit. we make a maximum effort to completely fulﬁll Employees’ the responsibilities we bear. all processes throughout their working life. We do not Leadership and tolerate any form of discrimination; we take careful Our Responsibilities: Our responsibility is not only Development Journey In accordance with the importance we attach to precautions in our processes. to the benefit of our business and partners but >EMPLOYEE RIGHTS >Business Relations our employees’ freedom of association and labor also to the whole society and humanity. and Union Rights peace, we maintain a transparent and continuous We inform our employees regarding our Business Ethics >Business Ethics communication with the Turkish Union of Petrol, Rules by publishing them on the internal communication Approach Chemistry and Tyre Industry Workers (Lastik-İş), portal, distributing printed booklets to all employees PROGRESS REPORT of which all our blue collar employees are and realizing information trainings. Every year, we members. update the information of our employees regarding business ethic rules through the e-learning program In addition to the wages of employees included in the Collective Labor Agreement and those and we renew their commitment to business ethics excluded, we provide them with beneﬁts such as a rules with the “Business Ethics Compliance premium worth their 4 month gross wage, Declaration” they ﬁll out. 53 WHAT DID WE AIM 2015 PERFORMANCE OUR 2016 FOR IN THE YEAR STATUS DISCLOSURE TARGETS 2015? We organized career days in BRISA 2015 We aim to form activity plans devoted to Aksaray University and in ITU To continue “Employer Branding” SUSTAINABILITY university students in the context of (with Sabancı Holding) activities “Employer Branding”, REPORT We designed human resources To design the ﬁrst years of new > WORK To continue working within the planning and implementation employees under the umbrella LIFE scope of our plans concerning processes of our new investment of Warm-Up to offer a holistic our new investment, and create employment in experience. OCCUPATIONAL accordance with recruitment plan. HEALTH AND With Industry Group, we gave SAFETY APPROACH To support the support to Entrepreneurship To support Industry Group's BRİSA-MEC Entrepreneurship Day practice, Day held in June 2015. career day events (Manufacturing Education Center) Activities We determined climate results To inform our employees about Dealer Occupational To organize joint information meetings with our management team on performance management, Safety Audit Works with all the management and 6 different March 2015. wage management, training and DEVELOPMENT information séances for our mid-level development and organizational JOURNEY managers about climate & culture and success plans by organizing 9 Corporate engagement results, sessions of HR Communication Development Journey Meetings. Employees’ Leadership and To organize What happened Development Journey To perform short midterm assessments to when you were away We actualized employee engagement EMPLOYEE RIGHTS be able to track Employee Engagement orientation program in order to mid-term evaluation survey in Business Relations improvement, ease the adaptation of female September 2015. and Union Rights employees after maternity Business Ethics leave. Approach >PROGRESS REPORT The integration of the process of forming a We integrated development plan Development Plan with the process of preparation process at year end training and performance in order to evaluation of performance internalize it, processes step Completed In Progress Incomplete 54 WHAT DID WE AIM 2015 PERFORMANCE OUR 2016 FOR IN THE YEAR STATUS DISCLOSURE TARGETS 2015? BRISA 2015 To put the Time Management Module, Nakisa We made recruitment module SUSTAINABILITY and Mobile application processes into and reminder system on live practice, REPORT > WORK LIFE OCCUPATIONAL We used logo and visuals of our HEALTH AND To provide information for the extensive training and development brands SAFETY APPROACH usage and explanation of the logo and that reviewed through Employer Training plans will be followed BRİSA-MEC visuals we have designed for our Training & Branding processes in various on Brinsan module. (Manufacturing Development programs, trainings. Education Center) Activities Dealer Occupational Safety Audit Works DEVELOPMENT JOURNEY To continue Sustainability Corporate We reviewed and renewed the To maintain and enrich our Sustainability Journey Program by extending Development Journey location and content of our Journey program with new participants, it to leader participants Employees’ Sustainability Journey Leadership and Development Journey EMPLOYEE RIGHTS Business Relations and Union Rights Business Ethics Approach >PROGRESS REPORT To continue our practices concerning To continue our practices 785 hours of Competition Law related to Competition Law Competition Law training. training provided Trainings Completed In Progress Incomplete G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO2, G4-DMA BRISA 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT We work to conceive values to be shared in all our activities with our “social responsibility conscious > SOCIETY management” understanding and we place the expectations of our stakeholders at the center of our business manner while achieving this. We identify our social responsibility projects, which we RELATIONS actualize in the light of our sustainability vision, in accordance with the principles of establishing CONTRIBUTION TO good relations with the local community and contributing to social, cultural and economic TRAFFIC SAFETY development. 63 women employees who Lassa “Yola Sağlam Çık” benefited from the Safe Bridgestone Drive Techniques “#Emniyetimiziçin2dk” In 2015, we provided nutrition Training received their (#2mn4oursafety) and healthy living counseling to Ministry of National Safe Drive Training 5,501 long distance Education approved In 2015 we became the ‘Global for Women Drivers drivers in 44 points, as certificates. Official Tyre Partner’ of FC -“Tarım Sağlamsa Gelecek Sağlam” part of Lassa Yola Sağlam Çık We continued to Barcelona for 4 project. (Strong Agriculture support public seasons for a Strong Future) enterprises and with Lassa NGO’s. CONTRIBUTION TO SECTORAL PRACTICES Bridgestone In 2015, “#Emniyetimiziçin2dk” Brisa Museum 1,213 people Solar Impulse (#2mn4oursafety) project, we visited our New Generation at measured the tread museum. Work at Brisa depth and air Brisa Members pressure of around Achieved 184 Educational Support Association 30,000 vehicles and medals and great Our Snowball adjusted them successes in the 13 national Volunteers and 33 international Vocational High competitions Schools Project Brisaspor We continue our support for sports Tarım Sağlamsa Gelecek and athletes with our Sağlam” (Strong We have completed the content for Lassa brand Agriculture for a Strong the age group 10-15 for the “New PROGRESS REPORT Future) Project. We traveled Generation at Work” to 155 villages in 20 provinces, and program, gave efficient agriculture trining to 9,500 farmers 56 We take into consideration direct and indirect impacts awareness of safe driving. We advised vehicle owners G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO2, G4-DMA on society in our projects. We provide local employment whose tyre tread depth was below the safe limit to opportunities and act together with local suppliers in renew their tyres as soon as possible and we line with our understanding of creating positive value in appropriately pumped air into tyres with low air BRISA 2015 our operational geography. In addition to many projects pressure. By performing the tyre tread depth, air SUSTAINABILITY we actualize with our own resources, we also provide NESLİHAN ALTINTAŞ pressure measurement and balancing of 30,000 vehicles REPORT support for projects realized by H. Ömer Sabancı Product Manager, Marketing (Commercial) in 2015, we have reached out to 60,000 people in total Foundation. since 2013. > SOCIETY With Lassa brand, we pursue “Yola Sağlam Çık” project in order to encourage long distance drivers for a healthier RELATIONS In accordance with the understanding that we take as BRIDGESTONE 2015 IDO PIERS life. In 5 years, we met with 17,282 long distance drivers basis, we appropriate the issue of driving safety in at 206 points in 151 cities throughout Turkey and and >CONTRIBUTION TO trafﬁc, which directly concerns our sector, as our provided trafﬁc safety and healthy life consultancy. While TRAFFIC SAFETY primary responsibility. Besides this area that we take in the ﬁrst two years of the project we focused on eye >Lassa “Yola Sağlam as basis, we also actualize projects in the areas of health for trafﬁc safety, since 2013, we have emphasized Çık” sectoral development, education and sports. the signiﬁcance of healthy life and exercise with the help >Bridgestone “#Emniyetimiziçin2dk” of dieticians and sports experts. (#2mn4oursafety) Click here to watch >Safe Drive Training In 2015, with the journey we started in April 20 in Edirne, for Women Drivers we reached out to 5,501 people at 44 points in 32 cities. -“Tarım Sağlamsa Body mass index and blood pressure measurements Gelecek Sağlam” were done for the participants, 91% of whom has not gone (Strong Agriculture under the control of a dietician before. In light of these for a Strong Future) data, drivers were provided with personal diet programs with Lassa from our dietician and information on practical exercises CONTRIBUTION TO For us, being a responsible producer represents taking that would reduce the negative effects of inactive working SECTORAL our value chain into account in all processes starting from the sports consultant. PRACTICES with purchasing processes and continuing in Brisa Museum production, sales and aftersales processes and acting We plan to pursue the project in the upcoming years and Solar Impulse New Generation at in this direction. For this reason, we attach special to raise the awareness of healthy life among long Safe Drive Training for importance to the issues of trafﬁc and tyre safety, we distance drivers. Work at Brisa regard constituting a safe and sustainable trafﬁc Women Drivers Brisa Members Educational Support environment as one of our most important Bridgestone responsibilities. As a result of this understanding, we We aim for women drivers to keep their vehicle Association Our Snowball are among pioneering institutions of the industry that “#Emniyetimiziçin2dk” safe in case of danger and to adjust ideally to road and became signatories of the “Responsibility in Trafﬁc Volunteers Vocational High Movement Declaration”. We support our responsible (#2mn4oursafety) trafﬁc conditions with the Safe Drive Techniques Training that we realized in cooperation with Intercity. In 2015, Schools Project attitude towards our industry through projects we implement. 65 women employees, who beneﬁted from the Safe Drive Brisaspor Tyre tread depth and tyre pressure are issues of Techniques Training realized in two different sessions, Lassa “Yola Sağlam Çık” particular signiﬁcance for driving safety. In the reporting We continue our support for sports received their Ministry of National Education approved period, we raised awareness among drivers about safe and athletes with our certiﬁcate. Once all our women employees complete long-distance driving and measured tyre tread depths Lassa brand We aim to enhance awareness about safe and secure the trainings, which we plan to continue in 2016, we aim PROGRESS REPORT driving with our informative project that we carry out and pressures at Sirkeci, Yenikapi, Pendik and Yalova to form our participant portfolio from the employees of with the slogan “Yola Sağlam Çık”. IDO piers as par t of our #emniyetimiziçin2dk our business partners. (#2mn4oursafety) campaign aiming for enhancing 57 G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO2, G4-DMA BRISA 2015 SUSTAINABILITY CANAN SARITAŞ REPORT Product Manager, Marketing (Light Commercial) > SOCIETY We live in a cultural climate where it is hard for women to RELATIONS enter the working life and continue their careers. In this regard, I believe it is a great chance to work a company CONTRIBUTION TO that creates equality of opportunity at every point, such as TRAFFIC SAFETY Brisa. With the Safe Drive Training for Women Drivers Lassa “Yola Sağlam that was realized this year, I remembered once again that Çık” I have this chance. At the end of the training where we Bridgestone received important lessons about keeping the vehicle safe “#Emniyetimiziçin2dk” in case of danger and adapting to road conditions, we (#2mn4oursafety) received our Ministry of National Education approved Safe Drive Training certiﬁcates. for Women Drivers >“Tarım Sağlamsa Gelecek Sağlam” “Tarım Sağlamsa Gelecek (Strong Agriculture for a Strong Future) Sağlam” (Strong Agriculture for with Lassa a Strong Future) with Lassa CONTRIBUTION TO SECTORAL As part of the “Tarım Sağlamsa Gelecek PRACTICES Sağlam” project, which we started in 2012 to inform Brisa Museum farmers about sustainable farming practices and to Solar Impulse ensure that they travel safely in trafﬁc, we have reached New Generation at out to 9,500 farmers by visiting 155 villages in 20 Work at Brisa provinces during the reporting period. Brisa Members Educational Support We presented farmers with 1,600 formulas and solution Association suggestions regarding “Good Farming Practices” Our Snowball through the agency of our agricultural engineers. We Volunteers provided farmers with a total of 5,425 hours of Vocational High information and consultancy ser vice regarding Schools Project productivity practices in farming and agricultural Brisaspor economy in accordance with the variety of products We continue our growing in their region. support for sports and athletes with our As part of our project, since 2013 we mounted a total Lassa brand of 10,740 reﬂectors, of which 4,230 in the year 2015, in PROGRESS REPORT order to draw attention to accidents that occur because trailers are not distinguished in the dark and to increase the visibility of tractors on the road. 58 G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO2, G4-DMA BRISA 2015 SUSTAINABILITY MEHMET ÖZKAN REPORT Özkan Otomotiv San. Tic. Ltd. Şti., Afyon Supporting our sector and carrying it further are among > SOCIETY issues we give particular importance. We believe that I participated in the “New Generation at Work” program RELATIONS sharing knowledge, accumulation and experience are of in 2015 as a new generation business partner. Through great signiﬁcance to achieve this objective. For this the program, I had the opportunity to participate in CONTRIBUTION TO reason, we actively participate in national and seminars and classes that will strengthen our company. TRAFFIC SAFETY international initiatives formed by public institutions and In addition, it was ver y useful for our company in Lassa “Yola Sağlam nongovernmental organizations. becoming sustainable and acquiring a more solid Çık” structure. I think it will be beneﬁcial for this program to Bridgestone We bring together sector professionals through Brisa be implemented with all other business partners. I can’t “#Emniyetimiziçin2dk” (#2mn4oursafety) Sustainable Change Conferences and we constitute a thank Brisa enough for this program. Safe Drive Training productive platform for experience sharing. We share our experiences and accumulation with our stakeholders for Women Drivers -“Tarım Sağlamsa at these conferences with the contribution of our Brisa Museum Gelecek Sağlam” executives. (Strong Agriculture for a Strong Future) We contribute to our sector with our training supports with Lassa for the sustainable development of our sector. Our >CONTRIBUTION TO SECTORAL support for Afyon Kocatepe University Coach Driver PRACTICES Program, which was established to meet the need for >Brisa Museum competent coach drivers in the passenger transportation Solar Impulse segment, involving tyre-based information sharing and New Generation at educational materials has been going on for 3 years. Work at Brisa Brisa Members At our Museum, where we have the opportunity to Educational Support directly share our accumulation, knowledge and Association New Generation at Work at Brisa experiences with our stakeholders, we tell the story of Our Snowball We have completed the content for the age group how Brisa was transformed from an industrial company Volunteers 10-15 for the “New Generation at Work” program, into an innovation company alongside information Vocational High which we have developed devoted to the children regarding our industry and developments that shed Schools Project of our business partners on the basis of the critical light on the sector. In 2015, 1,213 people visited our Brisaspor role that a new generation who can take over the museum. We continue our support for sports business and knows the characteristics of the world and athletes with our plays in ensuring business continuity. As part of Lassa brand the program, we both introduced the future PROGRESS REPORT generations of our business partners to Brisa and we provided them with an opportunity to have new experiences. 59 G4-EC7, G4-EC8, G4-SO2, G4-DMA BRISA 2015 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT > SOCIETY RELATIONS CONTRIBUTION TO Solar Impulse TRAFFIC SAFETY Lassa “Yola Sağlam SOLAR IMPULSE Çık” Solar Impulse, which is the first plane projected to tour around the world Bridgestone using only solar energy and was actualized to draw attention to the use of “#Emniyetimiziçin2dk” renewable energy resources, took off from Abu Dhabi on March 7. (#2mn4oursafety) Safe Drive Training for Women Drivers Brisa, who joined this historic world tour as Turkey Official Partner, has been -“Tarım Sağlamsa working to add value to all its stakeholders through sustainable growth for Gelecek Sağlam” over 40 years and acts in accordance with the vision of ‘designing the future Click here to watch (Strong Agriculture of travel’. For Brisa, which places sustainability and innovation at the center for a Strong Future) of all its processes to achieve this objective, Solar Impulse was a new source SOLAR IMPULSE with Lassa of inspiration at this point. CONTRIBUTION TO SECTORAL PRACTICES Brisa conducts communication activities in order for the tour with Solar Brisa Museum Impulse, projected to take three and a half months, to be actively watched >Solar Impulse from Turkey. At the same time, it is planned to implement works to create New Generation at awareness regarding the future usage areas of renewable energy resources Work at Brisa Brisa Members in Turkey all along the tour. Click here to watch Educational Support Association Our Snowball Volunteers Vocational High Schools Project Brisaspor We continue our support for sports and athletes with our Lassa brand PROGRESS REPORT 60 G4-EC7,G4-EC8, G4-EC7, G4-EC8, Vocational High Schools Project G4-SO2, G4-SO2, G4-DMA G4-DMA We aim for students studying in laboratories established BRISA 2015 by Brisa at Vocational High Schools to complete their SUSTAINABILITY technical trainings by constantly practicing and to We support students, contribute particularly to the graduate from their schools ready to work in the tyre REPORT popularization of cycling with our sports club Brisaspor sector, with our Vocational High Schools Project that and provide support for various sports branches with we star ted in 2008. We tripled the number of > SOCIETY the awareness that education and sports are important laboratories established within the scope of the project RELATIONS aspects of social development. with the laboratories established in 2015. In addition, 3 students continuing their education at laboratories CONTRIBUTION TO TRAFFIC SAFETY Brisa Members had the opportunity to do their internships at Brisa Lassa “Yola Sağlam dealers while 10 students were elected for internship Çık” Educational Support at our dealers in the forthcoming period. Bridgestone “#Emniyetimiziçin2dk” Association Vocational Schools Cooperation (#2mn4oursafety) Safe Drive Training We provide support for students in need to continue for Women Drivers their education through Brisa Members Educational We conduct the Vocational Schools Cooperation aimed -“Tarım Sağlamsa Support Association, with the awareness of the at improving the knowledge level of Vocational School Gelecek Sağlam” signiﬁcance of education for social development. Our students receiving training in the tyre and plastic (Strong Agriculture department. At Köseköy Vocational School, where we for a Strong Future) association, which maintains its activities with the voluntary participation of Brisa employees, has provided realized the ﬁrst cooperation, the tyre and plastic with Lassa CONTRIBUTION TO scholarship support for over 300 students to this day. department curriculum was updated by Brisa Academy SECTORAL Our association supported 81 students during the in 2015 and department teachers were provided “Basic PRACTICES 2014-2015 school year as part of its works. Tyre Knowledge Training” by Brisa Academy trainers. Brisa Museum Also within the scope of the cooperation, students were Solar Impulse New Generation at Our Snowball Volunteers provided with a separate “Tyre Training” by Brisa Academy trainers prior to the exam period. Work at Brisa >Brisa Members We implement activities with regards to equality of Educational Support opportunity in education in accordance with our mission Brisaspor Association of “enhancing the social responsibility awareness of >Our Snowball Our Lassa team, under the roof of our sports club Brisa employees and stakeholders, and transferring Volunteers Brisaspor established in 1987, has achieved 184 medals >Vocational High their competence, knowledge, accumulation and skills and great successes in the 13 national and 33 Schools Project to the society sustainably with a we-feeling”. Our Brisa international competitions it participated in 2015, as in >Brisaspor Snowball Volunteers have been taking part in the We continue our the past years. Through these successes we contribute Volunteerism Training Program and Workshop with the support for sports both to the popularization of the cycling sport and to support of Private Sector Volunteers Association and and athletes with our the increase in the interest in bicycles as an Lassa brand supporting girl students receiving vocational education environmentalist vehicle of transportation. PROGRESS REPORT with the Vocational High School Coaches program, since 2010. 61 G4-EC7,G4-EC8, G4-SO2, G4-DMA We continue our support for sports and athletes BRISA 2015 SUSTAINABILITY with our Lassa brand REPORT We have been supporting sports for long years with our Lassa brand. We are among the sponsors of national > SOCIETY tennis player Ipek Soylu, who won the ﬁrst Grand Slam Cup of Turkey by becoming champion at the American RELATIONS Open Tennis Tournament, and of world skin diving record holder Şahika Ercümen. Our national athlete Arda Turan CONTRIBUTION TO TRAFFIC SAFETY became the brand ambassador of Lassa in 2015 for two Lassa “Yola Sağlam years. Çık” Bridgestone We support Pınar Karşıyaka Basketball Team, which “#Emniyetimiziçin2dk” won the TBL championship in the 2014-2015 season (#2mn4oursafety) and gained the right to represent our country in THY Safe Drive Training Euroleague. for Women Drivers -“Tarım Sağlamsa Gelecek Sağlam” We actualize works for the measurement and promotion (Strong Agriculture of success in Turkish football through our “Lassa for a Strong Future) Strongest Defense” and “Lassa Strongest 11” works with Lassa that we implemented in cooperation with Turkish Sport CONTRIBUTION TO Writers Association. SECTORAL PRACTICES We are the primary sponsor of V1 Challenge, one of the Brisa Museum Solar Impulse most popular motorsports championships of Turkey, New Generation at since 2011. Work at Brisa Brisa Members In 2015, we have also consolidated our support for Educational Support sports in the international arena by becoming the ‘Global Association Ofﬁcial Tyre Partner’ of FC Barcelona for 4 seasons Our Snowball with our Lassa brand, starting in 2015. Through the Volunteers Vocational High agreement, the ofﬁcial name of the club’s basketball, Schools Project handball, futsal and roller hockey teams became ‘FC Brisaspor Barcelona Lassa’. In this way, we are shaping the future >We continue our of our journeys together with a sports club whose name support for sports is identiﬁed with sustainable success in sports and and athletes with our which is mentioned as “more than a club” thanks to its Lassa brand great contribution to sports as well as the regional PROGRESS REPORT economy. 62 BRISA 2015 WHAT DID WE 2015 SUSTAINABILITY AIM FOR PERFORMANCE OUR 2016 STATUS REPORT DISCLOSURE TARGETS IN THE YEAR 2015? > SOCIETY RELATIONS We visited 44 points in 32 cities and measured the tension, blood CONTRIBUTION TO We aim to continue our “Yola Sağlam Çık” To continue our “Yola Sağlam Çık” sugar and body mass index of TRAFFIC SAFETY project, project, Lassa “Yola Sağlam 5,501 long road drivers Çık” Bridgestone We shared our industrial “#Emniyetimiziçin2dk” knowledge and experience with (#2mn4oursafety) variety of public institutions and To continue our support for To continue our support for public Safe Drive Training non-governmental institutions. public institutions and civil institutions and civil initiatives, for Women Drivers We carried on supporting civil initiatives, -“Tarım Sağlamsa initiative. Gelecek Sağlam” (Strong Agriculture To open Brisa Museum to the public, We had 1,213 visitors. for a Strong Future) with Lassa CONTRIBUTION TO To maintain our support for education through Brisa Members Educational To maintain our support for SECTORAL Brisa Members Educational Support Support Association supported 81 education through Brisa Members PRACTICES Association, students in 2014-2015 period. Educational Support Association, Brisa Museum Solar Impulse 13 ulusal ve 33 uluslararası To carry on supporting the sport New Generation at To continue our contribution to sports müsabakada 184 madalya with Brisaspor. Work at Brisa with Brisaspor, kazandık. Brisa Members We continue our support with Lassa Educational Support “Yola Sağlam Çık”, “Bridgestone Association To give priority to trafﬁc safety, To give priority to trafﬁc safety, “#Emniyetimiziçin2dk” projects and Our Snowball safe drive trainings provided to Volunteers female drivers. Vocational High Schools Project To establish more systematic Brisaspor We obtained external stakeholder To establish more systematic relations with relations with the society by We continue our reviews for our 2014 sustainability the society by developing stakeholder developing stakeholder support for sports report and determine areas communication and feedback methods. communication and feedback and athletes with our of improvement. methods. Lassa brand PROGRESS REPORT Completed In Progress Completed 63 G4-16 CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS 1. Business World and Sustainable Development Foundation 20. Rubber Liners’ Association 2. Tyre Industrialists Association (LASDER) 21. Kocaeli Volunteer Fireﬁghters’ Association 3. Economic Research Foundation 22. Kocaeli Chamber of Medicine 4. Corporate Volunteer Association 23. Chamber of Metallurgical Engineers 5. Foreign Economic Relations Board (DEIK) 24. Chamber of Mechanical Engineers 6. Association of Advertisers 25. KALDER 7. Istanbul Chamber of Industry 26. EFQM 8. Yased International Investors Association 27. Trafﬁc Safety Platform 9. AIESEC Kocaeli 28. Corporate Governance Association of Turkey (TKYD) 10. Uludağ Exporters’ Association 39. Risk and Insurance Management Society Inc.(RIMS) 11. Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Association (TUSIAD) 30. Tyre Industrialists and Importers Association (LASİD) 12. Turkey Researchers’ Association 31. Rubber Association 13. Corporate Risk Management Institute 14. Turkey Internal Auditing Institute 15. Turkish Association of Agricultural Machinery & Equipment Manufacturers 16. PERYÖN Turkey Personnel Management Association 17. European Tyre and Rubber Manufacturers Association (ETRMA) / European Tyre Industry Coordination Activity (ETICA) 18. Tyre Subcommittee (LAK) 19. The European Tyre and Rim Technical Organization (ETRTO) 64 G4-9,G4-10, G4-11 ECONOMIC AND ADMINISTRATIVE PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 G4-17, G4-EC1, G4-EN10, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, Income (TL) 1,368,845,521 1,451,919,360 1,522,032,545 1,723,135,014 1,850,704,094 G4-EN19, G4-EN21, Operating Costs (TL) 1,070,391,964 1,027,613,373 1,027,744,179 1,137,124,014 1,173,732,849 G4-EN22, G4-DMA Employee Wages and Other Provided Beneﬁts (TL) 165,496,251 188,512,109 201,899,957 236,497,535 292,383,705 Payments to Pecuniary Resource Providers (TL) 79,808,998 122,703,715 131,564,956 179,103,952 230,189,633 Payments to the State (TL) 20,478,732 23,470,772 24,311,200 24,449,790 16,583,865 Social Investments (TL) 478,090 330,441 1,269,906 453,874 277,000 Protected Economic Value (TL) 32,191,486 89,288,950 135,242,347 145,711,693 137,537,042 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Raw Material Group Supply Values (%) Energy Consumption (GJ/ton) (Index, Base:2008=100) Total 89 95** 91** 87** 88** Direct 115 159** 125** 117** 112** Indirect 86 89** 88** 85** 86** Energy Savings Realized with Efﬁciency Projects (GJ/ton) (Cumulative Index, Base:2008=100) (830 968 1086 1222 1313 Total Well Water Consumption (m 3) 567,362 530,738* 443,755* 438,486* 490,120* Municipal Water(m 3) 13,126 19,132* 17,132* 21,397* Recycled and Reused Water (m 3, %) Total Water Discharge by Destination (m 3) Toplam Su Desarjı (m³) TOPLAM N/A 824,692 680,566 Carbon dioxide Emission (Scope 1 & Scope 2) (ton CO 2-e/Production ton) (Index, Base: 2008=100) Total (Scope 1 & Scope 2) 93 96** 92** 89** 90** Direct (Scope 1) 177 185** 131** 117** 114** Indirect (Scope 2) 88 91** 90** 87** 88** Other Related Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 3) (ton CO 2 -e/Production ton) (Index, Base: 2011=100) Total (Scope 3) 100 103 99 72 75 Logistic Activities 100 100 97 68 70 Employee Transportation 117 135 124 109 126 Nox, Sox and Other Significant Air Emissions by Type and Weight (Ton CO2-e/Production Ton) (Index, Base: 2008=100) Total 90 112 94 87 86 CH4 (ton CO 2-e/production ton) 84 103 82 69 68 N2O (ton CO 2-e/production ton) 94 118 101 98 98 “The ﬁgures highlighted in blue indicate modiﬁed data with regards to Brisa 2014 Sustainability Report” * See: Independent Limited Assurance Report ** While related ratios are indexed with regards to 2008, real values belonging to years 2012, 2013 and 2014 are incorporated in limited assurance studies. Index information according to 2008 is excluded from limited assurance scope. 65 G4-9, G4-10, G4-11, ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 G4-EN23, G4-LA12, G4-DMA Total Waste Amount by Type (Ton) Total 6,841 6,934* 7,035* 7,278* 8,393 * Hazardous Wastes (Ton) 681 640* 761* 661* 672 * Nonhazardous Wastes (Ton) 6,160 6,293* 6,274* 6,618 * 7,721 * Total Waste Amount by Process Type (Ton) Total 6,841 6,934* 7,035* 7,278* 8,393 * Reuse 202 183 161 171 4 Recycle 3,137 3,240 3,442 3,806 4,901 Recover 2,759 2,676 2,626 2,932 3,182 Incineration 265 234 298 15 4 Storage 479 602 509 354 303 Environmental Protection and Investment Expenditures (US dollars) 880,195 1,098,097 1,198,410 847,566 869,000 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATOR 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Total Number of Employees 1,785 1,745 1,818 2,431 2,591 Employee Breakdown by Gender and Status (Numeral, %) Blue Collar Female 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* Blue Collar Male 1,337 (100) 1,305 (100) 1,361(100)* 1,893 (77,9)* 1,989 (76,8)* White Collar Female 62 (14,1) 67 (15,5) 79 (18)* 108 (4,4)* 126 (4,8)* White Collar Male 378 (85,9) 366 (84,4) 372 (82)* 430 (17,7)* 476 (18,4)* Employee Breakdown by Contract Type Permanent Female 62 67 79* 108* 126* Temporary Female 0 0 1* 0* 0* Permanent Male 1,715 1,671 1,733* 2,323* 2,465* Temporary Male 7 1 1* 0* 1* Employee Breakdown by Age Groups <30 (%) White Collar 27.1 23.9 18.6* 20.3* 24.3* Blue Collar 34.8 27.6 27.3* 30.3* 28.9* <30-50> (%) White Collar 65.2 68.8 76.1* 72.7* 68.4* Blue Collar 64.7 71.9 72.5* 69.4* 70.7* 50> (%) White Collar 7.6 7.4 5.3* 7* 7.3* Blue Collar 0.5 0.5 0.1* 0.3* 0.5* Employees Covered by Collective Bargaining Agreement (%) 75 75 75 78 77 66 G4-38, G4-EC6, SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 G4-LA1, G4-LA9, G4-LA Employee Trainings (person/hour) Blue Collar (person/hour) 18.51 24.85* 17.7* 31.51* 28.28* White Collar (person/hour) 58.08 53.11* 71.6* 70.69* 65.74* Female 75.88* 64.57* Male 38.85* 35.99* Incidence Rate (IR) 0.74 0.69* 0.71* 0.86* 0.82 * Severity Rate (SR) 15.13 14.79* 13.42* 12.27* 14.62* Absentee Rate (%) 5.36 5.68 5.09 5.34 5.61 Senior Management by Gender (%) Board of Directors Female (%) 9.1 11.1 9.1* 11.1* 9.1* Board of Directors Male (%) 90.9 89.9 90.9* 89.9* 90.9* Executive Committee Female (%) 0 0 0* 0* 0* Executive Committee Male (%) 100 100 100* 100* 100* Senior Management by Age Groups <30 (%) Board of Directors 0 0 0* 0* 0* Executive Committee 0 0 0* 0* 0* <30-50> (%) Board of Directors 44.4 44.4 44.4* 44.4* 45.5* Executive Committee 66.7 66.7 66.7* 66.7* 40.0* 50> (%) Board of Directors 55.6 55.6 55.6* 55.6* 54.5* Executive Committee 33.3 33.3 33.3* 33.3* 60.0* Senior Management by Nationality Turkish 64.3* 64.3* 66.710* Foreign 35.7* 35.7* 33.35* Board of Directors (Turkish) 63.6* 63.6* 72.7* Board of Directors (Foreign) 36.4* 36.4* 27.3* Executive Committee (Turkish) 50* 50* 40* Executive Committee (Foreign) 50* 50* 60* Hired Employees by Gender (Numeral, %) Blue Collar Female 0(0) 0(0) 0(0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* Blue Collar Male 78 (100) 42 (100) 96(100)* 586 (100)* 183 (100)* White Collar Female 11 (12.9) 10 (18.2) 18 (30)* 35 (28.9)* 31 (20.9)* White Collar Male 74 (87.1) 45 (81.8) 42(70)* 86 (71.1)* 117 (79.1)* 67 G4-EC5 SOCIAL PERFORMANCE INDICATORS 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Leaving Employees by Gender (Numeral, %) Blue Collar Female 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0)* 0 (0)* 0 (0)* Blue Collar Male 32 (100) 39 (100) 38(100)* 50 (100)* 87 (100)* White Collar Female 11 (17.7) 6 (9.8) 6(13)* 7 (14.9)* 13 (17.1)* White Collar Male 53 (82.3) 55 (90.2) 40(87)* 40 (85.1)* 63 (82.9)* Leaving Employees by Age Groups (Numeral, %) Blue Collar <30 77 (98.7) 39 (92.9) 91(94.8)* 283 (48.3)* 135 (73.8)* Blue Collar <30-50> 1 (1.3) 3 (7.1) 5(5.2)* 299(51.0)* 48 (26.2)* Blue Collar 50> 0 (0) 0 (0) 0 (0)* 7 (1.2)* 0 (0)* White Collar <30 58 (68.2) 29 (52.7) 37(61.7)* 49 (48.1)* 76 (51.4)* White Collar <30-50> 27 (31.8) 25 (45.5) 22(36.7)* 50 (49.0)* 69 (46.6)* White Collar 50> 0 (0) 1 (1.8) 1(1.7)* 3 (2.9)* 3 (2.0) * Leaving Employees by Age Groups (Numeral, %) Blue Collar <30 2 (6.3) 1 (2.6) 0(0)* 3 (6)* 27 (31.0)* Blue Collar <30-50> 29 (90.6) 33 (84.6) 35(92.1)* 45 (90)* 57 (65.5)* Blue Collar 50> 1 (3.1) 5 (12.8) 3(7.9)* 2 (4)* 3 (3.4)* White Collar <30 19 (29.7) 14 (23) 18(39.1)* 12(25.5)* 18 (23.7)* White Collar <30-50> 34 (53.1) 39 (63.9) 25(54.3)* 34(72.3)* 52 (68.4)* White Collar 50> 11 (17.2) 8 (13.1) 3(6.5)* 1(2.1)* 6 (7.9)* Entry Level Wage by Minimum Wage Blue Collar 3.91 3.8 3.79 3.72 3.55 White Collar 3.94 3.51 3.52 3.26 3.39 68 Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Tyre Man. and Key Definitions and Data Preparation Energy Consumption Rate (The energy consumption Tra. Inc. Energy Consumption, Carbon per production tone): Energy Consumption (GJ) / Energy Consumption Volume of Production (tone) Dioxide Emission, Water Consumption, “Energy” consists of electricity, steam, natural gas, Training Hours, Employee Breakdown, fuel oil, and LPG. For the purpose of this report, In the scope of assurance, direct and indirect energy Hired Employees, Leaving Employees, Top energy does not include alternative forms of fuel, consumption per production tonnage are provided. Management, Occupational Health and such as bio-waste, bio-mass, bio-diesel, or The data is indexed to due conﬁdentiality. Safety and Waste Amount per Type renewable sources of energy (such as wind or solar Indicators Reporting Guidance energy) which collectively represent an insigniﬁcant Carbon Dioxide Emission share of total energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. “Carbon dioxide emissions”, means the carbon This Reporting Guidance (“Guidance”) supports the preparation and reporting of energy consumption, emitted as a result of the energy consumption during “Energy consumption” means the energy used during the reporting year (1 January to 31 December) and carbon dioxide emission, water consumption, training the reporting year (1 January to 31 December), being refers to the impact of our all tyre production hours, occupational health and safety and waste the energy purchased during the period. Energy processes, uses of sources, chemicals and logistic amount per type of Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Tyre consumption data includes energy used in all operations located in İzmit. The term of “facility” Man. and Tra. Inc. (the “Company”). It is the manufacturing processes and secondary facilities, includes the production, administration, social responsibility of the Company management to ensure including electrical systems, heating, lighting, on-site service, warehousing and technology buildings. that appropriate procedures are in place to prepare transportation and air circulation (HVAC system). The the indicators mentioned above in line with, in all results of the transportation services provided by Where the Company has on-site generated energy, material respects, the Guidance. third parties including the supplying process are the related energy consumption is deﬁned as direct Scope of Reporting excluded. energy consumption. The scope of our report includes the results of “Direct energy Consumption”, refers to primary “Direct Greenhouse Gas Emission”, refers the operations in Turkey and excludes the performance energy sources such as natural gas, LPG, fuel, etc. emission generated by the source that is owned or related to non-tyre production. Non-tyre products which are consumed for own operations. kept down by company. (Scope-1) constitute 1% of the total revenue. The data until FY 2014 (until the ﬁscal year ended 31 December 2014) is “Indirect Energy Consumption”, refers to the “Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emission”, refers the reported (including the information as of 31 December electricity and steam that is produced outside the emission generated by company operations, but the 2014). company and consumed by company. source of emission is owned or kept down by different organization. General Reporting Principles “Volume of production (tone)”, refers to annual production volume warehoused in terms of tone. The • Energy indirect”, refers the emission generated by In preparing this guidance document, the following information is provided by accounting unit. electric and steam that is bought and consumed in principles have been considered: operational line of company. (Scope-2) • Preparation of Information; relevant and reliable Energy consumption data are obtained from supplier preparation of information is main principle. invoices. The conversion factors presented in the • “Other indirect”, refers the emission generate by • Reporting of Information; the main principles have Table.1 are used in the calculation of energy logistic services that is outsourced by company. been deﬁned as to be comparability / consistency of consumption ratios. (Scope-3) information with other data including prior year and understandability / transparency providing clarity to users. 69 Greenhouse gas emissions are calculated depending Table 2. Energy and Greenhouse Gas Emissions Conversion Factors on the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Conversion Factors (kg/TJ) (IPCC -2006) reference methods and measurements. Fuel / Material Scope Ref CO 2 CH 4 N 20 In calculation of energy consumption, lower heating Natural Gas Direct 56,100.00 1.00 0.10 a values in Annex 2 in Regulation of Increasing Diesel Oil Direct 74,100.00 3.00 0.60 a Efﬁciency in Energy Resources and Use (Enerji Diesel Oil Other Indirect 74,100.00 3.90 3.90 b Kaynaklarının Ve Enerjinin Kullanımında Verimliliğin LPG Direct 63,100.00 1.00 0.10 a Artırılmasına Dair Yönetmelik (RG: 27.10.2011/ 28097 Oil Direct 69,300.00 25.00 8.00 b )EK 2 ) are used. Values are presented in Table 1. Electricity Energy Indirect 0.472 c Steam Energy Indirect 0.167 d Carbon dioxide emission is calculated depending on the conversion factors of energy resources. a 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas non-contact), cleaning, back-washing ﬁlters, Conversion factor is used to determine the amount of Inventories -Volume 2-Chapter 2 Stationary Combustion irrigation, washing trucks, toilets and sinks and ﬁre carbon dioxide emission for one unit of energy. Table 2.3 control. Municipality water is used in catering service. Different types of energy sources have different b 2006 IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas conversion factors reﬂecting their carbon dioxide Inventories -Volume 2-Chapter 3 Mobile Combustion Water consumption data is obtained from supplier intensity. In future periods, conversion factors may be Table 3.2.2 invoices. updated to reﬂect changes to and/or improvements in c IEA Statistics 2013 Edition Turkey ( Tier 2 Country published data. The conversion factors are presented Speciﬁc Emission Factor) CO2 emissions per kWh from In the scope of assurance, well water consumption m3 in Table 2. electricity generation * page: 110 is provided. d Supplier's declaration TABLE 1. LOWER HEATING VALUES OF ENERGY SOURCES Fuel / Material Lower Heating Value Unit Carbon Dioxiede Emission Rate (CO2 emission ton per Natural Gas 8,250 kCal/m 3 production tonnage): Carbon Dioxide Emission (ton Diesel Oil 10,200,000 kCal/ton CO2) / Production Volume (ton): LPG 27,000 kCal/m 3 In the scope of assurance, scope 1 and 2 emission per Oil 10,400,000 kCal/ton production tonnage is provided. The data is indexed to Electricity 860 kCal/kWh due conﬁdentiality. Steam 574,300 kCal/ton *4.186 and 1000 values are used for Kj/Kcal and Mj/Kj conversiton respectively. Water Consumption ‘Water’ consists of all kinds of water used at the facility including well and municipality water. Well water consumption values are presented during the reporting year (the period between 1 January and 31 December). Well water consumption data includes water used for production, cooling (contact and 70 Training Hours Employee Breakdown Hired Employees “Monthly Training Hours” represents monthly total Employee breakdown represents the demographics Gender, age group and status breakdown of education hours given by the company or by an of employees by gender, status, contract type and age employees are provided. education company to white and blue collar group. “Number of Hired Employees by Gender” counts the employees. (Personal development, professional number of white and blue collar employees by gender growth, occupational safety, environment, on the job Contract type is classiﬁed as permanent and hired between January 1st and December 31st. training, outdoor, orientation, etc.) It represents total temporary. Employee ratio to total employee number monthly hours of training provided during the by gender and contract type is provided with “Total number of employees hired” counts the total reporting year (the period between 1 January and 31 “Employee Breakdown by Contract Type”. number of employees hired between January 1st and December). It is calculated in each month. December 31st. Contract status is classiﬁed as blue and white collar. “Monthly Employee Number” represents total Employee breakdown number by gender and status is Hired Employees by Gender(number, %): Number of monthly number of white and blue collar employees in provided with “Number of Employee by Gender and Hired Employees by Gender/ Total number of the Company. Personal information of each employee Status”. employees hired who starts to work in the Company is registered to the SAP system that is created for human resources Employee Breakdown by Gender and Status (number, “Number of Hired Employees by Age Groups” counts number of white and blue collar employees by age hired applications, by Labor Relations Unit. The program %): Number of between January 1st and December 31st. Age group is generates data such as employee breakdown data by Employee by Gender and Status / Total Employee classiﬁed into three groups which are less than 30 years, status (blue/white collar). The monthly number of Number between 30 and 50 years and older than 50 years. employees is determined based on the information as Hired Employees by Age Groups(number, %): Number of of month-end. Employee number by status and age is provided with Hired Employees by Age Groups / Total number of employees hired “Number of Employee Breakdown by Age Groups”. Name of the training, details of participant and total Age group is classiﬁed into three groups which are Leaving Employees hours of the training offered to white and blue collar less than 30 years, between 30 and 50 years and older Gender, age group and status breakdown of employees are employees are registered to participatory forms. The than 50 years. provided. information on these forms is registered to the SAP system by the related Human Resources Department. Employee Breakdown by Age Groups: Number of “Number of Leaving Employees by Gender” counts the number of white and blue collar employees by gender leaved One-day training is considered to be 8 hours. Employees by Age Groups / Total Employee Number between January 1st and December 31st. Training Hours per Person (Hour/Man): Sum of All information related with contract is entered to SAP Leaving Employees by Gender(number, %): Number of Leaving Employees by Gender/ Total number of employees Monthly Training Hours per Employee system by Labor Relations Unit. Data is monitored in leaved SAP system. Employee by contract type breakdown is Monthly Training Hours per Person (Hour/Man): received from SAP system. “Number of leaving Employees by Age Groups” counts number of white and blue collar employees by age leaved Monthly Training Hours/ Monthly Employee Number between January 1st and December 31st. Age group is “Total Employee Number” means total number of classifﬁed into three groups which are less than 30 years, between 30 and 50 years and older than 50 years. In the scope of assurance, total training hours per white and blue collar employees. New entrants’ person, blue and white collar, man and woman information is entered to SAP system by Labor Leaving Employees by Age Groups(number, %): Number of breakdowns are provided. Relations Unit. Employee status breakdown (white Leaving Employees by Age Groups / Total number of employees leaved collar/blue collar) is received from software. Employee year-end value is calculated. “Total number of employees leaved” counts the total 71 number of employees hired between January 1st and employee comparing with the incapacity report of the December 31st. employee given by health institution. Upper Management Incident Rate-IR: Lost Day Cases*200.000/Monthly Working Hours Gender, age group, Board of Directors and Executive Committee breakdowns are provided. Severity Rate-SR: Lost Days*200.000 /Monthly Working Hours Gender by upper management means the ratio of male and In the scope of assurance, incident and severity rates are female members of Board of Directors and Executive provided. Commiteee to total members. Waste Amount Per Type Female Board of Directors: Number of Female Board of Directors Member / Total Board of Directors Member “Hazardous waste (tone)”, refers the amount of waste which is classiﬁed and recovered/disposed outside the company Male Board of Directors: Number of Male Board of Directors depending on the General Principle of Waste Management Member / Total Board of Directors Member (Atık Yönetimi Genel Esaslarına İlişkin Yönetmelik-05.07.2008 / 26927). Hazardous waste amount is Female Executive Committee: Number of Female Executive the summation of the amount reported in National Waste Committee Member / Total Executive Committee Member Transportation Form (Ulusal Atık Taşıma Formları) which is composed by licenced companies for waste transportation. Male Executive Committee: Number of Male Executive Committee Member / Total Executive Committee Member “Non-hazardous waste”, is the amount of waste outside the hazardous waste and recycled/recovered/disposed outside “Upper Management by Age Groups” is the ration of female the company except waste water. Non-hazardous waste and male members in Board of Directors and Executive amount is the summation of tonnage in dispatch note which Committee. Age groups are classiﬁed into three groups is composed while sending non-hazardous waste to which are less than 30 years, between 30 and 50 years and licensed companies. older than 50 years. In the scope of assurance, hazardous and non-hazardous waste tonnages are provided. Occupational Health and Safety Indicators Restatements “Monthly Working Hour”, represents total number of hours worked within the boundaries of workplace by white and The measuring and reporting of assured environmental data blue collar employees during the corresponding month. inevitably involves a degree of estimation. In exceptional circumstances, restatements for prior year reported data Working hours of blue collar employees are calculated via may be required. Restatements are considered where the Personnel Attendance Control System (PDKS) software data differs by more than 5% at the Company level. which keeps data of time of entrance and departure of employees. Working hours of white collar employees are calculated via following formula; White collar employees working hours (monthly) = Number of white collar employees * Total number of working days (monthly) * 7,5 hours “Lost Day Cases”, represent total number of working days in which the Company’s employees are affected physically and incapable of working due to accidents or death. Number of “Lost Days” represents the total number of working days lost due to accidents. It is calculated by determining the period of incapable of working days of an 72 G4-32 GRI G4 Content IndexIn accordance option Comprehensive’’ GENERAL STANDART DISCLOSURES GENERAL STANDART DISCLOSURES GENERAL PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL GENERAL PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL STANDARD ASSURANCE STANDARD ASSURANCE DISCLOSURES DISCLOSURES Strategy and Analysis Report Proﬁle G4-1 CEO Message pp.4-5 No G4-28 About the Report p.2 No G4-2 Risk Management p.13 No G4-29 About the Report p.2 No Organizational Proﬁle G4-30 About the Report p.2 No G4-3 About Brisa p.8 No G4-31 About the Report p.2 No G4-4 About Brisa p.8 No G4-32 GRI G4 Content Index Table p.72 No G4-5 Contact (Back Cover) No G4-33 Independent Limited Assurance Report p.78 No G4-6 About Brisa p.8 No Governance G4-7 2014 Annual Report p.14 No G4-34 Our Corporate Governance p.13 No G4-8 About Brisa p.8 No G4-35 Our Governance Structure p.13 No G4-9 Economic and Administrative Performance No G4-36 Our Corporate Governance p.13 No Indicators p. 64; Social Performance G4-37 Our Stakeholders p.17; External Comittee No Indicators p.64 Review p.18 G4-10 Social Performance Indicators p.64 Yes, p.78 G4-38 Our Corporate Governance p.13; Social No G4-11 Social Performance Indicators p.64 No Performance Indicators p.66 G4-12 Responsible Supply Chain Practices pp.25-27 No G4-39 Our Corporate Governance p.13 No G4-13 Corporate Website No G4-40 2015 Annual Report p.79 No http://www.brisa.com.tr/investor-relations/ﬁ G4-41 Business Ethics Approach p.52; 2014 Annual No nancial-information/material-disclosure-1 Report p.69 G4-14 Risk Management p.13 No G4-42 Our Corporate Governance p.13 No G4-15 Customer Health and Safety During Product No G4-43 Risk Management p.13; Employees’ Leadership No Lifecycle p.22; Environmental Management and Development Journey p.50 p.34; Occupational Health and Safety p.45 G4-44 Our Corporate Governance p.13; 2015 Annual No G4-16 Corporate Memberships p.63 No Report pp.82-85 Identiﬁed Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-45 Risk Management p.13 No G4-17 About Brisa p.8; Economic and Administrative No G4-46 Risk Management p.13; 2015 Annual Report No Performance Indicators p. 64 pp.85-87 G4-18 Sustainability Management p.15; Our Priority No G4-47 Risk Management p.13; 2015 Annual Report No Issues p.19 pp.85-87 G4-19 Priority Issues p.19 No G4-48 Sustainability Managemet pp.15-16 No G4-20 Priority Issues p.19; Sustainability Priorities No G4-49 Sustainability Managemet pp.15-16 No According to Stakeholder Groups p.19 G4-50 Sustainability Managemet pp.15-16; Our Priority No G4-21 Priority Issues p.19; Sustainability Priorities No Issues p.19 According to Stakeholder Groups p.19 G4-51 2015 Annual Report p.88 No G4-22 About the Report p.2 No G4-52 2015 Annual Report p.88 No G4-23 About the Report p.2 No G4-53 2015 Annual Report p.88 No Stakeholder Engagement G4-54 Conﬁdentiality constraints. A Level No information according to company G4-24 Our Stakeholders p.17 No conﬁdentiality rule G4-25 Our Stakeholders p.17 No G4-55 Conﬁdentiality constraints. A Level No information according to company G4-26 Our Stakeholders p.17 No conﬁdentiality rule G4-27 Our Stakeholders p.17 No Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Business Ethics Approach p.52 No G4-57 Business Ethics Approach p.52; Internal Auditing and No Internal Control p.14 G4-58 Business Ethics Approach p.52; Internal Auditing and No Internal Control p.14 73 G4-EC5, G4-EN9, G4-DMA GRI G4 Content IndexIn accordance option Comprehensive’’ SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL INDICATORS ASSURANCE INDICATORS ASSURANCE CATEGORY: ECONOMIC Material Aspect: Energy Material Aspect: Economic Performance G4-DMA Energy and Emissions Management p.35 No G4-DMA Risk Management p.13; Economic and No Only indexed Yes, p.78 G4-EN3 ﬁgures employed Administrative Performance Indicators due to p.64; 2015 Annual Report pp.127-128 conﬁdentiality G4-EC1 Economic and Administrative Performance No constraints. Indicators p.64 Only indexed G4-EC2 Risk Management p.13 No G4-EN4 No ﬁgures Business Relations and Union Rights p.52; No employed due to G4-EC3 2015 Annual Report pp.134-135 conﬁdentiality G4-EC4 2015 Annual Report pp.110,135 No constraints. G4-EN5 Energy and Emissions Management p.35 No Material Aspect: Market Presence G4-EN6 Energy and Emissions Management p.35 No G4-DMA Employee Rights p.52, GRI G4 Content No G4-EN7 Environment Friendly Products and Services pp.40-41 No Index p.73 G4-EC5 Social Performance Indicators p.67; GRI G4 No Material Aspect: Water Content Index p.73 (Minimum wage does G4-DMA Efﬁcient Use of Natural Resources and No not differ with regards to gender) Less Waste pp.36-37 G4-EC6 Social Performance Indicators p.66 No G4-EN8 Efﬁcient Use of Natural Resources and Yes, p.78 Material Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts Less Waste p.37 G4-DMA Relations with the Society pp.55-56 No G4-EN9 GRI G4 Content Index p.73 (Our facilities do No G4-EC7 Relations with the Society pp.55-61 No not reside in RAMSAR areas) G4-EC8 Relations with the Society pp.55-61 No G4-EN10 Efﬁcient Use of Natural Resources and No Less Waste p.37; Environmental Material Aspect: Procurement Practices Performance Indicators p.64 G4-DMA Responsible Supply Chain Practices p.25 No G4-EC9 Responsible Supply Chain Practices p.26 No Material Aspect: Biodiversity CATEGORY: ENVIRONMENTAL G4-DMA Respect for Biodiversity p.39 No Material Aspect: Materials G4-EN11 Respect for Biodiversity p.39 No G4-DMA GRI Content Index p.73 No No G4-EN12 Respect for Biodiversity p.39 G4-EN13 Respect for Biodiversity p.39 No G4-EN1 Conﬁdentiality No G4-EN14 Respect for Biodiversity p.39 No constraints. It creates competition Material Aspect: Emissions disadvantage. Not Applicable. Recycled No G4-DMA Energy and Emissions Management p.35 No G4-EN2 raw material is not used G4-EN15 Environmental Performance Indicators p.64 Yes, p.78 in production G4-EN16 Environmental Performance Indicators p.64 Yes, p.78 G4-EN17 Environmental Performance Indicators p.64 No G4-EN18 Energy and Emissions Management p.36 No G4-EN19 Environmental Performance Indicators p.64 No 74 G4-EN24, G4-EN29, G4-EN34, G4-LA3, GRI G4 Content IndexIn accordance option Comprehensive’’ G4-LA4, G4-LA6 SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL INDICATORS ASSURANCE INDICATORS ASSURANCE Material Aspect: Emissions Material Aspect: Overall G4-EN20 (Not applicable. G4-DMA Environmental Approach pp.33-34 No Do not inclueded No G4-EN31 Environmental Approach p.33-34 No in the report due Material Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment to its effect, which No G4-DMA Responsible Supply Chain Practices is lower than 5% pp.25-27 of total GHG No G4-EN32 Responsible Supply Chain Practices p.26 emissions) No G4-EN33 Environmentalist Logistics Operations p.27 G4-EN21 Environmental Performance Indicators p.64 No Material Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Material Aspect: Efﬂuents and Waste G4-DMA Our Corporate Governance p.13 No G4-DMA Efﬁcient Use of Natural Resources and Less No G4-EN34 GRI Indicators Table p.74 (No sanctions No Waste pp.36-37 were received for non-compliance with G4-EN22 Efﬁcient Use of Natural Resources and Less No environmental regulations during the Waste p.37; Environmental Performance reporting period) Indicators p.64 G4-EN23 Environmental Performance Indicators p.65 Yes, p.78 CATEGORY: SOCIAL G4-EN24 GRI G4 Content Index p.74 (No spills have takenLabor Practices and Decent Work No place during the reporting period) Material Aspect: Employment G4-EN25 (Not Applicable. No G4-DMA Employee Rights p.52 No No such process is G4-LA1 Social Performance Indicators p.66 No avaliable) G4-LA2 Employee Rights p.52 No G4-EN26 Efﬁcient Use of Natural Resources and Less No G4-LA3 GRI G4 Content Index p74 (In the reporting Yes, p.78 Waste pp.36-37 period, 208 male and 11 female employees Material Aspect: Products and Services used their parental leave and return to G4-DMA Environment Friendly Products and Services p.40No work rate is 100% for both male and G4-EN27 Environment Friendly Products and Services No female employees.) Material Aspect: Labor/Management Relations pp.40-41; Customer Health and Safety G4-DMA Employee Rights p.52 No Throughout the Product Lifecycle pp.22-23 G4-LA4 GRI G4 Content Index p.74 (In cases of No G4-EN28 Efﬁcient Use of Natural Resources and Less No contract end, we apply the judgements of Waste p.39 labour legislation and collective labour Material Aspect: Compliance agreement. ) G4-DMA Our Corporate Governance p.13 No G4-EN29 GRI G4 Content Index p.74 (No sanctions Material Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety No were received for non-compliance with G4-DMA Occupational Health and Safety Approach pp.45-47 No environmental regulations during the G4-LA5 Occupational Health and Safety Approach p.46 No reporting period) G4-LA6 Occupational Health and Safety Approach p.46; GRI Not applicable as there are no Material Aspect: Transport G4 Content Index p.74 blue-collar women Yes, p.78 employee, gender G4-DMA Responsible Supply Chain Practices p.25 No breakdown is not presented. G4-EN30 Environmentalist Logistics Operations p.27 No G4-LA7 Occupational Health and Safety Approach pp.45-46 No G4-LA8 Business Relations and Union Rights p.52 No 75 G4-LA13, G4-HR2, G4-HR3, G4-HR7, GRI G4 Content IndexIn accordance option Comprehensive’’ G4-HR8, G4-HR12, G4-DMA SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL INDICATORS ASSURANCE INDICATORS ASSURANCE Material Aspect: Training and Education Material Aspect: Child Labor G4-DMA Development Journey pp.47-51 No G4-DMA Employee Rights p.52 No G4-LA9 Social Performance Indicators p.66 Yes, p.78 G4-HR5 Our Business Ethics Approach p.52 No G4-LA10 Employees’ Leadership and Development No Material Aspect: Forced or Compulsary Labor Journey pp.50-51 No G4-DMA Employee Rights p.52 G4-LA11 Corporate Development Journey pp.48-49 No No G4-HR6 Our Business Ethics Approach p.52 Material Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Material Aspect: Security Practices Social Performance GRI G4 Content G4-DMA Indicators p.65 No G4-DMA Index p.75 No G4-LA12 Social Performance Indicators p.65 Yes, p.78 G4-HR7 GRI G4 Content Index p.75 (Private No security services are provided by third Material Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men party. All security personnel are trained G4-DMA GRI G4 Content No Index p.75 on human rights policy and legal G4-LA13 GRI G4 Content Index p.75 (There is no No obligations) gender discrimination in remuneration of Material Aspect: Indigenous Rights employees) GRI G4 Content G4-DMA Index p.75 No Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices G4-HR8 GRI G4 Content Index p.75 (No related incident No G4-DMA Responsible Supply Chain Practices pp.34-36 No has taken place during reporting period) G4-LA14 Supplier Audits pp.35-36 No Material Aspect: Assessment G4-LA15 Business Ethics Approach p.52 No Internal Audit and G4-DMA Internal Control p.14 No Material Aspect:Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms G4-HR9 Internal Audit and Internal Control p.14 No G4-DMA Business Ethics No Approach p.52 Material Aspect:Supplier Human Rights Assessment G4-LA16 Business Ethics Approach p.52 No G4-DMA Responsible Supply Chain Practices No CATEGORY: SOCIAL pp.25-27 Human Rights G4-HR10 Responsible Supply Chain Practices p.26-27 No Material Aspect: Investment G4-HR11 Responsible Supply Chain Practices p.26-27 No Not Material No Material Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms G4-DMA G4-HR1 Responsible Supply Chain Practices No G4-DMA Responsible Supply Chain Practices No pp.25-26 pp.25-27 G4-HR2 Business Ethics Approach p.52; GRI G4 No G4-HR12 GRI G4 Content Index p.75 (No related incident No Content Index p.75 (Our Business Ethics has taken place during reporting period.) Trainings involve human rights issues) CATEGORY: SOCIAL Material Aspect: Non-discrimination Society Material Aspect: Local Communities G4-DMA Our Business Ethics Approach p.52 No G4-HR3 GRI G4 Content Index p.75 (No related G4-DMA Relations with the Society pp.55-61; No incident has taken place during reporting Environmental Approach pp.33-34 No period) G4-SO1 Respect for Biodiversity p.39; No Material Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Environmental Approach pp.33-34 G4-DMA Employee Rights p.52 No G4-SO2 Relations with the Society pp.55-61 No G4-HR4 Business Relations and Union Rights p.52 No 76 G4-SO6, G4-SO7, G4-SO8, G4-SO10, GRI G4 Content IndexIn accordance option Comprehensive’’ G4-SO11, G4-PR2, G4-PR4, G4-PR6, SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES SPECIFIC STANDART DISCLOSURES G4-PR7, G4-PR8, G4-PR9, G4-DMA DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL DMA and PAGE OMISSIONS EXTERNAL INDICATORS ASSURANCE INDICATORS ASSURANCE Material Aspect: Anti-corruption CATEGORY: SOCIAL G4-DMA Sustainability Journey p.12; Internal Audit No Product Responsibility and Internal Control p.14 Material Aspect: Customer Health and Safety G4-SO3 Internal Audit and Internal Control p.14 No G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety Throughout the No G4-SO4 Sustainability Journey p.12; Internal Audit No Product Lifecycle p.22; Environment Friendly and Internal Control p.14 Products and Services pp.40-41 G4-SO5 Internal Audit and Internal Control p.14 No G4-PR1 Customer Health and Safety Throughout the No Product Lifecycle p.22; Environment Friendly Material Aspect: Public Policy Products and Services pp.40-41 G4-DMA GRI G4 Content No Index p.76 G4-PR2 GRI G4 Content Index p.76 (No related incident hasNo G4-SO6 GRI G4 Content Index p.76 (No ﬁnancial or No taken place during reporting period.) in-kind contribution is made for political Material Aspect: Product and Service Labeling parties, politicians and related G4-DMA Customer Health and Safety Throughout the No institutions.) Product Lifecycle p.22; Environment Friendly Material Aspect: Anti-competitive Behavior Products and Services pp.40-41 G4-DMA GRI G4 Content No G4-PR3 Customer Health and Safety Throughout the No Index p.76 G4-SO7 GRI G4 Content Index p.76 (No incident Product Lifecycle p.22; Environment Friendly No regarding non-compliance with Products and Services pp.40-41 Competition Law has taken place during G4-PR4 GRI Indicators Table p.76 (No related incident No the reporting period.) has taken place during reporting period.) G4-PR5 Customers pp.23-24 No Material Aspect: Compliance G4-DMA Risk Management pp.13-14 No Material Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-DMA GRI G4 Content No G4-SO8 GRI G4 Content Index p.76 (No signiﬁcant No Index p.76 ﬁnes were paid for non-compliance with G4-PR6 GRI Indicators Table p.76 (No such products are No laws and regulations during the reporting avaliable in our product portfolio.) period.) G4-PR7 GRI Indicators Table p.76 (No related incident No has taken place during reporting period.) Material Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Responsible Supply Material Aspect: Customer Privacy G4-DMA Chain Practices p.26 No G4-SO9 Responsible Supply Chain Practices G4-DMA Risk Management pp.13-14 No No pp.26-27 G4-PR8 GRI Indicators Table p.76 (No related incident No G4-SO10 GRI G4 Content Index p.76 (Negative has taken place during reporting period.) No impacts are measured and controlled. The Material Aspect: Compliance systems are improved with preventive G4-DMA Internal Audit and Internal Control p.14 No approaches (technological innovations, G4-PR9 GRI Indicators Table p.76 (No related incident No benchmarking studies, suggestion has taken place during reporting period.) systems etc.) Non-GRI ASPECTS Material Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society G4-DMA Relations with the Society pp.55-61 No G4-DMA GRI G4 Content No Index p.76 Material Aspect: Innovation and Corporate Entrepreneurship G4-SO11 GRI G4 Content Index p.76 (No related incident No G4-DMA Innovation and Corporate Entrepreneurship pp.29-30No has taken place during reporting period.) Material Aspect: Development Journey G4-DMA Development Journey pp.47-51 No Material Aspect: Digitalization G4-DMA Digitalization p.31 No 77 UN Global Compact Progress Statement Indicators Table Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and pp.25-27; 52 Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. pp.25-27; 52 Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; p.52 Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsary labour; p.52 Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and p.52 Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. p.52 Environment Principle 7: Businesses should supporta precautinary approach and environmental challenges; pp.33-43 Principle 8:undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and pp.33-43 Principle 9: encourage the developöment and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. pp.33-43 Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. pp.13,14,20 78 G4-33 Report Consultant: www.kiymetiharbiye.com Limited Assurance Study: Report Design: www.folkbca.com Legal Disclaimer Sustainability Report (Report) was prepared by Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. in line with the reporting principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative). All information and opinions expressed in this report, which are not of a complete nature, were provided by Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. The report is solely prepared for informative purposes and does not aim to constitute a basis fo r investment decisions. No information expressed in this report forms a proposal or part of a proposal regarding the sale of Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. shares, or an invitation to this kind of process. The publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş. does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information. Accordingly, no company belonging to Brisa Bridgestone Sabancı Lastik San. ve Tic. A.Ş., nor their Board Committee members, advisors or employees are responsible for any loss or damage in curred directly or indirectly by a person as a result of any information or communication provided within this report, or any information based on or not included in this report. G4-5 Head Office Alikahya, Fatih Mah. Sanayi Cad. No: 98, 41310 İzmit/Kocaeli Phone : (262) 316 40 00 Faks : (262) 316 40 40 General Management Office Sabancı Center Kule: 2, Kat: 8, 4.Levent, 34330 İstanbul Phone : (212) 385 84 50 Faks : (212) 385 84 55 Marketing and Sales Office Kısıklı Caddesi, Şehit Teğmen İsmail Moray Sokak No: 2/1 Altunizade, 34662 İstanbul Phone : (216) 544 35 00 Faks : (216) 544 35 35 Internet Address www.brisa.com.tr Coorparate Email Address brisa.info@brisa.com.tr
