COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: 09-16-15 To: 12-15-16 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER December 15, 2016 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that COPsync, Inc. reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ronald Woessner COPsync, Inc. CEO P.O. Box 802108, Dallas, Texas 75380 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights COPsync is located in a safe clean and sanitary office environment that abides by all United States laws and regulations. COPsync is continuously working with employees to obtain feedback to maintain and improve high level conditions in the work place to ensure high comfort level physically and mentally to improve productivity. COPsync gives employees the option to work from home to accommodate their family and lifestyles. COPsync software keeps the office environment safe and sends instant alert s and opens direct communications with dispatch and police in emergency situations decreasing response time and saving lives. COPsync is a major partner in the Trust 2 Protect campaign and #Stand2Protect movement and challenge. The mission is to help bridge the trust and communication gap between law enforcement and the communities they are sworn to serve and protect. We launched the campaign this year in partnership with the Jack Brewer Foundation, the Blue Alert Foundation, and many others. We are working with professional athletes, children, and police and utilizing sports as a catalyst for peace and social development. We are planning to put together a peace summit at the United Nations headquarters in New York and bring together community leaders, law enforcement, and the public to discuss the lost trust and help bring solutions and actions to the human rights violations happening between law enforcement and the public. We hope to launch the summit spring 2017. COPsync human resources department works with employees during reviews and feedback sessions to address and bring action to any concerns regarding workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats COPsync prides itself in providing and using COPsync Network, an advanced communication and information sharing system that protects citizens from violence and domestic terrorism. Community and officer security is increased with advance warnings of dangerous people, real-time notification of crimes in progress, and the COPsync911™ threat-alert system to safeguard schools and keep America's children safer and protect other high-risk targets such as courthouses, government buildings and energy infrastructure. COPsync's systems can save minutes when seconds count, save lives and protect citizens and communities. Labor COPsync abides with all United States labor laws and regulations and does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labor COPsync abides with all United States labor laws and regulations and complies with minimum wage standards P.O. Box 802108, Dallas, Texas 75380 COPsync abides with all United States labor and fair hiring laws and regulations and ensures that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria Environment COPsync works with its partners to avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of its facilities abiding with United States environmental law regarding air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, and more. COPsync Network is an advanced communication and information sharing system that protects citizens from violence and domestic terrorism. Community and officer security is increased with advance warnings of dangerous people, real-time notification of crimes in progress, and the COPsync911™ threat-alert system to safeguard schools and keep America's children safer and protect other high-risk targets such as courthouses, government buildings and energy infrastructure. COPsync's systems can save minutes when seconds count, save lives and protect citizens and communities. COPsync does not use any chemicals and other dangerous substances. Utilizing the COPsync network ensures human life is always protected. Anti-Corruption COPsync maintains the highest level working with various law enforcement and government agencies to follow all laws when doing business. COPsync addresses and mentions “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners, clients and customer. COPsync works to Ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment maintaining high ethical internal compliance with a system of multiple counsels that review and approve contracts, press releases, business deals, and more 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES More than 50% of COPsync employees consist of women and minorities. COPsync recycles 100% of all recyclable materials on a daily basis in its office environment including recycling paper, card board, plastic and glass containers, cans, and more. P.O. Box 802108, Dallas, Texas 75380
