CEO STATEMENT Haris Enterprises, has set its vision, to establish security bench marks in the local industry, our vision is deeper than the operational aspects, which we have improved through, constant training and a risk management approach, however remains incomplete if the basic aspect of safety, health and environmental factors are not brought in line with labor laws but also by raising the bar and bringing them in line with the UN global Impact initiative. In line with the same we manage better working hours, environmental and safety standards for our team members, better than market salary structures with a comprehensive and competitive compensation package. I do realize that there are venues that still need improvement. Especially awareness within our team members, however, I can proudly claim the substantial gains that we have made not just in line with the Global impact initiative, but in matching our vision for our growth and our team members. What we have achieved are standards par excellence with in Pakistan and we need to further improve the same we engage in depth in the following Culture and Governance. Our culture of excellence, coupled with excellent governance and operational standards have given us the edge. We need to further consolidate on Governance and operation to improve training aspect, encompassing a culture of selfimprovement. Trust. Where our focus remained more on developing the trust with our partners and client, we need to further cement trust building down to the last man. Diversity. Ensure gender diversity and diversity of thought and expression which shall result in better out comes for our client s and us as a team. Human Right .Our policies are to uphold and respect, right of our team members, suppliers, clients, customers, communities extending to a duty of care to each of them. ACTIONS, Relevant Policies & Measurement of Outcomes Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; At Haris Enterprises, every individual has a right to a dignified working environment, freedom of expression and we do not differentiate or discriminate on the basis of race, colour, religion, language, and sex, belief social or political affiliation. Each team member has a right to raise a concern to the next senior manager for who it is compulsory to report the to senior management. Complicity Is Generally Made Up Of Two Elements Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. An act or omission (failure to act) by a company, or individual representing accompany, that “helps” (facilitates, legitimizes, assists, encourages, etc.) another, in some way, to carry out a human rights abuse, and The knowledge by the company that its act or omission could provide such help Haris Enterprises, ensure that all human right are strictly adhered to, directly by the company, and all stakeholders, including suppliers and clients. We conduct a due diligence of all our clients prior to establishing a relationship with, or conducting a due diligence to ensure that the clients are well reputed and adhere to human right values and principles. Direct Complicity Principle 3: When a company provides goods or services that it knows will be used to carry out the abuse Haris Enterprises is security service provider, to protect our clients from unauthorized access and abuses. Our team goes through a rigorous training and conflict management training to handle such situation. Our Authority is restricted to detention in the worst and they’re after handing the individual to the law enforcing agencies. Beneficial Complicity Principle 4: When a company benefits from human rights abuses even if it did not positively assist or cause them. There is a very strict monitoring and evaluation process within the company to ensure that the team member work under safe, healthy working environment, well within the minimum working hours and higher wages than minimum wages. Our management information system, keep a working tag on each team member ensuring that no team member work more than the hours specified. In security industry, a lot of financial benefits can accumulated by a company by making team member work over time. Silent Complicity Principle 5: When the company is silent or inactive in the face of systematic or continuous human rights abuse. (This is the most controversial type of complicity and is least likely to result in legal liability) The Company adopts an open door policy, where all team members are encouraged to report any such issue to the management or the client. This works as a double check on the company. Labor Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; At Haris the company provides freedom of association to all employers and all workers to freely and voluntarily establish and join groups for the promotion and defense of their occupational interests. Both workers and employers have the right to set up, join and run their own organizations without interference from the State or any other entity. Employment in the company is voluntary with the right to terminate the same by the employee with the due notice. This allows every individual to work at his on free will and Choice. The company does not hire below the age of 18. To ensure that this does not happen, the entire hiring procedure is automated, where it is mandatory for each individual to have a national computerized identity card. The government NADRA department issues this card only to over 18 years. Our management information system also has a check on date of birth to ensure that no individual under the adult age is employed. Freedom from Discrimination Principle 7: Haris Enterprises ensures that their practices and procedures prevent discriminations based on sex, colour, language, race, and social or ethnic origin, economic status, and religion, political or other status. This includes recruitment, promotion, remuneration, working conditions, customer relations and the practices of contractors, suppliers and partners. It includes measures to deal with sexual or racial harassment, and to prohibit national, racial or religious hatred. Freedom From Slavery Principle 8: Haris ensures that their policies and practices prohibits the use of chattel slaves, forced or bonded labour, child labour or coerced prison labour. Health And Safety Principle 9: Haris Enterprises ensures that their policies and practices provide for safe and healthy working conditions and products. The company does not engage in or support the use of corporal punishment, mental or physical coercion, or verbal abuse at any level. Fair Working Environment Principle 10: Haris Enterprises has from its inception ensured just and favorable conditions of work, reasonable job security and fair and adequate remuneration and benefits. This includes provisions for an adequate standard of living for employees and their families. Monitoring Human Rights Principle 11: Haris effectively monitors all operations as to ensure all their operations comply with codes of conduct and international human rights standards. Reviewing all work practices and procedures and setting these against the benchmarking of international human rights standards undertake this mechanism. Use of Facilities and Equipment Principle 12: Haris ensures that their equipment and facilities are not misused in violation of human rights. Expectations Principle 13: Haris’s employees are expected to respect all human right principles, and if an employee sees any of these principles being disregarded it is the employee’s obligation to report such disregard to Senior Management. Environment Principle 14: Haris Enterprise (Pvt.) Limited is committed to leading the industry in minimizing the impact of its activities on the environment. The key points of its strategy to achieve this are:  Minimize waste by evaluating operations and ensuring they are as efficient as possible.  Minimize toxic emissions through the selection and use of its fleet and the source of its power requirement.  Actively promote recycling both internally and amongst its customers and suppliers.  Meet or exceed all the environmental legislation that relates to the Company. Actions taken by Haris Enterprise:  Reduced usage of paper by 10 percent, discouraging printing.  Implementation of management information system, which has reduced dependence on paper.  Implementation of a fuel efficacy management system , that not only has reduced fuel usage , but has also reduce carbon emission Anti-Corruption The Haris Enterprises has a strict anti-bribery and corruption policy in line with the ambit of integrity and honor. A bribe is defined as: giving someone a financial or other advantage to encourage that person to perform their functions or activities improperly or to reward that person for having already done so. If you bribe (or attempt to bribe) another person, intending either to obtain or retain business for the Haris Enterprises, or to obtain or retain an advantage in the conduct of the Haris Enterprise’s business this will be considered gross misconduct. Similarly accepting or allowing another person to accept a bribe will be considered gross misconduct. In these circumstances you will be subject to formal investigation under the Haris Enterprises’ disciplinary procedures, and disciplinary action up to and including dismissal may be applied.
