Sustainability Information 2015 As addendum to the Siemens Annual Report siemens.com Foreword Dear Readers, In 2015, sustainability was regarded as one of the most critical and globally ­relevant topics on the political and business agenda. In June, the heads of state of the seven largest industrial nations in the world committed to decarbonizing the global economy by the end of this century. Such a commitment is essential to limit global warming to 2°C and thus slow down climate change. In September, the United Nations adopted the goals for sustainable development as a general principle for the next 15 years. Now, more than ever, companies are called upon to fulfill their role as corporate citizens. And at Siemens, we accept this role without reservation or restriction. We are convinced that a company is only entitled to exist if it creates sustainable value for society over the long term. We apply the principles of sustainability at Siemens across the entire value chain – from our suppliers, through our own operations, to our customers – by designing sustainable products and solutions. In the last fiscal year, our Environmental Portfolio enabled our customers and partners throughout the world to significantly reduce their CO2 emissions by 487 million tons. This corresponds to around half the annual CO2 emissions of Germany. As a result, they have been able to enhance their energy efficiency while increasing their competitiveness. But we want to achieve more – and we can achieve more. We have therefore decided to reduce our own CO2 emissions more quickly: Siemens aims to be the world’s first major industrial company to achieve a net-zero carbon footprint by 2030. Our goal is to cut our carbon dioxide emissions – which currently total about 2.2 million metric tons a year – in half by as early as 2020. To achieve this goal, we will invest some € 100 million over the next three years in order to improve the energy efficiency of our production facilities and buildings. This investment is expected to generate annual savings of € 20 million. We will also install our own distributed and renewable-energy systems at a growing number of our facilities. For example, we already generate around 80 % of the total electricity consumed at our plant in Sacramento – which builds locomotives and light-rail vehicles for the U.S. market – using photovoltaic systems, and we 2 Foreword are in the process of building wind turbines at many of our production facilities. These investments are sustainable from two perspectives: the ecological and the economic. We support global initiatives to reinforce sustainability standards around the world and extend our know-how. We are fully committed to the targets and principles of the United Nations Global Compact and its CEO Water Mandate. We support the WEF C ­ limate CEO Statement and the “We Mean Business I­nitiative.” We believe ethics is a key characteristic of sustainability. Since its launch in 2009, the “Siemens Integrity Initiative” has implemented 55 anticorruption projects in over 20 countries, receiving so far more than US$ 70 million in support. This initiative will continue to support organizations and projects in the process of combating corruption. External rankings and ratings prove that we are on the right track. For instance, this year we were again recognized in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index as one of the most sustainable companies in our industry. We also obtained best possible results from the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), an index reflecting the climate-protection measures implemented by companies. And Siemens will continue to apply sustainable business practices in the future. We are very cognizant of our responsibilities as a corporate citizen. We make sure we contribute toward advancing society. This is our commitment to present and future generations. Sincerely yours, Joe Kaeser Dr. Roland Busch Foreword 3 Content Sustainability at Siemens Facts and Figures Annex P. 6 P. 10 P. 34 Materiality Reporting method GRI G4 – key aspects and boundaries P. 7 P. 11 P. 36 Sustainability outlook Employees United Nations Global Compact P. 7 P. 14 P. 38 Sustainability management and organization Occupational health and safety management United Nations Water Mandate P. 8 P. 16 P. 39 Sustainability collaborations Research and development Environmental Portfolio reporting principles P. 8 P. 18 P. 43 Sustainability performance Supply chain management Independent assurance report P. 20 P. 45 Distribution and customer relations Notes and forward-looking statements P. 21 P. 46 Siemens Environmental Portfolio Further information and information resources P. 21 Environmental protection P. 26 Compliance P. 31 Corporate citizenship Sustainability at Siemens Sustainability at Siemens For almost 170 years, we have had a clear commitment to The process closely integrated analyses of macroeconomic thinking and acting in the interest of future generations. We ­developments; the way we respond to the five megatrends believe acting responsibly is the only way to achieve a balance ­Demographic Change, Urbanization, Climate Change, Global­ between profitable long-term growth and the planet and people. ization and Digitalization; results from our dialogues with ­external and internal stakeholders; and assessments from Sustainability has been anchored in our strategy for many the Company ’s specialist functions. The results were then dis­ years and integrated into our Siemens Management model. cussed with our Sustainability Board and ultimately approved We are guided by sustainable business practices in our inter­ by our Managing Board and Supervisory Board. The following actions with external and internal stakeholders, and we “walk 12 principles were defined in this process: the talk” within our own operations. We aim to minimize risks for society, the environment and our company. Similarly, we PROFIT identify business opportunities to ensure we are sustainable for >> We contribute to our customers’ competitiveness with our the long term. We are convinced that sustainability, especially products, solutions and services. in the sense of energy and resource efficiency, is a business >> We partner with our customers to identify and develop opportunity, and one worth seizing. ­sustainability-related business opportunities. >> We operate an efficient and resilient supply chain through a supplier code of conduct, risk management and capacity building. >> We proactively engage with our stakeholders to manage project and reputational risks and identify business-relevant trends. >> We adhere to the highest compliance and anticorruption ­standards and promote integrity via the Siemens Integrity Initiative. PLANET >> We enable our customers to increase energy efficiency, save resources and reduce carbon emissions. >> We develop our products, solutions and services based on a life-cycle perspective and sound eco-design standards. >> We minimize the environmental impacts of our own oper­ ations by applying environmental management programs. With our expertise and passion, our innovative offerings, part­ PEOPLE nerships and local presence, we contribute to our customers’ >> We contribute to the sustainable development of societies competitiveness and to the sustainable development of societ­ with our portfolio, local operations and thought leadership. ies. Advancing sustainability is a key element for our aim to be >> We foster long-term relationships with local societies through the employer of choice. Corporate Citizenship projects jointly carried out with p ­ artners. >> We live a zero-harm culture and promote the health of our employees. Materiality >> We live a culture of leadership based on common values, an innovation mindset, a people orientation and diversity. In regular dialogue with external and internal stakeholders, we identify sustainability topics based on their importance for These principles guide us in the process of adhering to our Siemens and our stakeholders and prioritize them by mate­ global strategy and define the impact we have on our custom­ riality. The prioritization shows the action areas identified as ers, on our suppliers, in our own operations and in the societies the key levers for sustainable business success on which we we are operating in. Siemens divisions and regional entities will continue to focus in the future. We conducted a compre­ define their material action areas in adherence to the above hensive process to detail the priorities of “Sustainability and centrally defined 12 principles and in alignment with the One Citizenship” within our “One Siemens Management model.” Siemens Management model. 6 Sustainability at Siemens In the following sections we set out the key facts and figures Via the electrification, automation and digitalization value chain, on environmental and social topics that are most material to all our businesses contribute significantly and measurably to Siemens and significantly impact our stakeholders. These top­ the sustainable development of societies around the globe. With ics are directly derived from the 12 principles and guided by more than 348,000 employees in nearly all countries, our own the GRI G4 reporting guidelines. The “GRI G4 – key aspects operations and supplier network provide a valuable contribu­ and boundaries” overview in the Annex illustrates how we link tion to employment, the local economy and skills d ­ evelopment, our 12 principles with the key material aspects of GRI G4. All while ensuring stringent standards with regard to health, safety, material economic aspects are covered in the Siemens Annual compliance and the environment. We are committed to consult­ Report 2015. ing with societies and applying our thought leadership and ­domain expertise in our business activities and beyond. We drive voluntary external activities in projects on education, environ­ Sustainability outlook mental protection, compliance and social inclusion. Based on the above principles, we will step up our efforts in In fiscal 2015, we developed methodologies on how to assess two specific areas in fiscal 2016 and beyond: and measure our impact on the societies we are operating in as the outcome of two pilot projects in the Great Britain and South CO 2 NEUTRAL SIEMENS Africa. In fiscal 2016, we will roll out these methodologies to At Siemens, we believe that taking action against climate several of our key countries. In this way, we are equipping change is not just prudent – it’s profitable. That’s why we our local teams with the necessary expertise for making stra­ have launched our “CO2 neutral Siemens” program in Septem­ tegic choices on the four elements of the Business to Society ber 2015: Taking 2014 as a baseline, we plan to cut our global ­framework: portfolio, own operations, thought leadership and carbon footprint from our own operations in half by 2020 and voluntary activities. make our global operations carbon neutral by 2030. The reduc­ tion of CO2 will be safeguarded by a set of activities: Sustainability management and >> We will invest more than € 100 million in improving energy ­organization efficiency at our own sites over the next three years. >> We will boost our use of distributed energy systems at our The importance we attach to sustainability is evident from the own sites by combining wind turbines, small gas turbines, central position it holds within our Company’s organization, in solar panels, intelligent energy management systems and our programs and in the measures we execute. Efficient sus­ energy storage solutions. tainability management is a company-wide task that requires >> We will focus on optimizing our company fleet of about clear structures and thorough embedding of sustainability 45,000 vehicles producing roughly 300,000 metric tons of within our corporate culture. All our sustainability activities carbon emissions per year. are steered by the Chief Sustainability Officer (CSO), who is a >> We will buy clean power. To make up for the emissions that member of our Managing Board and who chairs the Siemens cannot be avoided in the near term, we will purchase elec­ Sustainability Board (SSB), which consists of representatives tricity from renewable sources like wind parks and “carbon from divisions, countries and corporate functions. The SSB is credits” from credible organizations working to reduce car­ the central steering committee for sustainability at Siemens. It bon around the world. meets regularly to direct our sustainability activities as part of our corporate strategy and adopts appropriate measures and BUSINESS TO SOCIETY initiatives. The Sustainability Director manages the SustainOur lasting contribution to society has not only been a moral ability Office, which is responsible for driving sustainability and legal obligation for us for almost 170 years, but lies at the within Siemens and for coordinating the sustainability activ­ center of our business activities with societies being our ulti­ ities and other company-wide programs and measures. He mate customers. ­directly reports to the Chief Sustainability Officer. Additionally, sustainability is anchored across the organization by our global For us, being a business to society means bringing our m ­ ission network of Sustainability Managers in the various divisions, “We make real what matters” to life in the societies we are countries and corporate units, ensuring that all measures and ­operating in and in demonstrating how Siemens’ portfolio, own initiatives are implemented. operations, thought leadership activities and voluntary contri­ butions translate into sustainable societal value. Sustainability at Siemens 7 Sustainability collaborations We actively engage with leading sustainability organizations such as the World Business Council for Sustainable Develop­ Our sustainability efforts are based on our Business Conduct ment (WBCSD) and the United Nations Global Compact. We are Guidelines, which provide the ethical and legal framework a member of the “Task Force on Anti-Bribery /Corruption” of the within which we conduct our business activities. They contain Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD. Our the basic principles and rules for our conduct internally and activities in the World Economic Forum (WEF) include the com­ ­externally. Specific issues, such as those relating to the environ­ pany ’s participation in the “Pact against Corruption” initiative ment, are covered in more detailed regulations and guidelines. and the Siemens General Council’s membership in the “Global The Business Conduct Guidelines are binding for all companies Agenda Council on Transparency and Anti-Corruption”. controlled by Siemens. We require all our suppliers to comply with the principles of the code of conduct for Siemens suppli­ We are committed to international standards and guidelines for ers, which includes respect for the basic rights of employees; sustainability. We signed the UN Global Compact and commit­ strong safety, and health and environmental protection stan­ ted to its 10 principles as well as signed the Global Compact’s dards and zero tolerance on corruption and bribery. CEO Water Mandate. We signed the “Charta der Vielfalt,” too, and are an engaged member of One Young World. We report on Furthermore, we believe that close collaboration with stake­ our sustainability performance using the guidelines (G4) of the holders supports us in addressing complex, interlocking sus­ Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), which aim for high transpar­ tainability challenges. Maintaining an intensive dialogue with ency and comparability for corporate sustainability reporting. partners along the supply chain and with external stakeholder groups and organizations is important for us. We listen to our stakeholders and integrate their perspectives into our busi­ Sustainability performance ness priorities and decision-making processes. Stakeholder engagement creates value for both stakeholders and the Com­ Siemens has been part of the widely respected Dow Jones pany through knowledge exchange and co-creativity. It is es­ Sustainability Index for 16 consecutive years. In 2015, we were sential for our business license to operate and contributes to ranked, with 90 of 100 points, as one of the best companies the improvement of business conditions and risk reduction in the Industry Group “Capital Goods.” We also earned high on customer projects and in our own operations. Our stake­ ratings on a number of other indexes and rankings, including holder relations are managed by the dedicated departments CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure Project). For the first time, at the corporate level. Responsibility for their strategic imple­ Siemens has achieved the highest possible score of 100 out mentation lies within the remit of our local colleagues in the of 100 possible points for the transparency of its reporting on regional entities, which ­engage with local stakeholder groups the opportunities and risks associated with climate change. In on a ­regular basis everywhere we operate worldwide. Our key addition, our efforts to achieve energy efficiency and cut CO2 stakeholders include, but are not limited to: customers, inves­ emissions enabled Siemens to reach the Climate A List. tors, suppliers, employees, communities, policymakers, media, nongovernmental organizations, business organizations and academia. 8 Sustainability at Siemens Facts and Figures Facts and Figures Reporting method DATA COLLECTION Given Siemens’ size and global spread, gathering data poses a Sustainability is a fundamental principle for us, guiding our very major logistical challenge. Moreover, our companies through­ actions. Our “Sustainability Information 2015 as addendum to out the world are required to comply with local regulations the Siemens Annual Report” supplements our reporting in the concerning the compilation and definition of performance Annual Report 2015. The reporting method provides details of figures, which means that the data generated is not always the underlying key elements on which our reporting is based. comparable. Where applicable, we point out any significant limitations in the information presented in the Report. As a REPORTING APPROACH rule, no company-wide standards exist for the information pub­ The “Sustainability Information 2015 as addendum to the lished in the Report. This applies in particular to specific finan­ Siemens Annual Report” (“the Report”) describes the strategy, cial figures, including, for example, the revenue attributable to orga­nization, initiatives and goals for ensuring sustainability. It the Environmental Portfolio. As a result, these figures may not be supplements our reporting in the Annual Report, ­following on comparable with the data published under the same or similar from last year’s reporting. It also serves as our a ­ nnual progress designations by other companies. The data published in this ­report on implementing the United Nations CEO Water Mandate Report is collected through various internal reporting systems, and sums up our performance with regard to the 10 ­principles which, for the most part, are different from those applicable of the United Nations Global Compact. Furthermore, our Report to the financial information presented in our Consolidated is guided by the G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines of the ­Financial Statements. In particular, the standards and controls Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and the recommendations of ­applied and the computer systems used during the preparation the Global Compact and Transparency I­nternational regarding of the data may be less comprehensive in comparison. We re­ anticorruption reporting. All key performance indicators of the serve the right to change our internal guidelines regarding the Environmental Portfolio are reported according to the “Environ­ inclusion of data in the Report without prior announcement. mental Portfolio Reporting Principles” included in the Annex. Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this Report may not add up precisely to the totals provided, and percent­ REVIEW PERIOD AND REPORT BOUNDARIES ages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. This Report is based on activities carried out during Siemens’ fiscal 2015 (October 1, 2014 – September 30, 2015). Any excep­ INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE REVIEW tions are indicated as such. In general, our fully consolidated We prepared our Report to high quality standards. Consequently, companies are all covered by the Report. Here, too, possible as in previous years, we again commissioned an independent exceptions regarding the pool of data used are indicated. Mi­ accounting firm to conduct an assurance review of the “Sus­ nority equity investments are not included in our reporting. tainability at Siemens” and “Facts and Figures” chapters of this Report to provide a limited degree of certainty. You can find The indicators and information reported below relate to the the results of the review by Ernst & Young GmbH Wirtschafts­ Company’s continuing operations, unless indicated otherwise. prüfungsgesellschaft in the Annex. For such limited assurance In order to ensure comparability of the details, those for the engagements, which provide a limited degree of certainty, the previous year were adjusted accordingly, with any exceptions evidence-gathering procedures are more limited than in a rea­ duly indicated. sonable assurance engagement. The auditors merely confirm that nothing has come to their attention during the review that would cause them to believe that the information contained in the “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and Figures” chapters of this Report has not been prepared, in all material r­ espects, in accordance with the criteria of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and with regard to the Environmental Portfolio indicators in accordance with the Environmental Portfolio Reporting Prin­ ciples described in the Annex. 10 Facts and Figures Employees * Proportion of women (as a percentage of total employees) September 30, People are one of Siemens’ vital strengths. Employees have 2015 2014 made Siemens what it is today, and their expertise, capabilities Siemens 23 24 and high level of engagement are laying the foundation for our Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East 22 22 future success. To stay competitive, we need to continuously Americas 25 26 win and retain the best and brightest talent worldwide. As an Asia, Australia 27 28 employer of choice, we empower our diverse and engaged people worldwide with a high-performance culture, encourage 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. life-long learning and development, offer an attractive work­ ing environment and ensure occupational health and safety. New hires were down by 3 % in the year under review. In the We also believe that employee engagement is a key driver for same period, exits were down by 11 %. The percentage of all sustainable company performance. Since 2010, the Siemens Company dismissals – as share of employee exits – was 18.3 % Global Engagement Survey has been regarded as an import­ for the year, compared with 19.1 % the previous year. All other ant management tool for measuring employee satisfaction. variations result from changes in the basis for consolidation In our “Vision 2020,” we set the target to achieve an approval and other changes. rating of over 75 % on a sustainable basis in the key categories of Leadership and Diversity. In fiscal 2015, more than 260,000 Siemens employee hires (in thousands) 1 Siemens employees (77 % response rate) took part in our world­ Fiscal year wide survey, demonstrating once again their strong commit­ 2015 2014 ment to shape Siemens, its values and its strategy. Based on Siemens 32.6 33.5 the constantly high employee engagement and our results in Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, Middle East 15.4 14.7 both key categories in fiscal 2015, we are confident of achieving Americas 9.1 8.9 our ­target by fiscal 2020. Asia, Australia 8.0 9.9 Demographic change, lifelong employability and the impact of 1 Discrepancies in totals are the result of rounding. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. digitalization are Siemens’ key employee-related topics. As an employer of choice, we train and develop our people to master Women hired (as a percentage of new hires) the challenges of the tough projects we are taking on for our customers. Each project and each task is an opportunity for per­ Fiscal year 2015 2014 sonal and professional growth. We are respectful, inclusive and diverse. At Siemens, everyone has a variety of opportunities and Siemens 25 29 Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East 24 27 everyone is treated in a fair way, even when times are tough. Americas 25 30 We flatten hierarchies and welcome individual contributions Asia, Australia 27 32 and different ways of thinking. Siemens employees 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. September 30, Siemens employee exits (in thousands) 2015 2014 Siemens (in thousands) 348 357 Fiscal year 2015 2014 Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East (as a percentage of total employees) 61 61 Siemens 28.8 32.5 Americas (as a percentage of total employees) 21 21 Asia, Australia (as a percentage of total employees) 18 18 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. * All figures quoted in this section refer to continuing and discontinued operations; any ­deviations from this are indicated. Facts and Figures 11 Employee turnover rate (in %) 1 Use of working-hour programs at Siemens (in thousands) Fiscal year September 30, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Employee decision 4.0 4.1 Part-time 10.0 10.0 Other reasons for exit 4.3 4.9 Employees on leave of absence 8.4 8.8 Total 8.3 9.1 1 Employee turnover rate is defined as the ratio of voluntary and involuntary exits from Siemens during the fiscal year to the average number of employees. DIVERSITY Diversity strengthens our innovative capacity and unleashes Retiring within the next five years (as a percentage of total employees) 1 the potential of Siemens’ employees, thereby directly contrib­ uting to our business success. All our activities, measures and September 30, ­programs aim at leveraging the diversity in the workforce and 2015 2014 enhancing Siemens as an employer of choice. We strive for an Siemens 15 14 inclusive working environment that taps the maximum poten­ tial of all employees. We want to create a working environment 1 Based on the Siemens worldwide average retirement age of 60. that is open to all people, independent of their cultural back­ ground, heritage, ethnicity, sexual orientation, gender identity The distribution of employees by age group remained virtually and individual gender expressions. The focus areas are: unchanged compared with the year before. The median age in the year under review was 41. >> Diverse workforce at all levels >> Women in leadership roles Age structure in fiscal 2015 (as a percentage of total employees) 1 >> Generational diversity < 35 35 – 44 45 – 54 > 54 >> Employee networks Siemens 31 28 26 15 >> Inclusive culture Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, ­Middle East 27 27 30 16 As an example, we have adapted our recruitment processes to Americas 27 26 27 21 ensure that the preliminary selection of candidates better re­ Asia, Australia 53 31 12 3 flects the diversity of our customers and employees at all levels and in all regions. For instance, the percentage of women in 1 Discrepancies in totals are the result of rounding. management positions at Siemens globally has nearly doubled 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. since fiscal 2002, rising to 15.4 %. Average official weekly working hours 1 Employees in management positions 1 September 30, September 30, 2015 2014 2015 2014 Siemens 39.0 39.0 Siemens 63,000 53,300 Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, Middle East 37.6 37.6 Female employees in management positions Americas 41.1 41.1 (percentage of all management positions) 15.4 15.6 Asia, Australia 41.3 41.3 1 Employees in management positions include all managers with disciplinary responsibility, plus project managers. 1 Contractually agreed weekly working hours at the end of the fiscal year. 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. The increase of employees in management positions is caused by a broader definition of “management” introduced with a ­refined job-structure. 12 Facts and Figures TALENT ACQUISITION AND DEVELOPMENT In fiscal 2015, the Global Learning Campus was reaccred­ We believe that people are the key to the success of Siemens ited by the renowned European Foundation for Management and that attracting, developing and retaining them are the ­Development (EFMD). The Corporate Learning Improvement most important activities we can engage in. We are continually Process (CLIP) accreditation emphasized, as a point of excel­ striving to hire the best people in the most effective way pos­ lence, the creation of a globally integrated learning organiza­ sible, which means we are revolutionizing the way in which tion that reaches out to all Siemens employees worldwide and we search, engage and onboard our future workforce. We have makes a significant strategic contribution to the company. defined global principles, which all of our countries are apply­ ing to their recruiting activities to ensure that all candidates Siemens Leadership Excellence (SLE) is aimed at our current globally have a quality hiring experience. and future senior and top leaders. Targeted programs and offer­ ings are provided to help them find long-term competitive and At Siemens, we consider every employee a talent. Dedicated sustainable solutions to lead their businesses and employees. processes and practices are in place to ensure that our people develop across the board. Siemens continues to be one of Germany’s largest providers of professional education for secondary school graduates (7,000 The Performance Management Process (PMP) is a one core places for Siemens trainees and 2,700 places for trainees from ­element of talent development at Siemens. PMP essentially in­ other companies). As in previous years, we again made 10 % of volves maintaining a continuous dialogue about expectations our trainee positions available to young people from disadvan­ regarding individual contributions and behavior as well as feed­ taged backgrounds. back on actual impact and a demonstrated ownership mindset. At the same time, we aim to foster meritocracy. To reflect the Each year since 2012, young Europeans (approximately 30 per­ focus on recognizing and rewarding high performance within sons a year from about 20 countries) have been completing Siemens, our compensation system for our top executives and their apprenticeships in mechatronics and electrical / electronic senior management worldwide includes a variable component. engineering in Berlin. After the apprenticeships, they return to their home countries and work in one of our local operating Furthermore, we promote concepts such as self-reflection on companies. There is continuous growth in this field and we are aspirations and abilities to grow into different roles and taking in the process of establishing similar programs in other Euro­ ownership for career development. To continuously develop pean and non-European countries. our talents, we offer a varied portfolio of balanced people-­ development measures (on the job, people experiences and Average number of training hours per participant per ­category 1 formal learning) as well as dedicated potential development programs. Fiscal year 2015 2014 LEARNING, LEADERSHIP DEVELOPMENT AND SLE Training Alumni Top Management (33 participants in fiscal 2015) 25 25 VOCATIONAL EDUCATION New General Management Appointees We encourage our employees at all locations to develop their (97 participants in fiscal 2015) 94 94 competencies and qualifications. In fiscal 2015, we invested New Advanced Management Appointees around € 265 million in continuing education (without travel (429 participants in fiscal 2015) 66 64 expenses), which equals about € 758 per employee. New Management Appointees (463 participants in fiscal 2015) 66 66 Siemens Global Learning Campus is responsible for managing and offering the global learning portfolio to employees in all 1 Based on mandatory participants in Siemens Leadership Excellence programs or executive courses. countries. It ranges from courses for employees and managers, through tailored training programs and services for groups, to solutions for entire organizations. Compared with the previous fiscal year, the average number of hours spent on training by participants in Siemens Leadership Excellence (SLE) programs remained unchanged in fiscal 2015. Training measures at the corporate management level are ­decided on and implemented as needed in close cooperation with the CEO and the Company’s Managing Board. Facts and Figures 13 SIEMENS EQUITY CULTURE Occupational health Siemens established its first employee share program in Ger­ and safety management many back in 1969. Building on this successful program in Ger­ many, Siemens decided in 2008 to extend employee and man­ Occupational health and safety management are key ele­ agement participation. Today, Siemens offers approximately ments of our Company ’s sustainable strategy and an integral 97 % of its employees in 67 countries the opportunity to become part of our business processes. We therefore develop central a Siemens shareholder, thus rewarding the commitment and programs and processes that are applied locally and adapted loyalty of employees with a participating interest in the com­ to the respective business needs. Occupational health and pany. safety management are an integral part of our Business Con­ duct Guidelines, our internal monitoring systems, and our risk The Share Matching Plan is based on a simple principle: Em­ management and internal controls. In addition, occupational ployees participating in the plan will receive one Siemens share safety is part of an international framework agreement be­ without payment of consideration (matching share) for every tween Siemens AG, the Central Works Council of Siemens AG, three Siemens shares bought and continuously held for the IG Metall and the global union IndustriAll. applicable vesting period of two or three years – provided the employee is still employed by Siemens and has not transferred Promoting a culture of safety – In the past, occupational or sold the shares. The main idea of the plan has always been safety was often characterized by focusing on technical pro­ to make stock ownership available to employees at all income tective measures, an approach that achieved considerable levels. success. We are convinced, however, that further i­ mprovement can be achieved only through an actively practiced occupa­ Siemens’ Vision 2020 sets a clear goal to increase the number tional safety culture and optimal working conditions – in of employee shareholders from the current level of approxi­ ­every country and for all Siemens employees as well as those mately 144,000 by at least 50 %. With the aim of strengthening of our contractors. Both as a company and as individuals, we the participation of Siemens employees worldwide in the com­ are responsible for ensuring that the working environment at pany ’s success, the Managing Board of Siemens AG is launch­ Siemens is safe at all times and for every employee. At present, ing a new concept in fiscal 2015 called Siemens Profit Sharing. local management systems and best practices exist that we can The Siemens Profit Sharing aims to allow employees below build on. We will achieve sustainability, however, only through ­senior management level worldwide to benefit from free Siemens a global and consistent approach. shares in the case of extraordinarily successful business years. Our customers, suppliers and regulatory authorities expect We are convinced that empowering employees with shares high safety standards from us. Safe behavior is governed not motivates them to assume greater responsibility and helps only by complying with laws, regulations and procedures, but them identify more closely with the company they work for – a also by the personal values of managers and employees. Our fundamental prerequisite for the sustainable development of “Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens” program, which was launched Siemens. in fiscal 2012, has been further developed and rolled out to drive the targeted cultural change on occupational health and EMPLOYEE RIGHTS AND RELATIONS WITH safety. It contains three principles: EMPLOYEE REPRESENTATIVES Fair-minded collaboration between Company management, >> Zero incidents – it is achievable. employees and employee representatives plays a central role at >> Health and safety – no compromises! Siemens. As one of the largest corporate employers in Germany >> We take care of each other! and worldwide, we are committed to our social responsibility and respect and uphold the fundamental rights of our employ­ To align the different businesses and countries, we have devel­ ees – which already apply worldwide and are firmly anchored oped a Zero Harm Culture @ Siemens Country Concept. In ad­ in our Business Conduct Guidelines. Underscoring this commit­ dition, our businesses and countries further improve safety ment, Siemens, the Siemens Central Works Council, the Ger­ at the local level through various activities according to local man trade union IG Metall and the global industrial union In­ needs and requirements. One example of a local activity is the dustriALL have signed an international framework agreement safety park in India, where Siemens and third-party project site on the principles of corporate responsibility. managers and personnel are trained with a focus on high-risk 14 Facts and Figures ­ ctivities. The training is conducted together with TÜV Rhein­ a ACCIDENTS WORLDWIDE land and ends with an exam and certificate. Management When recording lost-time injuries (LTIs), we incorporate the ­attention is of utmost importance in fostering and improving applicable national definitions for categorizing incidents as safety. The responsible CEO of the business concerned there­ being work related. fore demonstrates commitment by personally reporting any work-related fatality or serious incident, its cause and the mea­ LTIFR employees and contractors 1 sures taken to the Siemens Managing Board. Fiscal year 2015 2014 To achieve sustainable improvement and share lessons learned Employees 2 0.62 0.61 we have further strengthened our incident investigation capa­ Contractors 3 0.45 0.40 bilities by providing professional training and support. Several courses have already been completed. 1 Lost-time injury frequency rate: number of lost-time injuries (LTI) x 200,000 / work hours performed; LTIs are accidents that result in at least one lost day of work. 2 Depending on national regulations, foreign or temporary workers may also count as In fiscal 2015, the overall number of fatalities was higher than employees. in fiscal 2014. Regrettably, we reported 12 fatalities. Of these, 3 Contractors who bill by time, especially those who work on large project sites. four fatalities (all work related) involved contractors and eight involved Siemens employees. The eight Siemens cases In order to reduce the number of accidents, we have introduced ­included four commuting accidents on the way to or from additional business-specific actions and activities, particularly work. In the previous year, there were three fatalities involving on construction sites and in projects. We also take a very rigor­ contractors and four involving Siemens employees. ous approach to selecting contractor companies and have intro­ duced even more stringent occupational safety requirements. Promoting health – We are convinced that sustainable health promotion among our employees will only succeed if all health-­ Part of this approach is that specifically for health and safety related measures and initiatives are consistently aligned with management we require a detailed risk assessment for every the permanently changing requirements of today ’s working construction site and project. For all identified hazards and the environment and complement each other in a sensible man­ respective risks, appropriate measures have to be implemented. ner. Simply increasing the number of individual measures in As a result of the systematic assessment process that we have itself is not enough. A systematic approach is called for, within developed and introduced, a number of contractor companies which health is actively managed as a resource. Our company-­ have been excluded from Siemens projects or are under review. wide program Healthy @ Siemens supports a continuous im­ They will not be considered by us as potential contractors until provement process within health management. To encourage the identified issues have been rectified and assessment pro­ implementation, we introduced the Health @ Siemens label as cesses have been successfully completed again. a quality characteristic for sustainable health management. Significant progress in enhancing the collaboration with con­ Our innovative approaches in health management are already tractors and improving the safety culture was made in India. recognized externally. Siemens Belgium received the “Healthy Siemens has developed a training center with the focus on con­ Workspaces Good Practice Award” in managing stress and psy­ struction sites to systematically qualify contractors with regard chosocial risk at work from the European Union. to local and Siemens-specific requirements. Experience and best practices in occupational health and safety aspects are sys­ tematically tracked and shared globally. In fiscal 2015, health and safety audits focusing on high-risk activities were carried out. For example, the Siemens internal audit department (CF A) was assigned to conduct EHS-audits. They completed 17 audits at divisions, including Process Industries and Drives and Wind Power and Renewables as well as at sites such as Brande (DK), Aalborg (DK) and Fort Madison (US). Facts and Figures 15 OCCUPATIONAL ILLNESS Corporate Technology is both a creative driver of disruptive The total number of cases of occupational illness relative innovations and a partner to the Siemens businesses. Their to the number of employees has remained at a low level for R & D activities are focused on the company ’s core activities in many years. The corresponding indicator (occupational illness the fields of electrification, automation and digitalization. In ­frequency rate, or OIFR) relative to 1,000,000 work hours per­ many research projects, CT works closely with scholars from formed was 0.35 in the year under review (fiscal 2014: 0.36). leading universities and research institutions. These partner­ Here we only report the figures for Siemens AG. OFIR is calcu­ ships, along with a close collaboration with start-ups, are an lated solely on the basis of cases of occupational illness recog­ important part of Siemens’ open innovation concept, which is nized by the Employers’ Liability Insurance Association. designed to make the company even more innovative. In fiscal 2015, we reported research and development expenses Research and development of € 4.5 billion, compared with € 4.0­ billion in fiscal 2014. The ­resulting R & D intensity, defined as the ratio of R & D expenses Our research and development (R & D) activities are ultimately and revenue, was 5.9 %, thus above the R & D intensity of 5.6 % geared to developing innovative, sustainable solutions for our in fiscal 2014. As of September 30, 2015, Siemens held approx­ customers – and the Siemens businesses – and simultaneously imately 56,200 granted patents worldwide in its continuing safeguarding our competitiveness. For these reasons, we focus operations. As of September 30, 2014, it held approximately in particular on 56,100 granted patents. On average, we had 32,100 R & D em­ ployees in fiscal 2015. >> enabling energy supplies that are also economically sus­ tainable; RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT IN OUR BUSINESSES >> further enhancing efficiency in the generation of renewable R & D at the Power and Gas Division concentrates on develop­ and conventional power and minimizing losses during power ing products and solutions for enhancing efficiency, flexibility transmission; and economy in power generation and in the oil and gas indus­ >> finding novel solutions for smart grids and for the storage of try. These products and solutions include turbomachinery – pri­ energy from renewable sources with irregular availability; marily high-performance, low-emission gas turbines for single >> promoting the efficient utilization of energy, especially in operation or for combined cycle power plants – and compressor building technology, industry and transportation – e.g., solutions for various process industries. The Division’s tech­ through highly efficient drives for production facilities or for nology initiative started in fiscal 2015 is aimed at intensifying local and long-distance trains; R & D in innovative materials, advanced manufacturing methods >> creating the highly flexible, connected factories of tomorrow and plant optimization. Along with promoting digitalization in using advanced automation and digitalization technologies; overall product life cycles, Power and Gas is on track ­preparing >> turning unstructured data into value-adding information – for changing energy markets and their increasingly diversified e.g., when providing services such as preventive mainte­ centralized and decentralized structures. nance; >> advancing the integration of medical imaging technology, in At Siemens’ Wind Power and Renewables Division, our R & D vitro diagnostics and IT for medical engineering to support efforts are focused on innovative products and solutions that achievement of improved patient outcomes. allow us to take the lead in performance, improve our compet­ itiveness and build a stronger business case to present to our Beyond these points of focus, we recognize how important customers. This includes finding ways to more intelligently highly sophisticated software solutions are for all the fields of monitor and analyze turbine conditions and smart diagnostic business in which Siemens is active. R & D activities are carried services. Our R & D efforts also focus on digitalization. At our out by our businesses as well as our Corporate Technology (CT) remote diagnostics center in Brande, Denmark, we collect digital department. data from nearly 10,000 turbines in more than 30 countries: a total of more than 24 million data sets annually. We use this data to provide value for our customers: In 85 % of cases, prob­ lems can be corrected and turbines restarted without the need to send out a service team. 16 Facts and Figures The R & D activities of our Energy Management Division focus One of the R & D priorities at the Digital Factory Division is the on preparing our portfolio for changes on all voltage levels in Digital Enterprise Software Suite. Using Teamcenter software the world of electricity. The increasing infeed of renewable for central data management, the Digital Enterprise Software energy to power grids requires that those grids become more Suite creates a seamless data connection across the entire flexible and efficient, particularly with distributed genera­ value chain – from product design to production planning and tion on the rise. The digitalization of future grids will enable setup all the way to real production and subsequent service. intelligent grid operation and data-driven services. Cost-out Innovative data services are another field of research: Siemens programs and optimization of our footprint are improving the has already developed an open cloud solution for analyzing competitiveness of our product portfolio on global markets. large datasets in industry. Data-based services such as pre­ Our innovations are centered on power electronics, digitaliza­ dictive maintenance, asset and energy data management can tion or grid stabilization. The full integration of energy supply be hosted on this platform. Control of Hybrid Manufacturing systems with process automation is a core portfolio element for is another example: Additive manufacturing (e.g., 3D printing) industrial applications and infrastructures. is combined with subtractive procedures (e.g., milling) in one machine to ensure that components or products with a high R & D work at the Building Technologies Division focuses on degree of individualization can be manufactured quickly and optimizing comfort, operational and energy efficiency in build­ efficiently. ings and infrastructures, protecting against fire and security hazards, and minimizing related risks. We aim to create a port­ The R & D strategy of the Process Industries and Drives Divi­ folio of products and services, ranging from the field level to sion is focusing on the digitalization of crucial portfolio elements the cloud, based on open standards wherever possible. This across the complete life cycle of processing plants. Innovative includes data-based services for new ways of optimizing energy technologies for sensors, actuators, communications and sim­ consumption, easily scalable and reasonably priced services, ulations are prerequisites for end-to-end digitalization and a new and harmonized system landscape with particularly automation and require, for example, consistent engineering, ­effective integration of electrical consumption, fire detection optimized and more efficient processes, and intelligent and and HVAC (heating, ventilation, air conditioning) systems, and predictive service concepts. The Division is also developing a complete range of field-level products tailored specifically to technologies for the digital oil field and the electric propeller growing markets. pod drive. Our gears portfolio will be expanded and gears will be integrated into a digitalized condition-monitoring and con­ The Mobility Division’s R & D strategy addresses customers’ trolling system while increasing energy efficiency, reducing demand for maximum availability, high throughput and en­ material costs and further cutting emissions. hanced passenger experience. Although there is a growing need for mobility worldwide, possibilities for building new roads The R & D activities of our Healthcare business are directed and railways are limited. Meeting the demand for mobility re­ ­toward our growth fields in therapy, molecular diagnostics and quires intelligent solutions that make transport more efficient, services. We want to tap the full potential of imaging solutions safe and environmentally friendly. Reflecting this, Mobility ’s in therapy and to establish a closer connection between diag­ R & D activities strongly emphasize digitalization in develop­ nostics and therapy in cardiology, interventional clinical disci­ ing state-of-the art rail vehicles, automation solutions for rail plines, surgery and radiation oncology. Strategic partnerships and road traffic, and rail electrification systems. Most of these are an essential part of our strategy to reach this goal. Expand­ goals can be achieved only with intelligent IT solutions such as ing our innovation map beyond our established portfolio and WLAN-based control systems for driverless and conductorless investing in new ideas will help us tap new business fields. As metro train operation, decentralized wayside architecture for an example, we will drive our activities in the highly dynamic rail automation, cloud-based product solutions, and Integrated growth field of molecular diagnostics. We will expand our ser­ Mobility Platforms that intelligently network passengers, mo­ vices business beyond product-related services by adding a dig­ bility service providers and traffic management centers. ital services portfolio and increasing enterprise transformation services to help customers in their transition to value-based care within more and more provider organizations across geo­ graphical borders. Facts and Figures 17 Supply chain management IDENTIFYING RISKS AND IMPLEMENTING MEASURES FOR IMPROVEMENT SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT PRINCIPLES Due to our very large and widely spread supplier network – we The principal goal of supply chain management (SCM) at procure from some 90,000 suppliers in over 160 countries – it Siemens is to provide a substantial and sustainable value con­ is not possible for us to inspect all suppliers to the same ex­ tribution for the success of our businesses. The four elements tent by auditing them on site. We have therefore established of this value contribution include: a risk-based system to systematically identify potential risks in our supply chain. This system consists of sustainability self-as­ >> Productivity sessments by suppliers, risk evaluations conducted by our pur­ >> Quality chasing departments, sustainability questions within supplier >> Availability quality audits and sustainability audits by external auditors. >> Innovation Sustainability self-assessments 1 As such, the objectives clearly go beyond cost savings alone. Fiscal year In fiscal 2015, Siemens’ purchasing volume amounted to ap­ Number 2015 2014 proximately € 38 billion, which equaled roughly half of our to­ Europe, C.I.S.,2 Africa, Middle East 940 549 tal revenue. Based on the priorities of the Siemens divisions, Americas 543 423 the Siemens Procurement Council defined several key levers to Asia, Australia 2,025 1,162 achieve the SCM value contribution in alignment with Vision Total 3,508 2,134 2020. With the reorganization of the SCM function concluded Fiscal year in 2015, a strong focus will be on the ratio output to input – i.e., Results 2015 2014 the financial contribution of the SCM functions versus its cost Category “green” (no deviations) 2,577 1,464 of organization. Category “yellow” (minor deviations) 3 436 342 Category “red” (suspicion of serious deviations) 3 495 328 All purchasing activities are being executed within the limita­ Total 3,508 2,134 tions of our sustainability requirements. They are the guiding principles for our supply chain management and an integral 1 To be conducted mainly by suppliers from non-OECD states with a purchasing volume > € 50,000 p.a. Questionnaires initiated and completed in the year under part of all relevant supplier management processes – such as review. supplier selection, supplier qualification and evaluation, and 2 Commonwealth of Independent States. supplier development. 3 Clarification of the situation by the designated buyer, agreement on corrective measures within a defined period of time or completion of an external ­sustainability audit. REQUIREMENTS FOR SUPPLIERS We require all our suppliers to comply with the principles of our The sustainability self-assessments are, as part of the Siemens “Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers and Third-Party Inter­ supplier qualification process, under continuous review in or­ mediaries”, among which include, besides others, “respect der to meet the latest requirements. Besides the qualification for the basic rights of employees,” strong “health and safety” of new suppliers, our existing suppliers are periodically re-qual­ and “environmental protection” standards, and as well as zero-­ ified in accordance with our supplier qualification process. This tolerance on “corruption and bribery”. The Code of Conduct is three-year-modus leads to a substantial increase in sustainabil­ based on the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact and re­ ity self-assessments compared with fiscal 2014. flects the content of our Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines. Supplier quality audits with integrated sustainability questions In fiscal 2015, we updated our Code of Conduct and included Fiscal year additional requirements on “fair competition, antitrust laws Number 2015 2014 and intellectual property rights,” a chapter on “conflicts of in­ Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East 463 443 terest” and the avoidance of “conflict minerals.” By doing so, Americas 172 191 we managed to harmonize our requirements for our Suppliers Asia, Australia 346 237 and our Third-Party Intermediaries with in one Code of Conduct. Total 981 871 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. 18 Facts and Figures Since late fiscal 2013, we increased the number of supplier In the event of substantial deviations or an unwillingness to quality audits with integrated sustainability questions due implement measures for improvement, we exclude the suppli­ to a modification of the audit procedure. We now assess sus­ ers from any business with Siemens. To be faster and more tainability in all supplier quality audits as part of the modified effective in reacting to major breaches of the Code of ­Conduct procedure. The strongest detection tool to review our suppliers’ requirements – e.g., proven child labor issues – we have sustainability performance is an external sustainability audit. ­implemented the process of a “Central Warning Message,” It is conducted by one of our audit partners. As a quintessen­ which again was tightened in fiscal 2015: All local instances of tial e ­ lement of our risk-based approach, we use this tool as a blocked suppliers now have to be reported to Corporate SCM, control mechanism for higher risk suppliers. In fiscal 2015, the where the necessity of a worldwide blocking is discussed and number of external sustainability audits remained stable. decided centrally. It allows us to block suppliers for all Siemens organizations worldwide in the short term. External sustainability audits Fiscal year Since fiscal 2012, we have been continuously working on the Number 2015 2014 requirements for occupational health and safety standards Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East 9 9 for suppliers at our project construction sites. Specifically for Americas 1 7 the health and safety management systems, we require a Asia, Australia 40 33 ­detailed risk assessment for every site, an appraisal of the risks Total 50 49 identified and measures to minimize them. In fiscal 2015, we Fiscal year promoted specially designed health and safety audits in our Agreed improvement measures 2 2015 2014 procurement organizations worldwide: The 12 largest coun­ Legal compliance /prohibition tries identified their contractor business and their need to of corruption and bribery 136 203 ­audit contractors to minimize health and safety risks. For fiscal Respect for the basic human rights of employees 357 331 2016, Corporate SCM, together with the Siemens divisions and Prohibition of child labor 35 24 their local organizations, agreed on specific audit targets that Health and safety of employees 388 445 include occupational health and safety audits at our project Environmental protection 170 44 construction sites. Supply chain 56 67 Total 1,142 1,114 KNOW-HOW TRANSFER AND CAPACITY BUILDING We continue to promote our strategy and belief that our 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. suppliers’ commitment to complying with our sustainabil­ 2 Improvement measures agreed with suppliers relate either to actual deviations from the Code of Conduct or to structural improvements to management systems ity principles is most effective when it is based on their own and the lack of specific processes and guidelines at the supplier. convictions. The underlying key is to build up our suppliers’ competency levels, while intensifying their knowledge of sus­ If deviations from our requirements are identified in our sus­ tainability. In support of this, we updated our “Code of Conduct tainability self-assessments or different audits, they must be brochure” in 2015, which is available in both an electronic and remedied by the suppliers in question within a reasonable print version. In addition to in-person meetings, we support ­period of time. Besides follow-up audits handled by our exter­ our suppliers with an Internet-based information and training nal audit partners, the responsible procurement units also dis­ platform available free of charge to all suppliers. Currently, we cuss the corrective actions defined during our audits directly are updating our respective “Web-Based Training,” which will with the respective suppliers. be published in fiscal 2016. In all we do, we are guided by the principles of developing our On top of that, sustainability is an integral part of the compa­ suppliers in close partnership and building up their compe­ ny-wide training programs for buyers. Moreover, all employees tencies for the long term. Deviations identified in the audits with purchasing responsibility are obligated to take part in mainly relate to structural deficiencies in management sys­ intranet-based training on the subject of “Sustainability in the tems and the lack of specific processes and guidelines at the Supply Chain”. supplier. This includes, for instance, measures to effectively ensure occupational health and safety and prevent corruption and bribery. Serious deviations, such as in the areas of “health and safety for employees,” were identified at five suppliers but were corrected by the set deadline. Facts and Figures 19 RESOURCE EFFICIENCY, CLIMATE PROTECTION Distribution and customer relations AND REGULATORY REQUIREMENTS IN THE SUPPLY CHAIN Our divisions have global responsibility for their business, sales As part of CDP reporting, we collect and publish data on our and results. They are able to support customers around the greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) caused by purchased world directly from their respective headquarters, especially for products and services. large contracts and projects. However, most of our customers are small and medium-sized companies and organizations that We work to minimize the environmental impact within our require local support. To address local business opportunities ­logistics and transport network. To this end, a corporate tutorial with them, we are able to draw on a large global sales force provides our logistics employees with all the necessary infor­ steered by our regional companies. They are responsible for mation and tools to not only create and optimize sustainable serving our customers in the respective countries, leveraging logistics networks, but also design transport solutions within our global network of market partners like consultants, distrib­ projects. The measures we have initiated include using carriers utors, integrators, EPCs and machine builders. We are currently with modern fleets, optimizing our logistics networks, ensur­ selling products and services in almost every country in the ing the contractual commitment of service providers to improve world. efficiency and bringing about modal shifts, for example, from air freight to sea or road freight to rail. Sustainable customer relationships are the basis for our longterm success. We employ a structured key account manage­ We continuously adapt our internal supply chain processes to ment (KAM) approach throughout the Company to take care of meet new regulatory requirements such as the European Union our key customers. Our key account managers continuously de­ Timber Regulation and the “conflict minerals rule,” which is velop and maintain relationships with them over the long term. mandatory for many of our customers in the United States. This approach is supplemented by our Executive Relationship Both regulations require an in-depth transparency of the sev­ Program. In this program, members of the Company ’s Execu­ eral tiers of our supply chain. tive Management stay in direct contact with selected custom­ ers and maintain an ongoing dialogue with them to familiarize Siemens is aware of the challenging situation whereby prod­ Siemens with their needs. ucts and components purchased from suppliers may contain minerals originating from conflict-affected countries. We there­ Our business success is strongly dependent on the satisfaction fore continue to pursue our Conflict Minerals policy, rolling out of our customers. For this reason, we measure customer satis­ a uniform process to determine the use, source and origin of faction in every unit of the Company using the Net Promoter conflict minerals in our supply chain. We cooperate closely Score (NPS). This internationally recognized and commonly ap­ with our direct suppliers to support the process of carrying out plied managerial performance indicator, which we d ­ etermine these steps. Where necessary, we work with suppliers in order annually on a worldwide basis by means of customer surveys, to mitigate risks and perform additional due diligence so that measures the referral rate of our customers. The NPS for fiscal we can continue to source responsibly, building on established 2015 was based on the results of around 25,000 interviews, management processes. with customer representatives having been asked for their opinion regarding Siemens in about 100 countries and in Siemens has actively supported the “OECD Due Diligence Guid­ 42 survey languages. In fiscal 2015, our company-wide NPS ance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-­ once again increased compared to the previous fiscal year. Affected and High-Risk Areas” and will continue to do so as a pilot member in the initiative to develop the respective due We closely cooperate with well-known universities. This pro­ ­diligence processes, expressly recognizing a risk-based due vides access to top-rate knowledge as a basis for continuously diligence in the mineral supply chain. We also support industry-­ developing our go-to-market approach. wide initiatives such as the “Conflict-Free Sourcing Initiative.” 20 Facts and Figures Siemens Environmental Portfolio The Environmental Portfolio elements that contribute the most to the total reduction of carbon dioxide emissions at our cus­ The Siemens Environmental Portfolio is part of Siemens' re­ tomers are combined cycle power plants (CCPP), power plant sponse to global challenges such as climate change, scarcity modernization and upgrade activities, power generation from of natural resources and environmental pollution. The Environ­ wind power, frequency converters and high-voltage direct cur­ mental Portfolio consists of products, systems, solutions and rent (HVDC) power transmission systems. services (Environmental Portfolio elements) that meet one of our selection criteria, namely energy efficiency and renewable Including revenue from newly developed and additionally qual­ energy. These elements reduce impact on the environment and ified Environmental Portfolio elements and excluding revenue emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases (de­ from elements that no longer fulfill our qualification criteria, fined together in the following as carbon dioxide emissions), revenue from continuing operations relating to the Environ­ which are responsible for climate change. The reduced level mental Portfolio in the current year amounted to € 32.7 billion, of impact is measured by carrying out comparisons with refer­ exceeding the comparable revenue of € 31.5 billion from fiscal ence solutions (baselines). 2014. This means that in fiscal 2015 our Environmental Portfolio accounted for 43 % of our revenue from continuing operations. With our Environmental Portfolio we intend, among other things, to help our customers to reduce their carbon dioxide Furthermore, with our Siemens Environmental Portfolio ele­ footprint, cut their energy costs and improve their profitabil­ ments installed in fiscal 2015, we helped our customers reduce ity through an increase in their productivity. In addition to its their emissions by a further 58 million metric tons of carbon environmental benefits, our Environmental Portfolio enables dioxide. With the total of our Siemens Environmental Portfolio us to compete successfully in attractive markets and generate elements installed at customer locations since the beginning profitable growth underlining Siemens’ strategic focus on tech­ of fiscal 2002 and remain in use today, we reduced accumu­ nologies for energy efficiency and climate and environmental lated annual customer carbon dioxide emissions by 487 million protection. For fiscal 2015, about three-quarters of the revenue metric tons in fiscal 2015. from our Environmental Portfolio was generated from products and solutions for energy efficiency. To learn more about the Siemens Environmental Portfolio, please visit: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ENVIRONMENTALPORTFOLIO Key performance indicators Fiscal year 2015 2014 1 Environmental protection Revenue generated by the Siemens Environmental Portfolio (continuing operations, in billions of €) 32.7 31.5 To respond to today ’s global ecological challenges responsibly, Annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide Siemens has installed a comprehensive EHS (Environmental emissions generated by elements from the Siemens Environmental Portfolio newly installed protection, Health management and Safety) management sys­ in the reporting year (continuing operations, tem. The process requirements of this management system help in millions of metric tons) 58 57 our operating units to comply with the applicable laws, regu­ Accumulated annual customer reductions of ­carbon dioxide emissions generated by lations and customer requirements; fully satisfy our corporate ­elements from the Siemens Environmental requirements; and achieve our Siemens-wide environmental ­Portfolio within the reporting year (continuing targets. The environmental protection management system operations, in millions of metric tons) 487 428 requires our relevant production and office sites to implement an environmental management system that fulfills the require­ 1 Prior year numbers were adjusted to reflect the deletion of the environmental technologies selection criteria in order to ensure year-on-year comparability. ments of the internationally recognized ISO 14001 standard as well as our own internal standard, known as “Specifications on environmentally compatible product and system design.” This internal standard defines requirements to reduce the environ­ mental impact of our products and systems during the produc­ tion, use and disposal phase and forms an integral part of our business processes. We conduct regular internal reviews of our environmental performance and progress in order to create a cycle of continuous improvement. Facts and Figures 21 Siemens aims to improve energy and resource efficiency, fulfill In the first year of continuing StE applying the new metric and growing international requirements with regard to environcompared with the baseline of fiscal 2014, the decrease in revemental protection, increase customer benefits and proactively nue adjusted for currency translations and portfolio effects of strengthen our position as a sustainable company. To continu1.3 % had a negative impact on our efficiency KPIs, although we ously support this approach, the programs “Serve the Environwere able to reduce total energy use and CO2 emissions from ment” (StE) for industrial environmental protection and “Prodenergy use on a portfolio-adjusted basis. Waste production in uct Eco Excellence” (PrEE) for product-related environmental fiscal 2015, on the other hand, also increased due to improved protection were reconfirmed in 2014 and extended to 2020. As awareness and waste reporting as a result of our worldwide of fiscal 2016, we also intend to start the process of cutting our waste training campaign during fiscal 2015. own CO2 emissions by 50 % as early as fiscal 2020, with the ultimate aim of being carbon neutral by 2030. As Siemens plans to With regard to efficiency improvements from the last StE invest € 100 million globally in energy-efficiency measures for program period from 2010 to 2014 (energy efficiency: +11 %, its major plants within the next three years, this will also conCO2 efficiency: +20 %, waste efficiency: +12 %, and reduction siderably support the StE energy-efficiency target and enhance of waste for disposal: +8 %), we can see that overall efficiency carbon efficiency. We monitor the success of our programs usimprovements since the start of the StE program are still at a ing corporate-wide indicators: overall high level and, as far as CO2 efficiency is concerned, even increasing. In view of these efficiency improvements to Indicators (in %) date, our objectives for 2020 are certainly achievable, and the Fiscal year new € 100 million energy-efficiency budget, combined with 2015 other initiatives to reach our new carbon targets, will contribEnergy efficiency improvement compared with baseline ute to this. in fiscal 2014 1, 2 – 1.0 Waste efficiency improvement compared with baseline in ­fiscal 2014 1 – 2.0 INDUSTRIAL ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION Waste for disposal reduction compared with baseline Our industrial environmental protection efforts focus on optimizin ­fiscal 2014 6.1 ing energy and resource efficiency at our sites. With the reconCarbon dioxide emission efficiency improvement firmed program “Serve the Environment,” we are committed ­compared with baseline in fiscal 2014 1 1.1 to the following Siemens-wide main targets in the period from fiscal 2014 to 2020: 1 Adjusted for currency translations and portfolio effects. 2 Indicator incorporates weighted calculations related to the primary fuels ­consumed in generating the energy used at our sites and the amount of >> Continue our systematic effort to improve energy efficiency ­energy used to extract, convert and distribute the fuels consumed. and carbon dioxide efficiency >> Improve waste efficiency We calculate environmental performance in industrial envi>> Reduce waste for disposal ronmental protection on a portfolio-adjusted basis equivalent to the adjustment used to calculate the comparable revenue To continue the StE program, energy and waste efficiency change as stated in the annual report. Revenue change in this ­aspects will be integrated into our supply chain. Air pollution context means the change of revenue from fiscal 2014 to fiscontrol will be considered holistically, taking into account cal 2015 excluding currency translations and portfolio effects. the local air emission situation at our production plants and This portfolio adjustment procedure for revenue was accordoffices. Climate-change-inducing impacts of water use in our ingly used for the environmental parameters of waste, energy businesses will also be integrated. and CO2 from energy use. The approach therefore enables us to monitor and compare our environmental performance over time, regardless of acquisitions and disposals from year to year, and closely relates environmental performance to business performance. 22 Facts and Figures Reporting on environmental factors and collecwith the previous year, mostly due to newly acquired business ting environmental data ­activities, ­increased production programs at some Power and In fiscal 2015, we used our environmental information ­system Gas sites and the implementation of a decentralized energy to analyze 307 reports from sites in all relevant countries where supply in the form of combined heat and power generation. defined threshold values were exceeded for parameters such as energy use, resource consumption and emissions within Secondary energy (1,000 gigajoules) environmental management. To measure and monitor our Fiscal year ­environmental impact, we use absolute values such as energy 2015 2014 consumption in gigajoules. We report environmental data for Electricity 8,655 8,613 continuing operations. Extrapolation to 100 % was applied District heating 2,015 2,075 to reflect complete consumption in our figures. Overall, the Total 10,670 10,688 ­extrapolation was significant only for primary energy, with 14 %, and water and waste­w ater, with 10 %, in the figures ­reported. We monitor our environmental impact for all office and production sites of environmental relevance using environ­ Electricity consumption remained at the same level. Imple­ mental data gathered quarterly. mented efficiency measures helped to partially offset the im­ pact of the high demand for cooling in Europe and the United Environmental management system States during last summer, newly acquired business activities All our locations have an environmental management system and a slightly lower workload. The consumption of district in place; 268 of them are also certified in accordance with heating decreased, mostly due to the shorter heating period in ISO 14001. The majority of these, 264 sites, are externally cer­ Europe compared with previous years. tified, while four have been audited and certified by Siemens internal auditors. The decision as to whether a unit has its en­ In order to use energy efficiently, the Siemens Energy Efficiency vironmental management system certified in accordance with Program continued in fiscal 2015. Energy-saving projects have ISO 14001 is made by the environmental protection executives been carried out and energy management systems are being of the businesses and countries in close consultation with the further implemented at energy-intensive locations. For exam­ environmental protection officers. The requirements of the new ple at Process Industries and Drives and Digital Factory, five ISO 14001:2015 standard were introduced into our management sites reduced their energy consumption and now save collec­ processes. A total of 28 Siemens locations have implemented tively 32,000 MWh of energy per year. This means a reduction an energy management system in accordance with ISO 50001, of almost 6,000 tons of CO2 emissions. and further locations are in the process of implementation. To implement the EU Energy Efficiency Directive EED (2012 / 27 /EU), In addition to energy consumption at the locations reported a European-wide approach has been developed taking full ad­ above, the energy consumed by the Company’s business vehi­ vantage of our own energy services. cles is recorded centrally. Staff vehicles, service vehicles and trucks owned by Siemens are grouped together for this pur­ Energy consumption pose. In fiscal 2015, the company fleet consumed fuel with an energy content of around 4.3 million gigajoules. Primary energy (1,000 gigajoules) 1 Fiscal year Greenhouse gas emissions 2015 2014 Our greenhouse gas balance is made up of the total emissions Natural gas / liquid petroleum gas 4,848 4,557 at our locations and the emissions generated by company Fuel oil, coal, gasoline /diesel 403 414 vehicles and business travel. We report our greenhouse gas Total 5,252 4,971 emissions on the basis of the Corporate Standard of the Green­ house Gas Protocol of the World Resource Institute and of the 1 Discrepancies in totals are the result of rounding. World Business Council for Sustainable Development. Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) arise from sources in the In fiscal 2015, total consumption of natural and liquid petro­ Company’s ownership or under its control. Indirect greenhouse leum gases increased by 6 %. The consumption of other ­fossil gas emissions (Scope 2) refer to the consumption of purchased fuels plays less of a role compared with gas consumption and electrical energy and district heating. Business travel is reported has decreased by 3 %. In particular, there was a reduction in in Scope 3 because it is based on the use of services and vehi­ the consumption of on-site car fuels and fuel oil. Overall, cles provided by external companies. ­total p ­ rimary energy consumption increased by 6 % compared Facts and Figures 23 Greenhouse gas emissions (in 1,000 metric tons of CO2 equivalents) Emissions of volatile organic carbon decreased due to im­ Fiscal year proved training and monitoring VOC use. The volume of emis­ 2015 2014 sions of ozone-depleting substances rose from 0.13 to 0.26 Scope 1 845 876 tons of R11 equivalents. The reasons for this increase were one Scope 2 1,181 1,217 major leakage and improved reporting performance. Overall, Sum Scope 1 and 2 2,026 2,093 we see growing awareness with respect to balancing emissions Scope 3 1 378 393 and implementing phase-out plans for a step-by-step substitu­ tion, especially for the still often used R22. 1 Emissions from travel (flights, rail, rental cars). In calculating nitrogen oxides, we have assumed typical com­ Distribution of greenhouse gas emissions (in %) bustion conditions in the relevant thermal processes, obtaining Fiscal year a figure of 165 metric tons for environmentally relevant loca­ 2015 2014 tions in the year under review. The figure includes nitrogen Electricity and district heating 49 49 oxides released during the incineration of fuels reported in the Natural gas, liquid petroleum gas, section on primary energy. heating oil, fuels 26 24 Other Kyoto gases 1 9 11 Waste Business travel 16 16 The environmental relevance of waste depends on the type of waste and its method of disposal. We differentiate between 1 This includes technical CO2, SF6, HFC, PFC, CH4 and N2O. hazardous and nonhazardous waste. These two groups are fur­ ther divided into recyclable waste and waste for disposal. We Direct greenhouse gas emissions have been reduced by 4 %. report waste from construction or demolition work separately This is mainly due to reduced other Kyoto gases, especially sul­ because this kind of waste material arises independently of fur hexafluoride (SF6). Electricity and district heating emissions production. decreased by 3 % due to lower consumption of district heating and purchasing of green electricity. It was possible to reduce Waste (in 1,000 metric tons) emissions from business travel by 4 %, as emissions from flights Fiscal year and train travel have in particular been reduced. In total, green­ 2015 2014 house gas emissions decreased by 3 % year on year. Nonhazardous waste 331 326 Hazardous waste 26 26 Atmospheric pollutant emissions Construction waste 168 211 Other industrial emissions into the atmosphere are also rel­ Total 524 563 evant in terms of environmental protection. Volatile organic compounds (VOC) contribute to the formation of ozone close to the earth’s surface and are responsible for what is known as summer smog. We use these organic compounds as solvents Year on year, nonhazardous waste increased by 2 %. Hazardous in paints and adhesives, in impregnation processes and for waste remained at the prior year's level. Overall, the quantity surface cleaning. We also monitor the use of ozone-depleting of waste (including construction waste) decreased by 7 %. The substances (ODS) and comply with the Montreal Protocol, an decreased volume of construction waste in comparison with international convention on the protection of the ozone layer, fiscal 2014 was due to reduced construction measures. as well as with country-specific legislation. Recycling (in %, including construction waste) Atmospheric pollutant emissions (in metric tons) Fiscal year Fiscal year 2015 2014 2015 2014 Share of recycling in total waste 91 86 Volatile organic compounds 818 875 Ozone-depleting substances in metric tons of R11 equivalent 1 0.26 0.13 The waste recycling rate was 91 %, 5 % higher than in fiscal 2014. 1 R11 equivalent measures ozone-depletion potential. This is due to the higher proportion of recycling waste in non­ hazardous wastes and a marked decrease in disposal waste. 24 Facts and Figures Water and wastewater By 2020, the Product Eco Excellence Program will: Water consumption (in million cubic meters) 1 >> Implement automated data collection and processing for Fiscal year declarable substances to increase transparency on substances 2015 2014 in our products. This is the prerequisite for further proactive Water consumption 7.63 7.74 substitution activities to address future statutory require­ ments and customer demands. 1 Does not include 20.69 million cubic meters of cooling water drawn from groundwater >> Improve the coverage of LCAs (Life-Cycle Assessments) and and surface water resources and returned chemically unchanged, but warmed. EPDs (Environmental Product Declarations), as we consider For the last two years, Siemens water consumption has re­ the availability of product-related environmental information mained stable. an important basis for future legal and customer require­ ments such as Product Environmental Footprinting. Wastewater (in million cubic meters) 1 >> Reduce critical materials being used in Siemens products Fiscal year through the support of a material assessment methodology. 2015 2014 The overall target of the program module is the reduction of Cooling water 0.49 0.45 critical material purchasing volumes. Wastewater from employee facilities 4.88 5.09 Wastewater from manufacturing processes (total) 0.75 0.78 To achieve these objectives, several tools will be developed by Other (incl. losses) 1.43 1.29 Siemens in the framework of the continued environmental pro­ Total 7.55 7.61 gram, e.g., a map of evaluated substance risks and evaluated substitutes, quality check for substance declarations, enhanced 1 Does not include 20.69 million cubic meters of cooling water drawn from groundwater EPD guidance (including service and supplier aspects), tools and and surface water resources and returned chemically unchanged, but warmed. training for critical material assessment to support the process of reducing or substituting substances, enhanced communi­ Environment-related incidents and penalties cation to increase awareness of critical materials and environ­ In the year under review, we recorded two environment-re­ mental impact assessments. lated incidents and a small number of hydraulic oil spillages. These are occurrences that require the authorities to be noti­ Life-cycle thinking fied – notifiable incidents – or that had an external impact on At Siemens, closing material loops (cradle to cradle) is increas­ the environment. Both occurrences were due to minor noncon­ ingly important for resource conservation in product develop­ formances with waste regulations that had no environmental ment. Based on compulsory requirements, which are defined ­impact. Total fines from penalties in the year under review and continuously enhanced in our internal environmental were insig­nificant. standard “Specifications on environmentally compatible prod­ uct and system design,” we support the integration and con­ PRODUCT-RELATED ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION sideration of these environmental aspects of our products and With respect to product-related environmental protection, systems during the development, production, use and disposal Siemens strives to continuously and comprehensively improve phases. For this reason, our internal environmental standard the overall environmental performance of its products and closes the information loop between the end of life of one systems. The confirmed “Product Eco Excellence” program product and the development phase of a new product for our therefore aims to generate transparency, responds to market product designers. It means that by reusing, refurbishing or developments and delivers added value for the customer. To recycling products, components or materials, they go through this end, our program is focused on materials and components, more than just one life cycle, which make a substantial con­ product environmental assessments and increased material-­ tribution to protecting the environment. In this context, the related resource efficiency. Our program supports operational use of critical substances in an electronic product can greatly units in taking future market and customer requirements into impact the product’s recyclability. As far as technically feasible, consideration as well as regulatory developments. At the same Siemens avoids the use of all LoDS-listed substances (List of time, communication about the program increases employee Declarable Substances) in its products worldwide, thereby ex­ and stakeholder environmental awareness. ceeding existing statutory requirements. Facts and Figures 25 During the supplier qualification process, new suppliers must The current reporting period shows continuous high coverage commit to declaring substances listed on the LoDS. These sub­ of businesses with LCAs (Screening and Full-Scale) and EPDs. stance declaration requirements are mandatory for our suppliers Compared with the figures for fiscal 2014 in last year’s report, and are included in procurement and project contracts. This the ones reported for fiscal 2014 in this year are slightly dif­ means that our suppliers must notify us if their products and ferent due to organizational changes (Sector vs. Division) and components contain declarable substances and must provide us minor corrections of prior year data. with the relevant detailed information. To make an easy-to-use method with high data quality readily available, Siemens relies Life-cycle assessments and environmental product declarations (percentage of revenue covered) 1 on an Internet-hosted database in which our suppliers declare the substances they use in their products. Fiscal year 2015 2014 Additionally using a critical material assessment method­ Full-scale LCAs 69 69 ology developed by Siemens, we help our product designers to Screening LCAs 50 52 evaluate potential critical materials (ecological or toxicological EPD 70 70 effects or possible future scarcity) and support decisions for avoiding or reducing particular materials. 1 We consider the revenue of a Business Unit in relation to Siemens revenue once we have carried out at least one “Full-scale LCA,” “Screening LCA,” or “EPD” for their products or systems. No product-related coverage is calculated. At the end of the life cycle, the handling or disposal of used electrical and electronic equipment entails much more than The organizational changes have also led to an increased collecting and recycling old devices. It is therefore important depth in the detail of our investigation into some businesses. to have an adequate return and recycling system in place for A ­revision of data took place at the same time. With our product-­ such devices or even to run a refurbishing process for complete related environmental program, we aim to increase our LCA systems as demonstrated by our Healthcare activities. and EPD investigations in the future. Life-cycle assessments and environmental ­product declarations Compliance We use specific software solutions and scientifically recognized databases to determine and evaluate the ecological footprint For us at Siemens, integrity means acting in accordance with of our products and solutions on the basis of LCAs. In addition our values – responsible, excellent and innovative – wher­ to detailed life-cycle assessments (full-scale LCAs), we make ever we do business. A key element of integrity is compliance: use, where appropriate, of simplified life-cycle assessments ­adherence to the law and to our own internal regulations. We (screening LCAs) such as CO2 screenings. have zero tolerance for corruption and violations of the princi­ ples of fair competition – and where these do occur, we rigor­ The results of the LCAs are the basis of our environmental ously respond. product declarations (EPDs) and support product development. In this way, we help our customers improve their current and Our Business Conduct Guidelines describe how we fulfill our future environmental impact. To ensure that our EPDs offer a compliance-related responsibilities. They are also an expres­ consistent level throughout the company, we bring together sion of our values and lay the foundation for our own internal the experience of the individual Business Units in the form of regulations. Our Business Conduct Guidelines are binding for a dedicated panel of experts. To optimize internal processes, all employees worldwide. the panel of experts has developed process guidance for the preparation of environmental product declarations. This guid­ Our Compliance System aims to ensure that all our worldwide ance has been verified by an external auditor for compliance business practices are in line with these guidelines and in with the criteria set out in ISO 14025. By applying this process compliance with all applicable laws. To serve this purpose and guidance, Siemens increases its standard of quality in drawing provide the Company with reliable protection against compli­ up EPDs. ance risks, our Compliance System has three pillars: Prevent, Detect and Respond. We are continuously working to further strengthen compliance in our Company and to combat corrup­ tion together with other organizations (Collective Action). 26 Facts and Figures We actively support the enactment of the United Nations Con­ Ownership culture is a cornerstone of Vision 2020, and the in­ vention against Corruption and the Anti-Bribery Convention of tegrity of our employees’ decisions and actions is an essential the OECD, which – like the 10 principles of the United Nations part of it. Every employee is expected to act responsibly and to Global Compact – provide important guidance for our entire live up to this principle. Our Compliance System aims to support organization. We are also actively involved in the Global Com­ Siemens employees in making risk-based decisions with integ­ pact. At the end of 2013, our Chief Compliance Officer was rity – this is how compliance can ultimately provide reliable elected Chairman of the Task Force on Anti-Bribery /Corruption assurance to our Company and its employees and at the same of the Business and Industry Advisory Committee to the OECD. time help strengthen an ownership culture at Siemens. There­ fore, ownership culture lies at the heart of our compliance pri­ Our activities in the World Economic Forum include the Com­ orities. Compliance will continuously contribute to Vision 2020. pany ’s participation in the Pact Against Corruption Initiative and the Siemens General Counsel’s membership in the Global With effect from fiscal 2015, we defined the compliance prior­ Agenda Council on Transparency & Anti-Corruption. ities as illustrated and briefly described in the figure below. These priorities, which have also guided our activities in fiscal COMPLIANCE PRIORITIES FOR FISCAL 2015 2015, are supplemented by focus areas and activities for each AND ACHIEVEMENTS fiscal year. Our compliance priorities provide the basis for the ongoing development and further improvement of our Compliance Achievements in fiscal 2015 include the implementation of System. In this connection, we take into account and aim to the Siemens Compliance Operating Model as a comprehensive fulfill continuously evolving requirements in the compliance Management System for the global Compliance Organization, field, which reflect both our own work and the changing mar­ the conclusion of funding contracts for projects we selected for ket conditions and compliance risks of our business activities. the second funding round of the Siemens Integrity Initiative and the start of first projects (see section “Collective Action and In light of our experience to date and – above all – in line with Siemens Integrity Initiative” below). our entrepreneurial concept Vision 2020, we have developed this approach further in order to create a reliable long-term perspective for the ongoing development of compliance at Siemens. Compliance priorities Foster Integrity Support business management to meet its responsibilities for compliance and further strengthen the culture of integrity in our ­Company and beyond. Committed to Business iance Priorit Manage Risk & Assurance mpl ies Co Further intensify cooperation between the Foster Continue providing our businesses with Compliance Organization and our businesses Integrity the appropriate level of assurance within and reinforce our Compliance System’s our Compliance System. ­market and customer focus. Committ R isk & e age nce Busine d to an a M ssur ss Ownership A Culture Excellent Compliance Team Effective Processes Ex c m elle Co e tiv Provide an excellent compliance team through p n ec e Continue to further optimize and streamline Te lian t s Eff ess a first-class learning and development landam ce Pro c our compliance processes. scape and close collaboration. Vision 2020 Facts and Figures 27 We have also completed a project to reinforce our business­ The corporate compliance risks are derived from these con­ partner compliance due-diligence process launched in fiscal solidated results, which are then shared with the Company ’s 2014. Among other improvements, the company ’s compliance businesses. As in the CRA process, relevant risks are reported risk a ­ ssessment process has been further developed: Anti-money to Siemens’ Enterprise Risk Management (ERM), and measures laundering has been included as part of our activities to inte­ to reduce the risks are drawn up and implemented. grate this topic area into the Siemens Compliance System. The identification of compliance risks in individual Siemens The planned Integrity Award has been incorporated into one of entities worldwide (CRA) and the Group-level compliance risk the categories of the “Werner von Siemens-Award.” This new analysis are complemented by an interdisciplinary exchange company award is the successor to our former competition during the quarterly Compliance Risk Radar meeting. and was held in fiscal 2015 for the first time. It honors Siemens employees who have made outstanding contributions to driv­ BUSINESS PARTNERS AND SUPPLIERS ing our business as currently outlined in our Vision 2020 and Cooperation with third parties such as sales agents, customs fostering our Company’s ownership culture. clearing agents, consultants, distributors and resellers is part of Company operations and often essential in order to reach Lastly, we largely concluded a company-wide project aimed at certain areas of the market. At the same time, however, the creating a comprehensive learning and development landscape Company may be liable for the actions of these third parties. for the Siemens Compliance Organization. Our mandatory process and tool for business-partner com­ COMPLIANCE RISK MANAGEMENT pliance due diligence is designed to help all Siemens entities Our Compliance Risk Assessment (CRA) process requires that conduct risk-based integrity checks of business partners. Trans­ CEOs and managers in the Company – together with the relevant parent and risk-oriented decisions about a business partner re­ Compliance Officers – systematically determine and assess the lationship are based on high-quality compliance due diligence. compliance risks to their units on a regular basis. The management of each Siemens unit is responsible for the As previously reported, a CRA was performed for all the Com­ unit’s utilization of business partners. This means that business pany ’s operating units in fiscal 2013. Based on our experience partners must be carefully selected and appropriately monitored to date and the analysis of these results, the CRA process has and managed throughout the course of a business relationship. been further developed. Starting in fiscal 2014, the CRA is per­ formed in two different ways: In fiscal 2014, we carried out a project to reinforce the effective­ ness of our business-partner compliance due-diligence process >> In even-numbered years, the CRA process is performed for and of management’s assessment of the related compliance “top-risk” countries in order to complement the analyses risks. As a consequence of the project, we implemented a Webat the Lead Country / Division level and in Healthcare with based compliance training course that we made mandatory for ­in-depth risk assessments for selected countries. We identify certain business partners prior to them entering into business these countries in advance based on an analysis of external relationships with Siemens in fiscal 2014. Furthermore, both and internal compliance risks. the regular review of business-partner portfolios in Lead Coun­ >> In odd-numbered years (starting in fiscal 2015), the CRA tries, divisions and Healthcare as well as on-site ­compliance ­process is performed at the Lead Country/Division level and checks for selected types of business partners as part of due in Healthcare. diligence were implemented in fiscal 2015. Accordingly, in fiscal 2015, the CRA was performed for the di­ Another outcome of the business-partner project is the new visions, Healthcare and Lead Countries. The CRA results have “Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers and Third Party Inter­ been incorporated into the Group-level compliance risk analy­ mediaries:” sis, which aims to determine systematic and globally recurring compliance risks to the Company as quickly as possible. Along Prior to this new setup, Siemens business partners were with the CRA results, this analysis of the overall Group-level obliged by the binding contract provisions to comply with prin­ compliance risks takes into account, for example, the insights ciples of the Siemens Business Conduct Guidelines whereas from compliance controls – the ongoing assessment of the op­ our suppliers were required to comply with our Code of Con­ eration of our compliance processes to ensure their effective­ duct for Siemens Suppliers, which included compliance with ness – and the results of case-related investigations. all applicable laws and, in particular, the prohibition of corrupt 28 Facts and Figures activities. We also required our suppliers to support the Code’s The assessment and analysis of compliance risks for the operat­ implementation in their own supply chains. The Code of Con­ ing units and at the Group level offer important indicators that duct is based on the 10 principles of the United Nations Global help us develop and define the focus of our training activities, Compact. Instruments such as sustainability self-assessments including the selection of themed modules for the annual events by suppliers and sustainability audits by external auditors en­ held in conjunction with the Integrity Dialogue. Our operating able us to systematically identify potential risks in our supply units address specific challenges by enhancing their training chain and to monitor whether our suppliers are in compliance activities with additional topics from their own businesses or with the Code’s requirements. by extending the mandatory target groups for specific compli­ ance training programs in their units. In this way, our training In connection with the business-partner project we have cre­ activities reflect both Siemens-wide topics and the key topics ated a common code of conduct for suppliers and business specific to the operating units. partners. The previous “Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers” was widely known, and the number of suppliers far exceeded We conduct regular surveys to gauge how Siemens employees the number of business partners. Apart from updating vari­ perceive the topic of compliance. Since fiscal 2010, this has ous aspects, we enhanced the provisions of the existing code been an integral component of the company-wide Siemens in the areas of anticorruption and antitrust and added specific Global Engagement Survey. The survey was carried out in fis­ clauses about the prohibition of conflicts of interest. Both cal 2015. We consider the results an indication of the continued Siemens business partners and suppliers now have to contrac­ positive perception of compliance by our employees. tually commit to comply with this new code. COMPLIANCE INDICATORS COMPLIANCE TRAINING AND COMPLIANCE PERCEPTION Compliance indicators 1 One focus of our preventive measures under the Compliance Fiscal year System is to provide compliance training to all managers and 2015 2014 employees who hold positions with a particular risk profile. In Compliance cases reported 568 653 fiscal 2014, the definition of these “sensitive functions” was ex­ Disciplinary sanctions 208 195 panded and specified more precisely. In accordance with the therein warnings 116 114 company-wide binding definition of these “sensitive functions,” therein dismissals 79 50 the Compliance Officers of the relevant company units identify therein other 2 13 31 the managers and employees whose participation is required and ensure that they attend the training sessions. They monitor and 1 Continuing and discontinued operations. 2 Includes loss of variable and voluntary compensation elements, transfer and confirm the fulfillment of these requirements at regular intervals. ­suspension. Our company-wide compliance training portfolio consists of in-person and Web-based training programs. The in-person train­ The “Tell us” whistleblowing system and the Company ’s om­ ing programs also provide our employees with an opportunity budsman are two secure reporting channels that can be used to discuss correct behavior based on day-to-day work exam­ by our employees and external stakeholders to report violations ples. The third element of our compliance training portfolio of external and internal rules. Reports using these channels is the annual Integrity Dialogue to maintain an ongoing and are passed on to our Compliance Organization. Possible mis­ high awareness of integrity and compliance topics at Siemens. conduct may also be reported directly via the Managing Board The Dialogue, which is conducted across the entire Company, or via supervisors to the Compliance Organization and, in par­ serves as a forum for managers to discuss recent compliance ticular, to the Compliance Officers in our individual company matters with their employees. units. Our employees regularly make use of this reporting channel. In fiscal 2015, the total number of compliance cases requiring further inquiries or investigations reported via all the above-mentioned reporting channels was 568. We believe that the decrease from fiscal 2014 (653) is within the normal range of variation. Facts and Figures 29 The total number of disciplinary sanctions for compliance vio­ Like the Siemens Compliance Monitorship, the Gibson Dunn lations in fiscal 2015 was 208 (fiscal 2014: 195). The disciplinary review was not designed to be a comprehensive review of all sanctions reported in a specific fiscal year do not all relate to business lines, all business activities or all markets. Rather, the compliance cases reported in the same period: Disciplinary Gibson Dunn’s targeted review focused on a limited number of sanctions are frequently not implemented in the year in which projects, divisions and countries, selected using a risked-based a case was reported. This is due to the fact that a reported com­ approach, as well as Company headquarters. Gibson Dunn pliance case has to undergo the Company’s entire internal case-­ summarized the scope, methodology and results of its review handling process, from the mandating and performing of an in a report issued to the Company dated November 15, 2015. internal investigation to the documentation of its results in an The report concludes with the statement that, based on its investigation report that will form the basis for related disci­ review, Gibson Dunn has found that the Siemens Compliance plinary sanctions and remediation measures. System is adequately designed and implemented to prevent, detect and respond to violations within Siemens of the FCPA Furthermore, a single reported compliance case may, for in­ and other applicable anticorruption laws. Further, based on stance, result in several disciplinary sanctions or in no disci­ certain tests of the Siemens Compliance System conducted by plinary sanctions at all – for instance, because the employee Gibson Dunn for the period of October 1, 2014, and March 30, concerned has in the meantime left the company for some 2015, Gibson Dunn has found that the Siemens Compliance other reason in the meantime. Therefore, here too, it is not System is effective in its implementation. possible to establish a direct correlation between the numbers of reported compliance cases and the numbers and types of COLLECTIVE ACTION AND SIEMENS INTEGRITY disciplinary sanctions implemented in a given reporting period. INITIATIVE If substantial progress is to be made in combating corruption In our view, the detected compliance violations in our Company and fostering fair competition, as many stakeholders as possible in the past fiscal year demonstrate once again that our Com­ must act collectively. That is why we have joined forces with pliance System has been properly designed and is being effec­ other organizations to fight corruption and promote ethical tively implemented. Based on the nature of our businesses and markets through Collective Action and the Siemens Integrity the environment and regional areas we are working in, we do Initiative. not regard the number of such incidents as unusual. The global Siemens Integrity Initiative was launched by Siemens The Compliance “Ask us” function allows our employees to ask on December 9, 2009. It earmarks more than US$ 100 million compliance-related questions. Incoming questions are auto­ for supporting organizations and projects fighting corruption matically forwarded without prior registration to the Compliance and fraud through Collective Action, education and training. Officers responsible for the employees’ entities. Furthermore, The initiative focuses on supporting projects that have a clear all employees can pose questions directly to the Compliance impact on the business environment, can demonstrate objec­ Officers responsible for their respective units. In light of these tive and measurable results, and have the potential to be scaled developments, we decided to discontinue the reporting of up and replicated. The Siemens Integrity Initiative constitutes ­inquiries submitted to the “Ask us” help desk from fiscal 2014. one element of the July 2009 settlement between Siemens and the World Bank and the March 2013 settlement between EXTERNAL REVIEW OF SIEMENS COMPLIANCE Siemens and the European Investment Bank (EIB). Siemens has retained the law firm Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher LLP (“Gibson Dunn”) to conduct an independent review and assess­ Within the first funding round – based on the settlement with ment of the implementation and operative effectiveness of the World Bank – 31 projects were funded with a total contrac­ Siemens’ anticorruption policies, procedures and internal con­ tual funding volume of US$ 37.7 million. trols. The goal of this review was to verify that the Siemens Compliance System, as designed as of October 1, 2014, is in The second funding round was announced on June 27, 2013, compliance with the standards reviewed and certified on Oc­ and the deadline for applications was August 29, 2013. We tober 12, 2012, by the Siemens Foreign Corrupt Practices Act ­received more than 180 applications from about 60 countries. (“FCPA”) Compliance Monitor Dr. Theo Waigel. In a two-stage review and due diligence process, we selected projects that are to receive approximately US$ 35.6 million of ­total funding over a period of three to five years. Related fund­ ing contracts were concluded by the end of fiscal 2015. 30 Facts and Figures Recipients of Siemens funding awarded under the second Corporate citizenship tranche include projects set up by the Ethics Institute of South Africa, which works to combat corruption in South Africa and Corporate citizenship is Siemens’ external, voluntary engage­ Mozambique, TEID (Ethics and Reputation Society of Turkey), ment in society. The aim is to advance societies by making our the Global Compact Network India and the Berlin-based Trans­ technology and knowledge accessible to more people around parency International Secretariat. Another project partner is the world. We strive to create shared value for society, while at the International Anti-Corruption Academy (IACA) in Vienna, the same time strengthening our business. These activities can which again receives funding to support research and educa­ take on a variety of forms, ranging from philanthropic d ­ isaster tional activities in the area of combating corruption. relief to more strategic shared-value or inclusive business ­approaches like our mobile clinics in India. Within a global framework, responsibility for choosing and The effectiveness of compliance at Siemens is based on the carrying out charitable activities lies with the local units in global governance of our Compliance Organization as well as each country. This ensures that we provide support where it is clear-cut reporting lines and close cooperation between our needed most. In doing so, we apply high management stan­ Compliance Officers around the world and our company units. dards and strategically focus our corporate citizenship activi­ The other pillar of our Compliance System – with its three ac­ ties in three focus areas where our company competencies, tion levels of Prevent, Detect and Respond – is the requirement resources and employee volunteering can make a meaningful that all Siemens managers assume personal responsibility for difference: compliance in their respective units. >> Education and science: Our goal is to maintain a continuous We will continue to further develop our compliance system in dialogue with young people and to identify and foster tal­ order to adapt it to evolving requirements in the field of com­ ent from an early age. We support educational and research pliance. Our compliance priorities described above will further activities, particularly in natural sciences, engineering and guide us and are specified by focus areas for fiscal 2016. Our healthcare. overall aim remains unchanged: We want to anchor integrity >> Social: Projects in this area aim to bring about a systematic permanently throughout our company in order to ensure sound and lasting improvement in people’s living conditions. In business decisions based on clear principles of integrity. addition, we provide urgent humanitarian relief, including financial and technical assistance after natural disasters. FURTHER INFORMATION AND LEGAL PROCEEDINGS >> Environment: We want to make an effective contribution For further information, please refer to: toward protecting the environment, particularly through our core competencies, and raise environmental awareness Compliance Risks on pages 30 – 32 in A. Combined Management among younger generations. Report and Note 21 Legal Proceedings on pages 88 – 90 in B.6 >> Arts and culture: In addition to the above three focus topics, Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Siemens we support Arts and Culture because a society’s cultural her­ ­Annual Report 2015. itage is a key aspect of its identity. We demonstrate our social commitment on the basis of figures. That is why we provide information about our donations by category and region. Donations Fiscal year 2015 2014 Total (in millions of €) 26.6 26.3 Share of net profit (in %) 0.5 0.5 Facts and Figures 31 Donations by category (in millions of €) Fiscal year 2015 2014 Education and science 16.1 14.8 Social 6.2 6.8 Environment 0.1 0.2 Arts and culture 4.2 4.5 Total 26.6 26.3 Donations by region (in millions of €) Fiscal year 2015 2014 Europe, C.I.S.,1 Africa, Middle East 14.8 16.3 therein Germany 11.5 12.3 Americas 9.3 8.0 Asia, Australia 2.5 2.0 Total 26.6 26.3 1 Commonwealth of Independent States. The Siemens Stiftung aims to empower people to actively contribute toward solutions to social challenges. It focuses on ­holistic, non-business-related, transferable projects and models in sub-Saharan Africa, Latin America and Europe (with a partic­ ular emphasis on Germany). Established in 2008 with capital of € 390 million, Siemens Stiftung is a nonprofit foundation under German civil law. It complements Siemens’ corporate citizenship activities and co­ operates with the other six corporate foundations established by the Company in Argentina, Brazil, Denmark, Columbia, the United States and France. 32 Facts and Figures Annex Annex GRI G4 – key aspects and boundaries Siemens principles, boundaries and key aspects Internal External No. 1. Profit Boundaries Boundaries GRI G4 Aspects 1.1 We contribute to our customers’ ­competitiveness Customers Economic: Economic Performance with our products, ­solutions and services. 1.2 We partner with our customers to own Customers Economic: Economic Performance ­identify and develop sustainability ­operations related ­business opportunities. 1.3 We operate an efficient & resilient ­supply own Suppliers Economic: Procurement practices chain through supplier code of ­conduct, ­operations Environmental: Supplier environmental assessment; risk ­management, and capacity building. Grievance mechanism (environmental) Labor practices: Supplier assessment for labor practices; Grievance mechanism (labor practices) Human rights: Supplier human rights assessments; Grievance mechanism (human rights) Society: Supplier assessment (for impact on society); Grievance mechanism (for impacts on society) 1.4 We proactively engage with our ­stakeholders to own Customers, Economic: Economic performance; manage project and ­reputational risks and identify ­operations ­Suppliers, ­Indirect ­Economic Impacts ­business relevant trends. Society 1.5 We adhere to the highest ­compliance & anti-­ own Customers, Environmental: Compliance; Grievance mechanism corruption ­standards and promote integrity ­operations ­Suppliers, (environmental) via the Siemens Integrity ­Initiative. Society Labor practices: Grievance mechanism (labor ­practices) Human rights: Forced or Compulsory Labor; ­Grievance mechanism (human rights) Society: Anti-Corruption, Anti-competitive behavior; Grievance mechanism (for Impacts on society) Product responsibility: Compliance 34 Annex Siemens principles, boundaries and key aspects Internal External No. 2. Planet Boundaries Boundaries GRI G4 Aspects 2.1 We enable our customers to increase energy Customers Environmental: Energy, Emissions ­efficiency, save resources and reduce carbon ­emissions. 2.2 We develop our products, solutions and services own Customers Environmental: Product and Services based on a life-cycle p ­ erspective and sound ­operations Product Responsibility: Product responsibility ­eco-­design standards. and service labelling 2.3 We minimize the environmental impacts of our own Society Environmental: Materials; Energy; Water; own operations by applying e ­ nvironmental ­operations ­Emissions; Effluents and Waste; Transport ­management programs. Internal External No. 3. People Boundaries Boundaries GRI G4 Aspects 3.1 We contribute to the sustainable develop­ment Society Economic: Indirect economic impacts of societies with our portfolio, local operations, Society: Local communities and thought leadership. 3.2 We foster long-term relationships with local own Society Economic: Indirect economic impacts ­societies through ­Corporate Citizen­ship projects ­operations Society: Local communities jointly with partners. 3.3 We live a zero-harm culture and ­promote the own Suppliers Labor practices: Occupational health and safety health of our employees. ­operations 3.4 We live a culture of leadership based on common own Economic: Market Presence values, innovation mindset, people orientation ­operations Labor practices: Employment; Training & Education; and diversity. Diversity and equal opportunity; Equal remuneration for women and men; Non discrimination The detailed GRI G4 Index – Comprehensive Option is available at our Sustainability website at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ABOUT/SUSTAINABILIT Y/EN Annex 35 United Nations Global Compact Siemens has been a participant in the UN Global Compact since Progress at the UN Global Compact webpage and in particular 2003 and is expressly committed to upholding the Compact’s ten the following report index, describes the progress we have made principles. These “Sustainability Information 2015 as addendum during the year – broken down according to the systems and to the Siemens Annual Report”, our online Communication on measures we have implemented as well as our achievements. Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact Principle Systems Measures Achievements Principle 1 Our Siemens Business Conduct Guide­ Our Code of Conduct (CoC) for Siemens In the year under review, the number Support of human lines (BCG) provide the ethical and suppliers and third party intermediaries of sustainability self-assessments added rights legal framework within we conduct includes besides other: up to 3,508. We conducted 981 supplier our business activities. They contain > respect for basic rights of employees quality audits with integrated sustainability Principle 2 our basic principles and rules for our questions and 50 external sustainability Exclusion of human conduct internally and externally, for > strong ­“health and safety” audits. In the external sustainability rights abuses example on human rights core labor > environmental protection audits, we identified a total of 1,142 poten­ Principle 3 standards. The BCG are mandatory for > zero tolerance on bribery and tial improvements. Serious deviations, Assurance of freeall Siemens entities worldwide. With anti-corruption such in the areas of ­“health and safety dom of association our Code of Conduct (CoC) for Siemens for employees”, were identified at five Suppliers we ensure that these basic In 2015 we updated our CoC and ­sup­pliers but were corrected by the set Principle 4 rights and principles are also observed included additional requirements ­deadline in direct interaction with the Elimination of all in our supply chain. on fair competition, anti-trust laws responsible procurement unit. forms of forced labor and intellectual property rights, a Sustainability at Siemens chapter on conflicts of interest and Supply chain management Principle 5 THIS REPORT PAGE 6 THIS REPORT PAGE 18 the avoidance of conflict minerals. Abolition of child Supply chain management Supply chain management ­labor THIS REPORT PAGE 18 THIS REPORT PAGE 18 Principle 6 We do not tolerate discrimination and Our various global diversity networks In the year under review, women Elimination of have anchored that in the Siemens promote and discuss diversity topics accounted for 23% of our total workforce. ­discrimination Business Conduct Guidelines. We across the Company. These groups The proportion of female employees actively foster diversity within the and programs include the Global in management positions at Siemens has Company by creating a working Leadership Organization of Women risen continuously in recent years and ­environment that is open to all people, (GLOW), Diversity Ambassador and is now 15.4 %. independent of their cultural back­ GENE, our generation's network to Employees ground, heritage, ethnicity, sexual foster cross-generation exchange. THIS REPORT PAGE 11 ­orientation, gender identity and In addition, we have over 140 local ­individual gender expressions. employee networks worldwide with Employees employees actively engaged in diver­ THIS REPORT PAGE 11 sity-related programs and activities. The success of all measures is assessed annually in the diversity scorecard. Employees THIS REPORT PAGE 11 Principle 7 Siemens has installed a comprehensive We took extensive action in this field Our programs “Serve the Environment Precautionary EHS management system. This system by continuing our “Serve the Envi­ (StE)” for industrial environmental ­approach to environrequires our relevant production and ronment” program and our Energy ­protection and “Product Eco Efficiency mental protection office sites to implement an environ­ Efficiency Program (EEP). As far (PrEE)” for product-related environmental mental management system which as product-related environmental pro­tection were reconfirmed in 2014 and fulfills the requirements of the inter­ ­protection is concerned, the program extended to 2020. Additionally, as of 2016, nationally recognized ISO 14001 “­Product-Eco Excellence” enables us we intend to reduce our CO2-emissions ­standard as well as our own internal to define environmental requirements by 50 % as early as 2020, aiming to being standard, known as ­“Specifications on throughout the product lifecycle. carbon neutral by 2030. environmentally compatible product Environmental protection Environmental protection and system design”. THIS REPORT PAGE 21 THIS REPORT PAGE 21 Environmental protection THIS REPORT PAGE 21 36 Annex Index according to the ten principles of the Global Compact Principle Systems Measures Achievements Principle 8 Raising our employees’ awareness of Siemens maintains a global environ­ In the year under review, we donated Specific initiatives environmental and climate protection mental communications network to around € 26.6 million for corporate to promote environis an element of both our environ­ ensure that knowledge about environ­ ­citizenship ­activities, of which € 16.1 mil­ mental protection mental strategy and our social com­ mental management, methods, lion went to education and science and mitment. With internal communi­ ­solutions and experiences is commu­ € 0.1 million to environmental activities. cations measures and our corporate nicated across locations, Businesses Additionally support the WEF Climate CEO citizenship focus on “environmental,” and national borders. Statement and the “We mean business” we help create a greater sense of Additionally we will invest ­initiative. responsibility for ecological issues. € 100 ­million over the next three years Sustainability at Siemens Environmental protection to improve energy efficiency of our THIS REPORT PAGE 6 THIS REPORT PAGE 21 production facilities and buildings. Corporate citizenship Corporate citizenship Sustainability at Siemens THIS REPORT PAGE 31 THIS REPORT PAGE 31 THIS REPORT PAGE 6 Environmental protection THIS REPORT PAGE 21 Principle 9 As part of our Environmental Portfolio, We continuously review our portfolio The Environmental Portfolio elements Development and we develop and market products, with regards to newly developed that were installed for our customers diffusion of environsolutions and services that enable or acquired portfolio elements that from 2002 to 2015 helped them cut their mentally friendly our customers to reduce their CO2 ­q ualify as Environmental Portfolio CO2 emissions by 487 million tons. technologies emissions, lower lifecycle costs and ­elements or exclude elements that Siemens Environmental Portfolio protect the environment. do no longer fulfill our qualifications THIS REPORT PAGE 21 Siemens Environmental Portfolio ­criteria. THIS REPORT PAGE 21 Siemens Environmental Portfolio THIS REPORT PAGE 21 Principle 10 The Siemens Business Conduct Guide­ With effect from fiscal 2015, we We have implemented our Siemens Measures against lines (BCG) provide the ethical and defined our compliance priorities: ­Compliance Operating Model as a com­ corruption legal framework within which we > Foster Integrity prehensive Management System for ­conduct our business activities. Our the global Compliance Organization, the compliance system aims to ensure > Manage Risk and Assurance ­conclusion of funding contracts for that all our worldwide business prac­ > Effective Processes ­projects we selected for the second fund­ tices remain within this framework as > Excellent Compliance Team ing round of the Siemens Integrity well as in compliance with applicable ­Initiative and the start of the first proj­ laws. We have zero tolerance for > Committed to Business ects. We have completed the project ­corruption and violations of the These priorities are supplemented to reinforce our business partner compli­ ­principles of fair competition – and by focus areas and activities for each ance due diligence process launched where these do occur, we rigorously fiscal year. in fiscal 2014. Anti-Money laundering respond. Our compliance system We actively support the enactment of has been additionally included in our has three pillars: Prevent, Detect, the UN Convention against Corruption Compliance Management System. Respond. and Bribery of the OECD. Our Chief We largely concluded a company-wide Compliance Compliance Officer was elected Chair­ project aimed at creating a comprehensive THIS REPORT PAGE 26 man of the Task Force on Anti-Bribery / learning and development landscape for Corruption of the Business and Industry the Siemens Compliance Organization. Advisory Committee to the OECD. In fiscal 2015 the total number of com­ Compliance pliance cases, requiring further inquiries THIS REPORT PAGE 26 or investigations, reported via all available reporting channels were 568. We believe that the decrease from fiscal 2014 (653) is within the normal range of variation. Since the launch in 2009, the Siemens Integrity Initiative has implemented 55 anti-corruption projects in over 20 countries, receiving so far more than US$ 70 million in support. Foreword THIS REPORT PAGE 2 Compliance THIS REPORT PAGE 26 Annex 37 United Nations Water Mandate COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT As a member of various international organizations, we’re Progress report ­involved in numerous initiatives and programs, including the Action 2020 Water Project of the World Business Council for Siemens became a signatory to the United Nations CEO Water Sustainable Development. We initiate and implement projects Mandate in 2008. Our continuing support for the CEO Water in various regions that promote efficient use of water, such as: Mandate reflects our commitment on two fronts: Firstly, man­ aging water efficiently in our own facilities. Secondly, providing Water harvesting initiative solutions that help our customers and societies handle water Siemens has developed and supplied a system for the irrigation and waste water more economically. of the cricket and football grounds of Bayswater Oval in Mel­ bourne that collects water from roof space, parking lots and OUR OWN ACTIVITIES other run-off areas, cleans and stores it until it is used. For more information about the resource conservation and water consumption at Siemens locations, see section Environ­ Water recycling in India mental Protection ( THIS REPORT PAGE 21) . We are pursuing a At the location of the Siemens works in Kalwa, India, a waste­ new approach to water resources management that was devel­ water treatment system has been installed that would, for the oped in 2012. At locations where there are increased water-­ most part, regulate itself. related risks – for example, as a result of aridity, high waste­ water loads, or poorly developed technical infrastructures – we For more information on these projects please refer to: define goals that are matched to local circumstances. This WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ABOUT/SUSTAINABILIT Y/EN ­enables us to effectively reduce risks and negative impacts on the environment. In addition, the Siemens Stiftung drives an e ­ ntrepreneurial ­approach to supply clean drinking water to communities. Proj­ Our Business Units offer solutions for drive technologies, ect examples include: ­energy distribution and automation for water and wastewater treatment plants and water transport. Furthermore they pro­ Safe Water Enterprises vide solutions for intelligent monitoring and control of water With Safe Water Enterprises, Siemens Stiftung is committed to networks, such as the Siemens Cities Performance Tool. We a sustainable supply of safe drinking water in rural regions in also require Leadership in Energy and Environmental D ­ esign Kenya. In Kisumu, the third Safe Water Enterprise has started (LEED) certification for all our new buildings, including our operations in fiscal 2015 and is providing safe drinking water to new global headquarters in Munich, where efficient use of the community. It was built in cooperation with our partners ­water is a key element of building design criteria. SOS Children’s Villages and SkyJuice Foundation. OUR SUPPLIERS Water-Energy Hubs (WE!Hubs) The environmental requirements that our suppliers must fulfill In the first phase, five new WE!Hubs will be built in Kenya and are defined in our Code of Conduct for Siemens Suppliers. The three existing hubs will be refurbished, upgraded with an In­ responsible use of water forms an integral part of this code. For ternet café, and equipped with new, more technically advanced more information on these requirements and on supply chain products. Three of the five new WE!Hubs will be built around management ( THIS REPORT PAGE 18) . Lake Victoria, one in a Nairobi township, and one on a tea farm in Kericho. For more information with regards to the projects of the Siemens Foundation, please refer to: WWW.SIEMENS-STIFTUNG.ORG/EN/PROJECTS 38 Annex Environmental Portfolio reporting Our Environmental Portfolio elements are typically long-lasting principles products (e.g. motors) or infrastructure elements (power plants, trains) that contribute to reduction of carbon dioxide emissions ENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO GUIDELINE not only in the reporting year but for many years. We there­ As there are currently no accepted international standards fore also calculate the accumulated annual customer reduc­ addressing the identification and reporting of so-called “green tions of carbon dioxide emissions. The accumulated annual products”, we report the revenue from our Environmental emission reductions are calculated as customer reductions of Portfolio and the accumulated annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions generated by Environmental Portfolio carbon dioxide emissions generated by it in accordance with elements installed in the current reporting period (see above) internal regulations defined in our Environmental Portfolio plus those elements installed since the beginning of fiscal 2002 guideline. that are still in use at the customer. If elements installed in pre­ vious reporting periods are no longer in use, they are no longer This guideline set out criteria and processes for the qualifica­ taken into consideration when calculating the accumulated tion of elements for the Environmental Portfolio, defines roles annual customer reductions of carbon dioxide emissions in the and responsibilities as well as processes to account for annual respective reporting period. customer reduction of carbon dioxide emissions and refers to financial reporting guidelines for recognition of revenue. It is For the Environmental Portfolio elements installed in a given based on the Reporting Principles set forth in “A Corporate Ac­ reporting period, we consider the reductions of carbon diox­ counting and Reporting Standard – Revised Edition” and “GHG ide emissions for the entire reporting period, irrespective of the Protocol for Project Accounting” issued by the Greenhouse actual date of installation during the year of first time recog­ Gas Protocol Initiative. These principles are relevance, com­ nition. pleteness, consistency, transparency, accuracy and conserva­ tiveness. Revenue generated by the Environmental Portfolio is GOVERNANCE – PROCESSES AND DEFINITIONS recognized in accordance with revenue recognition policies as The qualification of our Environmental Portfolio elements as described in Note 2 in B.6 Notes to the Consolidated Finan­ well as the respective reporting is based on clearly defined pro­ cial Statements in the Annual Report of the Siemens Group cesses and criteria. (“Siemens”) as of September 30, 2015. In principle, products, systems, solutions and services of SCOPE OF REPORTING Siemens AG and its subsidiaries may qualify for the Environ­ To date, the Environmental Portfolio-related key performance mental Portfolio. The entire Siemens business portfolio is indicators are revenue and customer reductions of carbon reviewed on an annual basis to ensure the appropriate qual­ dioxide emissions generated by elements from the Siemens ification of Environmental Portfolio elements based on the Environmental Portfolio. criteria described hereafter. This covers the inclusion of newly developed elements as well as the integration of additionally Carbon dioxide emission reductions at our customers are calcu­ qualified elements where evidence of fulfillment of the qual­ lated based on comparing the Environmental Portfolio element ification criteria was not available in prior reporting periods. (e.g. a combined cycle power plant and the related carbon diox­ For additionally qualified Environmental Portfolio elements, we ide emissions per kilowatt hour) with a reference solution (e.g. report their prior-year revenue and prior-year contribution to a global average grid factor for power production). The annual the accumulated annual customer reduction of carbon dioxide reduction of carbon dioxide in the reporting year is calculated emissions on a comparable basis. Elements that no longer ful­ based on technical parameters (e.g. the installed capacity in fill our qualification criteria are excluded from our Environmen­ gigawatts in the reporting year or load hours). For all Environ­ tal Portfolio; prior periods are not adjusted. mental Portfolio elements sold in a reporting year, the annual reductions are added up to calculate the annual carbon dioxide Prior to inclusion in the Environmental Portfolio, potential new emissions reductions at our customers at the end of that year. Environmental Portfolio elements have to undergo a multilevel internal evaluation process which includes reviews in the re­ spective Siemens divisions as well as a review in the Sustain­ ability department. Annex 39 Within this process, Siemens verifies the completeness of Service types are differentiated between “product-related ser­ documentation supporting the fulfillment of the qualification vice” and “value-add service”. In cases in which a Siemens prod­ criteria. Furthermore, Siemens considers whether or not signif­ uct, system or solution qualifies as an Environmental Portfolio icant “adverse effects” exist. Adverse effects describe the situ­ element, the revenue, and if applicable, the annual customer ation that a potential Environmental Portfolio element, despite reduction of carbon dioxide emissions of the “product-related fulfilling the qualification criteria, might cause considerably service” shall generally be accounted for and reported on in higher environmental effects elsewhere in the element’s life line with the related Environmental Portfolio element. In cases cycle. If material adverse effects are known, the element is not of “value-add services” the revenue and, if applicable, the included in the Environmental Portfolio. ­annual customer reduction of carbon dioxide emissions shall be accounted for and reported on only if the service itself qual­ If the revenue related to an Environmental Portfolio element ifies as an Environmental Portfolio element by meeting one of cannot be accurately separated from our total revenue, the re­ the selection criteria as defined below. spective revenue will not be accounted for and reported due to the principle of conservativeness. In fiscal 2015, revenue and To qualify for inclusion in the Environmental Portfolio, an el­ carbon dioxide emission reductions at our customers generated ement must meet one of the following selection criteria. Prod­ with the acquired aero-derivative gas turbine and compressor ucts, systems, solutions and services with planned application business of Rolls-Royce plc, U.K., (Rolls-Royce) and with the in military use or nuclear power are not included in the Envi­ acquired business of Dresser-Rand Group Inc. (Dresser-Rand), a ronmental Portfolio. supplier for the oil and gas industry, has not been included in the Environmental Portfolio due to the fact that the evaluation Energy efficiency process of the portfolio has not been finalized yet. The criterion for energy efficiency is an improvement in en­ ergy efficiency of 20 % or more during the customer use The Siemens Sustainability Board chaired by Siemens Managing phase compared to the applicable baseline, or a reduction of Board member and Chief Sustainability Officer Roland Busch at least 100,000 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalents per annually acknowledges changes in the composition of the En­ reporting period in the customer use phase compared to the vironmental Portfolio. Another task of the Sustainability Board applicable baseline. If an energy efficiency increase can only be is to discuss potential concerns of stakeholders with regard to reasonably defined as reduction of dissipation losses (e.g. as the inclusion or deletion of certain technologies in the Environ­ defined by the International Electrotechnical Commission (IEC) mental Portfolio. standards for energy efficiency classification of motors), a 20 % reduction of dissipation loss would also qualify products for our CRITERIA FOR INCLUDING ELEMENTS IN THE Environmental Portfolio. ENVIRONMENTAL PORTFOLIO An Environmental Portfolio element can be a product, a system, Examples of products and systems meeting the above men­ a solution or a service as defined above. tioned energy efficiency criterion are combined cycle power plants, intelligent building technology systems (both reduce If all products, systems, solutions or services of a Siemens’ or­ carbon dioxide emissions by at least 100,000 metric tons per ganizational unit meet one of the selection criteria, this unit reporting period) or ELFA Hybrid Drives for buses (20 % effi­ may be considered as an Environmental Portfolio element as ciency improvement). a whole. Renewable energy Furthermore, a core component of a system or solution may This criterion covers technologies in the field of renewable en­ qualify as an Environmental Portfolio element, if the compo­ ergy sources or smart grid 1 applications and their respective nent provided by Siemens is key to enabling environmental core components. The scope of the renewable energy criterion benefits resulting from the system’s or solution’s overall appli­ is power generation and heat generation from, for example cation. This means that the environmental functionality of the wind power (onshore and offshore), tidal power, wave power, overall system or solution cannot be achieved without the com­ hydroelectricity, geothermal power or biomass. ponent provided by Siemens. Examples of core components qualifying as elements of the Siemens Environmental Portfolio are gear boxes for wind turbines or thyristor valves for high-­ voltage direct current (HVDC) power transmission systems. 1 According to the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) – Smart Grid Interoperability Standards Project (USA), the term smart grid, “refers to a ­modernization of the electricity delivery systems so it monitors, protects and automatically optimizes the operation of its interconnected elements – from the central and distributed generation through the high-voltage transmission network and the distribution system, to industrial users and building automation systems, to energy storage installations and to end-use consumers and their thermostats, 40 Annex electric vehicles, appliances and other household devices.” Examples of the respective Environmental Portfolio elements Comparison with an installed base are wind turbines as well as core components such as gear­ Comparison with an installed base refers to the difference boxes for wind turbines. between the Siemens product, system, solution or service and an average of several installations employed for the same or a The previous third selection criterion of environmental tech­ similar purpose. Comparison with an installed base implies the nologies was removed in fiscal 2015, as energy efficiency and existence of global or regional average data on several installed renewable energy are the main relevant selection criteria con­ products, systems, solutions or services employed for the tributing to the Environmental Portfolio. Prior year numbers same or a similar purpose. This comparison may be applied, for were adjusted accordingly in order to ensure year-on-year com­ example, to combined cycle power plants (CCPP) by drawing a parability. comparison with the average global greenhouse gas emissions factor for electricity generation. DETERMINING THE REFERENCE SOLUTION – BASELINE METHODS When calculating emission reductions compared to the base­ Energy efficiency and annual customer reduction of carbon line, we consider either direct savings (e.g. by power plants dioxide are all assessed by carrying out a comparison with a or efficient motors) or the indirect effects that occur when reference solution (baseline). There are three different op­ different products in a system interact and create emission re­ tions for the reference solution: before-and-after comparison, ductions (e.g. components for building automation). If Siemens direct-comparison with a reference technology or comparison only delivers core components but not the entire system, annual with the installed base. The final decision as to which base­ customer reduction of carbon dioxide emissions will only be line is used is taken by the respective Division within Siemens calculated for these parts. based on the following options: The baselines are reviewed annually and, if necessary adjusted, Before-and-after comparison such as when statistical data on the installed base is updated A before-and-after comparison refers to the difference between because of technical innovations or regulatory changes. an initial situation at the customer and the situation after in­ stallation of a Siemens product, system, solution or service. A The calculation of the reduction of carbon dioxide emissions before-and-after comparison implies the presence of a pre­ is based on a specific comparison for every relevant Environ­ existing product, system, solution or service at the customer, mental Portfolio element with a baseline. For this calculation, the characteristics of which are improved or substituted by the we focus on those elements that have a material impact on the employment of a Siemens product, system, solution or ser­ overall carbon dioxide emissions reduction. vice. This comparison may be applied, for example, in cases in which a Siemens product, system, solution or service mod­ EMISSION FACTORS FOR CALCULATING THE ANNUAL ernizes a power plant or optimizes the energy consumption of REDUCTION OF CARBON DIOXIDE EMISSIONS a building. For some emission reduction calculations, the baseline refer­ ence for the installed base is determined using known global Direct comparison with a reference technology emission factors such as those for power production. The base­ Direct comparison with a reference technology refers to the lines used for our calculations are mainly based on data from difference between the Siemens product, system, solution or the International Energy Agency (IEA) for gross power produc­ service and either an appropriate single other technology or tion and for grid losses, on data from the Intergovernmental a predecessor. Direct comparison with a reference technology Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) for fuel-based emission factors, implies the existence of one alternative or predecessor product, and our own assessments of power production efficiency. system, solution or service in the market which is employed for the same or a similar purpose. This comparison may be ap­ plied, for example, by using low-loss high-voltage direct cur­ rent (HVDC) power transmission in comparison to conventional alternating current power transmission. Annex 41 Most relevant emissions factors applied in 2015 are: Emission factors for CO2 abatement calculation Emission factor Basis for comparison of Environmental Portfolio elements Category (g / kWh) (g CO2 / kWh) Global power generation all primary energy carriers 583 Power generation Global power generation fossil energy carriers 857 Renewables Utilization of electricity (including transmission losses) 630 All types of utilization of electricity apart from trains Source: IEA (IEA World Energy Outlook 2014) 1, own calculations 1 Emission factors were updated to IEA World Energy Outlook 2014 (prior year: IEA World Energy Outlook 2013). For consistency reasons, we generally apply global emission Thus, the inclusion of elements in the Environmental Portfolio factors for calculating emission reductions unless specific is based on criteria, methodologies and assumptions that other conditions of a solution require application of local emission companies and other stakeholders may view differently. Fac­ factors. For the calculation of annual customer reductions of tors that may cause differences, among others, are: choice of carbon dioxide emissions e.g. for wind turbines, we apply the applicable baseline methodology, application of global emis­ emission factor 857 g / kWh of global fossil power production as sion factors that may be different from local conditions, use the baseline. patterns at customers that may be different from standard use patterns used for carbon dioxide emission reduction calcula­ Generally, our approach includes all greenhouse gases covered tions, assessment of the life span of the Environmental Portfo­ by the Kyoto-Protocol. However, for power production and elec­ lio elements, internal assessments of our own power produc­ trical applications, we consider the only relevant greenhouse tion efficiency factors, share of a core component and expert gas to be carbon dioxide. If other greenhouse gases occur in estimates if no other data is available. technical applications, they are included in our calculations. Accordingly, revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the For some Environmental Portfolio elements, we do not know reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions the detailed parameters of use at our customers. We therefore may not be comparable with similar information reported by apply internal and external expert estimates for these, follow­ other companies. We report the annual carbon dioxide emis­ ing the principle of conservativeness. sions reduction in the period of installation of the Environ­ mental Portfolio element. The period of installation will be REPORTING ESTIMATES determined by milestones or based on estimated construction To date, there is no applicable international standard that ap­ periods. This may differ from the timing of revenue recogni­ plies across companies for qualifying products, systems, solu­ tion. Furthermore, we subject revenue from our Environmental tions and services for environmental and climate protection, Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon or for compiling and calculating the respective revenue and the dioxide emissions to internal documentation and review re­ quantity of reduced carbon dioxide emissions attributable to quirements which are less sophisticated than those applicable such products, systems, solutions and services. for our financial information. We may change our policies for recognizing revenue from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions in the future without prior notice. 42 Annex Independent assurance report of internal controls for the preparation of a sustainability ­reporting that is free from material misstatements, in accor­ The assurance engagement performed by Ernst & Young (EY) dance with the above mentioned criteria and based on suitable relates exclusively to the German PDF-version of the ­chapters methods for gathering source data including judgments and “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts and Figures” of the r­ eport estimates of the individual sustainability data. “Sustainability Information 2015 as addendum to the Siemens Annual Report.” The following text is a translation of the o ­ riginal OUR RESPONSIBILITY German Independent Assurance Report. Our responsibility is to issue an assurance report on the sus­ tainability reporting based on our work performed. To Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich We conducted our limited assurance engagement in accor­ OUR ENGAGEMENT dance with the International Standard on Assurance Engage­ We have been engaged to perform a limited assurance engage­ ments (ISAE) 3000. This standard requires that we comply with ment on the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts our professional duties and plan and perform the assurance and Figures” of the report “Sustainability Information 2015 as engagement to obtain a limited level of assurance to preclude ­addendum to the Siemens Annual Report” of Siemens AG (here­ that the sustainability reporting is not in accordance, in ma­ inafter: the sustainability reporting) for the reporting period terial respects, with the aforementioned reporting principles from October 1, 2014 to September 30, 2015. and criteria. In a limited assurance engagement the evidence gathering procedures are more limited than in a reasonable The report “Sustainability Information 2015 as addendum to assurance engagement and therefore less assurance is obtained the Siemens Annual Report” is published as a PDF-version at than in a reasonable assurance engagement. WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INVESTOR/EN. We are independent from the company in compliance with LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT the IESBA Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants (IESBA Our engagement is exclusively limited to the German PDF-­ Code), which is founded on fundamental principles of integrity, version of the chapters “Sustainability at Siemens” and “Facts objectivity, professional competence and due care, confidenti­ and Figures” of the report “Sustainability Information 2015 as ality and professional behavior, and have complied with other addendum to the Siemens Annual Report”. Our engagement professional requirements of the IESBA Code. did not include any prospective statements and links to other web pages. KEY PROCEDURES The performance of our engagement mainly involved the fol­ CRITERIA lowing work: We assessed the report against the criteria set out in the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines G4 issued by the Global >> Inquiries of employees concerning the sustainability strategy, ­Reporting Initiative (GRI). In addition, the key performance sustainability principles and sustainability management in­ ­indicators of the Environmental Portfolio were assessed against cluding the stakeholder dialog of Siemens AG. the reporting principles as outlined in the Annex “Environmen­ >> Inquiries of employees responsible in the central Corporate tal Portfolio reporting principles” and the underlying criteria Development Strategy – Sustainability department for the set forth in “A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard – preparation of the sustainability reporting in order to assess Revised Edition” and “GHG Protocol for Project Accounting” the sustainability reporting system, the data capture and ­issued by the Greenhouse Gas Protocol Initiative. compilation methods as well as internal controls to the ex­ tent relevant for a review of the sustainability reporting. We believe that these criteria are suitable for our assurance en­ >> Inquiries of employees responsible in the corporate depart­ gagement. ments for the topics employees, occupational health and safety management, research and development, supply chain MANAGEMENT’S RESPONSIBILITY management, distribution and customer relations, environ­ The Managing Board of Siemens AG is responsible for the mental portfolio, environmental protection, compliance and preparation and the content of the sustainability reporting in corporate citizenship to assess the data capture and com­ compliance with the above-mentioned criteria. This responsi­ pilation methods as well as internal controls to the extent bility includes the design, implementation and maintenance relevant for the review of the sustainability reporting. Annex 43 >> Inspection of the relevant documentation of the systems and >> Inquiries of employees from selected departments at the processes for compiling, analyzing, and aggregating sustain­ Group’s headquarters, corporate departments, divisions and ability data in the reporting period and testing such docu­ the separately managed business Healthcare and at the sites mentation on a sample of basis. visited on material qualitative statements in the sustainabil­ >> Analytical measures at Group level, on the level of divisions ity reporting as well as the inspection of selected underlying and the separately managed business Healthcare regarding documents. the quality of the reported data. >> Review of material qualitative statements in the sustainabil­ >> Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis ity reporting for plausibility and consistency. relating to the collection and reporting of the sustainability data from the topics environmental protection and occupa­ OUR CONCLUSION tional safety during site visits Based on our procedures performed to obtain a limited level of –– at the location Finspang (Sweden) of the Division Power assurance, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to and Gas, believe that the information in the chapters “Sustainability at –– at the location Frankfurt of the Division Energy Manage­ Siemens” and “Facts and Figures” of the report “Sustainability ment, Information 2015 as addendum to the Siemens Annual Report” –– at the locations Karlsruhe and Nürnberg of the Division has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance Process Industries and Drives, with the aforementioned criteria. –– at the location Aalborg (Denmark) of the Division Wind Power and Renewables, Munich, November 30, 2015 –– at the location Walpole (USA) of Healthcare –– as well as at the divisions Power and Gas, Energy Manage­ Ernst & Young GmbH ment, Process Industries and Drives, Wind Power and Re­ Wirtschaftsprüfungsgesellschaft newables and the separately managed business Healthcare. >> Inquiries and inspection of documents on a sample basis re­ lating to the collection and reporting of the key performance indicators of the Environmental Portfolio including the pro­ cedures for determining the qualification of products, solu­ tions and services for the Environmental Portfolio during site visits at the divisions Mobility, Power and Gas and Process Spannagl Johne Industries and Drives. Wirtschaftsprüfer Wirtschaftsprüferin (German Public Auditor) (German Public Auditor) 44 Annex Notes and forward-looking statements Such statements are based on the current expectations and certain assumptions of Siemens’ management, of which many There is no standard system that applies across companies for are beyond Siemens’ control. These are subject to a number qualifying products and solutions for environmental and cli­ of risks, uncertainties and factors, including, but not limited mate protection, or for compiling and calculating the respective to those described in disclosures, in particular in the chapter revenues and the quantity of reduced carbon dioxide emissions Risks in this Annual Report. Should one or more of these risks attributable to such products and solutions. Accordingly, rev­ or uncertainties materialize, or should underlying expectations enues from our Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of not occur or assumptions prove incorrect, actual results, per­ our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions may not be formance or achievements of Siemens may (negatively or posi­ comparable with similar information reported by other compa­ tively) vary materially from those described explicitly or implic­ nies. Revenues from our Environmental Portfolio and the re­ itly in the relevant forward-looking statement. Siemens neither duction of our customers’ annual carbon dioxide emissions are intends, nor assumes any obligation, to update or revise these derived from various internal reporting systems that are gener­ forward-looking statements in light of developments which dif­ ally different from those applicable to the financial information fer from those anticipated. presented in our Consolidated Financial Statements and are, in particular, subject to less sophisticated internal documentation This document includes – in IFRS not clearly defined – supple­ as well as preparation and review requirements, including the mental financial measures that are or may be non-GAAP finan­ IT systems in use and the general internal control environment. cial measures. These supplemental financial measures should We may change our policies for recognizing revenues from our not be viewed in isolation or as alternatives to measures of Environmental Portfolio and the reduction of our customers’ Siemens’ net assets and financial positions or results of opera­ annual carbon dioxide emissions in the future without previ­ tions as presented in accordance with IFRS in its Consolidated ous notice. Financial Statements. Other companies that report or describe similarly titled financial measures may calculate them differ­ This document contains statements related to our future busi­ ently. ness and financial performance and future events or develop­ ments involving Siemens that may constitute forward-looking Due to rounding, numbers presented throughout this and other statements. These statements may be identified by words documents may not add up precisely to the totals provided and such as “expect,” “look forward to,” “anticipate” “intend,” “plan,” percentages may not precisely reflect the absolute figures. “­believe,” “seek,” “estimate,” “will,” “project” or words of simi­ lar meaning. We may also make forward-looking statements in This document is an English language translation of the Ger­ other reports, in presentations, in material delivered to share­ man document. In case of discrepancies, the German language holders and in press releases. In addition, our representatives document is the sole authoritative and universally valid ver­ may from time to time make oral forward-looking statements. sion. Annex 45 Further information and information Additional information resources The Siemens Annual Report 2015 is available online at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/ANNUAL-REPORT Further information on the contents is available from: Adress: Siemens AG Wittelsbacherplatz 2 Further sustainability information 80333 Munich Further information on our commitment to sustainability and Germany additional sustainability-related indicators are available at: WWW.SIEMENS.COM/SUSTAINABILIT Y Phone: + 49 (0) 89 636 33443 (Media Relations) + 49 (0) 89 636 32474 (Investor Relations) Further information on research, development and innovation Fax: + 49 (0) 89 636 30085 (Media Relations) at Siemens is available at: + 49 (0) 89 636 32830 (Investor Relations) WWW.SIEMENS.COM/INNOVATION Email: press @ siemens.com investorrelations @ siemens.com sustainability @ siemens.com © 2015 by Siemens AG, Berlin and Munich 46 Annex siemens.com
