Enter Learn more about this cover image People. Places. Practices. Finding more ways to help more people. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report Guide to the Icons Contents The icons below help to communicate the scope and boundary for each topic covered in our report. They represent the audience and locations throughout the world impacted by our business segments or enterprise. People Practices Operations Global Pharmaceutical Our Credo 3 Global Health 16 Governance & Ethical Performance 59 Letter from Our Chairman Access & Affordability of & CEO 4 Health Care 21 Supply Chain 61 Employees North America Medical Devices Successes & Opportunities 5 Innovation 25 Quality & Safety of Products 62 Organizational Profile 6 Customer Relationship Philanthropy 29 Management 64 Customers Latin America Consumer Our Citizenship & Sustainability 8 Supply Chain Risk Management 65 2020 Goals 9 Compliance 66 Completion of Healthy Future 2015 Goals 10 Places Procurement & Supplier Local Communities Europe, Middle East, Africa Enterprise Management 67 Our Materiality Assessment 13 Environmental Responsibility 33 Human Rights 73 Report Profile & Assurance Statement 95 Product Stewardship 35 Labor Practices & Workforce 75 Asia-Pacific 2015 Data Summary 98 Our Ingredients & Raw Materials 41 Employee Recruitment, About the GRI Indicators Development & Retention 79 In addition to a GRI index at the back of this report, United Nations Global Compact Sourcing of Raw Materials 42 Statement 102 Workplace Health & Safety 81 we have provided indications throughout to denote Climate 45 where content related to specific GRI indicators can Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Health-Conscious, be found. The following key presents two-letter Index 105 Water 52 Safe Employees 85 abbreviations for the standard disclosure areas outlined by the Global Reporting Initiative. These Waste 56 Employee Diversity & Inclusion 89 abbreviations, along with numbers that correspond Transparency 90 with performance indicators, appear throughout this report near the respective entries. Stakeholder Engagement 91 EN Environmental Financial Performance 94 HR Human Rights LA Labor Practices and Decent Work SO Society PR Product Responsibility EC Economic 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 2 Our Credo We believe our first responsibility is to the doctors, We are responsible to the communities in which Contents nurses and patients, to mothers and fathers and we live and work and to the world community as Our Credo all others who use our products and services. In well. We must be good citizens—support good Letter from meeting their needs everything we do must be of works and charities and bear our fair share of Our Chairman & CEO high quality. We must constantly strive to reduce taxes. We must encourage civic improvements and Successes & Opportunities our costs in order to maintain reasonable prices. better health and education. We must maintain in Organizational Profile Customers’ orders must be serviced promptly and good order the property we are privileged to use, Our Citizenship & accurately. Our suppliers and distributors must protecting the environment and natural resources. Sustainability have an opportunity to make a fair profit. 2020 Goals Our final responsibility is to our stockholders. Completion of We are responsible to our employees, the men and Business must make a sound profit. We must Healthy Future 2015 Goals women who work with us throughout the world. experiment with new ideas. Research must Our Materiality Assessment Everyone must be considered as an individual. be carried on, innovative programs developed We must respect their dignity and recognize their and mistakes paid for. New equipment must merit. They must have a sense of security in their be purchased, new facilities provided and new People jobs. Compensation must be fair and adequate, products launched. Reserves must be created Places and working conditions clean, orderly and safe. to provide for adverse times. When we operate We must be mindful of ways to help our employees according to these principles, the stockholders Practices fulfill their family responsibilities. Employees must should realize a fair return. feel free to make suggestions and complaints. There must be equal opportunity for employment, development and advancement for those qualified. We must provide competent management, and their actions must be just and ethical. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 3 Letter from Also in 2015, we expanded the ways we think about health and sought new ways to make everyone, everywhere, healthier as we finalized Our Chairman our new Citizenship & Sustainability 2020 Goals, described in detail within this report. Our Citizenship & CEO & Sustainability 2020 Goals continue our legacy of work to advance healthier societies and will help more people live healthier lives through the ideas we generate, products we make, and good habits and practices we create. These new goals have three key focus areas: For 130 years Johnson & Johnson • People: We will help people be healthier by upon our proven strategic principles. providing better access and care in more places In developing our new Citizenship & Contents has been helping people everywhere around the world. Sustainability 2020 Goals we have broadened Our Credo live longer, healthier and happier lives. •  Places: We will make the places we live, work our view to consider not just the challenges of the Letter from Our Chairman & CEO Written nearly 75 years ago, and play healthier by using fewer and smarter business we are in, but of the world in which we resources. operate. Global trends that could impact our ability Successes & Opportunities Our Credo guides everything we do to help people and the environment be healthier Organizational Profile •  Practices: We will team up with partners and with a strong sense of responsibility, include: population growth, poverty and inequality, Our Citizenship & employees to further advance our culture of Sustainability inspiration and a clear measure of health and well-being. rising global instability, climate change, water and resource scarcity, human rights issues, and 2020 Goals accountability. Our Credo outlines our pressures to increase transparency. Completion of We believe we can use our expertise, influence, Healthy Future 2015 Goals commitments to the people, places global reach and partnerships to help make this These and many other global challenges are Our Materiality Assessment and communities we touch every day world a healthier, better place. We are acutely aware recognized within the UN Sustainable Development of the dramatically changing global healthcare Goals (SDGs) ratified in late 2015. The SDGs provide with our products and solutions, and a comprehensive framework for governments, market. Populations of developed nations are People informs our strategic approach to our aging rapidly and intractable diseases are taking NGOs, private sector and other entities to consider Places Citizenship & Sustainability efforts. hold in some developing countries, increasing in their strategic plans moving forward. Later in 2016 healthcare costs; middle classes are expanding we will provide a perspective on the role we can play At Johnson & Johnson, we aspire to improve health in many developing nations, putting pressure on in addressing the SDGs. Practices in all we do, and everywhere we go. Since the existing healthcare infrastructure and capacity; and As the world’s largest, broadly based healthcare launch of our Healthy Future 2015 goals in 2010 patients are becoming increasingly involved in their company, guided as we are by Our Credo, we are we have worked to advance global health; steward own healthcare decisions, necessitating a holistic committed to fulfill our unique opportunity to help a healthy environment; increase sustainability approach to meeting their needs by integrating billions of people live longer, healthier, happier lives among our suppliers; foster the most engaged, wellness solutions, innovative new medicines and today, and for generations to come. health-conscious and safe employees in the advanced technologies. world; advance community wellness; enhance Sincerely, We believe the most important contribution we outcome measurement in philanthropy; and can make to the dynamic challenges we are facing increase transparency and collaboration. We met is innovation—innovation in products and solutions, most of our goals and, in so doing, helped even services, processes and practices. The promise of Alex Gorsky more people and deepened our relationships with innovation in health care is great, but it comes with Chairman of the Board of Directors and our stakeholders. Our performance is presented the need for forward-focused investment in R&D, Chief Executive Officer in this report and highlighted in Successes and a holistic approach to evolving global healthcare Opportunities. markets and bold future-facing strategies that build 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 4 Provided below are the material areas where we have achieved our greatest successes in 2015 and those where opportunities remain. A general description of each area is given along with a link to the section of the report where details are available. Successes Opportunities Global Health Access We launched a new, enterprise-wide Global Public Health strategy and orWhile we have strong access programs in place, our efforts must continue ganization to leverage the full breadth and depth of Johnson & Johnson to to evolve to address challenges stemming from limitations of existing deliver comprehensive, long-term health solutions that deliver better health healthcare infrastructure and increasing demands by people who need outcomes for families and communities. greater access to quality health care. Contents Our Credo Quality & Safety of Products Water Letter from We continually explore new ways to foster our proactive quality culture and We operate in many areas of the world where water quality and quantity are Our Chairman & CEO use our expertise to engage in leadership roles with external stakeholders an issue. While we are not a large water user, we are undertaking additional Successes & Opportunities to influence and shape regulations, ensuring the Company continues to efforts to evaluate water availability in the areas in which we operate and to deliver safe and effective products to improve the lives of our patients and implement water risk mitigation efforts in those areas where water risks are Organizational Profile customers. the highest. Our Citizenship & Sustainability 2020 Goals Procurement and Our Suppliers Human Rights By collaborating with our partners to strengthen the social and Managing the human rights considerations in our supply base is a critical Completion of Healthy Future 2015 Goals environmental performance of our supply base, we are driving and complex undertaking. Efforts are ongoing to expand human rights as a sustainability efforts beyond our four walls, while also strengthening filter for supplier risk prioritization, update our Responsibility Standards for Our Materiality Assessment the Company. Suppliers to reflect all relevant provisions from the UN Guiding Principles on Human Rights, and apply our Standards to all suppliers. People Climate We have realized a 9.8 percent reduction in facility CO2 emissions against Transparency Places our 2010 baseline; approximately seven percent of the Company’s energy We continue to assess how we approach transparency for any identified is currently generated by clean/renewable sources; and on-site renewable material issues and work to raise the bar of our reporting in accordance Practices and clean technology energy capacity has increased to 54 megawatts. In with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) strategic framework that we and 2015, we extended our commitments with two new energy and climate hundreds of other companies use for Citizenship & Sustainability reporting. goals based on the latest climate science. Stakeholder Engagement Product Stewardship Our senior leadership establishes broad parameters for stakeholder Improving the sustainability profiles of our products and/or packaging engagement; we do not have an overarching policy for stakeholder has been an integral part of the Company’s goal-setting efforts for many engagement or one group that leads it. As a decentralized company, our years. Using our Earthwards® approach, we are reducing the social and employees engage with many stakeholders on a variety of topics related to environmental impacts of our products. our businesses throughout the world. Governance We created a new office of Worldwide Corporate Governance that will partner with the Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability and Citizenship teams to measure progress against the completion of our Healthy Future 2015 goals and track progress on our new Citizenship & Sustainability 2020 Goals. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 5 Organizational Profile G4-8 Europe, Middle East, Africa (EMEA) employees North America 30.7% employees Asia employees 37.4% Contents 18.8% Our Credo Letter from Africa Our Chairman & CEO (included in EMEA Successes & Opportunities total) Organizational Profile Our Citizenship & Latin America Sustainability employees 2020 Goals 13.1% Completion of Healthy Future 2015 Goals Total 2015 Net Sales, Total Number Employees, Number of Operating Our Materiality Assessment Worldwide Companies, Worldwide Worldwide People 127,100 250 $70.1 billion Places Practices Johnson & Johnson is organized into three business segments: Pharmaceutical Medical Devices Consumer The Pharmaceutical segment is focused on five The Medical Devices segment includes a broad The Consumer segment includes a broad range therapeutic areas: immunology (e.g., rheumatoid range of products used in the orthopaedic, surgery, of products used in the baby care, oral care, skin arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and psoriasis), cardiovascular, diabetes care and vision care fields. care, over-the-counter pharmaceutical, women’s infectious diseases and vaccines (e.g., HIV, health and wound care markets. hepatitis, respiratory infections and tuberculosis), 2015 Sales: $25.1 billion neuroscience (e.g., Alzheimer’s disease, mood 2015 Sales: $13.5 billion disorders and schizophrenia), oncology (e.g., prostate cancer, hematologic malignancies and lung cancer), and cardiovascular and metabolic diseases (e.g., thrombosis and diabetes). 2015 Sales: $31.4 billion 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 6 Sales by Geographic Region G4-9 Worldwide Sales (in billions of dollars) (in billions of dollars) U.S. International 74.3 71.3 70.1 32.3 31.4 28.1 14.9 13.1 28.5 27.6 14.2 15.7 25.1 15.3 13.0 17.4 18.3 Contents 13.9 14.7 14.5 13.5 Our Credo 12.8 12.3 12.1 9.5 9.4 8.3 Letter from Our Chairman & CEO 5.2 5.1 5.2 Successes & Opportunities 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Organizational Profile Our Citizenship & Pharmaceutical Medical Devices Consumer Worldwide Total Sustainability 2020 Goals Completion of Healthy Future 2015 Goals Johnson & Johnson, through its Family of Companies The Company is organized into three business segments: For more details about Our Management Approach Our Materiality Assessment (“the Company”), is the largest and most diversified Pharmaceutical, Medical Devices and Consumer. and Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Risk Management healthcare company in the world. The Management and Executive Committees of Framework, please see our Company website. G4-3, G4-4 Johnson & Johnson are the principal management Johnson & Johnson can be found online at People groups responsible for the strategic operations and www.jnj.com and via social media. Our 250 operating companies employ approximately allocation of the Company resources. These committees Places 127,100 employees in 60 countries (as of yearoversee and coordinate the activities of the Company’s end 2015), who are engaged in the research and three business segments. Practices development, manufacture and sale of a broad range of products in the healthcare field. We utilize more Our worldwide headquarters are in New Brunswick, New than 80,000 suppliers and hundreds of external Jersey, USA. We have been listed on the New York Stock manufacturers to support the development and Exchange since 1944 under the symbol JNJ. manufacturing of our products worldwide. The G4-5, G4-7 Company’s product portfolio spans pharmaceuticals, medical devices and consumer—approximately For changes in our business during the reporting period, 389,000 products and product variations in total that please see Note 20 (Business Combinations and touch more than one billion people every day. Divestitures) on page 62 of our 2015 Annual Report G4-6, G4-9, G4-12, G4-17 available on our Investor Relations website. G4-13 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 7 Our Citizenship & Sustainability While the terms citizenship protecting the environment and conserving natural resources; and conducting our These pillars permeate everything we do and Contents serve as critical components in our commitment Our Credo and sustainability are widely business responsibly so we can continue using to creating value through innovation, fostering Letter from Our Chairman & CEO used today, the concepts capabilities, expertise, influence and partnerships to fulfill our role in making the world a better, global reach and local focus, driving excellence in execution, and leading with purpose. Successes & Opportunities behind them are not new to healthier place for generations to come. Ultimately, we view Citizenship & Sustainability Organizational Profile Johnson & Johnson. With the launch of the Citizenship & Sustainability 2020 Goals we are creating a new as an intrinsic component of our aspiration to Our Citizenship & help billions of people around the world live Sustainability vision of health—a vision that seeks new ways longer, healthier and happier lives. Our responsibilities to those who use our 2020 Goals to make everyone, everywhere healthier. Our products and services, to our employees, to the Completion of Citizenship & Sustainability 2020 Goals will help communities in which we live and work, to the Healthy Future 2015 Goals advance healthier societies. With the ideas we environment, and to our shareholders are voiced Our Materiality Assessment generate, products we make, and good habits we in Our Credo and have guided employees of create, we can do more than ever before. Johnson & Johnson for nearly 75 years. Efforts Our priorities are identified as three pillars: People that we now capture under the heading of Citizenship & Sustainability have existed internally Places for decades across the enterprise. People A decentralized management approach is Helping people be healthier, by Practices one of our core strategic operating principles, providing better access and care in and we recognize the need to coordinate our more places around the world. Citizenship & Sustainability efforts across the enterprise. Our office of Worldwide Corporate Places Governance partners with our Environment, Making the places we live, work and Health, Safety & Sustainability, and Citizenship play healthier, by using fewer and teams to coordinate and track performance of smarter resources. the Company’s overall efforts. (For more, see the Governance section of this report.) Practices Our Citizenship & Sustainability strategic Teaming up with partners and priorities focus efforts to improve our social, employees to further advance our environmental, governance and economic culture of health and well-being. impact and influence. These include: advancing global public health; reducing carbon emissions, 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 88 • Increase recyclability of our consumer product packaging to 90-plus percent in key1 markets through design for recyclability and partnerships. 2020 GOALS • Reduce absolute carbon emissions 20 percent Citizenship & by 2020, 80 percent by 2050. Produce/procure Sustainability 20 percent of electricity from renewable sources by 2020; aspire to power all facilities with clean/ renewable energy by 2050. • Conduct a comprehensive resource protection at 100 percent of manufacturing/R&D locations and implement water-risk mitigation plans (WRMPs) at the high-risk sites. Contents People therapy to a cumulative 200,000 patients, saving 148,000 lives. Our Credo Letter from Goals: • Develop and deliver innovative, life-changing • Train 30,000 skilled birth attendants to assist six million births. Practices Our Chairman & CEO Goals: solutions to address the world’s major health •S Successes & Opportunities  upport the delivery of six million eye care challenges. • Collaborate with our suppliers to accelerate Organizational Profile screenings to underserved children, and provide • Deliver innovative healthcare access and training corrective treatments as needed to 100,000. environmental and social improvements across Our Citizenship & the value chain. Sustainability programs that impact a billion lives in under•A  ctivate signature partnerships for our five largest 2020 Goals served areas. • Empower and engage the Johnson & Johnson Consumer brands to promote the health and Completion of • Collaborate with governments, nonprofits and well-being of people in need around the world. family of employees to become the healthiest Healthy Future 2015 Goals the private sector to foster new models of health workforce. •D  rive policy thought leadership and strategic Our Materiality Assessment that improve economic well-being and healthcare engagements to expand healthcare access Targets & Metrics: in emerging markets, including Brazil, China and and coverage in three emerging markets • Enroll suppliers covering 80 percent of our spend People India. (Brazil, China, India) and lead three to five pilots in our Sustainable Procurement Program. Targets & Metrics: to demonstrate improvements in economic, Places • Consistently achieve benchmark spending productivity and health outcomes. • Expand the database documenting bedaquiline’s with U.S. diverse suppliers and small suppliers Practices (Sirturo®) effectiveness, efficacy and safety profile globally, while doubling our global supplier through collaborative efforts to further increase access. Places diversity footprint. • Empower and engage at least 100,000 Goals: • Initiate Phase 3 trials and regulatory submissions employees toward a “personal best” in health for rilpivirine LA, the first all-injectable depot •F  ully integrate sustainable design solutions into and well-being via the principles of Energy for regimen for HIV. our product innovation processes. Performance®, innovative digital health tools, •R  educe our impacts on climate and water and advancing a culture of healthy eating and • Produce and donate one billion doses of resources. physical activity. mebendazole (Vermox®) to treat more than 100 million children at risk for intestinal worms, Targets & Metrics: and reduce infections by 26 million over five years •N  ew and existing products representing through integrated treatment and prevention. 20 percent of Johnson & Johnson revenue • Deliver HIV/AIDS therapy access to 130,000 achieve Earthwards® recognition for sustainable 1. Key markets include those where mature recycling adults and 5,000 children, and tuberculosis innovation improvements. infrastructure exists (U.S., U.K., France, Germany, Canada). 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 99 Completion of Healthy Future 2015 Goals Our performance against our Advancing Global Health worldwide development and commercialization of Contents dapivirine for HIV prevention in women. In 2015, Our Credo Healthy Future 2015 goals has Goal: One research partnership and three Janssen Sciences Ireland UC (Janssen), one of the Letter from helped us advance global health; licensing agreements finalized to address diseases of the developing world. pharmaceutical companies of Johnson & Johnson, Our Chairman & CEO expanded its relationship with IPM through a new Successes & Opportunities steward a healthy environment; Actual: Our efforts to reach this goal began agreement to help protect women against sexual Organizational Profile increase sustainability among with commitments made in 2011 as part of the transmission of HIV. This new agreement grants IPM an exclusive, royalty-free license to develop Our Citizenship & Sustainability our suppliers; develop engaged, London Declaration to end Neglected Tropical Diseases (NTDs) by 2020, and include working darunavir, an antiretroviral (ARV) medicine used for 2020 Goals health-conscious and safe with partners, such as Drugs for Neglected HIV-1 treatment, as a vaginal or rectal microbicide Completion of Healthy Future 2015 Goals employees; advance community Diseases initiative (DNDi), to develop a chewable for HIV prevention in selected developing countries formulation of VERMOX (mebendazole), our ® at an affordable cost. 2 A Our Materiality Assessment wellness; enhance outcomes treatment for intestinal worms in children. In measurement in philanthropy; 2013, the Company executed a data-sharing Goal: Ninety least-developed and middle-income countries have our HIV therapies registered and People and increase our transparency agreement with DNDi for preclinical research available at special-effort pricing. on flubendazole as a potential new treatment Places and collaborations. Progress against parasites that cause lymphatic filariasis Actual: In more than 100 countries, our HIV is reported here and in more (elephantiasis) and onchocerciasis (river blindness); medicines are made available either at specialPractices a licensing agreement with PATH on TMC278LA detail within our report. pre-exposure prophylaxis; and in-licensing effort or reduced pricing, provided local regulatory systems allow import prior to registration. The agreements with Wellcome Trust and Ku Leuven in 90 least-developed or middle-income countries the field of dengue. We bolstered our portfolio of identified in our Healthy Future 2015 goal are part treatments against NTDs in 2015 when we added of an HIV Access Territory from which we measure the early development program for dengue to our our progress. A Global Public Health portfolio, aiming to develop in partnership with key research institutions innovations that protect against dengue for people traveling to and living in endemic areas. In 2014, Janssen Global Public Health expanded its collaboration with the International 2. http://www.ipmglobal.org/publications/ipm-receivesPartnership for Microbicides (IPM) to include worldwide-rights-hiv-prevention-medicine A Included in the scope of ERM CVS assurance engagement. Please see page 96 for their findings and conclusions. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 10 10 Goal: Achieve World Health Organization (WHO) was registered in the U.S. and EMEA, and five Engaged, Health-Conscious generics licensing agreements were signed for our Employees prequalification for all our products that address HIV medicine, rilpivirine. This registration marked diseases of the developing world. Goal: 90th percentile employee engagement achievement of the goal. A Actual: Since 2010, five formulations of our when compared to external benchmarks. HIV antiretroviral medicines have achieved WHO Actual: In 2014, engagement levels for Stewarding a Healthy prequalification: 75, 150 and 600 mg formulations Johnson & Johnson in total and for each of the of PREZISTA® (darunavir) and 100 and 25 mg Environment business segments exceeded the Mayflower formulations of INTELENCE® (etravirine). The Goal: 20 percent absolute reduction in facility Global Norm. However, in 2015 a Credo survey WHO included SIRTURO® (bedaquiline), our carbon dioxide emissions (by 2020). redesign program was initiated, and engagement TB medicine, in its interim policy guidance on Actual: Realized a 9.8 percent absolute reduction was not evaluated. treatment of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis vs. 2010 baseline. A (MDR-TB) issued in June 2013. Goal: 90 percent of employees have access to Contents In 2014, the WHO granted prequalification for Goal: 10 percent absolute reduction in water Culture of Health programs. Our Credo QUINVAXEM® in cPAD, a fully liquid pentavalent consumption at manufacturing and R&D locations. Actual: 93 percent have access to Culture of Letter from vaccine (DTwP-HepB-Hib) in an innovative, Actual: 7.2 percent absolute reduction. Health programs. A Our Chairman & CEO compact, prefilled, auto-disable (cPAD) injection Successes & Opportunities system. After embarking on an adaptive new Goal: 10 percent absolute reduction in total waste Goal: 80 percent of employees have completed a Organizational Profile development project to make QUINVAXEM® disposed at manufacturing and R&D locations. health risk assessment and know their key health Our Citizenship & available in a cPAD injection system (Becton indicators. Sustainability Dickinson’s Uniject), Janssen Vaccines made the Actual: 2.9 percent absolute reduction. A 2020 Goals decision to stop the development of this injection Actual: 92 percent have completed a health risk Completion of system. (See the Access section of this report for Goal: Increase on-site renewable and cleanassessment and know their key health indicators. A Healthy Future 2015 Goals more information.) technology energy capacity to 50 megawatts. Our Materiality Assessment Goal: 80 percent of measured employee populaActual: 54 megawatts installed or in progress.3 Goal: Provide 200 million doses of VERMOX ® tion health risks are characterized as low risk. (mebendazole), our treatment for intestinal worms, Actual: 73 percent of employees characterized People to infected children in more than 30 countries. Goal: 20 percent improvement in vehicle fleet emissions efficiency. as low risk based on employee health results. A Places Actual: In 2015, we provided more than 129 Actual: 20 percent improvement. A million doses of VERMOX®, our treatment for Goal: 15 percent improvement in employee safety Practices intestinal worms, for distribution to affected vs. 2010 (Lost Workday Case rate target of 0.09). Goal: Products and packaging evaluated for children in 14 countries. Compared with 2014, Actual: Achieved 0.08 lost workday case rate, a sustainability improvements, with 60 achieving our donation decreased from 181 million doses, 27 percent improvement over 2010. A Earthwards® recognition. primarily due to challenges stemming from limited country capacity to fully utilize the amount Actual: 80 products have received Earthwards® Goal: 15 percent improvement in contractor safety of committed medicines. Our donations had recognition. A vs. 2010 (Lost Workday Case Rate target of 0.12). consistently increased from 36 million doses in 2010, to 80 million in 2011, 116 million in 2012, Actual: Realized a lost workday case rate for and 161 million in 2013, to 181 million in 2014. A contractors of 0.18, a 28.5 percent increase. A Goal: Register a new triple-combination therapy Goal: 15 percent improvement in fleet safety for HIV and finalize a generics licensing agreement. 3. Performance is lower than clean energy capacity reported vs. 2010 (Auto crashes per million miles [CPMM] in 2014 report (55.7 MW) based on recalculations due to target of 4.7). Actual: In 2011, a new triple-combination therapy divestitures. Actual: Realized a CPMM rate of 6.01, a nine A Included in the scope of ERM CVS assurance engagement. Please see page 96 for their findings and conclusions. percent increase over 2010. A 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 11 11 Supplier Sustainability certificates. We continue to support on-the-ground Transparency and projects to improve yields and farming standards Collaborations Goal: All strategic suppliers have two or more at small holders. publicly reported sustainability goals. Goal: All major brand websites share product Actual: Approximately 98 percent of strategic Advancing sustainability information. suppliers have two or more publicly reported Community Wellness Actual: 100 percent of major brands share sustainability goals. A product sustainability information on their Goal: Advancing community wellness through websites. A health education—number of programs by Goal: $1 billion in spend with diverse suppliers by geography and disease/health education area 2011; five percent increase per year thereafter with Goal: Major stakeholder engagements and new where the needs are greatest. a 2015 target of $1.36 billion. collaborations reported publicly. Actual: 26 new health education programs Actual: Achieved $1.39 billion in spend. A Actual: As a global healthcare company, we launched across 20 countries. engage in hundreds of collaborations in any given Contents Goal: All goods suppliers in high-risk countries year. Our Credo Goal: Report the number of people reached by and any service providers with greater than these initiatives. Letter from $250,000 in spend with operations in a high-risk Goal: Johnson & Johnson website shares Our Chairman & CEO Actual: Approximately 568,000 lives reached. country confirm awareness of and conformance Company policy perspectives on major issues. Successes & Opportunities with the human rights provisions of our policies. Organizational Profile Actual: The Company shares policy perspectives Actual: Using a regional approach, identified on major issues routinely on the website. Our Citizenship & approximately 1,200 goods suppliers in high-risk Philanthropy Measurement 6 Sustainability 2020 Goals countries and services suppliers with greater Goal: Increase number of major philanthropic Goal: Economic and sustainability reporting than $250,000 in annual spend with operations programs measuring health-related outcomes. enhanced online and provided for key markets. Completion of Healthy Future 2015 Goals in a high-risk country. Of these, greater than 80 Actual: 170 programs reported measuring longActual: Reporting on global environment, social, Our Materiality Assessment percent have been determined to have confirmed term outputs and/or outcomes; 10 programs were governance and economic activities strengthened awareness of and conformance with the human identified for projects to build measurement online and across regions. rights provisions of our policies.4 A capacity.7 A People Goal: All critical employees receive human rights Goal: Increase percentage of major philanthropic Places training. 4. Performance against this goal was originally tracked programs measuring and reporting health-related by supplier category. In 2015, we modified to a more comprehensive regional approach. For more details, please Practices Actual: Greater than 1,300 procurement outcomes. see the Procurement and Supplier Management section of this professionals (characterized as critical employees), Actual: 85 percent (170 of 201 programs in this report. or 99.85 percent, have received training. 5 A category) reported measuring long-term outputs 5. In 2014, we erroneously reported progress against this goal at 100 percent, but discovered after publication of the report that and/or outcomes.7 A actual progress was just under 50 percent due to adjustments of Goal: All palm oil and palm oil derivatives are classifications of employees. sourced from certified sustainable sources. Goal: Increase percentage of mid-tier/ 6. For these metrics, major philanthropic programs include Actual: Working on including Roundtable for intermediate programs measuring and reporting grants greater than $50,000, and mid-tier/intermediate programs include grants of $50,000 or less. The indicator is Sustainable Palm Oil-certified derivatives in our health-related outcomes. based on response to the question on the grant application supply chains where possible. Additionally, we Actual: 70 percent (132 of 189 programs in this asking whether grantees will be measuring long-term outputs are understanding our supply chains through category) reported measuring long-term outputs and/or outcomes. J&J does not fund the same partners every year, making annual comparisons difficult; grants not submitted transparency improvements with our suppliers and and/or outcomes. A through GIFTS Online (including some in regional portfolios) are purchasing Independent Smallholder Greenpalm excluded. 7. Progress as stated is correct and cannot be measured against the original goal on the basis of year-over-year increase, A Included in the scope of ERM CVS assurance engagement. Please see page 96 for their findings and conclusions. as the overall pool of programs varies over time. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 12 12 Show People Our Materiality 5 Show Places Assessment E X T R E M E LY HIGH Show Practices Product Quality and Safety G4-18–21, G4-23 Hide labels 1 Access to and Affordability of 2 Health Care 3 Global Health Ethical In 2013, Johnson & Johnson conducted a Product Performance VERY HIGH Pipeline Citizenship & Sustainability materiality 8 assessment Financial Health/ 4 Contents Economic Performance 7 to identify those topics of greatest interest to 4 6 Our Credo both Johnson & Johnson and our stakeholders; 5 Compliance Letter from specifically, those reflecting our significant economic, Our Chairman & CEO 10 R&D and Clinical Trials environmental and social impacts, and those that could Product Ingredients/ 11 Successes & Opportunities Materials substantively influence the assessments and decisions 9 Organizational Profile of stakeholders. The process involved several steps: Supply Chain 8 Innovation Management Our Citizenship & Staying Healthy/ Sustainability Initial list of issues: Developed from the aspects Wellness 13 2020 Goals identified by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), 17 Product Stewardship Completion of issues identified by the Sustainability Accounting Intellectual Property Healthy Future 2015 Goals Standards Board, a review of competitor reports and Sourcing of 12 Human Rights Greenhouse Gas/Climate 16 Raw Materials Our Materiality Assessment websites, topics identified through our customer call Philanthropy 18 centers, shareholder resolutions and questionnaires 3 Public-Private Partnerships Market Access & Presence 28 22 22 from socially responsible investors. HIGH Community Engagement People & Partnership 35 29 21 Stakeholder 14 Transparency 26 Engagement Expanded list of issues: Interviews were conducted Job Creation 36 Places with Johnson & Johnson staff from all regions, Diversity 27 25 23 19 Water Employee Recruitment/ Product & Financial Labor Practices Development/ business units, levels and functions of the enterprise, – Importance to Johnson & Johnson + Donations 39 Practices Biodiversity Corporate Governance 20 Environmental Retention asking them to consider the Company’s activities, Political 31 Responsibility 40 Contributions/ Compensation/ impacts and stakeholder expectations, and to Lobbying Remuneration 38 30 Strategic Leadership/ 34 Sharing of Expertise identify those issues of the greatest interest to Energy Johnson & Johnson and our stakeholders. A master Use 33 32 Waste list of over 220 topics was generated. Air Emissions 2 37 Impact assessment: Each topic was evaluated for Data Protection 15 and Privacy boundaries (where its impact occurred). Impacts were Volunteerism Workplace Health determined both inside and outside the organization, & Safety 41 and by business unit, region and stakeholder group. 8. The use of “materiality” in this context is not related to 2 3 4 5 matters or facts that could be deemed “material” to a reasonable investor as referred to under U.S. securities laws or similar – Importance to External Stakeholders + requirements of other jurisdictions. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 13 13 Consolidation of topics: The number of topics to be assessed was consolidated, taking into account Extremely • Product Quality and Safety •P rocurement and Supplier Management Formerly called Supply Chain Management the number of times an issue was identified, along High • Access to and Affordability of Health Care • Human Rights with other considerations. A final list of 41 topics was developed. • Global Health •P roduct Stewardship Includes Ingredients & Raw Materials/Sourcing • Governance & Ethical Performance of Raw Materials Ranking of topics: A group of diverse Combines Ethical Performance and Johnson & Johnson staff, including many senior Corporate Governance •T ransparency decision makers, ranked the issues using a series of • Compliance •C ompensation & Remuneration 10 questions designed to explore both internal and on website • Financial Health/Economic Performance external priorities. This allowed the consideration of many views to be taken into account, including the • Innovation Includes Product Pipeline and R&D and interests of stakeholders with whom we are not in Clinical Trials Contents constant or obvious dialogue. Our Credo Letter from In 2014, the assessment was expanded to include Very High • Employees •S takeholder Engagement Our Chairman & CEO input from a larger group of external stakeholders. Combines Workplace Health and Safety, Staying Combined with Community Engagement and Healthy/Wellness, Employee Recruitment/ Partnership Successes & Opportunities Over 200 geographically diverse customers, Development/Retention), and Diversity) Organizational Profile healthcare providers, universities, suppliers, NGOs •G reenhouse Gas/Climate • Intellectual Property Combined with Energy Use Our Citizenship & and investors were invited to provide input to the on website Sustainability process. Responses received were aggregated with • Labor Practices • Water 2020 Goals the external stakeholder responses received in 2013, • Philanthropy Completion of and a revised ranking of the 41 material issues was • Environmental Responsibility Healthy Future 2015 Goals generated. The expanded results are shown in the • Market Access and Presence Our Materiality Assessment diagram at right. Boundaries for each material issue on website are shown by the use of icons throughout the report. People In 2015, we grouped related issues under a common High • Public-Private Partnerships •J ob Creation heading, and moved others strictly to our website. on website on website Places A consolidated list of topics is summarized at right, • Strategic Leadership/Sharing of Expertise •D ata Protection and Privacy on website on website Practices along with notations where information resides solely on our website. There have been no significant • Biodiversity •P roduct and Financial Donations changes from previous reporting periods in the on website on website scope, boundary or measurement methods applied • Waste •P olitical Contributions/Lobbying in this report. on website • Air Emissions on website •V olunteerism on website 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 14 14 Contents People Global Health Access & Affordability of Health Care Innovation Philanthropy Places Practices People We’ll help people be healthier, by providing better access and care in more places around the world. Global Health Contents At Johnson & Johnson, at Johnson & Johnson, this new organization will Our innovative partnerships, spanning mobilize coalitions of global and local partners decades, have trained a new generation of health we believe that health care is to achieve maximum impact. To work with these workers to provide critical prenatal and obstetric People Global Health society’s greatest challenge partners more effectively, we established an health care in resource-limited settings. We also on-the-ground operations presence in South donate life-saving medicines and support the Access & Affordability and that we are uniquely poised Africa. This site was chosen to officially launch development of technologies that improve access of Health Care Innovation to tackle it. For 130 years, our new Johnson & Johnson Global Public Health to critical healthcare information to protect women (GPH) strategy. and their children. Philanthropy Johnson & Johnson has been The enterprise-wide ambition for our GPH Johnson & Johnson was among the first committed to improving the strategy is reflected by the diversity of our GPH private-sector companies to answer the United Places senior leadership, which includes representatives Nations (UN) Secretary General’s call to redouble health of individuals, families from our Consumer, Pharmaceutical and Medical the effort toward achieving the Millennium Practices and communities around Devices business segments; Corporate Affairs Development Goals (MDGs), specifically those divisions (Communications, Corporate Equity and which impact maternal and child health. In the world. Corporate Citizenship); Government Affairs and 2010, Johnson & Johnson pledged to support Policy; and Finance and Human Resources groups. MDGs 4, 5 and 6 with a comprehensive five-year In 2014, the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies Our GPH strategy aims to deliver integrated commitment to reach as many as 120 million of Johnson & Johnson launched Janssen Global evidence-based solutions to address complex women and children a year by 2015. We met and Public Health (Janssen GPH), incorporating global health problems in three key focus areas: exceeded this goal in 2015 with efforts focused innovative R&D, policies and access models to maternal, newborn and child health; HIV/AIDS; on five key areas. In each of these areas we meet the world’s greatest public health challenges. and tuberculosis. We are also scoping other focus have developed strong, innovative partnerships However, these complex challenges require areas, including neglected tropical diseases, that have the potential to foster the greatest more than just pharmaceutical interventions. surgery/trauma, mental health, vision care and improvements in maternal and child health: To address this, we launched a new, enterprisegame-changing vaccine technologies. • Making childbirth safer; wide global public health strategy and organization Maternal, Newborn and Child Health • T  reating and preventing intestinal worms to build on the success of the Janssen in children; organization and others. Rather than focusing on individual interventions in isolation, this new Building on the legacy of our Corporate •  sing technology to reach new and expectant U organization leverages the full breadth and depth Citizenship group, our goal is to help end mothers with vital health information; of Johnson & Johnson to deliver comprehensive preventable maternal and child deaths and ensure • E  liminating mother-to-child transmission health solutions for better health outcomes for every child thrives. We believe that the lives of HIV; families and communities. While designing these of millions of moms and babies can be saved innovative health solutions is core to what we do through simple, affordable interventions. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 16 • P  iloting and scaling therapeutic innovations through research and development to treat HIV, TB and neglected tropical diseases. Many of these efforts continue as we consider the UN Sustainable Development Goals and have been built into our Global Public Health organization and strategy. Find out more about our commitment to maternal and child health in our 2015 Digital Year in Review. HIV/AIDS Contents Our goal is to help ensure every child is born People HIV-free, adolescent girls and young women have Global Health the tools they need to stay HIV-free, and people Access & Affordability living with HIV have access to the medicines they of Health Care need to lead healthy, productive lives. Innovation Despite significant progress, HIV/AIDS Philanthropy continues to take lives and devastate communities, especially the most vulnerable. To help create an Deworming Places HIV/AIDS-free generation, we are investing in research and development for new treatments Practices and fostering partnerships to increase access to medicines and quality care, while providing educational tools to empower communities PRETERM-BIRTH PREVENTION Born On Time is a global public-private partnership that brings together resources and expertise from Johnson & Johnson, Government Affairs of Canada, World Vision, Plan International severely impacted by HIV. Canada, and Save the Children in Bangladesh, Ethiopia and Mali—three countries where the burden of newborn As part of the Company’s overall commitment deaths is high and governments have been committed to improving survival rates. to HIV, in December 2015 we marked World AIDS Day with four major new global commitments: and in-kind contributions. We will provide expertise, Empowering women and girls in HIV financial resources and in-country consumer prevention Stemming the tide of HIV in adolescent girls insights to support a suite of programs, and we Building on a decade-long partnership, Janssen Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V., one of the Janssen launched the DREAMS Innovation Challenge to Sciences Ireland UC granted the not-for-profit Pharmaceutical Companies of Johnson & Johnson, identify and develop new approaches. Janssen International Partnership for Microbicides (IPM) is supporting the President’s Emergency Plan joins other major partners, the Bill & Melinda Gates an exclusive, royalty-free license to develop for AIDS Relief (PEPFAR) DREAMS partnership. Foundation, Girl Effect, Gilead Sciences and ViiV and commercialize in a number of developing This ambitious collaboration seeks to reduce new Healthcare in its support. countries its HIV medicine darunavir as a potential infections in adolescent girls and young women vaginal and rectal microbicide for HIV prevention by 40 percent in 10 sub-Saharan Africa countries in women. The collaboration complements by 2017. Seventy-four percent of new infections our existing license to IPM for dapivirine, an among adolescents in sub-Saharan Africa are girls. investigational HIV medicine, for use as a potential In joining this partnership, we committed up to vaginal microbicide, as part of our efforts around $15 million over two years in combined funding the development and delivery of innovative tools 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 17 17 for women and girls in developing countries to protect themselves against sexual transmission of HIV. This represents the first time a pharmaceutical company has licensed a protease inhibitor to be developed as a microbicide. Increasing access to innovative fixed-dose second-line therapy for the treatment and prevention of HIV/AIDS Janssen Sciences Ireland UC is collaborating with the Clinton Health Access Initiative to facilitate the development and delivery of a fixed-dose combination of darunavir and ritonavir Contents (DRV/r) for the treatment of HIV in resource-limited settings. Unlike in developed markets, there is no People approved fixed-dose combination of darunavir Global Health and a booster (ritonavir or cobicistat) in resourcelimited settings, which is a key barrier to uptake Access & Affordability of Health Care and use of darunavir in these countries. This Innovation collaboration represents a shared commitment to improving access to important medical solutions PLEDGES HELP HIV+ CHILDREN The new Johnson & Johnson crowd-funding platform dedicated Philanthropy and will help support generics manufacturers’ to global public health, CARINGCROWD SM, inspired donors to make a difference in the health of 25 HIV+ children and their families in Zambia. In September and October 2015, 36 donors pledged efforts to broaden access to these formulations. more than $6,500 to nonprofit organization Tiny Tim and Friends, who were then able to provide the Places The collaboration supports the inclusion of DRV/r families with nutritional support and education. as an element of second-line treatment in the Practices World Health Organization’s update to its global and digital technologies, demonstration projects These new initiatives build on the Company’s longHIV/AIDS treatment guidelines, which will allow for and academies of independent local experts, the standing commitment to address HIV through enhanced access to the treatment for more of the program seeks to generate regional evidence, a broad portfolio of transformational medicines patients, families and communities in need. provide tailored education and training, and bring and combination therapies; history of novel to scale impactful solutions against some of the programs and partnerships to increase access to Enhancing detection, treatment and greatest public health challenges. HIV medicines and care; collaborative research prevention of HIV and TB for patients on innovative tools and treatments; strategic CARINGCROWD®: In addition, J&J is galvanizing philanthropy partnerships that have resulted in Connect for Life™: In collaboration with the public support for HIV-related causes by donating significant gains in the elimination of mother-toInfectious Diseases Institute, the Ugandan Ministry funds through its Donate A Photo initiative and child transmission of HIV; and issue advocacy at of Health and Johnson & Johnson Corporate Charity Miles. In September 2015, we launched high-level forums and with leading stakeholders Citizenship Trust, Janssen has launched the CARINGCROWD® —a new crowd-funding in the fight against HIV. Recent studies of novel Ugandan Academy for Health Innovation and platform powered by Johnson & Johnson therapies researched and developed by the Impact as a flagship of the new Connect for fully dedicated to improving public health. Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies showed Life™ program. Connect for Life™ aims to help CARINGCROWD® aims to connect individuals that long-acting, injectable formulations of HIV patients manage their diseases, while also building with nonprofit organizations working on projects are keeping the virus under control and offered capacity in local healthcare professionals to targeting critical public health challenges, including promise for a new prime-boost vaccine program enhance detection, treatment and prevention of HIV. As of December 2015, four projects were currently in clinical trials. HIV and tuberculosis (TB), and improve maternal successfully funded and more than $75,000 has Find out more about our efforts to combat and child health outcomes. By deploying mobile been pledged to projects on CARINGCROWD®. HIV/AIDS in our 2015 Digital Year in Review. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 18 Tuberculosis Other Global Public Health Efforts Ebola As the world’s most broadly based health Our goal in TB is to eliminate deaths from In addition to our focus areas, we are working to care company, we play an important role in extensively drug-resistant (XDR) and multidrugdeliver new treatments to fight neglected tropical protecting the lives of people around the globe resistant (MDR) TB and to simplify treatment diseases, as well as game-changing vaccine through the development of new therapies and and care. technologies that could help eradicate polio, vaccines against emerging threats. SIRTURO® (bedaquiline) was launched in 2013 Ebola and HIV. Throughout 2015, in response to the to treat MDR-TB and is the first new TB therapy world’s deadliest Ebola outbreak in West Africa, with a novel mechanism of action in more than 40 Neglected Tropical Diseases the Janssen Pharmaceutical Companies of years. In 2015, we added the early development program Johnson & Johnson partnered with leading One of the key barriers to successfully for dengue to our Global Public Health portfolio, global research institutions and NGOs to treating MDR-TB is accurate and accessible aiming to develop in partnership with key research accelerate development and deployment of diagnostics. In 2015, Janssen Pharmaceutica N.V. institutions innovations that protect against a prime-boost vaccine regimen, including Contents announced it entered into a novel collaboration dengue both for people traveling to and living in conducting multiple Phase I and II studies in with the nonprofit organization FIND to step up endemic areas. The early development program rapid succession across the U.S., Europe and People the fight against the public health threat of TB for dengue bolsters our portfolio of treatments Africa; scaling production and capacity; and Global Health and MDR-TB. The partnership draws on FIND’s against NTDs. securing support from global, national and local Access & Affordability innovative work in increasing access to affordable Our medicine against intestinal worms in authorities around vaccine development and of Health Care diagnostic solutions; the capabilities of Janssen children, VERMOX®, is being used to combat uptake. By April, 2016, Janssen in partnership Innovation parasites that cause physical and cognitive with Bavarian Nordic rapidly scaled up Diagnostics—a global division specializing in Philanthropy diagnostics; as well as Janssen’s experience in impairment. In addition to a donation program production of the vaccine regimen and now has pharmaceuticals development and innovative as part of our Healthy Future 2015 goals, we are approximately 2 million regimens available, with Places access models. The collaboration focuses working to develop a chewable tablet formulation the capacity to produce several million regimens on providing increased access to molecular of this medicine to allow usage in younger children if needed. Practices diagnostics tools for TB case detection and and for those without access to safe drinking While the devastating outbreak has since MDR-TB diagnosis, and on ensuring accelerated water. Find out more about our VERMOX® been contained, our team and partners access to effective treatments. Read more donation program in the Access section of this continue to do what we can, as fast as we about our Access efforts in the next section of this report. can, to prevent this threat to global public report. While treating children with VERMOX® is health from ever happening again. important, we strive ultimately to break the cycle of re-infection that continues to challenge Health Security communities worldwide. Therefore, in 2015 we Following the Ebola outbreak, governments, established a collaboration with the Government multilateral institutions, civil society groups of Canada and Micronutrient Initiative to build and private sector companies have voiced a holistic approach to intestinal worm care in commitments to building a more robust Bangladesh, combining school-based, mass-drug global health infrastructure. Senior leaders administration with health, hygiene, sanitation and at Johnson & Johnson have championed nutrition education and interventions to prevent this cause, drawing attention to the need infection. for cross-sector collaboration to build resilience in the face of emerging health threats. We have played a key role in defining the private sector’s role in developing a coordinating mechanism to address public 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 19 health emergencies that threaten global health industry-wide call for new collective action, security, leading the development of the Global AMR reinforces the Company’s long-standing Health Security Agenda (GHSA) Private Sector commitment to innovation in antimicrobial R&D. Roundtable (PSRT), in partnership with the GE Foundation. Aiming to promote collaboration Humanitarian Crises among industry to help prevent, detect and We also support global responses to humanitarian We made good progress on our respond to emerging health threats, the crises and emerging threats, and explore new Roundtable is working to elevate global health ways to apply our expertise in new areas such as Healthy Future 2015 security as an international priority, advancing general surgery and trauma, mental health and goal to advance global health dialogue with government agencies in the U.S. vision care. In November 2015, we expanded our and other countries. long-term partnership with Save the Children by providing an additional $1.75 million over the next Finalized research partnership Zika two years to directly address the ongoing refugee and licensing agreements to address Contents The Zika virus pandemic is still evolving, as crisis in Syria. The first element of this program diseases of the developing world. experts continue to learn about its impact. In focuses on meeting the short-term needs of the Exceeded People 2015, Johnson & Johnson began evaluating millions of families affected by this crisis, from food Global Health whether any of our available technologies could be to hygiene products. Funding will also be directed In more than 100 countries, our HIV Access & Affordability directed to address the infection. It is premature toward resilience programs specifically designed medicines are made available either of Health Care at special-effort or reduced pricing, to say how long this might take, or even speculate to address the trauma these communities face. Innovation on the outcome, but we are fully committed to provided local regulatory systems allow Philanthropy doing what’s best to help nurture happy, healthy Details about our efforts to advance global health import prior to registration. babies worldwide. We are also leveraging our are included in our 2015 Year in Review and in a Exceeded Places consumer business, which currently distributes new section devoted to Global Public Health on a safe and effective mosquito repellent in Brazil. JNJ.com. Achieved WHO prequalification for Practices In addition to expanding the distribution of this several of our products that address product in the country, we are assessing the need diseases of the developing world. to expand distribution to other regions afflicted by the outbreak. Met Antimicrobial Resistance Provided 129 million doses of Now more than ever, public health must be VERMOX® (mebendazole), our treatment protected by safeguarding our current antibiotics for intestinal worms, to infected children and developing new antibiotics or vaccines. in 14 countries. (Target: 200 million doses.) Industry and governments can work together Partial to support sustained innovation to address the growing problem of antimicrobial resistance by Registered a new triple-combination which bacteria and microbes become resistant therapy for HIV and finalized five to regularly used drugs, making common yet lifegenerics licensing agreements (for our threatening infections difficult or even impossible HIV medicine, rilpivirine). to treat. Johnson & Johnson has joined more than 80 companies and organizations in signing Exceeded the Declaration on Combating Antimicrobial Resistance (AMR), an industry-wide call to action announced at the World Economic Forum in Davos, Switzerland. By participating in this first 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 20 Access & Affordability of Health Care Contents As a global health care Our innovation, commitment and ongoing work Intellectual Property Policy Expansion are helping to create a world where people across As part of efforts to help meet the needs company, Johnson & Johnson all economic and social circumstances have of children and adolescents living with HIV, People Global Health has an important responsibility access to the treatments and care they need to Janssen is working to create one of the broadest lead healthy lives. Our access programs include geographic territories for an access effort for Access & Affordability to do all it can to address strategic partnerships and collaborations and pediatric HIV medicines to date. In 2015, of Health Care Innovation unmet medical needs. This licensing agreements to help register, manufacture Janssen furthered its commitment to improve and distribute our medicines, as well as donation the health of children living with HIV through an Philanthropy responsibility includes the programs and other strategies to reach vulnerable expanded policy aimed at enhancing access to need to make our medicines, populations. We promote capacity building through our HIV medicine darunavir, building upon a 2012 Places our programs to ensure that donated product policy not to enforce the patents on darunavir in vaccines and diagnostics can reach people in need and also look for ways select lowand middle-income countries. Practices accessible to patients living in to shape the future of clinical trials to better serve This expanded policy enables the development patient populations, especially children. of and access to new pediatric products of resource-limited settings. darunavir in 128 lowand middle-income Global HIV Access Effort countries, home to 99.8 percent of children and We are committed to ensuring broad access adolescents living with HIV worldwide today, to our HIV therapies for those who need them provided the generic versions of darunavir are and continually work to advance registration high quality, medically acceptable, and only used and special-effort pricing where there is a need in the indicated countries. and the possibility for safe, appropriate use. A These renewed efforts are an outcome of comprehensive, multi-country registration effort engagement between Janssen and the Medicines ensures availability of our branded HIV medicines Patent Pool (MPP), directly supporting the recently where there is a public health need, such as launched Pediatric HIV Treatment Initiative (PHTI). in sub-Saharan Africa, where we target 20+ PHTI is a partnership between the MPP, UNITAID, countries. These countries make up part of the the Drugs for Neglected Diseases initiative 90 least-developed or middle-income countries (DNDi) and the Clinton Health Access Initiative identified in our Healthy Future 2015 goal, which, (CHAI) dedicated to speeding the development in turn, are part of an HIV Access Territory of more of high-priority pediatric co-formulations of HIV than 100 countries where our HIV medicines are medicines and addressing other potential barriers made available either at special-effort or reduced to treatment access for children living with HIV. pricing, provided local regulatory systems allow Janssen will collaborate with PHTI partners to import prior to registration. develop critical new formulations of pediatric HIV 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 21 medicines to help safeguard the lives of children and adolescents living with HIV. New Horizons Advancing Pediatric HIV Care Collaborative The New Horizons Advancing Pediatric HIV Care Collaborative has quickly become a fundamental component of our Company’s ongoing commitment to improving the care of children around the world and in our fight against HIV. Since its launch in 2014, this first-of-itskind program has expanded beyond donations of medicines to emphasize health systems Contents strengthening and a holistic approach to care for children and adolescents living with HIV, People including emotional and psychosocial support. Global Health From training and tools to build health worker Access & Affordability capacity to data collection and publication to of Health Care share learnings, we are working to address Innovation individual patient needs and foster holistic public Philanthropy health approaches to care. In 2015, the first New Horizons patients in Kenya, Swaziland and Zambia received donated Places HIV medicines from Janssen. Additionally, Practices independent experts including representatives from partner organizations selected Lesotho— the country with the second highest prevalence T U B E R C U L O S I S PAT I E N T N E E D S Efforts by Johnson & Johnson to address TB are part of an overall of HIV globally—from applicants to the second Global Public Health commitment to measurably improve the lives of individuals, families and communities. Expression of Interest to participate in New This includes working to help eliminate MDR-TB (multidrug-resistant) and XDR-TB (extensively drug Horizons. Also in 2015, efforts focused on building resistant), as well as simplifying treatment regimens for patients worldwide. health care worker capacity with “Resistance Made Easy” workshops in Zambia, Kenya, South Global TB Access Framework worth of its MDR-TB medicine, totaling 30,000 Africa and Swaziland. These were in addition courses, for use in more than 100 lowand to the second annual New Horizons Technical Janssen has a long legacy of working to improve middle-income Global Fund-eligible countries for Support Workshop in Johannesburg, highlighting access to and appropriate use of medicines for the treatment of MDR-TB. Janssen and the U.S. challenges and differences between countries diseases of great unmet need, including HIV/AIDS, Agency for International Development (USAID) while generating enthusiasm for collaboration TB and other diseases impacting the developing are working with national TB programs and and information sharing between countries. world and emerging markets. In 2015 we partners to provide sustainable access and ensure In 2016, New Horizons will increase its focus continued to leverage the power of partnerships to appropriate use of SIRTURO® (bedaquiline). on adolescents living with HIV that need or increase the potential impact of our efforts, with a As part of these efforts, Janssen has entered are receiving third-line treatment; enhanced particular emphasis on designing and deploying a into a new Memorandum of Understanding psychosocial support for adolescent HIV patients global TB access framework. (MOU) with USAID that will widen the scope especially when facing the unique challenges of their engagement in the fight against when transitioning from pediatric to adult HIV USAID—Bedaquiline Donation Program MDR-TB. With this new MOU, Janssen has health care systems. Janssen is contributing an estimated $30 million committed to expanding patient access to novel 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 22 MDR-TB therapies, expanding upon the current engagements and providing incremental funding to program partners valued at $15–20 million over the next three years. Stop TB Partnership Janssen is working with the procurement agent for the Stop TB Partnership’s Global Drug Facility, to facilitate access to SIRTURO® for the treatment of pulmonary MDR-TB in adults in more than 130 lowand middle-income countries outside the United States. The goal of this partnership is to facilitate access, while ensuring appropriate use Contents of medicines. People VERMOX® Donation Program Global Health Access & Affordability In 2015, we provided more than 129 million doses of Health Care of VERMOX®, our treatment for intestinal worms, Innovation for distribution to affected children in 14 countries. Philanthropy Our donation decreased from 181 million doses in 2014 primarily due to challenges stemming from Places limited country capacity to fully utilize the amount of committed medicines. Our donations had C H I L D R E N F R E E F R O M W O R M S At Ventanilla School, just outside Lima, Peru, Johnson & Johnson Practices consistently increased from 2010 (36 million doses donates VERMOX® and teams up with INMED Partnerships for Children to roll out the deworming treatment as that year) to 2014 and we are working to bring the part of a nationwide soil-transmitted helminthes prevention campaign. INMED also mobilizes public and private donation level up again in 2016. In addition to our sector alliances to support development of a formal water, sanitation and hygiene component. donation efforts, Janssen is currently developing a fast-disintegrating chewable formulation of prequalification: 75, 150 and 600 mg formulations for young people living with HIV. The first approval VERMOX®. This will further improve efficiency when of PREZISTA® (darunavir) and 100 and 25 mg for INTELENCE® 25mg through the Procedure administered to younger children and those without formulations of INTELENCE® (etravirine). was granted in Namibia in June, within 90 days of access to a safe supply of drinking water. Looking We are also working with the WHO on its filing. ahead to the next five-year goal period, we will Collaborative Registration Procedure pilot, around In 2014, the WHO granted prequalification for again consider our role in providing treatment for encouraging national regulatory authorities in QUINVAXEM® in cPAD, a fully liquid pentavalent children at risk for intestinal worms with the aim sub-Saharan Africa to fast-track registration of vaccine with a demonstrated immunogenicity to reduce morbidity caused by these infections medicines approved by Stringent Regulatory and safety profile, in an innovative, compact, through integrated treatment and prevention. Authorities, such as the U.S. Food and Drug prefilled, auto-disable (cPAD) injection system. Administration. Prior to the launch of the pilot After embarking on an adaptive new development WHO Prequalification study, it could take from six months to more than project to make QUINVAXEM® a fully liquid five years to receive approval for a new medicine pentavalent vaccine (DTwP-HepB-Hib) available The World Health Organization (WHO) included in a sub-Saharan African country. The 25mg in a compact prefilled autodisable (cPAD) SIRTURO® (bedaquiline) in its interim policy pediatric formulation of INTELENCE® was the injection system (Becton Dickinson’s Uniject), guidance on treatment of MDR-TB issued in June first drug selected by WHO for the pilot, based Janssen Vaccines made the decision to stop 2013. Five formulations of our HIV antiretroviral on its alignment with WHO and UN global health the development of this injection system. We medicines have already achieved WHO priorities to enhance access to essential therapies are disappointed about this decision; however, 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 23 it follows a thorough investigation into difficulties Johnson & Johnson is a member of the will make recommendations regarding individual encountered with our production line during Partnership for Prescription Assistance, a broad patient requests from anywhere in the world. secondary processing operations of the injection private-sector effort funded by the pharmaceutical If successful, the program will become a system. Our investigation into the challenges with industry, which offers a single point of access model that will be applicable more broadly across the commercial production of the cPAD injection to 475 public and private patient-assistance Johnson & Johnson. system showed that significant efforts would be programs. needed to solve the technical issues that had Our Company is also one of the founding Access to Medicines Index Performance been identified. These efforts would also require members of Together Rx Access™, which since In 2015 and early 2016, Johnson & Johnson a substantial investment of resources and time. 2005 has helped more than 2.5 million Americans, prepared a response for the 2016 Access to We would like to emphasize that the problems including approximately 400,000 children who Medicine Index (ATMI) survey, covering accessare not related to the quality of the vaccine or have no prescription drug coverage and are not oriented activities across our entire Family of the injection system, but concern secondary eligible for Medicare, access prescription drug Companies from June 2014 to May 2016. Results processing issues. Together with GlaxoSmithKline, savings. are slated for release in late 2016. Contents we continue to provide QUINVAXEM® in the Elsewhere, we engage strategic, innovative Results of the 2014 Access to Medicines vial presentations for routine immunization and and equitable pricing strategies for a variety of Index (ATMI) saw Johnson & Johnson ranked No. People vaccination campaigns for five major childhood diseases, suited to regional and individual market 3 among 20 global companies. It was noted by Global Health diseases; tetanus, diphtheria, whooping cough, needs around the world. ATMI that: “Of all companies, Johnson & Johnson Access & Affordability Haemophilus influenza, and hepatitis B. While Information about specific Pricing and is adapting the most products for pediatric use of Health Care we are disappointed to have to take this action, Prescription Assistance programs is provided on that target diseases within the scope of the Index.” Innovation Janssen Vaccines and GlaxoSmithKline remain The products from our pipeline most relevant our Citizenship & Sustainability website. Philanthropy committed to advancing global health by to ATMI include fixed-dose combinations and addressing the world’s unmet medical needs Access to Investigational Medicines pediatric formulations of medicines for HIV/AIDS, Places through meaningful innovation. In keeping with the Company’s long-standing MDR-TB and hepatitis C. commitment to the highest standards of ethical Feedback received from ATMI regarding Practices Pricing and Prescription Assistance decision-making that serves the needs of opportunities for improving access to medicines patients, in 2015 Janssen forged a first-of-its-kind included extending our engagement in licensing, We are deeply committed to providing access partnership with the Division of Medical Ethics at developing access strategies for relevant to our medicines and making our medicines the NYU School of Medicine to further ensure that investigational products, and including accessaffordable to those in need. For the period the evaluation of compassionate use requests for oriented terms systematically in product 2005–2015, in the U.S., the weighted average investigational medicines are treated in the most development partnerships. We continue to compound annual growth rate of the Company’s fair and ethical manner. consider this feedback in our strategic discussions net price increases for health care products Compassionate use is a pathway for patients about access moving forward. (prescription and over-the-counter drugs, to gain access to investigational drugs, biologics hospital and professional products) was below and medical devices not yet approved by the the U.S. Consumer Price Index (CPI). FDA. By ensuring compassionate use requests for Over the past 12 months, the our investigational medicines are evaluated by a Johnson & Johnson Patient Assistance well-informed, external committee, we can make Foundation, Inc. (JJPAF), a nonprofit that assists the most responsible decision for each patient. patients without adequate financial resources and As part of this collaboration, the NYU School of prescription coverage in obtaining free products Medicine will establish the Compassionate-Use donated by Johnson & Johnson operating Advisory Committee (CompAC), an external group companies, provided medicines to more than of 10 internationally recognized medical experts, 97,000 patients in the U.S. bioethicists and patient representatives to pilot The JJPAF website helps users find programs the new approach. Commencing with one of that provide assistance with medication costs. Janssen’s investigational medicines, the CompAC 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 24 Innovation Contents Innovation is critical to focused investment in R&D, a holistic approach to evolving global health care markets and bold an organization which was very much internally focused. People the success and future of future-facing strategies. Our broad-based health In 2009, the organizational model was changed care focus fuels our ability to invest and create by implementing a new R&D strategy that formed Global Health Johnson & Johnson. value through opportunities across a broad one team under the name Janssen. Janssen Access & Affordability spectrum. It enables us to offer custom and built on new science, leveraging breakthrough of Health Care It is critical to the entire comprehensive solutions to our partners and to innovation, generated both internally and externally; Innovation Philanthropy healthcare industry lead in innovation. In 2015, we invested $9 billion in R&D. We focused on medical need and differentiation; and created five end-to-end therapeutic area teams and and central to the success have access to the industry’s leading science, which when applied against our consumer 10 focus disease areas. By sourcing innovation wherever the best Places and well-being of society insights, our disciplined research and investment, science came from, the Janssen portfolio was Practices and our portfolio management enables us to build transformed. Operations teams were set up as a whole. an industry-leading pipeline across our enterprise. focusing on excellence in global execution, speed, quality, cost and efficiency, and delivered 16 new Innovation Strategy drugs in six years (2009–2015). For 130 years, Johnson & Johnson has been In 2015, Janssen led the branded driving breakthrough innovation in health care— Our strategy focusing on delivering pharmaceutical industry in productivity, from revolutionizing wound care in the 1880s transformational innovation has created a FDA approvals and breakthrough therapy to developing cures, vaccines and treatments cycle of success. It positions our Company for designations. In November 2015, just four months for some of today’s most pressing diseases in continued growth in the future. Over the past after submission of clinical findings, Janssen the world. We are acutely aware of the need seven years, we have transformed the lives received FDA approval for one breakthrough to evaluate our business against the changing of many patients worldwide and significantly therapy, DARZALEX® (daratumumab), the first healthcare environment and to challenge ourselves transformed our pharmaceutical business. human monoclonal antibody to be approved based on the results we deliver. Up to 2009, the Pharmaceutical segment anywhere in the world for patients with multiple We believe the most important contribution we was decentralized and grown primarily through myeloma. (Read more about DARZALEX® in our can make to the dynamic challenges we are facing the acquisition of multiple R&D companies. 2015 Digital Year in Review.) is innovation—innovation in products, services, From 2006 to 2009, there were six separate Janssen R&D is one of the strongest solutions and in everything we do. We have to put R&D organizations, seven therapeutic areas, pharmaceutical research and development the patient in the center and reward innovations a wide footprint, and multiple pre-clinical and organizations in the world. With the combined that drive better outcomes and long-term value. clinical organizations, regulatory and medical strength of its in-market portfolio, deep The promise of innovation in health care is safety organizations, as well as duplication of late-stage pipeline and robust early-stage great, but it comes with the need for forwardplatforms and technologies across the world, in pipeline, Janssen will continue delivering above 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 25 • We access early innovation through our J&J Accessing industry growth and advances in human health Innovation Centers in London, California, through 2019. Boston and Asia/Pacific. To date, the Janssen’s remarkable and sustained turnaround since the launch of our innovation strategy provides best practices that we are Innovation Innovation Centers have explored more than 3,800 opportunities and have helped to establish over 200 collaborations in the past applying across our entire business. As the most Sourcing innovation begins two years. broadly based healthcare company in the world, Johnson & Johnson has strong internal capability, with a deep understanding • Through our incubators, JLABS, we enable technology platforms and key insights in each of the innovation landscape. entrepreneurs to advance their research with a of our business segments. These strengths no-strings-attached approach. We opened our Our experts define an sixth JLABS facility in Toronto in 2015, JLINX are leveraged across the entire organization. Deep, broad internal expertise and platforms are innovation strategy, in Belgium in early 2016, and currently have more than 80 companies in residence across Contents complemented with the best external science and conduct a holistic scan of technology, which we access through our unique all JLABS. innovation model. the innovation landscape, • Through Johnson & Johnson Development People As our Consumer business continues its return and prioritize all accessible Corporation, the first corporate venture fund Global Health to benchmark performance, its portfolio is focused Access & Affordability in critical geographies and leverages iconic megaopportunities, internal or in the life science industry, with more than 30 years of experience, we make strategic of Health Care brands to address key consumer need states external, to select the best investment in life science and technology Innovation across six categories: skin care, over-the-counter Philanthropy asset. in our areas of interest and where we have (OTC) medicines, oral care, wound care, women’s insights and capabilities. health and baby. • In late stage, we access innovation by Places Our Medical Devices segment also continues traditional licensing, partnerships and to fully leverage the Johnson & Johnson innovation acquisition. Practices model. Medical Devices saw success in 2015 from the launch of 20 new products and notably expanded its extremity portfolio as well as added new capabilities in sports medicine visualization through acquisitions. In the last quarter of 2015, Medical Devices led formation of a joint venture all our operating companies continuously refines to create product platforms and systems that with Google, Verb Surgical Inc. (on page 26); our external and internal innovation model. By cross categories and establish new sources acquired Coherex Medical, Inc.; partnered with the expanding this model across all three business of innovation through convergent combination Fogarty Institute to back next-generation device segments of Johnson & Johnson, our goal is products. We are excited about the promise of innovation; and entered into the first-of-its-kind to continuously work to be the most innovative convergent technologies in categories like lung value creation agreement with Ramsay Health company in the world on behalf of our patients cancer, vision care, biosurgery, robotics, obesity Care. and consumers through our internal R&D and diabetes. As part of the restructuring we announced in programs and external collaborations. •  e are establishing a lung cancer center in W January 2016, we are also undertaking actions China to look at the disease from multiple to further strengthen our go-to-market model, Broadly Based Advantage perspectives and with multiple solutions, accelerate the pace of innovation, prioritize from prevention to diagnosis and cure. By key platforms and geographies, and streamline In addition to collaborating with external combining our surgical oncology capabilities operations while maintaining high quality innovators, Johnson & Johnson is uniquely from our global surgery business with Janssen standards. positioned to bring forward integrated healthcare Diagnostics and Janssen Therapeutics and Johnson & Johnson Innovation Research & solutions from cross-segment collaboration. the new insights in disease prevention, we Development and Commercial leadership across Our broad base enables Johnson & Johnson 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 26 are taking an integrated approach to tackle lung cancer in China, which is anticipated to account for almost half of the deaths from lung cancer in the world. • W  e have an ongoing collaboration to potentially treat age-related macular degeneration through cell therapy, bringing together novel pharmaceutical and vision care technology. In this approach, expertise from our biologics Center of Excellence is combined with expertise in noninvasive surgical technology from our Ethicon, Inc. business to use a tiny catheter Contents to deliver cell therapy to the retina. This technology is currently in Phase 2, proof-ofconcept studies, with potential to restore vision People in the elderly. Global Health Access & Affordability • EVARREST® Fibrin Sealant Patch is a of Health Care convergent technology that has the potential Innovation to drive a paradigm shift in the treatment Philanthropy of problematic bleeding during surgery. For example, clinical studies demonstrate that EVARREST® is 98 percent effective in stopping Places F I R S T I N T E R N AT I O N A L J L A B S As the first JLABS to open outside the United States, JLABS @ Toronto bleeding and maintaining hemostasis compared joins a network of life science facilities that are based throughout the United States in San Diego (flagship), to the current standard of care of 53 percent. San Francisco, South San Francisco, Boston and Houston. These facilities are home to over 100 earlyPractices This is an example where we leveraged our stage companies advancing bio/pharmaceutical, medical device, consumer and digital health programs. pharmaceutical know-how in biologics with our JLABS @ Toronto will be located at MaRS Discovery District. deep knowledge of polymers to help develop Technology and Innovation intercept and prevent diseases as well as new a solution for surgery. In 2015, the U.S. Food therapeutics. and Drug Administration approved an additional The advanced and rapidly evolving technologies indication for EVARREST® as an adjunct to • A collaboration between Johnson & Johnson of today also present opportunities to leverage the hemostasis for control of bleeding during adult Health and Wellness Solutions, DePuy Synthes breadth and capabilities of Johnson & Johnson liver surgery. and IBM Watson Health announced in April to bring forward innovative medical solutions that 2015 focuses on innovating novel ways to Because of its many advantages, our broad base extend and improve people’s lives. Several recent provide one-on-one virtual health coaching ultimately helps Johnson & Johnson deliver strong, initiatives demonstrate the promise of technology and other personalized digital interactions consistent and sustainable financial performance. and transformative innovation to advance for consumers and patients. Digital health And most importantly, it allows us to create better human health. technology solutions could leverage wearable products, more valuable services and improve • The Janssen Human Microbiome Institute devices, smartphones and artificial intelligence outcomes for patients, consumers and their (JHMI) was launched in February 2015 with the to connect physicians, hospitals, payers and families. goal of studying and harnessing the potential patients to deliver a seamless healthcare power of the microbiome, the collection experience. of bacteria and other microorganisms that • In December 2015, Johnson & Johnson naturally reside within each human body. The announced the formation of Verb Surgical Inc., hope is that the microbiome may hold clues to 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 27 an independent surgical solutions company, in collaboration with Verily Life Sciences LLC (formerly Google Life Sciences), which aims to develop a comprehensive surgical solutions platform that will incorporate leadingedge robotic capabilities and best-in-class medical device technology for operating room professionals. This new company was formed in connection with the strategic collaboration between Ethicon, a Johnson & Johnson medical devices company, and Google Life Sciences, which was announced in March 2015. Ethicon, which has deep expertise Contents in minimally invasive surgery and advanced instrumentation, is developing surgical People instruments for Verb Surgical’s new roboticsGlobal Health assisted platform. Access & Affordability of Health Care • Building on the success of JLABS in Innovation sourcing external innovations from emerging pharmaceutical and medical device companies, Philanthropy Johnson & Johnson Health and Wellness Solutions, Inc. (JJHWS) announced a Places partnership with technology accelerator Plug and Play Tech Center to create a new Health Melinda Richter, Head, Practices and Wellness Technology Accelerator aimed at Johnson & Johnson Innovation, supporting early-stage companies developing JLABS, was recongnized by direct-to-consumer solutions that enhance Fierce Biotech as a Top Women wellness. Companies selected to participate in the accelerator will participate in a rigorous in Biopharma. Over the past few three-month program that includes coaching years, she successfully led and mentorship for their founders, and that the growth of JLABS from the could lead to funding for the most promising ideas. flagship facility in San Diego to new outposts in San Francisco, Boston, Johnson & Johnson remains focused on creating Houston and Toronto. In addition, value through innovation. Our innovation strategy is to identify the best science around the world to Ms. Richter is a strong champion advance therapies and products for patients and for women within the biotech consumers. We are delivering value to people, community. society and to our business by bringing forward innovative medical solutions that extend and improve people’s lives. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 28 Philanthropy Contents At Johnson & Johnson, Our Credo responsibility People Global Health inspires us to advance the Access & Affordability health of communities in of Health Care Innovation which we live and work, and Philanthropy the world community as well. This unwavering commitment Places to making the world a Practices healthier place is at the heart of our giving. CONNECTING MORE MOMS VIA MOBILE Access to basic health education on preventing diseases, We fulfill our mission by developing enduring preparing for birth, and understanding the complications that could occur during pregnancy and infancy periods is vital to preventing the deaths of nearly 150 mothers and thousands of children each day in India. partnerships that deliver community-based Through a program called mMitra, mothers are sent voice calls twice a week that provide preventive care solutions to health challenges. We focus in three information directly to their mobile phones. strategic areas: saving and improving the lives of women and children, preventing disease among Johnson & Johnson companies made provide emergency disaster relief. the most vulnerable, and strengthening the $877 million in non-cash contributions (product In 2010, Johnson & Johnson was the first healthcare workforce. Together with our partners, donations are reported at fair market value, private sector company to make a commitment we make life-changing, long-term differences which is consistent with the reporting methods of to the United Nations’ Every Woman, Every Child in human health, helping families to survive and nonprofit organizations). initiative, which focused on the health-related thrive. Of these non-cash contributions, the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs 4, 5, & 6). Overall, in 2015 Johnson & Johnson Company donated $635.5 million of selected We committed to reach 120 million women and contributed $1 billion in cash and products to prescription products to patients without adequate children annually by 2015, focusing on five areas organizations in the U.S. and around the world. financial resources in the U.S. through the where our role as a global healthcare company This included $163 million in cash, with more than Johnson & Johnson Patient Assistance Foundation. supported strong, innovative partnerships and $15 million allocated through our U.S. Matching The balance of non-cash contributions went to programs: making childbirth safer; treating and Gifts program. Johnson & Johnson doubleprivate voluntary organizations that assist medically preventing intestinal worms in children; using mobile matched employee contributions in 2015. underserved people in developing countries and phones to share vital health information to new 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 29 Health of Women and Children Strengthening In 2010, Johnson & Johnson pledged training health systems, to support health care workers Millennium Development and expecting mothers; eliminating mother-to-child and preventing disease among the Goals (MDG) 4, 5 and 6 with a comprehensive, five-year commitment tomost vulnerable HIV transmission; and research and development to treat HIV, tuberculosis and neglected tropical reach as many as 120 million women and children a year by 2015. diseases. Through this comprehensive, multiThis pledge reflected a shared vision of a world in which women are healthy stakeholder effort, we met our goal in 2014, one In 2010, Johnson & Johnson pledged to support Millennium Development Goals (MDG) 4, 5 and 6 andfive-year with a comprehensive, children live totoreach commitment reach as manyfull their potential. as 120 million women and children year early. By the end of 2015, our commitment a year by 2015. This pledge reflects a shared vision of a world in which women are healthy and had reached more than 400 million women and children live to reach their full potential. children through programs in 84 countries, and had trained more than 350,000 healthcare providers, Our Commitment Our Commitments to Improving the exceeding our stated commitments. Health of Women and Children As a global health care company, our commitment focuses on five areas where we Cultivating Partnerships & Contents Contents have developed strong, innovative partnerships – and have the potential to foster the greatest Measuring Impact improvements in maternal and child health: People The work we do could not exist without Global Health partnerships. With more than 400 partnerships Access & Affordability in our portfolio, we have been able to effectively of Health Care impact the lives of people throughout the world. Innovation The Company’s corporate giving aims to Philanthropy improve the health of populations around the world through strong relationships with nonprofit Places MAKING CHILDBIRTH partners, putting them at the center when it SAFER FOR MOTHERS comes to program design, implementation AND BABIES Practices and evaluation. As part of our enterprise’s Healthy Future 2015 goals, Johnson & Johnson TREATING AND PREVENTING INTESTINAL committed to raising the standard of measurement WORMS IN CHILDREN and evaluation within the philanthropy programs we support by increasing the capacity of our ELIMINATING partners to measure program outcomes. A set MOTHER–TO–CHILD of measures we have used to approximate our TRANSMISSION OF HIV partners’ capacity for measurement and reporting is the “number and percentage of philanthropic programs intending to measure long-term USING MOBILE PHONES outputs and/or outcomes,” for both major grants TO REACH MOTHERS (those over $50,000) and mid-tier/intermediate WITH VITAL HEALTH INFORMATION grants. This question is asked on our common PILOTING RESEARCH AND grant application. For 2015, among those who DEVELOPMENT INNOVATIONS TO TREAT HIV, TB AND NTDs responded, the response was “Yes” for 170 (85 percent) of 201 major grants and 132 (70 percent) of the 189 mid-tier/intermediate grants. To advance our Healthy Future 2015 goal of strengthening measurement and evaluation (M&E) capacity, we proposed to work with a subset of nonprofit partners we fund to identify, develop and 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 30 Fulfilling Our Promise and Making a Difference implement projects that would build capacity to is limited. For HAS Haiti, an improved system conduct M&E and report on and use the findings, is crucial to effective healthcare delivery and 350,000 with a focus on health outcomes. Working closely to ultimately driving desired health outcomes. with evaluation consultants, grant managers and Thus the Company-supported capacity-building nonprofit partners, the Company’s monitoring and project aims to improve the EMR system, increase evaluation staff identified 10 nonprofit partners staff accessibility of the system and improve in need of capacity-building support, oversaw administration of assets and needs assessments, data quality. Some key activities underway in 2016 include conducting an assessment of the healthcare providers and supported design and implementation of current system and making recommendations the initiative with interventions tailored to fit each for improvement, developing new data collection trained in nonprofit partner’s needs. We ultimately focused forms and modules and providing training. our work with eight of these partners for which the 84 timing and opportunity aligned. Increasing M&E Capacity Contents Here are a few examples of how we engaged In addition to this capacity-building work with with our partners: several key partners, in 2015 the WCC team People continued ongoing efforts to increase internal Global Health Tracking Outcomes capacity to conduct M&E, to use those results to Access & Affordability Hand in Hand (HiH) International’s job creation inform programming, and to support all partners countries of Health Care model works to integrate group savings, skills and team members on general M&E needs. For Innovation training, micro-finance, and connections to larger example, the team developed common indicators Philanthropy markets for grassroots entrepreneurs across 13 that can be aggregated across programs for some countries. While HiH has been using a system to key areas of the portfolio. The team streamlined Places consistently track key outputs of its work, it had internal data collection processes by setting up limited infrastructure for collecting and reporting and monitoring an automated email reminder Practices on health-related outcomes. The M&E capacitysystem. Using the standardized reporting building work supported by Johnson & Johnson definitions and guidelines, the team conducted Worldwide Corporate Contributions (WCC) webinars for at least 200 individuals representing convened HiH staff and a highly respected partner organizations and disseminated the in a United Nations Global Assembly week forum consulting firm to identify key health outcomes and guidelines via email and online. Similar sets of on data for decision-making in global health. At a plan for measurement and reporting. By the end tools to standardize data collection and reporting the 2015 Council on Foundations Conference we of the project, HiH had developed a logic model for some specific clusters of programming were planned and implemented two panels of corporate that incorporated health outcomes, defined key distributed (e.g., healthcare provider leadership philanthropy leaders on measuring social and health and health-related indicators, and integrated and management programs). Regional data business impact. We also have expanded to begin those indicators into existing data collection tools collection was centralized and standardized for contributing to forums focused on the broader and information systems. the first time. The team also continued to expand evaluation field, such as the American Evaluation upon a framework for measuring health outcomes Association. Strengthening Data Systems for many major programs. At conferences like these, Johnson & Johnson Another partner in this initiative focused more is one of very few corporations present, taking on strengthening data systems. Hôpital Albert Thought Leadership a strong stance on the importance of evaluating Schweitzer (HAS) Haiti aims to improve health our work and highlighting collaboration with key outcomes in its catchment area, including reducing When it comes to M&E of corporate giving, partners. We also continue to have a constant maternal and neonatal mortality, severe disability Johnson & Johnson is increasing its position as presence at health and philanthropy conferences, and mortality from trauma, and malnutrition among a thought leader by helping to drive the agenda such as the American Public Health Association, children. HAS Haiti has an electronic medical on the importance of M&E. In September 2015, increasingly focusing on the role of M&E in our record (EMR) system in place, but the system we hosted more than 100 global health leaders partnerships. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 31 Contents People Places Environmental Responsibility Product Stewardship Our Ingredients & Raw Mateirals Sourcing of Materials Climate Water Waste Practices Places We’ll make the places we live, work and play healthier, by using fewer and smarter resources. Environmental Responsibility 9 G4-14, G4-58 Contents We believe that human People health is inextricably Places linked to a healthy Environmental Responsibility Product Stewardship environment. You cannot Our Ingredients & Raw Mateirals have healthy people Sourcing of Materials without a healthy planet. Climate The challenges facing the planet are Water numerous, and as a company, we recognize Waste the need to identify, prevent and plan for these challenges, including constraints on Practices natural resources, climate change and water scarcity, and their impacts on human health. This means that to create healthier societies, we must have an unwavering commitment to protecting the natural resources upon which we all rely, today and in the future. 9. Includes data from all manufacturing and R&D locations. B E T T E R H E A LT H T H R O U G H N A T U R E Hands-on workshops on healthy food preparation and field For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures trips to farms and gardens help teach students of Origen Agroecological School in Pirque, Chile, about are managed, please see the Report Profile section of this nutrition, healthy eating and disease prevention, while increasing their understanding of sustainable report. Exceptions will be noted in the relevant sections in which agriculture, the environment and nature conservation. Johnson & Johnson is working to promote the they occur. Origen education model. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 33 Environment, Health & Safety Management Company acquisitions have 36 months after Our Credo is the Approach the date of acquisition to achieve ISO 14001 certification. As of the end of 2015, 96 percent foundation of our Johnson & Johnson has established global of Johnson & Johnson manufacturing and R&D Environment, Health policies and statements, including our sites were certified; four non-certified sites and Safety Policy. Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) Policy, our are acquisitions that are still working to obtain Climate Friendly Energy Policy, and our statements certification 10. It provides us with a clear, on the Human Right to Water and Respecting The Company’s Worldwide EHS&S standards compelling and enduring Biodiversity to guide the management of our are designed to ensure that all Johnson & Johnson reminder of our responsibilities operations around the globe. These are made companies achieve and maintain a consistent actionable by our Environment, Health, Safety and and high level of EHS&S performance. These to mothers, fathers, doctors, Sustainability standards, which require that our standards address a range of topics (for a nurses and caregivers, Contents manufacturing and R&D sites have Environment, full listing, see Environmental Standards & employees, communities, the Health, Safety & Sustainability (EHS&S) Assessment) and are reviewed and, if necessary, management systems in place. Taken together, revised annually. environment and shareholders. People these documents establish the expectations for Our Management Awareness and Action managing our environmental performance, for Review System (MAARS) has been the assurance We believe that robust compliance is an Places development and implementation of initiatives that process for all Johnson & Johnson sites to essential prerequisite for EHS excellence. Environmental Responsibility promote greater environmental responsibility, and proactively identify and mitigate EHS&S risks and Product Stewardship for efforts to continually reduce our environmental to ensure compliance with legal requirements We believe that employee safety is a Our Ingredients impacts. and the Johnson & Johnson Worldwide EHS&S & Raw Mateirals core value, inseparable from our mission of Standards. The process includes annual selfimproving human health. Sourcing of Materials Organizational Responsibility assessment, independent (secondor third-party) Climate assessment (typically every three years), and We believe that healthier employees are Water The EHS&S organization is accountable for corrective action planning and tracking. For more more engaged, more satisfied and more Waste stewarding environment, health, safety and information, see Environmental Standards & productive. sustainability performance on behalf of the Assessment on our website. Practices enterprise. The Executive Committee and the In 2015, we undertook an effort to improve the Board of Directors provide EHS&S oversight, and We believe that a healthy planet is the MAARS process and to align it more closely with the EHS&S Council, comprised of the EHS&S ultimate human health issue. other Johnson & Johnson risk functions’ internal leadership team and representatives from relevant audit processes. The new approach will be more functions (e.g., Facilities, Engineering) and the risk based, will provide for more in-depth auditing We believe that engagement and business segments, provides additional guidance of high-risk areas and closer monitoring of site dialogue contribute to sustainable and leadership to advance the EHS&S strategy corrective and preventive actions, and will require growth. and performance. For more information, see standard qualifications and training of internal and Environmental Responsibility/Approach on our external auditors. The new approach will be pilot We integrate EHS into our overall website. tested in 2016. business strategy. We continue to implement, track and Management Systems and Standards maintain an incident notification process that We implement processes across alerts management to EHS&S regulatory nonJohnson & Johnson to assure All manufacturing and R&D sites are required compliances, accidental releases and safety adherence to this policy. to maintain EHS&S management systems incidents within 72 hours of occurrence. and to obtain third-party certification to the International Standards Organizations (ISO) 14001 Environmental Management System. 10. Does not include small R&D sites with limited operations. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 34 34 Product Stewardship We made good progress on our Healthy Future 2015 goal to increase sustainable design of our products Contents With the world Product Stewardship at Johnson & Johnson Evaluated products and packaging for People population anticipated For 130 years, the Company’s desire to make sustainability improvements resulting in 80 Earthwards®-recognized products. a difference has inspired every invention, every Places to approach nine billion product and every breakthrough we have brought Exceeded by 2050 and a quickly to human health. This commitment to serving the 11 Environmental Responsibility Product Stewardship needs of others is guided by Our Credo, which In addition to our goal: Our Ingredients & Raw Mateirals expanding middle class, shapes our approach to business and defines our responsibilities to our stakeholders. One of the Realized approximately $9.3 billion Sourcing of Materials the world’s natural most important responsibilities emphasized in Our Credo is our obligation to the environment: in revenue—approximately 13 percent of sales—from Earthwards®-recognized Climate Water resources are under “We must maintain in good order the property we products in 2015, an increase of more are privileged to use, protecting the environment than 5 percent from 2014 Waste increasing pressure. and natural resources.” Practices According to the World Wildlife Fund Met commitments to remove Living Planet Report, 2014, we need certain ingredients from our products 1.5 Earths to meet the demands we by year-end 2015 currently make on nature. Established a 2020 Citizenship & Sustainability goal to fully integrate sustainable design solutions into our product innovation processes 11. w ww.worldbank.org/depweb/beyond/ beyondco/beg_03.pdf 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 35 35 The Earthwards® Approach EN-7 Impact Area Number of Earthwards®-Recognized Improvements Products 24 Earthwards® is the Johnson & Johnson approach Materials 85 for developing innovative and more sustainable 33 products. This approach defines how we think Packaging 70 about product life cycles—from formulation and manufacturing to product use and disposal. Energy 45 2011 The Earthwards® approach focuses on Waste 19 52 improving the social and environmental impacts Water 18 of our products and targets improvements in seven key areas shown at right. To improve our Social 35 2012 performance, we collaborate with internal teams Innovation 25 73 across all three business segments, and with our Contents suppliers and customers to identify improvement opportunities across our value chain. Our life cycle These improvements have resulted in the People approach includes considering opportunities to following reductions from products that 2013 80 apply green chemistry principles, improve the were recognized up through and including Places sustainability of our packaging, and reducing 2014: EN27 Environmental Responsibility end-of-product-life impacts through recycling and Packaging Product Stewardship reprocessing of used equipment. Approximately 3,600 metric tons (MTs) of Our Ingredients Within five years of launching Earthwards®, & Raw Mateirals we have surpassed our initial goal of making reduction in packaging 2014 Sourcing of Materials significant improvements to 60 products by 2015, Materials Climate with 80 products being Earthwards® recognized Approximately 18,270 MTs of materials Water at the end of 2015. Going forward, our 2020 removed Waste Citizenship & Sustainability goal is to fully integrate Water sustainable design solutions into our product Approximately 6,630 liters of less water Practices innovation processes. used 2015 Our portfolio of Earthwards®-recognized Waste products currently reflects a broad range of Approximately 3,630 MTs of waste reduced improvements, the majority of which go above and beyond the minimum requirement of 10 For more information on the Earthwards® process, percent improvement. Specifically, our portfolio see Product Stewardship/Earthwards®. of 80 Earthwards®-recognized products currently reflects the following improvements across the seven key impact areas: Materials Packaging Energy Waste Water Social Innovation 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 36 36 Selected Products that Received Earthwards Recognition ® in 2015 include: Pharmaceutical Medical Devices Consumer Contents People Places AVEENO ® Environmental Responsibility Product Stewardship ATTUNE ® Active Naturals Our Ingredients PREZISTA ® Knee System Ultra-Calming PROLENE Mesh Nourishing ™ & Raw Mateirals Oral Solution LOGICLOCK ™ Sourcing of Materials (OS) (Latin America) Tibial Bas Night Cream Climate Water Waste Materials Energy Waste Water Packaging Packaging Energy Materials Energy Water Materials Packaging Energy Practices • 31 • 9 6 percent reduction in • 3  3 percent reduction in the • R emoval of paraben blend 14 percent reduction in the weight of the shipper used for packaging materials 13 alloy required to cast each • 6 6 percent reduction in shipper transportation12 • 1 00 percent sustainable part13 packaging 14 • 40 percent improvement in materials (FSC Certified) in  1 • 3 percent reduction in • 1 44 percent increase in shipping efficiency12 secondary packaging electricity offset by input by an shipping space utilization 14 • 31 • 6 0 percent increase in shipping on-site wind turbine13 percent reduction in packaging waste generated at space utilization13 • 2  4 percent reduction in water the customer12 used to manufacture each For more information on • PREZISTA® part13 our Consumer brands, visit OS is part of the HealthyEssentials.com New Horizons initiative, so that donations are made to pediatric AIDS patients in qualified countries 12. Compared to previous active pharmaceutical ingredient synthesis process 13. Compared to previous version of product 14. Compared to previous version of product 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 37 Packaging 2012 2013 2014 2015 Following the 2014 launch of our Responsibility Electronic Product Take-Back Standard– Forest-Based Materials & Products, we focused our 2015 efforts on engaging suppliers of our forest-based materials. As a Pounds Recycled NA 107,852 145,961 94,615 result, we have gained increased visibility on the country of origin of these materials, as well as on Sterilmed Waste Reduction supply chain and deforestation risks. Suppliers demonstrate varying levels of ability to respond to Sterilmed Devices Collected (Number of Units) 7,710,998 11,342,149 9,421,194 9,090,726 inquiries, so continued focus in engaging this key stakeholder group is required to fully realize our Sterilmed Devices Reprocessed (Number of Units) 5,350,283 5,625,989 5,506,859 5,040,508 standards. Contents We will continue to work with our suppliers to enhance the transparency of our forest-based People materials supply chain. When instances of Product End of Life and Disposal EN28 •  ersistence, or how long the ingredient would P Managing the end of life for products is a steadily remain in the water before being degraded; sourcing from high-priority countries are identified, Places growing environmental challenge. While many of • B  ioaccumulation, or how the ingredient might we request specific information regarding the Environmental Responsibility our products are completely consumed in use, materials. We also request this information build up in fish or other aquatic species over this is not the case with others, including unused Product Stewardship upfront during our supplier selection process. See time; and medicines and some medical devices. Regarding Our Ingredients Responsibility Standard – Forest-Based Materials • T  oxicity, or how, if at all, this ingredient could & Raw Mateirals medical devices, we work with our customers to & Products and the Procurement section of this negatively affect fish or other aquatic life. Sourcing of Materials evaluate opportunities to increase the number report for more information. and quantity of products that can be recycled and Climate Each ingredient we use is evaluated against these reprocessed. Our Sterilmed business offers an Water PVC Elimination criteria and given a score. Then, by calculating excellent example of waste reduction efforts that Waste For our Consumer products business, PVC how much of an ingredient is used in a product have other benefits. By collecting devices bound packaging represents less than one percent of and the score of that ingredient, each product can for landfills or incineration, Sterilmed is significantly Practices our total plastic packaging usage. We have been be given its own score. For products with lower reducing waste disposal while providing a costactively removing PVC from our packaging since scores, we look to improve the formulation to effective alternative for our customers. 2005 and will continue to do so where technically reduce any potential impact on aquatic life. The We’ve also developed tools that help us feasible, excluding pharmaceutical blisters. tool is used to guide product developers around ensure that our products are gentle on the Pharmaceutical blisters present unique challenges the world to choose environmentally preferred environment long after you use them. When many to transition to non-PVC alternatives including ingredients. The use of ingredients that are readily of our products are used, they are washed off the regulatory, safety and performance requirements. biodegradable and have minimal environmental body and enter local wastewater systems, which In 2015, we incorporated the prohibition of PVC impact to the ecosystem reduces our then feed into the broader water supply. use in packaging (excluding pharmaceutical environmental footprint. In 2015, nine Consumer To better understand how our products blisters) into our Global EHS&S Standards. products received Earthwards® recognition, two interact with water environments, we continue to use a tool we developed in 2010 called GAIA—the of which were awarded in part for achievements Global Aquatic Ingredient Assessment™ protocol. in their GAIA score and for meeting the minimum GAIA analyzes what impact an ingredient might GAIA score required for Earthwards® recognition. have on an aquatic environment, and the fish And regarding packaging, the Care To Recycle® and plant life that live there. The GAIA protocol program was launched in fall 2013 after research measures three key criteria that are commonly showed that many Americans do not recycle in used to gauge aquatic impact: the bathroom, where most Johnson & Johnson consumer products are used or stored. The 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 38 Extended Producer Responsibility Contents Johnson & Johnson complies with Extended Producer Responsibility regulations where People they exist around the world and also invests in education programs, important partnerships and Places other sustainability initiatives. Environmental Responsibility • To address prescription drug abuse, we have Product Stewardship invested in programs with proven impact, Our Ingredients such as teen, patient and physician education & Raw Mateirals programs like “Smart Moves, Smart Choices” Sourcing of Materials and “Prescribe Responsibly.” Climate • B  ecause we believe the issue of pharmaceuticals Water in the environment (PIE) should be actively Waste studied and monitored, we have invested resources in efforts to improve PIE science, like Practices the public-private Innovative Medicines Initiative’s iPIE project, in order to ensure the protection of I N C R E A S I N G R E C Y C L I N G I N T H E B AT H R O O M Our Johnson & Johnson Family of Consumer human health and ecosystems. Companies created the Care to Recycle ® awareness campaign to engage consumers to remember to recycle personal care products after research showed that many Americans are not recycling in the •  o protect patients and healthcare practitioners T bathroom. This poster, created for PETE’s Bathroom Bin Challenge, reminds us “Recycling IS better from sharps injuries, we have committed to than throwing everything away!” designing our self-injected healthcare products and lancets with safety features that minimize the chance of a needle stick following use of the device. program aims to increase consumer awareness their families around doing good together. Care of the recyclability of Johnson & Johnson To Recycle® seeks to present recycling as part •  e have focused on product stewardship as W Consumer Inc.’s and other personal care product of the creative parenting process rather than a critical to advancing sustainability and have packaging, and ultimately increase recycling household chore. In 2015, the program doubled been long recognized for our Earthwards® of those items. Through the Care To Recycle® consumer engagement actions (e.g. video approach. It is being embedded into our product website, social media platforms like Pinterest views, quizzes, social media actions) and online development processes, and it helps drive and Facebook, partners like Recyclebank and research demonstrated a direct positive impact continuous product innovation by designing Earth911, and relevant influencers, we’re showing on consumer intent to recycle personal care more sustainable solutions across all parts of a how recycling can help parents create a bond with products. product’s life cycle. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 39 Reducing the Environmental Impacts of Health Care Everything we do affects the health of the planet. From the medicines and devices used, to the buildings in which treatment is conducted to the disposal of wastes generated by healthcare What is a sustainable institutions—the impacts are expansive. We must develop more sustainable healthcare products and health system? services, and evaluate the way resources are used in the delivery of health care to prepare for more The Sustainable Development Strategy, published by the people on the planet one day needing access to Sustainable Development Unit in January 2014 for and on 15 health care. Johnson & Johnson, in partnership with behalf of the National Health Service, Public Health and Contents several other companies, is working with the Social Care within the U.K. provides the following definition People Coalition for Sustainable Pharmaceuticals and of a sustainable health system: Medical Devices (CSPM) to address the way we deliver care, to redesign services and to promote Places “A sustainable health and care system prevention. In 2015, CSPM, a partnership with the Environmental Responsibility National Health Service (NHS) in the UK, released Product Stewardship the Sustainable Care Pathways Guidance, a works within the available environmental and Our Ingredients guidance document to enable more consistent & Raw Mateirals quantification of the sustainability performance of social resources protecting and improving health Sourcing of Materials care pathways globally, both those that already Climate exist and new and emerging pathways, with the now and for future generations. This means working Water intent of providing support to decision makers in Waste their choices related to improving the performance to reduce carbon emissions, minimizing waste of models of care. Currently, the guidance is Practices limited to appraising greenhouse gas (GHG) and pollution, making the best use of scarce emissions, water use and waste generation, but it will be expanded to additional environmental and resources, building resilience to a changing social metrics over time. CSPM operates with the aim of facilitating transition to a more sustainable climate and nurturing community strengths health system internationally, through the promotion of best practice and the development and assets.” of sustainability tools and guidelines related to care pathways, pharmaceuticals and medical devices. Coalition for Sustainable Pharmaceuticals and Medical Devices (CSPM); Sustainable Care Pathways Guidance 15. The Sustainable Development Unit is funded by, and accountable to, NHS England and Public Health England to work across the NHS, public health and social care system. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 40 Our Ingredients Emerging Issues & Raw Materials Replacing microbeads with jojoba beads Contents Our Safety & Care In 2011, we made a global commitment to remove formaldehyde-releasing preservatives Microbeads are used in exfoliating face washes. In personal care products they act People Commitment means and to further reduce traces of 1,4-dioxane from applicable products by December to gently scrub away dead skin in much the same way a sponge would. Concerns have Places that our products are 2015. This was a decision made based on changing consumer sentiment. As of January been raised about the environmental impact of polyethylene microbeads. Despite the Environmental Responsibility supported by science, 2016, we have met all our commitments; growing environmental science that shows we have reduced and eliminated certain that microbeads are significantly removed recommended by Product Stewardship Our Ingredients ingredients in our baby and beauty products by wastewater treatment and are not found worldwide. Our efforts to phase out or in marine life, the environmental concern is healthcare professionals & Raw Mateirals Sourcing of Materials restrict several additional ingredients from not likely to be resolved in the near future. Climate and trusted by people our products continue, as shown in the table below. For more information on our efforts, Our Safety & Care Commitment means we continually evolve our policies and products Water Waste around the world. safety process, ingredient safety policies and programs, visit Our Safety & Care to reflect not only the latest science and new regulations, but also consumer views and Commitment website. concerns. Our goal is to give consumers Practices peace of mind that our products are gentle on people and gentle on the environment. Reformulations Baby Care Products Adult Care Products In 2013, the Johnson & Johnson Family of Formaldehyde Removed from new adult products; use Consumer Companies Inc. became one of Removed releasers for new products is by exception only the first companies to commit to removing polyethylene microbeads from its personal 1,4-Dioxane Reduced to four or fewer parts per million Reduced to 10 parts per million care products globally. Our goal is to remove Phased out parabens (except for methyl, microbeads from our products globally Parabens Removed by the end of 2017, having met our 2015 ethyl and propyl parabens) commitment and now having alternatives Triclosan Not permitted Removed from all products available to our consumers. As always, our goal is to choose ingredients that are safe Removed phthalates, nitro musk, polycyclic musks, animal-derived ingredients, tagetes, and environmentally sound and provide Materials in fragrances rose crystal and diacetyl consumers with a great experience. No longer developing new products containing polyethylene microbeads; goal is to Microbeads remove them from our products globally by the end of 2017 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 41 Responsibility Standards for Suppliers Sourcing of Raw Materials Our standards include requirements to: The Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies approaches the issue of responsible sourcing of • Comply with applicable laws and regulations raw materials in several ways. Our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers state that suppliers Contents are expected to operate in a responsible • Behave ethically and with integrity manner, and work to reduce their environmental People impacts including those associated with material sourcing. For more information on our efforts Places • Integrate quality into business processes with our suppliers, see the Procurement & Environmental Responsibility Supplier Management section of this report. Product Stewardship • Respect human and employment rights Johnson & Johnson also has specific responsible Our Ingredients sourcing programs for forest products (see & Raw Mateirals Packaging and Procurement & Supplier Sourcing of Materials • Promote health, safety and well-being of Management) and palm oil. And, as mentioned Climate employees earlier in this section, we focus on improving the impacts of our products through our Earthwards® Water approach. Waste • Embrace sustainability and operate in an environmentally responsible manner Practices Johnson & Johnson • Implement management systems Safety Assurance Process 1 Partner only with suppliers that meet • Be transparent about impact on the our ingredient safety standards and environment and social issues product stewardship principles to source our raw materials 2 Conduct ingredient safety assessments 3 Conduct clinical evaluation of formulations 4 Conduct “in-use” testing 5 Ongoing evaluations of ingredients in beauty and baby care products 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 42 Palm Oil Increasing Palm oil is the most widely used vegetable oil in the world and a common ingredient and feedstock Small Holder to ingredients in many foods, fuels and personal care products. Growing populations and an Yield increased demand for such products means Researchers at Wageningen University palm oil production has never been higher and is in the Netherlands, in partnership with continually increasing. This demand for palm oil Johnson & Johnson, are seeking to has led to conversion of high-conservation value understand the barriers that small holders forests, contributed to the destruction of habitats, face to sustainably increase oil palm yields in compromised biodiversity, and generated social their plantations in Indonesia. The project is conflicts between indigenous communities and Contents growers. exploring opportunities to address the financial We do not buy palm oil but instead buy and labor constraints facing small holders, and People ingredients derived from palm oil (called to find pathways to move from current poor derivatives) and its by-product, palm kernel oil. management and average yields of 15–18 tons Places Environmental Responsibility Progressive palm oil Our purchases of these derivatives represent of fresh fruit bunches per hectare to greater a tiny fraction of global palm oil production. Oil than 22 tons per hectare. Product Stewardship policies and practices from a variety of growers, processing plants and Our Ingredients since 2006 countries is intermingled during the manufacturing Working with the small holders, the researchers & Raw Mateirals and delivery, which makes verifying the origins of 2006 Joined the Roundtable for are identifying and implementing sustainable Sourcing of Materials the oils used to produce the oleo-chemicals we Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) practices, such as applying the right amount Climate use in our products very difficult. of fertilizers and other good practices, and Water Since launching our Responsible Palm Oil 2011 Set goal to source all ingredients Sourcing Criteria in 2014, we have engaged all our simultaneously measuring the yield, number Waste derived from palm oil from certified leading suppliers who represent the majority of our of bunches and vegetative growth of the sustainable sources palm oil derivatives supply. Our Sourcing Criteria palms. The data will help the researchers Practices are being used to assess our top suppliers against to understand the mechanisms behind 2012 Our work with small holders our commitments and to map our derivatives yield improvement and to design suitable gives first certification to independent supply chain with the goal of achieving full approaches for projects at a larger scale. “Our RSPO small holders in Thailand transparency on our palm oil’s origin. goal is to find ways to increase sustainable Our goal is to fully implement our sourcing production in small holder systems, so that the 2014 Became a member of criteria by year-end 2020. For more information, increased demands for palm oil can be met The Forest Trust (TFT), launched see Raw Material Sourcing and Palm Oil without the need for large-scale expansion, and Tracability. our Responsible Palm Oil Sourcing the position of small holder palm oil producers Criteria, and began direct evaluation of is improved,” said Wageningen University the suppliers used in our supply chains researchers. 2015 Qualified our first supplier of RSPO-certified soap noodles in South America 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 43 Contents External Organization Participation People To remain fully engaged in the latest Places Environmental Responsibility developments around product Product Stewardship stewardship, Johnson & Johnson is Our Ingredients & Raw Mateirals an active member and participant Sourcing of Materials in several industry and collaborative Climate organizations. Some include: Water Waste Practices 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 44 Climate Contents Human health and People environmental health Places go hand in hand. Environmental Responsibility Johnson & Johnson began its formal energy Product Stewardship management program more than 30 years ago. Our Ingredients & Raw Mateirals In 2000, we established our first enterprise-wide public commitment to reduce CO2 emissions. Sourcing of Materials In just the past 10 years, our energy and CO2 Climate emissions reduction projects have reduced Water both our energy costs and carbon footprint by Waste approximately 15 percent. We are proud of the solid progress we have made to reduce our Practices carbon footprint, protect our environment and conserve our natural resources. And we are committed to doing even more. Climate change is one of the biggest global health threats of the 21st century, according to a recent report by the Lancet/UCL Commission on Health and Climate Change, a collaboration of dozens of experts from around the world.16 HARNESSING THE SUN’S POWER Still one of the largest solar panel arrays in the state of New Jersey, this collection of panels installed back in 2010 on the Janssen Titusville campus puts the power of the sun to work. Solar energy is one part of our growing reliance on clean and renewable sources of energy as we aspire to power all our facilities with renewable energy by 2050. 16. “Managing the Health Effects of Climate Change,” 2015. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 45 As part of the Citizenship & Sustainability Johnson & Johnson 2020 Goals we launched in 2016, we extended our commitments with two new energy and partnered with the climate goals based on the latest climate science. World Wildlife Fund, the Across Johnson & Johnson, we aim to: World Resources Institute • R  educe absolute carbon emissions and 34 other corporations 20 percent by 2020 and 80 percent by 2050 17 to launch the Corporate Renewable •  roduce/procure 20 percent of electricity P Energy Buyers Principles, which from clean/renewable sources by 2020 and aspire to power all our facilities with renewable were created to raise awareness of energy by 2050 the challenges faced by corporate Also in 2015, we: energy purchasers. Contents •  oined more than 80 companies J People in the signing of the American Business Act on Climate Pledge, a commitment to Places take climate action. The pledge was signed Environmental Responsibility by 30 percent of the largest 50 companies in Product Stewardship the United States, who together employ nine million people across the nation. Our Ingredients In 2015, Johnson & Johnson & Raw Mateirals Sourcing of Materials •  oined RE100, a collaborative, global J Chairman and CEO Alex Gorsky initiative of influential businesses committed joined a round table discussion with Climate to 100 percent renewable electricity. We were Water the first healthcare company to join the ranks President Obama and business Waste of other prominent businesses that have made leaders to discuss the impact and this pledge. RE100 is led by The Climate influence business can have on Practices Group in partnership with Carbon Disclosure our environment. The Summit on Project. Climate and the Road Through •  ontinued participation in all of the C Paris brought together science and CDP’s reporting programs, including business leaders to explore ways Climate Change, Water, Supply Chain Climate, Forest and Water Supply Chain programs. See to further drive efforts to address Five Johnson & Johnson delegates our reports at www.cdproject.net. climate change. attended the sixth annual One Young World Summit in Bangkok, Thailand. Each •  chieved recognition as part of the A CDP Disclosure Leadership Index for the delivered a video message calling on their sixth consecutive year. Our performance score respective country leaders to take action was a B, and our disclosure score was a 99. to stop climate change, reminding them Performance compared to that of our peer of its impending danger to the health of companies is presented in the CDP’s S&P 500 people and the planet. Climate Change Report 2015. 17. Pertains to Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions only. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 46 Energy Use18 Our energy use has decreased 5.2 percent, from 2015 Energy Consumption, by Type 13,537 terajoules (TJ) in 2010 to 12,837 TJ in Energy Consumption 2015, including a decrease of approximately 112 Category (Terajoules) We made good progress TJ from 2014–2015. These reductions are due on our primarily to improvements in the efficiency of our Electricity 6,665 Healthy Future 2015 utility systems at our largest production facilities. 19 20 District Heating/ 199 EN5 , EN6 Our energy intensity has decreased by goals to steward a healthy Cooling 17 percent, from 220 TJ/billion U.S. dollars (USD) Contents environment Natural Gas 5,285 inEnergy 2010 toConsumption 183 TJ/billioninUSD in 2015. Terajoules Purchased Diesel 582 People Realized a 9.8 percent absolute 2015 Purchased Energy Consumption, in Terajoules EN3, EN4 2010 Propane 88 Places reduction in facility CO2 vs. 2010 Total Environmental Responsibility baseline. (Target is 20 percent by 2020.) 2010 6,385 7,151 Fuel Oil 6 15 On track 13,537 Product Stewardship Biomass 2 Our Ingredients 2011 6,007 6,966 2011 & Raw Mateirals Increased on-site clean12,972 Solar PV 77 Sourcing of Materials technology energy capacity to 2012 5,834 6,900 54 MWs. 12,734 Geothermal 29 Climate Exceeded 2013 2012 Generated Water 6,227 6,859 Cogeneration 610 13,086 Waste On-Site Realized 20 percent improvement 2014 6,211 6,738 12,949 Wind 57 Practices in vehicle emissions efficiency. 2013 Fuel Cell 26 Met 2015 5,973 6,864 12,837 0 00 0 0 0 00 00 00 00 ,0 ,0 3, 6, 9, 2014 12 15 Direct (Fuels) Indirect (Electricity and District Heating/Cooling) 2015 18. Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson owned and leased sites over 50,000 square feet, as well as manufacturing and R&D sites under 50,000 square feet, unless otherwise noted. For information on how data from acquisitions 0 3000 6000 9000 12000 15000 and divestitures are managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. Energy use, carbon emissions and clean energy capacity data have been adjusted to reflect acquisitions and divestitures. 19. Our diverse product portfolio makes it difficult to track an organization-specific metric, so we can only use revenue, square feet or employees as a denominator for energy intensity. Electricity, stationary fuels and district heating and cooling are all included in energy intensity ratio, which also includes energy used at Johnson & Johnson facilities. 20. The types of energy included in the reductions are fuel and electricity. Reductions in energy consumption are calculated by comparing energy consumption before project implementation and expected consumption after implementation. The project data we have are based on engineering estimates when the projects are approved. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 47 To improve the efficiency of our operations, While energy efficiency improvements are one Johnson & Johnson has implemented five way to address climate change, the use of targeted demand-side efficiency efforts (see clean energy sources is a way to reduce the below) designed to optimize the largest energyenvironmental impact of the energy our business using systems at our most energy-intensive needs to operate. At the end of 2015, we have manufacturing and research properties. These increased our on-site clean/renewable energy programs have realized reductions in both energy technology capacity to 54 megawatts (MWs), and water use. In 2015, we began expanding exceeding our Healthy Future 2015 goal of these programs beyond North America 50 MWs.21 Of this, 53.5 MWs are currently and the Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA) installed and 0.5 MWs are approved or under region into Asia-Pacific and Latin America. construction. Efforts in 2015 include two fuel cell projects in California, and the construction of a new windmill project in Ireland, which was Contents completed in early 2016. Currently, approximately seven percent of the Company’s electricity is At Our Vision Care facility in Limerick, People Converting existing chilled water systems Clean into Energyan Sources generated Percent of Totalby clean/renewable sources. Our 2020 Ireland, a 3.0 MW wind turbine optimized variable condition by takingFuel advantage goal, updated in 2016, is to produce/procure Places Cell 2 completed in early 2016 is the latest of state-of-the-art control technology. 20 percent of our electricity needs from clean/ Environmental Responsibility Biomass 2 renewable sources by 2020, with an aspiration to project in a series of energy use Product Stewardship Geothermal power3 all our facilities with renewable energy and CO2 emission reduction efforts Our Ingredients Wind by 2050. 17 ongoing since 2006, which through & Raw Mateirals Modernizing steam and hot water systems Cogeneration by 36 the end of 2015 have reduced the Sourcing of Materials utilizing a mix of proven best practicesSolar andPVnew Current 40 On-Site Renewable/ Climate technologies to increase efficiency. Clean Energy Capacity energy cost and CO2 emissions at Water 54 Megawatts Fuel Cell 2% that location by nearly 30 percent. (installed or in progress) Waste Biomass 2% These efforts continue into 2016 with Geothermal 3% Solar PV additional energy efficiency and water Practices Implementing continuous monitoring, improved use reduction projects. An “energy controls, efficient drying and heat recovery on our Congeneration largest compressed air systems. wall” (below) at the facility explains Wind and tracks the site efforts. Project Wind Solar PVcAIR 17% 40% Retro-commissioning the HVAC systems at our Project HOT Geothermal largest properties using real-time controls and Project cAIR set-point optimization. Project HOT Cogeneration Biomass Project cAIR 36% Systematically upgrading existing fluorescent lighting systems to LED Project HOT Fuel Cell technology to provide better light quality and control while improving Project cAIR efficiency. Project HOT 21. Performance is lower than clean energy capacity reported in 2014 report (55.7 MW) based on recalculations due to divestitures. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 48 Energy Consumption in Terajoules Facility CO2 Emissions22 Worldwide Facility CO2e Emissions Worldwide Aviation and Sales Fleet (Scope 1 and Scope 2) EN15 23 EN16 23, 24 Scope 1 Emissions in thousand metric tons 25 in metric tons We continue to follow the Greenhouse Gas Total Protocol issued by the World Business Council 2010 2010 332 904 1,236 Year Sales Fleet Aviation for Sustainable Development and the World Resources Institute, and three of our sites are 2011 313 859 1,172 2011 150,003 8,544 subject to the European Union Emissions Trading System program. We track and report our Scope 2012 303 822 1,125 2011 2012 142,709 8,571 1 and 2 emissions sources. In launching our new 2013 132,973 9,081 science-based 2020 CO2 reduction goal, we 2013 323 810 1,132 also expanded the scope of the goal to include 2014 130,755 10,604 2014 324 799 1,123 2012 our aviation fleet and sales fleet. We continue to 2015 127,640 9,855 engage with our external supply chain in an effort 2015 312 803 1,115 Contents to collect meaningful data on our material Scope 3 emissions sources and collaborate with them on 0 200 400 800 1,200 1,500 2013 People reducing their carbon footprint. Direct Indirect Our Healthy Future 2015 goal is to achieve a 20 Places percent absolute reduction in facility CO2 emissions Worldwide CO2 Emissions vs. Sales, Facility-related Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions, 1990–2015 CO2 Emissions (thousand metric tons) Sales (billion US$) Environmental Responsibility by 2020, compared to our 2010 baseline. Since 1,400 1400 CO2 emissions (thousand metric tons) 2014 Sales (billion US$) 90 $90 Product Stewardship 2010, we have realized a 9.8 percent decrease in 1,200 1200 7575 Our Ingredients CO2 emissions at our facilities globally. In 2015, we & Raw Mateirals realized a 0.7 percent decrease in CO2 emissions, 1,000 1000 6060 Sourcing of Materials from 1,122,888 metric tons in 2014 to 1,114,764 800 800 2015 Climate metric tons in 2015. These reductions are the result 4545 600 600 of energy efficiency and clean energy projects, the Water 3030 electricity grid becoming cleaner across the globe 400 400 0 300 600 900 1200 1500 Waste and portfolio optimization. Our emissions intensity 200 200 15 15 (including Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions) per Practices revenue since 2010 has decreased by more than 00 1990 1990 1995 1995 2000 2000 2005 2005 2010 2010 2015 2015 00 20 percent, from 20.1. MT CO2/million USD in 2010 22. Recalculation for Emission Factors: It is standard for reporting Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. Electricity to 15.9 MT CO2/million USD in 2015. EN18 We on Scope 2 GHG emissions to use electricity factors with a twoemission factors are obtained from the International Energy currently do not use carbon offsets to reduce our year lapse time due to the delay in the availability of grid and Agency’s CO2 Emissions from Fuel Combustion Report and the country emission factors for a specific year. For this reason, we U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s eGRID publication. Fuel global emissions footprint. use the most recent emission factors available when reporting emission factors are obtained from the EPA Climate Leaders The Scope 3 emissions currently tracked inemissions, and then recalculate emissions for prior years when the publication. Global Warming Potentials are obtained from the clude employee business travel, non-hazardous actual factors become available. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Fifth Assessment Report. The chosen consolidation approach for emissions is waste generated from our operations, electric23. Johnson & Johnson does not currently use purchases, operational control. sales or transfers of offsets or allowances. Gases included in ity-related transmission and distribution losses, these calculations include only CO2, as that is how our goal was 24. Facility CO2 emissions numbers were third party–assured and limited downstream (U.S. only) transportation originally written, but we have calculated methane and nitrous in 2010–2015, but prior year values are being restated due to emissions. Evaluation of opportunities for engageoxide emissions from 2010 forward, and these are included in updates in electricity grid emission factors and the addition and our new goal. Hydrofluorocarbons (CFCs) are tracked by EHS&S. removal of acquisitions and divestitures, which is in line with ment and improvement within our Scope 3 footprint Perfluorinated chemicals, sulfur hexafluoride and nitrogen trifluoride guidance from the World Resource Institute’s Greenhouse Gas continue, and an input/output analysis has been do not result from our operations. We do not calculate or report Protocol Corporate Standard. biogenic CO2 emissions in metric tons of CO2 equivalent separately performed to identify emissions hot spots within 25. Emissions data are adjusted for prior years due to from the gross direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. Base year is 2010, our value chain. We continue to participate in the divestitures, acquisitions and updated emissions factors. As a included in table. Emissions in base year have been recalculated result, data presented here will not correspond to the figures in the CDP supply chain climate program where we ask to adjust for acquisitions and divestitures in accordance with 2014 Report or those submitted to CDP in the respective years. guidance from World Resources Institute Corporate Accounting our largest suppliers to report energy and emissions and Reporting Standard. We follow the World Resources Institute For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures are managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. data for their operations. For more information, see 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 49 Scope 3 CO2 Emissions EN17 26 EN30 Approved Energy Reduction Projects, Since 2005 in metric tons Project Type Number of Projects Downstream Product Fueland Energy-Related Year Business Travel Transportation Activities Other Energy Efficiency 59 2010 219,290 Project Relight 44 2011 232,944 Project COLD 28 2012 224,220 63,058 Project n-AIR-g 6 2013 229,317 55,722 87,313 Project HOT 5 2014 235,157 36,246 84,957 Project cAIR 5 2015 248,281 available 12/16 93,128 Business Travel includes global flights via American Express reporting and personal vehicles miles via gXRS internal reporting. Solar Photovoltaic 30 Contents Downstream Product Transportation includes downstream shipping-related emissions for U.S. operations as compiled by U.S. Environmental Protection Agency’s (EPA) SmartWay program. Fueland Energy-Related Activities includes transportation and Cogeneration 14 People distribution losses in the electricity grids globally per EPA data in the U.S. and World Bank data globally. Geothermal/Biomass 6 Places Wind 3 Environmental Responsibility the Procurement & Supplier Management section completed since 2005 have reduced our annual of this report. Fuel Cell 2 Product Stewardship energy costs by approximately $64 million. EN19 Our CO2 reduction capital funding process Our Ingredients Ozone-Depleting Substances (ODS) Sales Fleet CO2 Emissions Efficiency & Raw Mateirals provides a $40 million annual budget for energy and greenhouse gas reduction projects across Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) have been Year Grams CO2 per kilometer Sourcing of Materials the Company. In 2015, 14 new projects were eliminated from use in our facilities for several Climate 2010 177 g/km approved and 15 projects were completed, with years. We plan to eliminate the use of hydrochloWater 2011 170 g/km year-end total spend of $26.5 million. rofluorocarbons (HCFCs) by the end of 2025, or Waste Over the last 11 years, 202 energy reduction earlier where required by government regulations, 2012 161 g/km projects have been approved and 166 have and all Johnson & Johnson manufacturing sites Practices been completed. Together, the completed were required to prepare an HCFC phase-out 2013 149.6 g/km projects are collectively avoiding CO2 emissions plan. For more information, see Air Emissions on 2014 142.8 g/km of approximately 228,000 metric tons per year, our website. In 2015, emissions of ODS were equivalent 27 to removing 48,000 cars from the 2015 141.8 g/km 3.64 metric tons. We do not produce, import or road.To date, the energy reduction projects export ODS. EN20 26. Facility CO2 emissions numbers were third party–assured in Fleet-Related CO2 Emissions CO2 emissions efficiency in both the EMEA and 2010–2015, but prior year values are being restated due to updates Asia-Pacific regions. Belgium, France, Germany, in electricity grid emission factors and the addition and removal of We achieved Our Healthy Future 2015 goal the United Kingdom, Japan and the Philippines acquisitions and divestitures, which is in line with guidance from to realize a 20 percent improvement in increased use of more fuel-efficient vehicles. the World Resource Institute’s Greenhouse Gas Protocol Corporate Standard. fleet emissions28 efficiency for our global 27. www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calendar inventory of more than 28,000 owned or leased Shipping-Related CO2 Emissions 28. Fleet vehicles are those vehicles owned or leased by vehicles, with an average global CO2 emissions Johnson & Johnson and provided to drivers in field sales and service per vehicle of 141.8 g/km, representing a Johnson & Johnson does not own the fleet roles. In countries other than the U.S., vehicles are also provided used to ship our goods; instead, we work with to employees based on level as part of their overall compensation 20 percent reduction in CO2 from the 2010 package. Personal vehicles driven as part of a business role or need baseline of 177g/km. EN30 asset and non-asset based providers to transport are not part of the Fleet Program. For information on how data from These results were driven by a decline in our goods. acquisitions and divestitures are managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. total vehicle count and an increase in average To minimize environmental impacts from 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 50 goods transport, we work with our transportation Johnson & Johnson LEED-Certified Buildings providers to optimize our network, using multiAffiliate Location Level Date Building Area (Sq. Ft.) compartment trailers, taking advantage of freight consolidation opportunities, eliminating deadhead Janssen Titusville, N.J. Gold 8/04 472,553 miles (the number of miles that are driven from the J&J PRD La Jolla, Calif. Certified 4/05 150,000 point of unloading to the point where the new load McNeil Ft. Washington, Penn. Silver 12/06 50,000 is ready for pickup), and engaging in cross-shipper moves with other companies that have similar McNeil Las Piedras, Puerto Rico Certified 9/09 482,642 product lines. J&J PRD Springhouse, Penn. Gold 11/09 150,000 In 2015, our efforts to increase intermodal World Headquarters New Brunswick, N.J. Gold 12/09 448,200 shipments continued, helping to decrease carbon emissions. In the U.S., Johnson & Johnson Janssen Geel, Belgium Certified 1/11 82,505 participates in the U.S. Environmental ProtecJ&J Medical China Suzchou, China Silver 1/11 52,635 Contents tion Agency’s SmartWay program, which helps J&J Consumer China Shanghai, China Silver 2/11 68,847 companies voluntarily increase transportation People energy efficiency while decreasing greenhouse J&J Consumer Philippines Manila, Philippines Gold 10/11 74,271 gas emissions and air pollution. At the same time, J&J Medical China Suzchou, China Gold 10/11 21,528 Places the SmartWay Transport Partnership helps freight Environmental Responsibility Lifescan Inverness, Scotland Gold 10/11 14,500 companies improve fuel efficiency, increase Product Stewardship environmental performance and increase supply J&J Sales & Logistics Mooresville, Ind. Gold 1/12 1,050,000 Our Ingredients chain sustainability. More than 99 percent29 of J&J India Chennai, India Gold 3/12 20,600 & Raw Mateirals the over-the-road transport providers in our U.S. Centocor U.S. Horsham, Penn. Silver 12/12 27,494 Sourcing of Materials network are currently members of the program. Climate The SmartWay membership is part of the decision J&J Family of Companies Zug, Switzerland Platinum 3/13 271,000 Water criteria for awarding business to our transportation McNeil Ft. Washington, Penn. Gold 6/13 345,700 Waste providers. Centocor U.S. Horsham, Penn. (200) Gold 12/13 92,734 Green Buildings Centocor U.S. Horsham, Penn. (850) Gold 12/13 89,718 Practices Our Policy on Sustainable Building Design and Centocor U.S. Horsham, Penn. (800) Silver 12/13 107,675 Construction requires that sustainability be J&J Dubai Dubai, UAE Gold 6/14 82,000 incorporated into our new buildings and major LifeScan Aguadilla, Puerto Rico Silver 10/14 188,573 renovations, and that it be applied to all projects Janssen Belgium La Louvière, Belgium Silver 11/14 313,000 with a cost of at least $5 million and to all new stand-alone facilities owned or leased by LifeScan Canada Burnaby, British Columbia Silver 11/14 25,872 Johnson & Johnson companies worldwide. Janssen India Mumbai, India Platinum 12/14 84,160 The policy establishes an enterprise minimum Vison Care Jackonsville, Fla. Silver 6/15 45,200 design standard based on the Leadership in Energy & Environmental Design (LEED) standard. J&J Consumer China Minhang, China Silver 9/15 77,640 At the end of 2015, Johnson & Johnson had 29 Corporate–George Street Building New Brunswick, N.J. Silver 10/15 258,400 LEED-certified buildings, with four new facilities in JJSC Bridgewater, N.J. Certified 10/15 129,000 the U.S. and China joining the list (at right). Total 5,276,447 Johnson & Johnson Building Area 50,634,606 29. 2014 value, EPA SmartWay Report. Sustainable Workplace Percentage 10.4% 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 51 Water 30 Contents Clean water is People essential for health. Places People depend on water for drinking, sanitation, Environmental Responsibility hygiene and food supply. Yet one in nine people Product Stewardship lack access to clean water, and half the world’s Our Ingredients hospital beds are filled with people suffering & Raw Mateirals from water-related diseases31. More than a billion Sourcing of Materials people currently live in water-scarce regions, and Climate as many as 3.5 billion could experience water Water scarcity by 202532. And as populations continue to increase, climate change is expected to shift Waste precipitation patterns and speed glacial melt, altering water supplies and intensifying floods and Practices drought. Global Water Stress and Scarcity Water scarcity occurs when water supplies are no longer adequate to satisfy all human or ecosystem requirements, resulting in increased competition between water users and other demands. Our Statement on Human Right to Water recognizes that everyone is entitled to sufficient, safe, 30. Includes data from all manufacturing and R&D locations. For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures are managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. Exceptions will be noted in the relevant sections in which they occur. Data have been adjusted to reflect divestitures. A C C E S S T O S A F E W AT E R Access to reliable sources of potable water is limited in many parts of the world, such as in this village in Nkhotakhota, Malawi. Without access to clean water, children walk long distances and use 31. Globalwaterchallenge.org dirty water from ponds and rivers, raising fear of waterborne disease. Johnson & Johnson recognizes the Human 32. WRI.org Right to Water, as defined by the United Nations. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 52 R&D locations and implement water-risk mitigation 2015 Water Use, by Region plans (WRMPs) at high-risk sites. Additionally, in million cubic meters more locally focused data about our water use and impacts will be available as we move forward 0.7 1.9 to meet this goal. EN26 Latin America Asia-Pacific Asia-Pacific Water Usage33 EN10 EMEA North America EMEA 4.3 North America North America Johnson & Johnson has had goals to reduce EMEA Latin America water usage for over 10 years. We have made Latin America 4.2 Asia-Pacific From 2010–2015, Johnson & Johnson substantial progress in reducing our water use, continued to decrease its water usage realizing an absolute reduction of over nine an additional 7.2 percent. percent from 2005–2010, and an additional Contents 7.2 percent from 2010 to 2015. At the end of 2015, our water use volume was People acceptable, physically accessible and affordable down to 11.13 million cubic meters, a reduction 2015 Water Use, by Business Segment in million cubic meters water, and acknowledges that our actions can of approximately 7.2 percent compared to our Places impact water quality and quantity. Water scarcity 2010 baseline volume. Although we missed our Environmental Responsibility is a concern in many areas of the world where we Healthy Future 2015 goal to achieve a 10 percent Product Stewardship operate, including India, China, Mexico, Thailand and absolute reduction in water use by 2015, with parts of Europe and the U.S. Using the methodology 3.2 Asia-Pacific Our Ingredients our 2010 consumption as a baseline, compared 4.2 Consumer & Raw Mateirals developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI) to our performance in 2013 and 2014 we made EMEA Medical Devices Sourcing of Materials to predict water-stressed or water-scarce areas significant advancement in water reduction in North America Climate in 2025, we have evaluated our site locations for 2015. Over the five-year goal period, water use Pharmaceuticals exposure to water stresses/scarcity. EN9 Sitedecreased in the Pharmaceutical and Medical Latin America Non-Operating Water specific risk assessments will be conducted as part Devices segments, but increased in the Consumer Waste Co of our 2020 goals. ns 3.6 segment. Regionally, water use increased in Asiaum 0.1 Our Citizenship & Sustainability 2020 water Pacific and decreased in EMEA and the Americas. er ed M Practices goal is to conduct a comprehensive water-risk ica Percentage of Water Consumption Anticipated Water use increases are mainly driven by higher lD Ph ev ar assessment at 100 or to be in Water-Stressed percent of our by manufacturing/ Scarce Areas production volumes. Reductions can be attributed ice m s ac 2025 eu No to site-specific water conservation measures or to tic nPercent of Percentage of Water Consumption als Op Water Sources energy efficiency projects that have related water er Total Water Used Anticipated to Be in Water-Stressed or in at g Scarce Areas by 2025 savings benefits. Municipal 76.74 No Data Water use in 2015 by region and by business Groundwater 21.92 segment is shown in the pie charts on the right. 6% 9% Extreme Extreme Scarcity Abundant Scarcity Recycling water is another way to reduce Rainwater 0.52 19% 15% Scarcity ScarcitySufficient demand on limited water resources. In 2015, we Gray Water 0.67 Stressed reused 0.75 million cubic meters of recycled water, Stressed meeting approximately 6.7 percent of our total Surface Water 0.10 Stressed Sufficient Sufficient water demand, similar to our use in 2014. Other 0.04 Abundant Abundant Scarcity Our water sources remain unchanged and are 20% No Data shown at right. EN8 31% No Data Extreme Scarcity 33. Baseline and performance has been adjusted to reflect 2025 Synthes and other acquisitions. to be in Water-Stressed or Scarce Areas by Percentage of Water Consumption Anticipated 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 53 Water Conservation Efforts Continue Participation in CDP Water Programs Each of our facilities has a role to play in meeting our water use reduction goals. Johnson & Johnson has been a participant in Examples of water conservation efforts are highlighted below: Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) Water program since its inception in 2010. Additional information Site Project on our water use and risks can be found in our CDP Water submission at www.cdproject.net. Johnson & Johnson Toiletries Water Re-utilization System (reuse of reject reverse osmosis Our CDP 2015 water score was rated B; the Consumer, Brazil water). average healthcare sector score was a B –, as was the average for all companies who provided information. Janssen Belgium Increase the application of gray water on the Beerse site by using soil (Beerse) water as source for the reverse osmosis water. Water Discharge Contents In 2015, our water discharge volume was approxJanssen Belgium (Geel) Reuse of effluent water for polymer lime dosing formulation. People imately 8.22 million cubic meters, discharged as shown in the chart below. Places Installation of optimized washing unit for cleaning activities, resulting in Discharges are monitored, as required, to Vistakon Ireland reduced water use. Environmental Responsibility demonstrate compliance with the applicable water Reuse of reject reverse osmosis water. Product Stewardship quality standards. In 2015, we discharged a total Our Ingredients of 12.9 metric tons of biological oxygen demand & Raw Mateirals (BOD-5) and 78.5 metric tons of chemical Replacement of old equipment with newer, higher efficient models to Ethicon Mexico oxygen demand (COD), essentially unchanged reduce water use (and natural gas). Sourcing of Materials Climate since 2014. EN22 Water Our Worldwide EHS&S Standard for water Implementation of automation in a washing station, resulting in reduced J&J Medical Brazil and wastewater management (Standard) requires water use. Waste that facilities comply with either the local treatment standards or the Standards, whichever is more Practices stringent, and sets forth clear responsibilities for Janssen Mexico Improvements in the wastewater treatment process to allow for reuse of treated wastewater. addressing water conservation, drinking water supply management and storm water management. Manufacturing and R&D sites conduct water inventories and review wastewater sources annually, to identify opportunities to decrease the U.S., Europe and other parts of the world. wastewater generation and/or contaminants. In 2015, Johnson & Johnson, other Global Water Discharge 2015 pharmaceutical companies and the in million cu meters Pharmaceuticals in the Environment European-based Inter-Association Initiative Cubic Meters on Pharmaceuticals in the Environment (IAI Pharmaceutical residues in the environment (PIE) PIE)—consisting of the Association of the Ocean 0.08 are found in water bodies and some soils and European Self-Medication Industry (AESGP), Wastewater Treatment Plant 5.83 sediments, primarily as the result of excretion the European Federation of Pharmaceutical Surface 1.92 of medicines by humans and livestock. Some Industries and Associations (EFPIA), and pharmaceuticals survive conventional industrial Medicines for Europe)—launched the EcoIrrigation 0.20 and municipal wastewater treatment processes; Pharmaco-Stewardship (ESP) framework Other Body 0.18 because of this, regulations to limit levels of to address PIE. This framework is designed Total 8.22 pharmaceuticals in water are being considered in to 1) develop new science and models 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 54 that will enable focused environmental testing system, and often our wastewater is treated of pharmaceuticals and early identification of by both types of systems. We evaluate our pharmaceutical substance properties and the pharmaceutical manufacturing wastewaters for associated environmental risk potential through pharmaceutical residues and potential toxicity to a four-year, 10 million euro research project; aquatic species, and, if needed, action is taken to 2) evaluate and control manufacturing facility reduce concentrations to acceptable levels. wastewater discharges, including those in the To support the evaluation and control of external supply chain; and 3) develop an extended manufacturing facility wastewater discharges, we environmental risk assessment process for are sharing best practices with our manufacturing pharmaceuticals introduced prior to 2006 when partners. Additionally, working with other the existing risk assessment process for PIE went pharmaceutical companies, at the end of 2015 into effect. For more information on this effort, visit we published previously unpublished ecotoxicity the EFPIA website. data for over 100 pharmaceutical compounds, Contents To develop new science and continue to and Johnson & Johnson has added additional increase understanding of PIE risks, we continue to: compounds to this list. This information is now People available through the Temple University Water • C  onduct Environmental Risk Assessments for and Environmental Technology Center to center Places all new drug compounds; members and to regulators upon request. We also Environmental Responsibility • C  ollect environmental impact data for all shared our wastewater effluent maturity ladder Product Stewardship major pharmaceutical products, including a with the Pharmaceutical Supply Chain initiative Our Ingredients prioritized list of legacy (i.e., approved prior to and suppliers. & Raw Mateirals 2006) products; Sourcing of Materials •  artner with a wide range of stakeholder P Climate groups that share our commitment to sound Water science and effective actions to gain a better Waste understanding of this issue; and • W  ork closely with regulatory agencies Practices to ensure that the potential impacts of pharmaceuticals on human health and on the aquatic environment are understood and minimized. We continue to implement our internal PIE strategic plan that will guide our efforts through 2020, including development of predicted “no effect” levels for pharmaceuticals and identification of adjustments to cleaning practices at our manufacturing sites to avoid discharging active pharmaceutical ingredients to our wastewater treatment systems. We will also continue our work on monitoring and improving our wastewater treatment. Our wastewater is treated before discharge by either a company-owned system or an off-site municipal wastewater treatment 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 55 Reduce. In many parts of the world where people Waste 34 lack regular access to food, there are still problems with the amount of food that At our facility in Baddi, India, is wasted each day. Employees at our employees worked with our suppliers Mulund, India facility took action to make sure their site, where over 1,100 people to replace one-time use corrugated work each day, did not add to that problem. box packaging with reusable crates, In the last quarter of 2015, food waste significantly reducing the use of generation was reduced by 66 percent, one-time use corrugated boxes. from approximately 900 kg per month Reuse. to just over 300 kg per month. Any food Contents As the world population wastes that are generated are converted into compost that is used as a fertilizer at People exceeds seven billion And at our facility in the state of the site, eliminating the need for off-site Selangor, Malaysia, finished goods disposal. Places and finite nonrenewable not meeting our quality standards Environmental Responsibility resources are becoming had always been landfilled. Through a Product Stewardship partnership with the local government Our Ingredients harder to obtain, finding and a waste contractor, the off& Raw Mateirals Sourcing of Materials ways to use materials spec products are now collected, segregated and combined with other Climate Water more efficiently or to turn industrial wastes to make fuel bricks, Waste wastes into raw materials used as an energy source. Practices is becoming a necessity. Waste Management 35 on-site in any way. We have focused on total waste, rather than on separated waste types, in Our Healthy Future 2015 goal was to achieve a 10 order to support our companies’ efforts to apply percent absolute reduction in total waste disposed their waste reduction efforts strategically, relative to off-site from manufacturing and R&D locations their own operations. using 2010 total off-site waste disposal as a Our total waste disposed off-site in 2015 baseline. Total waste includes both hazardous and was 80.0 million kilograms, a decrease of 2.9 non-hazardous waste and excludes waste that is percent compared to our 2010 baseline of 82.4 recycled or reused, or disposed/treated million kilograms. Over the last year, the greatest 35. For 2015, waste data for new acquisitions has been added reductions were realized in the Consumer segment to the 2010 baseline (Synthes, Calibra, Guangzhou Bioseal) and in the EMEA region. 34. Includes data from all manufacturing and R&D locations. for the purpose of calculating goal achievement, but does Over the five-year goal period, the greatest For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures not represent actual waste generated in 2010. Ortho Clinical are managed, please see the Report Profile section of this Diagnostics is not included, except for Huntington Valley (part reduction was in our Consumer segment, while report. Exceptions will be noted in the relevant sections of Janssen from 2014). Cordis is included since divestiture only regionally we saw a decrease in waste in the Asiain which they occur. Data have been adjusted to reflect completed in October 2015; Cordis, Juarez Salvacar, is also Pacific region (in part due to the implementation divestitures. continuing and reported with Biosense, Juarez, in 2015. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 56 Notable Waste Reduction Projects, 2015 Site Project Janssen Belgium (Geel) Increased waste recycling by adding additional solvent distillation. Improved wastewater treatment processes, allowing for treatment of wastewater Janssen Belgium (Beerse) stream previously sent for incineration. Modified wastewater treatment system processes, resulting in a reduction of Consumer, L.A. hazardous waste generated by this system. Implemented beneficial use of previously disposed waste stream; replaced use of hazardous material with non-hazardous alternative. Mentor Irving, Calif. Reduced the amount of cleaning solvent by implementation of ‘dry’ cleaning with of on-site wastewater treatment capability), and carbon dioxide. Contents an increase in EMEA, mainly due to an increase in production. Noramco Wilmington, Del. Implemented recycling for previously disposed waste stream. People Waste Generation36 EN23 Places Waste Disposed, by Region, 2015 Hazardous Waste Disposed, 2015 Environmental Responsibility In 2015, our hazardous waste generation in million kg in thousand kg On-Site Off-Site Product Stewardship decreased by 4.0 percent from 2014 (from Asia-Pacific 5.3 Recycled 2,693 17,890 Our Ingredients 58.08 million kg to 55.77 million kg), and our & Raw Mateirals non-hazardous waste generation decreased EMEA 39.9 Reused 147 326 Sourcing of Materials by 1.7 percent versus 2014 (from 117.88 million North America 30.2 Landfilled 0 3732 Climate kg to 115.90 million kg). Total waste generation decreased 2.4 percent from 2014 (175.95 million Latin America 4.6 Incinerated 0 6590 Water kg to 171.67 million kg). While we do Waste Energy Recovery 0 20206 ship wastes between countries, we currently Waste Disposed, by Segment, 2015 have no mechanism to track the volumes of in million kg Biological/ Practices 0 3030 these shipments at the enterprise level. EN25 Chemical Treatment Notably, over half of the waste generated by Consumer 27.2 Other 0 24 Johnson & Johnson is reused or recycled. Medical Devices 16.9 EN23 Environmental Remediation Pharmaceutical 35.0 Non-Hazardous Waste Disposed, 2015 in thousand kg Non-Operating 0.9 On-Site Off-Site Johnson & Johnson is remediating contamination Recycled 0 60,621 at 21 current or former facilities. In 2015, we spent Total Waste Generated, 2011–2015 Reused 779 9,101 $6.5 million remediating these facilities. in million kg Landfilled 0 14,906 2011 154.9 Incinerated 65 3,139 2012 157.3 Energy Recovery 25 19,442 2013 168.5 Biological/Chemical 2014 176.0 32 7,751 Treatment 36. Synthes, Calibra, Guangzhou Bioseal data are included from 2015 171.7 Other 0 36 2013. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 57 Contents Table of Contents People People Places Places Practices Governance Labor Practices Practices & Ethical & Workforce Performance Governance andEmployee Ethical Performance Supply Chain Recruitment, Safety Development Supply&Chain Quality ofCompliance Products & Retention Customer Workplace Procurement andHealth Supplier & Safety Relationship Management Management Health-Conscious, Human Rights Safe Employees Supply Chain LaborRisk Practices Employee Management Diversity & Inclusion Employees Compliance Transparency Stakeholder Engagement Procurement Stakeholder &Financial Supplier and Economic Engagement Performance Management Financial Human Rights Performance Practices We’ll team up with partners and employees to further advance our culture of health and well-being. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 58 Governance & Our governance structure also includes Corporate Internal Audit; an independent auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, LLP; the Audit Ethical Performance Committee of our Board of Directors; and regular review of business results by our Executive Committee. Further details are provided on www.jnj.com under Our Company, as well as on our Investor Relations and Citizenship & Sustainability websites. Communication with Our Board G4-37, 49-50 Contents Johnson & Johnson has Directors and various committees of the Board are available on the Corporate Governance section of Shareholders, employees and others may contact well-established governance our website. G4-34, G4-38, G4-39 the Board or any of our Directors (including People structures and accountability In 2015, Johnson & Johnson created a new the Lead Director) by writing to them c/o office of Worldwide Corporate Governance that Johnson & Johnson, One Johnson & Johnson Places measures to ensure responsible will partner with the Environment, Health, Safety Plaza, Room WH 2136, New Brunswick, NJ 08933 Practices performance that furthers our & Sustainability (EHS&S) and Citizenship teams to or via email at LeadDirector@its.jnj.com, or by using measure progress against the completion of our the online submission form. General comments to Governance Labor Practices purpose and aims with regard to Healthy Future 2015 goals and introduce our next the Company (including complaints or questions & Ethical & Workforce Performance Employee economic, social, environmental set of five-year goals. In addition, in early 2016 about a product) should be sent via the Contact Us a Johnson & Johnson Enterprise Governance form on our website. Supply Chain Recruitment, and governance dimensions Council (EGC) was established, comprised of Quality & Safety Development Johnson & Johnson holds its annual meeting of Products & Retention of our citizenship and a community of enterprise experts who will of shareholders each year on the fourth Thursday Customer Workplace work cross-functionally to drive alignment and of April. A notice of annual meeting and Proxy Relationship Health & Safety sustainability. coordination of external engagement efforts related statement are mailed or delivered electronically to Management Health-Conscious, to key environment, social and governance issues Safe Employees shareholders in mid-March. The Proxy Statement Supply affecting the Company. The Council will also help Chain Risk Employee and the Company’s Annual Report are available on Management Diversity & Inclusion Our Board of Directors, our highest governance lead the effective delivery of our Citizenship & the Company’s Investor Relations website. Compliance Transparency body, is a diverse group of individuals who are Sustainability 2020 Goals. Advance notice is required of shareholder Procurement Stakeholder elected by our shareholders each year. Among the We will continue to have a Citizenship & proposals and other items of business. Under the & Supplier Engagement six standing committees of the Board of Directors, Sustainability Working Group, with representatives terms of the Company’s By-Laws, a shareholder Management from across the enterprise representing various Financial the Regulatory, Compliance & Government who intends to present an item of business (other Human Rights Performance Affairs Committee and the Science, Technology divisions and disciplines that accomplish the work than a proposal submitted for inclusion in the & Sustainability Committee—each composed of in support of practices on environment, health, Company’s Proxy materials) must provide written non-employee (independent) directors—share safety, citizenship and sustainability. notice of such business to the Company. This responsibility for oversight of topics related to The Citizenship & Sustainability Working Group advance notice and associated deadlines are Citizenship & Sustainability, including regulatory, has tracked performance and progress against outlined in the Company’s Proxy Statement. compliance, quality and governmental matters, our Healthy Future 2015 goals, assisted in the Topics related to economic, environmental and policies, programs and practices on development and execution of our last materiality and social performance that were raised through environment, health, safety and sustainability. These assessment, and assists in other Citizenship the 2015 reporting period included shareholder committees advise and, as appropriate, make & Sustainability strategic efforts such as the proposals seeking a policy for share repurchase recommendations to the Board on issues for which development of our next set of five-year goals. preference, an independent Board Chairman, report they are responsible. Details about our Board of G4-35-36 on lobbying disclosure and take-back programs 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 59 for unused medicines. These proposals and the Anti-Corruption Johnson & Johnson operating companies met the Board’s statements in opposition are presented in training goal (as captured in our metrics managethe Company’s Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy The Law Department and the Johnson & Johnson ment tool), with training completed for more than Statement of March 16, 2016, available online. The Office of Health Care Compliance & Privacy 101,974 applicable employees worldwide. SO4 majority of votes cast by shareholders were against (HCC&P) are responsible for setting enterprise-wide Adherence is verified through ongoing the adoption of these proposals, as announced at standards with respect to anti-corruption laws and independent audits and operations testing the Company’s Annual Meeting on April 28, 2016. interactions with healthcare professionals. conducted by Internal Audit and HCC&P. The Finance organization is responsible for Information on reviews is part of regular updates assuring appropriate accounting controls at all to the Regulatory, Compliance & Government Ethical Performance levels of the organization that ensure accuracy Affairs Committee of the Board of Directors. over financial reporting, including the investigation Where process reviews identify questionable The Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies has of potential fraudulent financial activity or results. activities, these issues are escalated to an internal the privilege of doing business in many countries The organization is also responsible for evaluating, Triage Committee and for-cause investigations Contents and regions around the world. In every single locatesting and monitoring accounting control systems commence. tion, employees at every level have the responsibility on an ongoing basis to be reasonably assured that Many incidents and allegations are subject People to know and follow laws and regulations that apply the controls in place continue to be appropriate and to confidentiality, legal, privacy or other similar to our business. function properly. Part of this evaluation includes restrictions and, therefore, are not publicly Places While compliance with laws and regulations is documenting all the steps taken to evaluate and disclosed. However, this information is reported mandatory, it also shows our commitment to being monitor controls, as well as documenting existing externally in our public filings if it meets the criteria Practices a responsible corporate citizen and demonstrates accounting and internal control systems and for requiring public disclosure. SO5 Governance Labor Practices care about and respect for all those we serve and procedures. & Ethical & Workforce who do business with us. In addition, noncompliInternal Audit conducted 195 financial control Ethical Marketing Performance ance with laws and regulations can result in civil Employee audits at operating companies in 2015. In addition, Supply Chain Recruitment, and criminal fines and penalties, imprisonment and Internal Audit and HCC&P conducted 84 and The Company is committed to marketing all Quality & Safety Development other commercial or personal disciplinary actions. of Products & Retention 76 audits, respectively, for compliance with our products responsibly to honor the trust that Workplace Our Company has comprehensive policies, Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and Healthcare consumers place in us in choosing our products Customer Health & Safety procedures and required training that help emCompliance controls. Generally speaking, all and to ensure efficient markets. See the Ethical Relationship Management Health-Conscious, ployees comply with laws and regulations. The operating companies are audited on either a Marketing section of our Citizenship & Sustainability Supply Safe Employees Johnson & Johnson Law, Health Care Compliance threeor five-year cycle, depending on the risk website for more information. Lawsuits, claims Chain Risk Employee & Privacy, Quality & Compliance, Human Resources profile of the particular operating company. In regarding commercial and other matters, Management Diversity & Inclusion and Finance departments are available to help all addition, HCC&P conducts additional monitoring governmental investigations, and other legal Compliance Transparency employees navigate the laws and regulations that and testing operations at our operating companies proceedings arise from time to time in the ordinary Procurement Stakeholder impact our work. for compliance with our healthcare policies on a course of business. Legal proceedings that involve & Supplier Engagement In 2015, the Johnson & Johnson Code of Management regular basis, with the scope and frequency of such Johnson & Johnson and its subsidiaries and meet Financial Business Conduct, previously known as the Human Rights Performance monitoring being dependent on the local operating criteria for requiring public disclosure are reported Johnson & Johnson Policy on Business Conduct, company requirements and local conditions. SO3 externally in our public filings, available on our was modernized and renamed to advance a culOur policies require anti-corruption training for Investor Relations website. SO7 ture of accountability in an increasingly complex those employees with job responsibilities that are business environment, and with availability in 25 relevant to such training, with a significant emphasis languages, to better reflect the needs of our global, placed on the training requirement to ensure comdiverse workforce. pletion by the applicable employees. The training Additional details concerning policies and covers all aspects of the Health Care Business procedures that define what we expect of our peoIntegrity Guide (HCBIG), including charitable conple and our business partners throughout the world tributions, donations, third-party intermediary (e.g., are provided on our Citizenship & Sustainability distributors) and cross-border interactions, all of website. G4-56-58 which are deemed as high-risk activities. In 2015, 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 60 Supply Chain Contents The Customer is at the People center of everything Places we do in Supply Chain. Johnson & Johnson Supply Practices Governance Labor Practices Chain plays a critical role & Ethical Performance & Workforce in helping patients and Employee Supply Chain Recruitment, consumers around the Quality & Safety Development of Products & Retention world live longer, healthier Workplace Customer Relationship Health & Safety and happier lives. Management Health-Conscious, Safely producing and delivering a reliable supply Supply Safe Employees of products to meet changing customer needs Chain Risk Employee Management Diversity & Inclusion around the world takes coordination on a Compliance Transparency grand scale. Our Johnson & Johnson Supply Procurement Stakeholder Chain is responsible for making products at & Supplier Engagement our own Johnson & Johnson facilities and Management through hundreds of external partners. The Financial Human Rights Performance Johnson & Johnson Supply Chain takes an end-to-end view starting with a close collaboration with Research & Development and Commercial distributors and wholesalers to reach people customers through a customer relationship survey colleagues to safely and efficiently plan, source, around the world. Our top priority is to ensure program on page 63. make and deliver a high-quality, reliable supply our products are of high quality and available Johnson & Johnson Supply Chain provides of all of the products in the Johnson & Johnson when needed. Read about Quality and Safety of oversight and monitoring for key elements of portfolio. Our end-to-end supply chain exists to Products in the next section of this report. our Enterprise Risk Management framework; serve the customer. From the first mile to the last, hundreds of Environment, Health, Safety & Sustainability Our first responsibility has been and continues customer service and distribution centers unite (EHS&S); Quality & Compliance; and operational to be to meet customer needs, every day. We to deliver a positive customer experience. Read and strategic supply chain risk, as discussed on work with hospitals, pharmacies, retailers, more about how we track performance with our page 65. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 61 Quality & Safety of Products Contents In keeping with People Our Credo commitment that “…everything we do Places must be of high quality,” Practices Johnson & Johnson Governance Labor Practices & Ethical & Workforce continues to take steps Performance Supply Chain Employee Recruitment, to ensure consistent and Quality & Safety Development of Products & Retention sustained high quality, safe Customer Relationship Workplace Health & Safety and effective products Management Health-Conscious, Safe Employees that allow us to fulfill our Supply Chain Risk Employee greatest role: helping FA C I L I T Y R E S U M E S P R O D U C T I O N Rebuilt over nearly five years into a state-of-the-art manufacturing facility, McNeil Consumer Healthcare (McNeil) Fort Washington, Pennsylvania, resumed commercial Management Diversity & Inclusion Compliance Transparency people live longer, production in 2015. Manufacturing activities are supported by quality assurance, research and development, engineering, maintenance and warehouse functions. McNeil is the world’s largest over-theProcurement & Supplier Stakeholder Engagement healthier, happier lives. counter drug company. Management Financial Human Rights Performance We use various tools—including the change control, deviations, corrective action/ that the particular Johnson & Johnson company Johnson & Johnson Quality Policy, Quality preventive action (CAPA), risk management, investigate to determine if there is any impact Management Framework, and Quality Policy escalation and accountability, resulting in a system to the quality of any product. Furthermore, they Standards—that outline the requirements our of continuous improvement. Our independent, require the company to document the root cause, operating companies across Johnson & Johnson internal audits (conducted on a regular cycle) implement corrective actions and monitor for must achieve to design, make and deliver our are designed to determine whether individual effectiveness (as well as report and take action products. These tools cascade down to more companies conform to Johnson & Johnson as required where there is an impact to product detailed technical documents and procedures Quality Policy Standards and health authority in the field). that shape our business segments’ (Consumer, requirements. When one of these audits, a In accordance with the Johnson & Johnson Pharmaceutical and Medical Devices) quality regulatory agency inspection, routine quality Quality Policy, each Johnson & Johnson company systems and require each operating company to testing or an employee identifies a potential is required to establish a system that includes have processes that include monitoring, trending, quality issue, our Quality Policy Standards require the monitoring of trends and the establishment of 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 62 triggers to allow escalation of significant quality are setting new benchmarks for medical safety McNeil Consumer Healthcare issues. Escalated issues are similarly investigated, and have implemented a consistent global Update and Status of Goals documented, corrected and monitored until approach for monitoring the use of in-market resolved. In all matters of quality and regulatory products. Under Consent Decree compliance escalation, the decision-making line is In 2015, we did not experience any to the Quality & Compliance organization. substantive regulatory actions for nonAn independent internal audit program compliances with regulations and voluntary Nearly all over-the-counter (OTC) assesses whether Johnson & Johnson sites codes concerning the health and safety impacts products were returned to shelves by the comply with health authority regulations and with of products. The monetary value of any fines or end of 2015, with additional sizes and our own quality standards. Any findings made by penalties assessed for non-compliance with laws flavors to be introduced during 2016. the audit team are required to be remediated, and and regulations concerning the provision and use such remediations are tracked until complete. of products and services was determined not to FDA notification was received that The program operates on a three-year cycle. be significant. PR2, PR4, PR9 our U.S. OTC manufacturing facilities Contents Audits of some companies may be more frequent, Since 2013, Johnson & Johnson has in Lancaster, Pennsylvania; Fort if necessary to follow up on the remediation of embarked on a number of programs designed People Washington, Pennsylvania; and Las previous audit findings. Findings are classified, specifically to reduce supply chain related recalls Piedras, Puerto Rico, are in conformity. action plans are created, and follow up and that could impact product availability to our Places customers. These programs, on an annual basis, Fort Washington resumed commercial reporting continues until gaps are fully closed. have demonstrated a measurable reduction production in September 2015. Independent Quality Review Boards (QRBs) Practices in interruptions. Additionally, our quality metric are used within each business unit to make Governance Labor Practices decisions with respect to concerns that may arise programs and proactive compliance programs No independent third-party is needed & Ethical & Workforce Performance regarding the quality of product that has been have resulted in more than two thirds of our for day-to-day oversight at any of these Employee regulatory health inspections concluding with no Supply Chain Recruitment, released to the market. The Quality Standard facilities, but an independent third-party that harmonized this process across the deficiencies being noted. will reassess the sites at various times Quality & Safety Development & Retention We continually explore new ways to foster our of Products enterprise empowers the right quality, medical during the next several years. Customer Workplace and regulatory colleagues to make our most proactive quality culture and use our expertise Relationship Health & Safety to engage in leadership roles with external important decisions about product in the market, Management Health-Conscious, stakeholders to influence and shape regulations, Safe Employees independent of commercial considerations. Supply ensuring the Company continues to deliver safe Chain Risk Employee Each of our businesses has the accountability to ensure that both resources and systems are in and effective products to improve the lives of Management Diversity & Inclusion place to identify and escalate any quality issues, our patients and customers. In one example, Compliance Transparency make informed and timely decisions, and take Johnson & Johnson has been working proactively Procurement Stakeholder & Supplier Engagement the necessary actions whenever required—while with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for Quality Metrics. Johnson & Johnson again Management Financial always keeping the safety and well-being of and other industry representatives as the FDA participated in a pilot program to both help gain Human Rights Performance patients and consumers as our primary focus. explores innovative ways to use quality experience with the FDA proposal and respond to As a result of these efforts, metrics for routine surveillance of prescription the FDA with data-driven comments to the Draft Johnson & Johnson has achieved an integrated and non-prescription drug facilities and products Guidance. Quality Metrics is an evolving topic. We and proactive approach to quality and continuous across the entire supply chain. In 2014, will continue to develop our internal processes improvement. For the benefit of our customers, Johnson & Johnson conducted a large internal in preparation for new expectations and work we actively strive for continuous improvements pilot collecting quality metrics data from 11 actively with external stakeholders to develop best in all aspects of quality and safety throughout all Johnson & Johnson sites. The learnings from this practices in collecting quality data and calculating phases of product life cycles. Health and safety internal pilot were shared with FDA leaders to help Quality Metrics. impacts are assessed for all our significant product them understand the strengths and weaknesses categories in each business segment throughout of their proposed program. Subsequently, the FDA the world. PR1 In addition, Chief Medical Officers published a draft guidance to industry, Request 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 63 Customer reaches 26 countries on an annual basis. The Customer Experience Survey employs a data gathering approach specifically designed to drive The Three E’s of Relationship identification of insights and ability to action plan at three levels: enterprise, functional and local. In Customer Experience Management 2014, the interview instrument was modified to reduce the number of attributes from 16 to 14. Effectiveness Emotion Findings focus on three key areas: G4-PR5 • S  upply Chain Partner Performance (supply Ease chain index score calculated using importance times performance against 14 key attributes of a world-class supply chain partner); Contents While patients and consumers •  ey Capabilities Needed (from identified K are our customers, the majority themes); People of our business is based •  ealth of the Customer Relationship (future H intent data). Places upon our relationships with Practices retailers and healthcare The customer supply chain index is a key Customer Effort Score. Additionally, the 2016 performance metric for the JJSC. Results are goals for improvement are focused on closing Governance Labor Practices channels in order to reach shared with the JJSC leadership team and as part competitive gaps in critical customer areas. & Ethical & Workforce Performance Employee people who ultimately benefit of regular engagements with business stakeholders, The Customer Experience Survey is just one Supply Chain including commercial organization leadership supply chain initiative to improve the customer Recruitment, Quality & Safety Development from our products and services and supply chain leaders within each business experience and to create joint value between the of Products & Retention Workplace across all business segments. segment. Information is shared broadly to increase Company and our key customers. Other efforts Customer action on the big company-wide initiatives and include advancing customer collaboration models, Relationship Health & Safety Research among commercial customers shows more local or regional actions based upon findings executing a global customer service strategy and Management Health-Conscious, there is strong loyalty to Johnson & Johnson Safe Employees in given markets, with certain products, or certain developing an e-commerce strategy. Ultimately, Supply brands and that strong loyalty is vital to continuing Chain Risk Employee customer channels. Over 400 global, regional and everything we do should be designed to enhance Management to meet Our Credo responsibility to doctors, the customer experience. Diversity & Inclusion local action plans were completed to address nurses and patients, to mothers and fathers and Consumer and patient satisfaction are Compliance Transparency customer feedback in 2015, allowing us to achieve all others who use our products and services. assessed on an ongoing basis by our business Procurement Stakeholder improvement in our Supply Chain Index score (61 & Supplier Engagement Johnson & Johnson Supply Chain (JJSC) has units and business segments. Our operating percent in 2014 to 63 percent in 2015). However, Management Financial developed a global, enterprise-wide capability to companies employ a variety of mechanisms to our competitive environment is very dynamic, and Human Rights Performance collect direct commercial customer feedback on measure consumer and patient satisfaction, we have observed top competitors accelerating a regular basis that evaluates our supply chain including surveys, website interactions, focus their pace of innovation and performance. We are performance and provides actionable insights to groups and patient advisory groups. These focusing our efforts on the top areas of opportunity build trust, loyalty and mutual value. customer satisfaction measures, as collected by identified by our customers to ensure we continue A customer experience metric was added our business units, are not shared externally for to meet their needs. to the JJSC enterprise-level dashboard in competitive reasons. In 2016, the global Supply Chain organization 2012. Enterprise-wide metrics have been will continue to mature and expand customer established and are monitored to measure metrics. We will focus on the 3-E’s of Customer commercial effectiveness. Following an initial Experience: Effectiveness as measured by Supply pilot in 2012, these metrics are assessed in Chain Index, Emotion as measured by the Net our Customer Experience Survey Program that Promoter Score and Ease as measured by the 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 64 Supply Chain Risk Management Contents Johnson & Johnson Supply Before Johnson & Johnson took an enterprise Johnson & Johnson must understand and approach to our supply chain operating model, manage the risks faced across our entire Chain provides oversight and supply chain risk management activities were organization. Risks are inherent in our business People monitoring for key elements focused on business continuity planning (BCP). activities and can relate to strategic threats, BCP focused on disaster recovery at individual operational issues, compliance with laws and Places of our Enterprise Risk sites, utilization of resources within individual regulations, and reporting obligations. Practices Management Framework; operating units, and development of recovery Our Enterprise Risk Management Framework plans and post-event actions. While BCP was provides an overview of our enterprise-wide Governance Labor Practices Environment, Health, Safety effective at helping our business manage through approach to risk management and illustrates & Ethical Performance & Workforce & Sustainability (EHS&S); events, it did not drive systematic and proactive examples of how this approach is implemented Employee Supply Chain Recruitment, Quality & Compliance, and assessment of risk across our supply chain. within the organization. Johnson & Johnson Quality & Safety Development That is why, in 2010, we developed a “bestbusiness leaders are accountable for managing of Products & Retention operational and strategic supply in-class” standard, our proactive supply chain risks affecting their business. As appropriate, Customer Workplace Health & Safety chain risk. Our comprehensive risk management (SCRM) program, to identify, issues are escalated to their respective Executive Relationship prioritize and manage supply chain risks. Committee member or directly to the Regulatory, Management Health-Conscious, programs cover compliance This approach prioritizes products based on, Compliance & Government Affairs Committee. Safe Employees Supply Chain Risk Employee (Johnson & Johnson Quality & first, patient/customer and Johnson & Johnson Our Board of Directors provides oversight of senior Management Diversity & Inclusion Compliance, Supplier Quality, reputational impact, and secondarily, financial leadership’s management of the various risks the Compliance Transparency impact; considers the likelihood that risk will Company faces. Procurement Stakeholder EHS&S) and strategic and occur; and prompts preventive actions to increase & Supplier Management Engagement operational risk. our level of preparedness. By using a standard Financial approach across Johnson & Johnson, we can Human Rights Performance compare supply chain risks across products, sites, and suppliers and ensure mitigation resources are used most effectively. We recognize that execution of our SCRM program is critical to remaining a reliable supply chain and protecting customers, our Johnson & Johnson trustmark and growth. In order to deliver maximum value to our consumers, patients, caregivers, employees, communities and shareholders, we at 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 65 Compliance Our Code of Business develop strategy, oversee talent management and environmental, health, safety and sustainability nonContents execute governance. For more information on compliances. Our aim is to achieve zero accidental Conduct requires that all our management approach, see Organizational releases, regulatory non-compliances and fines. People employees comply with all Approach and Responsibility on our website, In 2015, we experienced 30 accidental reand the Environmental Responsibility section of leases and 77 environmental non-compliances, Places laws and regulations governing this report. and we paid a total of $3,800 in fines for violations our Company’s behavior. Beginning in 2014, we included several new related to hazardous waste, air and wastewater Practices When this is not the case, information is reported EHS&S categories of non-compliance such as management. None of the accidental releases Governance Labor Practices internally within the organization to senior non-compliances associated with fire codes, food were considered to be significant, as defined by & Ethical & Workforce management and, as appropriate, also shared service, elevators and boilers. Now the areas being the GRI guidance. A total of 398 health and safety Performance Employee managed and reported as part of our compliance non-compliances were also recorded, with over with the Executive Committee, the Board of Supply Chain Recruitment, program reflect a more inclusive and holistic view 69 percent of these occurring in the newly added Directors and/or the external auditors. Many of Quality & Safety Development of our operations, going beyond the traditionally categories. A total of $675 was paid for health and of Products & Retention these issues are subject to confidentiality, legal, privacy or other similar restrictions and, therefore, reported areas of EHS&S compliance. We also safety violations in 2015. EN24, EN29 Customer Workplace Health & Safety are not publicly disclosed. When public disclosure increased the rigor of our reporting. These factors Visit our website for more information on our Relationship Management Health-Conscious, caused, in part, an increase in the number of approach to compliance. criteria are met, anticompetitive behavior, antitrust Supply Safe Employees claims, product liability claims, and lawsuits Chain Risk Employee that cover customer health and safety, labeling EHS&S Non-Compliances, Releases Management Diversity & Inclusion or marketing, as well as corrective actions and and Fines Paid 38 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Compliance Transparency resulting fines and penalties, are outlined in our Procurement Stakeholder Accidental Releases (Number of Events) 9 8 7 24 30 & Supplier Engagement 10-Q and 10-K filings. See Note 21 on page 64 of Management our 2015 Annual Report. PR7, SO8 Environmental Non-Compliances Financial 30 29 45 72 77 Human Rights (Number of Individual Findings) Performance Environment, Health, Safety & Environmental Fines Paid (U.S. Dollars) $ 5,000 $ 3,500 0 $ 416,195 $ 3,800 Sustainability (EHS&S) Compliance37 Health & Safety Non-Compliances— Accountability for environmental, health, safety and Number of Individual Findings 9 6 7 192 398 sustainability performance is shared across the enterprise. Our operating model uses geography Health & Safety Fines Paid (U.S. Dollars) $ 7,311 $ 648 $ 205,000 $ 7,488 $ 675 to leverage expert Environment, Health, Safety and Sustainability (EHS&S) knowledge across our 37. For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures are managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. Exceptions will be noted in the relevant sections in which they occur. manufacturing, R&D, distribution and commercial 38. Includes data from all manufacturing, R&D, warehouse, distribution center and office buildings locations. Beginning in 2014, operations, while continuing to leverage subjectwe included several new EHS&S categories of non-compliance such as non-compliances associated with fire codes, food service, matter technical experts across the enterprise, elevators and boilers. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 66 rt No in A f ic Lat aci EM EA a-P We made good progress Procurement s Procurement at a Glance Asi on our ra t e ic e l G4-12, EC9 D ev t ic a Healthy Future 2015 rp o ceu & Supplier ca Co Europe, goals to partner with suppliers Me di rma me r Asia-Pacific 28.6% Middle East, who share our concern for the Pha n su Management Africa 11.9% environment and for human rights, Co creating an indirect extension of our own actions Spend by Latin 5.8% America Region 98 percent of our strategic suppliers, representing approximately 25 percent of spend, publicly reported at Contents North 53.7% least two sustainability goals. (Target: America 100 percent of strategic suppliers.) People The strength of our Partial Places Johnson & Johnson Achieved $1.39 billion in spend procurement organization Medical Devices 31.2% Corporate with diverse suppliers. Practices lies in its ability to effectively Exceeded Governance Labor Practices 9.3% & Ethical & Workforce connect the people, companies  ver 80 percent of all goods suppliers O Performance Employee and organizations necessary Spend by Business in high-risk countries and any service Supply Chain Recruitment, Quality & Safety Development to make and deliver our Segment providers with greater than $250,000 & Retention in spend with operations in a highof Products Workplace products around the world. Customer risk country confirm awareness of and Nor Health & Safety 29.3% 30.2% Relationship conformance with the human rights Lati Management Our reach is extensive with more than 80,000 Consumer A th A EME Health-Conscious, eric provisions of our policies.39 Safe Employees suppliers and an annual procurement spend Asia mer n Am Supply Chain Risk Employee of more than $30 billion. This presents great Pharmaceutical (Target: 100 percent.) ica if Management Diversity & Inclusion Partial Pac a opportunities for us to work with a large network ic Compliance Transparency of partners to expand healthier practices that Cor Suppliers assists suppliers in understanding our Med Procurement Stakeholder contribute to the improved health of people and pora 99.85 percent of Johnson & Johnson rm Pha sustainability commitments and in improving their ica & Supplier Engagement communities around the globe. It also presents a Con te procurement and supply chain Management sustainability processes. ic Financial challenge to collaborate and impact such a sizable er uti Dev professionals and others in positions Human Rights Performance sum While we put great trust in our suppliers and ace most sensitive to potential human rights and diverse supply chain in a meaningful way. ask for maximum transparency, we also monitor cal es In 2015, we implemented new procedures and infringement have received human rights and measure their performance in many key programs, and continued improving existing ones, training. (Target: 100 percent.) areas. By the end of 2015, there were a number of to address both our opportunities and challenges. notable and measurable advances and successes, Met We look to partner with suppliers who are and the recognition that we and our suppliers still transparent about their sustainability programs, have work to do (see sidebar). 39. Original Healthy Future 2015 goal stated that all can assure us that they are sustainably producing To maintain momentum, in 2015 we suppliers in high-risk countries confirm awareness of and the goods and/or services we are buying, and developed our Citizenship & Sustainability 2020 conformance with the human rights provisions of our can verify the legal and regulatory compliance of Responsibility Standard for Suppliers, with high-risk countries Goals, which will guide us as we collaborate with identified largely on assessments done by external groups, their supply chain. Our Sustainability Toolkit for our suppliers to accelerate environmental and such as Transparency International. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 67 HR4-HR6 social improvements across the supply base. 800), Latin America (approximately 300) and High-Risk Countries Considered by The new five-year goals contain two key supplierIndependent Organizations40 to Be at EMEA (approximately 100). Regional leaders now related targets. First, to more broadly expand Risk for Human Rights Violations oversee a standard outreach process to evaluate our reach, we aim to enroll suppliers covering conformance to our human rights policies. Where 80 percent of the Company’s spend in our Afghanistan Kenya clarity is needed to make a determination of Sustainable Procurement Program. Our second Algeria Mexico possible risks, a third party has been engaged to target is to consistently achieve benchmark Angola Montenegro investigate further. As a result of increasing the spending with diverse suppliers in the U.S. and Azerbaijan Myanmar number of suppliers included in our reporting, our small suppliers globally, while doubling our global Bangladesh Nigeria adherence rate decreased. In 2015, greater than 80 supplier diversity footprint. Belarus North Korea percent of suppliers identified in high-risk countries Brazil Pakistan have been confirmed to conform to the human Managing Procurement Risks Cambodia Palestinian Authority rights provisions. While our adherence level is lower, Cameroon Panama our reach is broader and we believe our impact is Contents Managing our supply base is a critical and greater as we strive for 100 percent compliance. China Paraguay complex undertaking. We use many tools Cuba Philippines People to accomplish this task, starting with our Assessments and Audits Democratic Republic Thailand Procurement Sustainability Initiative (PSI). The PSI of Congo Turkmenistan Places Guatemala provides the foundation to guide our procurement Romania Assessments of new or existing suppliers are professionals in their purchasing decisions and a India Russia centered around ethics, employee health and Practices Indonesia framework to provide guidance to influence our Serbia safety, and environmental protection elements Governance Labor Practices Iran & Ethical & Workforce suppliers. Sudan and are prioritized mainly based on the supplier Performance Internally, our Procurement team works Iraq Syria category. External manufacturing sites and active Employee Supply Chain closely with our Environment, Health, Safety Ivory Coast Ukraine pharmaceutical ingredients supplier sites are high Recruitment, & Sustainability (EHS&S) team to integrate our Jordan on the priority list and receive the most detailed, Quality & Safety Development Uzbekistan of Products & Retention processes and approach and to elevate our Lebanon Vietnam site-level assessments. Assessment of remaining Customer Workplace employees’ awareness of the importance of Liberia Yemen suppliers is conducted initially at the corporate Relationship Health & Safety Kazakhstan managing our procurement risks. Zimbabwe level, and may be conducted for certain factors, Management Health-Conscious, Safe Employees Externally, expectations for human rights, with emphasis on all our strategic suppliers Supply Chain Risk Employee business ethics, labor practices, health and safety, and certain R&D and chemicals suppliers. Our Management Diversity & Inclusion and environmental performance are established website for more information. assessment process is detailed in the Responsible in our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers Our Healthy Future 2015 goals increased External Supply chart on the following page. Compliance Transparency and are applicable to all suppliers. For more our focus on human rights risks in high-risk The primary driver in determining the type and Procurement Stakeholder & Supplier Engagement information, see Supplier Standards. countries.40 All goods suppliers in high-risk frequency of assessment or audit is the level of Management Financial Expectations may also be defined in supplier countries, and any services suppliers with greater supplier EHS&S risk. An initial review considers Human Rights Performance contracts. Standardized contract terms and than $250,000 in annual spend with operations supplier location and the products or services it conditions guide the foundation of our formal in a high-risk country, confirm awareness of and provides. Suppliers rated as low priority require no agreements with suppliers. We maintain processes conformance with the human rights provisions further immediate action. Those determined to be to assist our suppliers in assessing, and, where of our policies.41 In prior years, we reported high priority are evaluated using a formal EHS&S necessary, improving their performance. Visit our results for our strategic suppliers and those in risk assessment, using either an internal process active pharmaceutical ingredients and external or one provided by our external partner, EcoVadis, 40. Based largely on assessments of high-risk countries done manufacturing, achieving 98 and 95 percent and assigned ratings of high, medium or low. by external groups, such as Transparency International. adherence respectively in 2014. Nearly all of the approximately 400 suppliers 41. Original Healthy Future 2015 goal stated that all suppliers in The shift to a high-risk country focus reviewed in 2015 ranked medium or low (see pie high-risk countries confirm awareness of and conformance with expanded our reach to include nearly 1,200 chart on next page). the human rights provisions of our Responsibility Standard for Suppliers. suppliers across Asia-Pacific (approximately 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 68 EN33, LA15, HR11, S010 Category of Finding Medium 183 Social includes: • Health & Safety 2015 Supplier 7 High • Working Conditions Assessments, • Labor Relations Responsible by Ranking • Training & Career Management • Child and Forced Labor External Supply 122 Low • Non-Discrimination • Fundamental Human Rights Supplier Review Where the individual supplier score falls below our Fair Business Practices includes: desired target rating, we request that the supplier Contents Low Medium High • Corruption and Bribery Low High look at its programs and ensure improvement. If • Anti-Competitive Practices non-conformances are discovered, we work with People • Fair and Responsible Marketing the supplier to identify problem areas and develop Places Supplier strategies to improve performance. If significant Environment includes: Risk Assessment non-conformances are identified that cannot be • Energy & Greenhouse Gas (CO2 ) Practices resolved, the relationship with the supplier may be • Water 3 in jeopardy. Governance Labor Practices years • Biodiversity & Ethical & Workforce Low Of the slightly more than 100 suppliers pro• Local Pollution Performance 1–2 Med vided repeat assessments in 2015, more than 60 Employee years High • Materials, Chemicals, Waste Supply Chain Recruitment, Corrective percent improved their score by 10 percent or • Product Use Quality & Safety Development actions and support more. • Product End of Life of Products & Retention When an on-site supplier audit is warranted • Customer Health & Safety Customer Workplace Health & Safety Supplier Audit because a potential high risk has been identified, • Sustainable Consumption Relationship Management Health-Conscious, Johnson & Johnson staff or a contracted auditor Supply Safe Employees is hired to visit and review a supplier’s operaRepeat Low Med High Revisit Supply Chain includes: Chain Risk Employee risk tions. This may take up to several days. In 2015, tech Management Diversity & Inclusion assessment Johnson & Johnson conducted approximately • Suppliers Environmental Performance support Compliance Transparency 70 supplier audits in all global regions (below). • Suppliers’ Social Practices Procurement Stakeholder & Supplier Engagement Supplier Management Corrective Action North America Financial and Latin Findings may be identified in the categories of Human Rights Performance Plans and Support America Asia-Pacific social, fair business practices, environment or 7% 68% supply chain (see above), and all findings are separated into critical, major and minor and are 2015 Supplier communicated to each supplier along with our As Audits, by iaRegion expectations Pa cif that they must implement timeic 25% EM bound EA corrective actions and demonstrate Europe, Middle East, Am improvement. EN32, HR10, LA14, SO9 Our approach, Africa eri caprocess and tools continue to evolve. In 2015, s we continued emphasis on supplier improvement, supplier training and development and supplier sustainability programs. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 69 Working with Suppliers on Climate and Water Furniture PSCI India The Company’s Procurement Sustainability Initiative began in 2008, and by 2010 added Developed long-term plan to confirm content, country of origin, compliance and purchasing preference for Supplier several supply chain initiatives, including promoting supplier participation in the Carbon Disclosure recycled and FSC-certified materials. Conference Project (CDP), which addresses climate change issues by focusing attention on companies’ Printed marketing materials Launched cross-sector program in the U.S. Gained greenhouse gas emissions, energy usage and visibility to the country of origin of all our commercial reduction. As of 2015, Johnson & Johnson has We partner with invited 202 suppliers to participate in the CDP paper products, as well as supply chain and others to champion Climate Supply Chain program; 181 have chosen deforestation risks. Includes commercial paper stock grades that all meet environmental sustainability Contents responsible supply to do so, including all strategic suppliers. We invited 77 suppliers to participate in the CDP certifications (Forest Stewardship Council—FSC and/or Sustainable Forest Initiative). Paper stocks chain practices. Water Supply Chain program, which requires them maintain full chain of custody, providing transparency People to publish their water usage and their exposure and tracking of commercial paper purchases. Also Through the Pharmaceutical Supply to changing patterns of water availability; 48 have included are stocks that offer up to 30 percent postPlaces consumer waste. Chain Initiative (PSCI), we have chosen to do so. Practices collaborated on establishing principles Office copier paper Forest Materials and Conflict Minerals Governance Labor Practices to articulate pharmaceutical industry & Ethical & Workforce Greater than 80 percent of the materials purchased Performance expectations for the supply chain. For forest materials, we have established a set Employee contained recycled content and/or certified content Supply Chain Recruitment, PSCI members collaborate to deliver of expectations for purchased products such and over 55 percent are FSC certified. Quality & Safety Development a supplier conference in important as packaging, office paper, printed marketing of Products & Retention materials and wood-based furniture. (See chart sourcing regions to provide information Customer Workplace at right). To meet these expectations, which Minerals, we are taking steps to determine the Relationship Health & Safety and resources to help suppliers meet use, country of origin and source of 3TG in our are included in Our Responsibility Standard Management Health-Conscious, the expectations of the PSCI Principles. for Forest Materials, we seek their content and global product portfolio. Using a documented Supply Safe Employees The third PSCI capability building country of origin and, where possible, we choose reasonable due diligence process, as suggested Chain Risk Employee Management Diversity & Inclusion conference for suppliers was held in post-consumer recycled content and Forestry by the Organization for Economic Cooperation Compliance Transparency Mumbai, India, during fall 2015. PSCIStewardship Council (FSC)-certified materials. Our and Development (OECD) guidelines, we are progress in 2015 is highlighted here and in the working with our suppliers to determine the Procurement Stakeholder member companies and representatives & Supplier Engagement Product Stewardship section of this report. presence and sourcing of 3TG in our supply chain. Management from 70 suppliers participated in the In furtherance of our commitment, we: Financial Rule 13p-1 under the Securities Exchange Act Human Rights Performance conference, which focused on labor, of 1934 requires public reporting companies that • Expect our suppliers to source materials ethics, environment, health and safety manufacture or contract to manufacture products from suppliers who also source responsibly, as they relate to suppliers. that contain “conflict minerals” (defined as tin, including from legitimate, conflict-free mines in tungsten, tantalum and gold, or “3TG”) to conduct the DRC region; due diligence on the source and chain of custody • Require all our 3TG suppliers to conduct of those conflict minerals to seek to determine the necessary due diligence and provide whether they originated from the Democratic us with proper verification of the country of Republic of Congo (DRC) or adjoining countries origin and source of the materials used in the and directly or indirectly financed or benefited products they supply to Johnson & Johnson armed groups in those countries. companies; As indicated in our Statement on Conflict 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 70 • Support initiatives to verify smelters and refiners that are conflict-free, and expect Johnson & Johnson our suppliers to utilize any such conflict-free Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Facts smelter/refiner programs that are available; • Reserve the right to verify any information • Billion Dollar Roundtable member for the fifth consecutive year received from our suppliers. • Tier 1 and Tier 2 diverse spend with suppliers at approximately 11 percent of total U.S. spend For the last three years, we have surveyed all • Spend with small businesses decreased five percent to $2.95 billion potential 3TG suppliers to assess their sourcing practices and filed an Annual Conflict Minerals due mainly to one supplier losing Small Business status Report with the Securities and Exchange • Veteranand disabled-owned Veteran Business supplier spend at Commission on Form SD. Based on our approximately $90 million Contents due diligence efforts for the 2015 reporting period, we do not have conclusive information • Lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender supplier spend at more than People regarding the country of origin or facilities used $1.3 million to process the necessary conflict minerals in • More than 13,500 certified minorityand women-owned and Places the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies’ small-business suppliers products. For more information, see our Conflict Practices Minerals Report for the calendar year ended Governance Labor Practices December 31, 2015. & Ethical & Workforce an important role in the success of our businesses Supplier Diversity & Inclusion (GSDI) and our GSDI Performance Employee and are a vital part of our supplier community. team. Our global Category Leaders embed Supplier Human Trafficking Supply Chain Recruitment, The inclusion of diverse people and perspectives Diversity & Inclusion in their Category strategies, Quality & Safety Development Johnson & Johnson strictly prohibits employees, provide innovative solutions across Business which are derived directly from the plans of our of Products & Retention subcontractors, subcontractor employees and Services, Commercial, R&D and Supply Chain businesses, with program results routinely reported Customer Workplace Health & Safety agents from engaging in human trafficking–related spend categories. This supports our growth to the Company’s Executive Committee. Relationship Management Health-Conscious, activities. These activities include engaging in agenda and contributes ideas that best represent In 2015, we expanded our supplier diversity Supply Safe Employees sex trafficking, procuring commercial sex acts our customers, patients and consumers who use efforts to additional global markets, including Chain Risk Employee (even if this practice is legal in the jurisdiction our products and services globally. Canada and Brazil, joining programs already Management Diversity & Inclusion where it transpires), using force, fraud or coercion Since establishing our formal office of Supplier underway in Australia, South Africa, Switzerland Compliance Transparency to subject a person to involuntary servitude, or Diversity and publishing our Supplier Diversity Procurement Stakeholder obtaining labor from a person by threats of serious Policy Statement in 1998, Johnson & Johnson & Supplier Engagement Management harm to that person or another person, among has led an active outreach and advocacy program Minorityand Women-Owned Supplier Spend Financial that aligns directly with Our Credo commitment to in billions of dollars (U.S.) Human Rights others. We are developing a Human Trafficking Performance compliance plan to address the issues identified in the communities in which we live and work. Our strategy goes beyond the fundamental process of Year Goal Achieved the U.K. Modern Slavery Act, the California Supply Chain Transparency Act and certain Federal buying and focuses on more sustainable solutions 2011 $1.12 $1.31 Acquisition Regulations. Please see our Human by investing in supplier development, education, Trafficking Policy for more information. collaboration with customers, and global 2012 $1.18 $1.23 expansion. 2013 $1.23 $1.36 Supplier Diversity & Inclusion Executive leadership and sponsorship are provided by our Chief Procurement Officer, Vice 2014 $1.3 $1.52 Johnson & Johnson companies have long President Procurement Citizenship, Head of Global 2015 $1.36 $1.39 recognized that small and diverse suppliers play 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 71 and the U.K. As we expand into other regional The Johnson & Johnson Supplier Diversity program has been recognized markets such as China and India, regional teams by many organizations and publications. Here are some of the recognitions provide leadership by leveraging best practices, partnering with local advocacy groups to inform received in 2015. our strategic direction, enrich our approach and identify additional meaningful prospects for inclusion in our diversity initiative. Publications & Recognitions Our Healthy Future 2015 goal for Supplier • A mong the “Most Diversity & Inclusion in the U.S. was to reach Admired Corporations for Supplier Diversity” $1 billion in annual Tier 1 spend with certified (Fifth year) minorityand women-owned business suppliers • B everly Jennings and Veronica Manuelby 2011 and to increase that spend by five Gilbert recognized as “Best of the percent each year thereafter. The Company Contents achieved this goal. Decade” in Circle of Honor/Supplier Diversity 2015 WE 100 of the One of 30 Top “A Top Supplier Best of the Best Johnson & Johnson is recognized by the Professionals People Women’s Business Enterprise National Council Year Supporting Supplier Diversity Corporations for Supplier Diversity Diversity Program for Hispanics” (Fifth year) “Top Supplier Diversity Programs” (Third year) (First year) (Seventh year) among America’s Top Corporations (10th time); Places the National Minority Supplier Development Council National Top Performer for Development Practices (first time); the National Veteran-Owned Business One of the Top 2015 2014 Corporate 101: Veronica Manuel-Gilbert Governance Labor Practices Military Friendly America’s Most Admired recognized as one of the & Ethical & Workforce Association among the Top 10 Best Corporations Diversity Programs Corporations for Supplier “Top 100 Leaders in (Fifth year) Diversity Corporate Supplier Diversity” Performance for Veteran-Owned Business (fifth time) and Top 50 Corp Employee Veronica Manuel-Gilbert (Third year) Supply Chain Recruitment, Supply Nation Australia-Johnson & Johnson one of “2015 Champions of Multi-Cultural Business (Seventh consecutive year) Quality & Safety Development Medical Up & Coming Member of the Year (first Supplier Diversity” (Second time) of Products & Retention time). The Company continues to support and Customer Workplace be recognized by numerous national and regional Relationship Health & Safety advocacy groups in Global Supplier Diversity & Million Dollar Club Management Health-Conscious, $250MM–$500MM Safe Employees Inclusion. Level 2015 Premier Supplier Arizona Million Dollar Platinum Level Supply Diversity Award Circle of Excellence (highest level) Top (Sixth year) Chain Risk Employee Honorable Mention award Corporation of the Management Diversity & Inclusion Year (11th time) and first time at platinum; Compliance Transparency Beverly Jennings awarded 2015 Procurement Stakeholder Applause Award & Supplier Engagement “Up and Coming Management Member of the Year” Financial (First year) Human Rights Performance 2015 Coporation Recognized as one of of the Year (Fifth year) the Top Performers: Development 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 72 Human Rights 42 G4-58 Contents Johnson & Johnson has People a responsibility to respect the rights of all people, Places including the more than Practices Governance Labor Practices one billion people we & Ethical Performance & Workforce Employee touch with our products Supply Chain Recruitment, and services every day. Quality & Safety Development of Products & Retention Customer Workplace Many of the 60 countries in which we operate Health & Safety HUMAN RIGHTS Our Statement on Human Rights articulates our commitments and the efforts that Relationship (a list of our operating locations can be found in Management support them, and our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers reflect our values and expectations for Exhibit 21 of our 2015 10-K filing) are considered our suppliers. Responsibility for human rights follows our management structure and resides in our local Supply by independent organizations to be at risk for operating companies, managed by the relevant corporate and business group functions. Chain Risk Employee Management Diversity & Inclusion human rights violations, including forced labor, child labor and restrictions on the right to exercise Compliance Transparency of Human Rights and its two corresponding We follow the principles in the International freedom of association or collective bargaining. Procurement Stakeholder covenants, the International Covenant on Civil and Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental & Supplier Engagement See the Procurement & Supplier Management Political Rights and the International Covenant Principles and Rights at Work, including nonManagement section of this report for the full list. HR4-HR6 Financial on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. Our discrimination, freedom of association and Human Rights Performance Our Statement on Human Rights articulates Human Trafficking Policy, developed in 2015, collective bargaining, and freedom from forced our commitments and the efforts that support strictly prohibits employees, subcontractors, and child labor. Our commitments are detailed in them, and our Responsibility Standards for subcontractor employees and agents from our Global Labor and Employment Guidelines, Suppliers reflect our values and expectations for engaging in human trafficking–related activities. our Policy on the Employment of Young Persons, our suppliers. We are members of the UN Global Efforts are also ongoing to give more Responsibility Standards for Suppliers and our Compact and are committed to respect human consideration to human rights as a filter for Code of Business Conduct. For more information rights as embodied in the Universal Declaration supplier risk prioritization, and to review and on these topics, visit the Human Rights section of update our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers our website. 42. For information on how data from acquisitions and divestitures are managed, please see the Report Profile to reflect all relevant provisions from the UN Our internal human rights efforts are overseen by section of this report. Exceptions will be noted in the relevant Guiding Principles on Human Rights and apply our Vice President of Human Resources, reporting sections in which they occur. them to all suppliers. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 73 directly to our Chief Executive Officer. Responsibility labor unions and works councils. Assessment for human rights follows our management structure data are considered confidential. HR3, HR9 and resides in our local operating companies, Procedures have been established to remedy managed by the relevant corporate and business reported HR or employee-related concerns. All group functions. Compliance is monitored under employees can anonymously report potential our global Code of Business Conduct through violations through Our Credo Hotline, within individual business units. HR4–HR6 each operating company locally using the Open Compliance training is required of all Door process, or to Human Resources. Hotline employees, and compliance with communication, access is communicated broadly, and visibility of training and execution of our Code of Business this access and Hotline functionality are in scope Conduct is audited. Each business and all senior for financial audits. In the Americas and Asialeaders must certify compliance with our Code Pacific, Employee Relations staff independently of Business Conduct annually, and results are investigates non-compliance in employee-relations Contents reviewed by the Corporate Secretary’s Office, matters, and verified non-compliant situations Internal Audit and the Board’s Regulatory, are addressed by the respective business unit. People Compliance & Government Affairs Committee. In the Europe, Middle East and Africa region, While training data are not currently tracked investigations are the responsibility of local human Places at the enterprise level, a global data system resources and are overseen by regional employee to gather enterprise-wide data is under relations teams. Concerns raised through the Practices development. We have a Healthy Future 2015 Open Door process are addressed locally and are Governance Labor Practices & Ethical & Workforce goal to provide all critical employees, defined not tracked at an enterprise level. Concerns raised Performance as those in positions most sensitive to human through the Hotline are reported at an enterprise Employee Supply Chain Recruitment, rights infringements, with human rights training. level, and of the approximately 1,000 employee Quality & Safety Development At the end of 2015, approximately 1,300 relations Hotline matters received in 2015, all were of Products & Retention procurement professionals (or 99.85 percent) addressed. Of these, approximately 78 percent Customer Workplace had completed this training, up from less than 50 were closed by December 31, 2015, along with Relationship Health & Safety percent in 2014.43 HR2 additional matters pending from 2014. Although Management Health-Conscious, Safe Employees Our Global Labor and Employment additional grievance data are not tracked at the Supply Chain Risk Employee Guidelines articulate our expectations for labor enterprise level, a global system to gather this Management Diversity & Inclusion and employment practices at our sites, including enterprise data remains under development. Compliance Transparency forced labor, discrimination and child labor, among G4–58, EN34, HR12, LA16, SO11 Procurement Stakeholder other topics. HR4-HR6 Assessments against & Supplier Engagement our Global Labor and Employee Guidelines are Human Rights and Suppliers Management Financial conducted on an ongoing basis through local Human Rights Performance Human Resources and our Global Employee & Our Responsibility Standards for Suppliers Labor Relations function. Currently, three regional apply across the entirety of our supply chain. leaders interact with employees, trade unions Implementation will take time, due to the and other employee representatives (works sheer number of suppliers. These standards, councils), and government officials. They have which previously applied only to our external broad oversight and responsibility for monitoring manufacturing partners, have been extended to compliance and maintaining relationships with more than 80,000 suppliers. For more information, see the Procurement and Supplier Management 43. In 2014, we erroneously reported progress against this section of this report. goal at 100 percent, but discovered after publication of the report that actual progress was just under 50 percent due to adjustments to classifications of employees. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 74 Labor Practices & Workforce 44, 45 G4-58 Contents People Our Company’s greatest Places capital is our human Practices capital—our approximately 127,100 employees— 46 Governance Labor Practices & Ethical & Workforce Performance Employee who work in 250 Supply Chain Recruitment, Quality & Safety Development operating companies & Retention of Products Customer Workplace in 60 countries. Relationship Health & Safety Management Health-Conscious, Our approach to labor practices is reflected in Supply Safe Employees numerous documents, including Our Credo, Chain Risk Employee Global Labor and Employment Guidelines, Global Management Diversity & Inclusion Diversity and Inclusion Vision Statement, Policy Compliance Transparency on the Employment of Young Persons, and our E V E R Y E M P L O Y E E M AT T E R S Every employee of the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies Procurement Stakeholder Responsibility Standards for Suppliers as well as performs work that in some way touches the lives of millions of people every day. Our Global Labor and & Supplier Engagement through our signing of the UN Global Compact in Employment Guidelines establish consistent principles for labor and employment practices, and are followed Management Financial 2013. For more information on Company policies by all Johnson & Johnson operating units around the world. Human Rights Performance and practices related to human rights, see the Human Rights section of this report and our require that our policies and actions are in full & Inclusion, which reports to the Chairman and website. compliance with the laws and regulations of the Board of Directors through its Vice President and Our Global Labor and Employment Guidelines countries in which we operate. Responsibility Chief Diversity Officer, and Human Resources, 44. For information on how data from acquisitions and divesStandards for Suppliers extend these and whose Vice President is a Corporate Officer titures are managed, please see the Report Profile section of other expectations to our suppliers. For more and a member of the Executive Committee. this report. Exceptions will be noted in the relevant sections in information on these guidelines, see Employee & The Supply Chain Vice President of Human which they occur. Labor Relations Practices. Resources for Johnson & Johnson is responsible 45. Data from recent acquisitions included. Turnover data includes retirees. Responsibility for labor practices are shared for the oversight and implementation of our labor across several global functions, Global Diversity relations policy. 46. Includes fulland part-time employees worldwide. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 75 G4-10 G4-LA1 G4-10 Terms G4-LA1 G4-LA12 Hires Hires G4-LA1 Terms G4-LA1 Terms G4-LA3 Parent Leaves G4-LA1 Terms G4-LA1 Terms G4-LA12 Terms These graphs and charts show our workforce by several key metrics. G4-LA3 Parent G4-LA1 Leaves 47 LeavesTerms G4–10, LA1 G4-10 G4-LA12 Terms G4-LA1G4-LA1 Hires Hires G4-LA3 Parent G4-L G4-10 Employees by Gender, Worldwide >50 Male Male Employeesby Job Category and Gender, Worldwide New Employees Hires by Gender, Worldwide Employee Turnover by Gender, >50 Worldwide >50 >50 Male Female >50 >50 Female 69% 57% 52% 56% >50 30-50 30-50 30-50 Male 30-50 Female 30-50 Male Female 30-50 <30 <30 >50 <30 >50 Female30-50 No Leave <30>50 <30 <30 Male >50 30-50 Male <30 >50 Took Leave Male 30-50 Male Male Male Male 30-50 30-50 55% <30 45% MaleFemale 50% Male Female 50% 30-50 >50 52% 48% No Leave <30 No Leave Femal Female Female Female Female <30 <30 Female Female 30-50 Took Leave Male <30 Female Took Leave <30 Male Female 31% 43% 48% 44% VP+ Manager & Professional Other Contents Director Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female People G4-10 G4-LA1 Hires G4-LA1 Terms G4-LA1 Hires Fulland Part-Employees Employees by Job Category New Employees Hires Employee Turnover by Age, Male Places Male Male by Gender, Worldwide andMale Age, Worldwide by Age Group, Worldwide Male Worldwide Male >50 Male Fem Female Female26.4% 19.6% Female 56% 16% 58% 21% Practices Female Female Female Male Male Male 54% 30-50 Male 18% Governance Labor Practices Male Female Female & Male Ethical & Workforce Male Female <30 46% Female 31% Male Male >50 Male >50 Performance Employee Female Male Female >50 5% Male Femal >50 Supply Female Chain Recruitment, Female 30-50 Female Male 30-50 Female Male 30-50 Male Quality & Safety Development 42% 72.2% 63.7% 54% 30-50 Female Female Nor of Products & Retention <30 North Am <30 Female <30 49% North Am Female Lati Customer Workplace <30 51% Relationship Health & Safety 1.4% 16.7% 25% Latin Am 44% 84% Latin Am EM Management Health-Conscious, VP+ Manager & Professional Other Full-Time Part-Time EMEA Supply Safe Employees Director EMEA Asia >50 30–50 < 30 >50 30–50 < 30 Chain Risk Employee Male Female >50 30–50 <30 Asia-Pacific Management Asia-Pacific Diversity & Inclusion Male Male >50 30-50 <30 Compliance Transparency Employees by Gender and Employees Job Category and New Employees Hires Employee Turnover by Region, N Female Male Female North Am Procurement Stakeholder Region, Worldwide Female Diversity, Worldwide by Region, Worldwide Worldwide Latin Am North Am EMEA North Am Asia-Pacific La &North Supplier Am Engagement Management 59% 53%Latin Am53% 55% 77% 73% 75% 53% Latin Am E Latin Am Financial Human Rights Performance EMEA 54% Retained 32% 54%EMEA 26% North Am 29% As EMEA North Am Asia-Pacific 32% North Not Retained North Am White Asia-Pacific Latin Am Nor Asia-Pacific Male North Am Latin Latin Am North Am Minority Male Latin Am North Am Female EMEA Lati EMEA Male LatinMale Am EMEA Latin Am Retained Fem EMEA 13% Female29% Latin Am Asia-Pacific12% Retained EM Female EMEA 27% G4-LA1 Term Asia-Pacific Male Asia-P EMEA 41% 47% 47% Asia-Pacific 45% 23% 27% 25% 47% White EMEA North Am Not Retained Not Retained Asi White Asia-Pacific North AsiaEurope, Latin VP+ Manager & Professional Other Asia-Pacific America Pacific Middle East, Male America Female Director Minority Asia-Pacific Latin Am Africa Male Minority White Minority Male FemaleFemale North AsiaEurope, Latin North AsiaEurope, Latin EMEA Female America Pacific Middle East, America America Pacific Middle East, America Africa MaleAfrica 47. Estimated based on existing database platform. Asia-Pacific Male Female 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report Female 76 We currently have 11 Board members, 10 of committees, severance or separation benefits, and whom are “independent” under the rules of the paid leaves. Policies and practices establishing New York Stock Exchange; three (27 percent) performance, development and training guidelines women, eight men; and three racial minorities are also established across the organization. (27 percent). LA12 Additional information is available in Notes 9-11 of our 2015 Annual Report and in the Financial Collective Bargaining G4-11 Performance section of this report. The freedom to establish a formal employee Minimum Notice Periods LA4 organization or representation structure is provided for across Johnson & Johnson and our The management of reorganizations and layoffs operating companies, and company sites have and the policies associated with them vary the ability to establish an employee representation depending on the location, nature, size and scale Contents structure or framework except where prohibited by of the restructuring, as well as the qualifications law. Where employees choose to establish these of the employees impacted. Where employees People structures, management provides support. are negatively impacted by operational changes, Across Johnson & Johnson, representation operating companies have measures in place to Places structures vary worldwide. As of January 1, 2014, help and support impacted employees, including employees were represented by labor unions but not limited to severance payments, access to Practices or work councils at approximately one-third outplacement support and employee assistance Governance Labor Practices & Ethical & Workforce of our sites around the world.48 Not including programs. Performance local practices or requirements, our collective In addition, local operating leaders endeavor Employee Supply Chain Recruitment, bargaining agreements with these representative to communicate significant plans of operational Quality & Safety Development groups contain provisions covering grievance and changes to employees and their representatives, of Products & Retention discipline processes, joint management-employee where they are present, in a timely and practical Customer Workplace health and safety committees, paid time off, paid manner in advance of actions being taken. Relationship Health & Safety maternity leave, paid paternity leave, mandated Feedback and suggestions from employees and Management Health-Conscious, Safe Employees employee training, and collectively bargained representatives may be taken into consideration Supply Chain Risk Employee severance and separation benefits. Other before final decisions are made. The Company will Management Diversity & Inclusion negotiated terms and conditions of employment comply with all local laws and notice obligations Compliance Transparency contained in our collective agreements include, regarding minimum notice periods, where Procurement Stakeholder but are not limited to, topics such as wages and applicable, and many of our collective bargaining & Supplier Engagement performance management. In some instances agreements contain negotiated provisions Management Financial terms and conditions of employment may not covering severance or separation pay and Human Rights Performance be covered in a collective bargaining agreement, benefits. Where there is no legal minimum notice because the parties have chosen not to include period, Johnson & Johnson companies attempt to them, or where addressed by local law or provide notice at the earliest feasible time. regulation. With respect to the majority of our workforce who has chosen not to collectively bargain its terms and conditions of employment, policies and practices establish formal grievance mechanisms, joint management-employee health and safety 48. 2014 data. Data are collected on a less than annual basis. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 77 ms G4-LA12 Terms G4-LA3 Parent Leaves Employees Who Took Employees Who Took Employees Who Returned Employees Who Returned Parental Leave, U.S. only Parental Leave by Gender, After Parental Leave, After Parental Leave U.S. only U.S. only by Gender, U.S. only 4% 100 >50 North Am 10% North Am 30-50 Male Latin Am 80 91% 89% Male Latin Am Female >50 <30 EMEA No Leave Female Male 60 Retained EMEA 30-50 46% 54% 91% 89% Asia-Pacific Took Leave Female Not Retained White 40 <30 Asia-Pacific 96% 90% Minority 20 0 Male Female Took Leave Male Female Returned Did Not Return Contents Flexible Work/Parental Leave LA3 support and benefit coverage for parents and their • HealthAccount (Flexible Spending Account) People children with special needs. Retention rates in the • CareAccount (Flexible Spending Male Account) The Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies U.S. following parental leave are shown above. • Life Insurance PlacesMale offers parental leave to employees in most • Accident Insurance Female Female North Am >50 countries in which we operate in accordance with Benefits LA2 Male • Disability Coverage Practices Latin Amstatutory requirements and/or based on local 30-50 • Long-Term Care Insurance Female Governance Labor Practices competitive practices. Wherever possible, <30 we also Johnson & Johnson offers a comprehensive • Group Legal Insurance & Ethical & Workforce EMEA Retained Performance offer flexibility and flexible work arrangements for and competitive benefits program to attract and • Auto and Home Insurance Employee Asia-Pacific Supply Chain Recruitment, employees. Whiteemployees. In providing employee retain talented • Commuter Not Retained Benefits Program Quality & Safety Development In 2015, we announced a significant upgrade benefits around the world, Johnson & Johnson Minority of Products & Retention to our parental leave policy in the United States, regularly compares the value delivered to that of For additional information, see Benefits on our Customer Workplace offering all new parents—maternal, paternal and our competitors and seeks to rank in the upper website. Benefits are provided to union employees Relationship Health & Safety adoptive—the opportunity to take up to eight 49 half among these world-class companies. We through collective bargaining agreements. Management Health-Conscious, Safe Employees additional weeks of paid leave during the first year assess this competitive view on a country-specific Additional information is available in Notes 9-11 Supply of the family’s birth or adoption. This new policy is basis. We also consider benefit adequacy as of our 2015 Annual Report and in the Financial Chain Risk Employee Management Diversity & Inclusion in addition to current leave policies, which means well as attracting and retaining critical talent in Performance section of this report. Compliance Transparency moms who give birth can take up to 17 paid designing our benefit programs. AsMale the largest and most diversified healthcare North Am Procurement Stakeholder weeks off, and dads and adoptive parents can Plan provisions may differ for certain part-time company in the world, enhancing the health and Female & SupplierLatin Am Engagement take up to nine paid weeks. The time doesn’t need employees and by country. In the U.S., Choices wellness of our employees is a logical extension Management to be taken consecutively, so families can enjoy Benefits are provided annually toRetained active salaried of our corporate mission. Our Healthy People EMEA Financial Human Rights Performance some much-needed flexibility during such a critical and non-union hourly employees, as well as program provides Employee Assistance, as well Asia-Pacific Not Retained time in their lives. We’re also making itWhite retroactive regular and casual part-time employees who are as Occupational Health and Wellness and Health for employees who became parents on or after Minority scheduled to work 19 or more hours per week. Promotion services, all of which have expanded May 2014. And also in 2015, the Company Employees create a personalized benefit package globally since 2005. Additional information about implemented a Special Needs Benefit, providing for themselves and their eligible dependents. our Healthy People programs is provided in the Benefits include: Health-Conscious, Safe Employees section of 49. This benefit is in addition to the six-week short-term this report. disability benefit for new mothers and the one-week Work, • Medical Personal and Family paid leave for mothers and fathers, • Dental increasing the leave time to 17 weeks for C-section mothers, • Vision 15 weeks for non-C-section mothers, and the minimum to nine Male • Tobacco Cessation weeks for fathers, adoptive parents and same-sex parents. Female 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 78 Employee Recruitment, Development & Retention Contents People Places At Johnson & Johnson, enterprise talent management is overseen Practices by both human resource leaders Governance Labor Practices and business leaders who are & Ethical & Workforce Performance Employee accountable for attracting and Supply Chain Recruitment, recruiting talent, managing Quality & Safety Development D E V E L O P I N G VA L U E D E M P L O Y E E S Any individual may still have untapped potential. At Johnson & Johnson, of Products & Retention performance and development, we promote a culture of learning and development for all employees and of shared accountability between each Customer Workplace building a pipeline of global and employee and their manager to ensure that opportunities for development are pursued. Health & Safety Relationship Management Health-Conscious, diverse leaders, and creating an Safe Employees environment that embraces diversity way to lead the Johnson & Johnson Family into the Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies. Supply of Companies into the future. Topics covered For more information, visit Talent Attraction, Chain Risk Management Employee and inclusion. below are all strategically aligned with the Management & Retention. Diversity & Inclusion Compliance Transparency Leadership Imperatives. For more information Our Leadership Imperatives Procurement Stakeholder about our leadership imperatives, visit Leadership Talent Development & Supplier Engagement Development & Performance Management. Management Our Leadership Imperatives set the performance Financial Johnson & Johnson promotes a culture of learning Human Rights Performance and behavioral expectations for all employees. Talent Acquisition and development for all employees, with shared As the driving force for our talent agenda, accountability between employee and manager the Leadership Imperatives integrate our Johnson & Johnson implements recruiting to ensure that opportunities for development are Talent Practices—Recruitment, Development, models in countries around the world, focused identified and pursued, with a goal to maximize Succession Planning, Performance Management, on a healthy pipeline of skilled talent. The Global the potential of the individual. Development offers and Reward and Recognition—as a consistent Job Posting program promotes our commitment span a vast array of topics and are provided via reinforcement to those behaviors. The Leadership to the advancement and development of our both on-the-job training and online to all fullImperatives apply to everyone—across all employees by providing them transparency in and part-time employees globally. Independent geographies, businesses, roles and levels— job opportunities within Johnson & Johnson. The study courses, web-based courses, interviewing giving all employees a clear and consistent Company also has implemented a new employee simulations, assessments, intensive workshops orientation to help accelerate an employee’s entry and action-planning courses are included in the 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 79 offerings. International assignments are used to has as its foundation conversations between 2014, engagement levels for Johnson & Johnson develop global leadership talent and to foster manager and employee that are frequent, in total and for each of the business segments a global mind-set, diversity and innovation. meaningful and continuous. Each employee and exceeded the Mayflower Global Norm. However, Johnson & Johnson encourages employees to manager is expected to engage in clear and in 2015 a Credo survey redesign program was seek cross-segment, cross-functional and crosscandid dialogue throughout the year within the “5 initiated, and engagement was not evaluated regional experience; this is facilitated by our global Conversations Framework,” which consists of the in the same way it had been earlier in the goal operations around the world. Temporary workers Performance and Development Planning, Midperiod. do not participate in Johnson & Johnson learning Year, Career Planning, Year-End Performance and or leadership development offerings. See Talent Compensation conversations. Optimizing Work, Family and Personal Life Attraction, Management & Retention. The P&D approach consists of two Training is provided, tracked and documented dimensions. The first, Results, is based on To help support individual effectiveness at by the operating companies. Because training aligning employees’ goals and actions with the work and at home, we offer comprehensive records are currently maintained at a local or goals of their company. The second, Leadership, programs and services for employees that reflect Contents operational level, we are not able to provide a reflects the key behaviors that are critical to the a holistic view of work, family and personal life. detailed report on this information on a global level future success of Johnson & Johnson. These Specific programs, including those for flexible People for all employees; however, systems are being two components provide the basis for annual work arrangements, parental leave, education, implemented that will compile this information performance evaluation of all employees, with a adoption, child care and elder care may vary Places across the Johnson & Johnson enterprise within strong link between performance and pay. around the world based on local circumstances the next several years. LA9 and business needs. See Flexible Work/Parental Practices Transition assistance programs are offered to Retention, Rewards and Recognition Leave on page 78. Governance Labor Practices & Ethical & Workforce support employees who are retiring or who have Performance been terminated from employment. Visit Skill and The Total Rewards program is another important Employee Supply Chain Recruitment, Talent Management and Training for more details. part of Global Talent Management and includes Quality & Safety Development LA10 compensation, benefits and health resources of Products & Retention services across the Johnson & Johnson Family Customer Workplace Performance Management of Companies. To meet the needs of our diverse Relationship Health & Safety workforce, we offer competitive compensation Management Health-Conscious, Safe Employees Over the past three years, Johnson & Johnson programs, as well as cost-effective and countrySupply Chain Risk Employee has undertaken a massive effort to transition from focused services related to health and wellness, Management Diversity & Inclusion over 200 performance management systems pension, disability and leave of absence. Compliance Transparency globally to one global system. In the successful Johnson & Johnson administers a Global Procurement Stakeholder launch of our Performance & Development (P&D) Credo Survey every two years to ensure that: & Supplier Engagement approach, we discovered that a globally consistent Everyone across our companies is inspired by Management Financial way of doing things successfully across the entire the goals we set, both personally and for the Human Rights Performance organization is possible. Approximately 71 percent future of our business; we feel connected with of employees are being assessed using the new our colleagues and the values we hold ourselves approach, including 100 percent of employees at to; and we remain committed to taking the steps the management level and above, the exceptions necessary to meet the needs of our patients, being those employees in manufacturing roles customers and communities we serve. The and covered by collective bargaining agreements. results are provided to companies, regions Operational metrics and KPIs to assess the and departments to review and address any effectiveness and outcomes of the new approach opportunities for improvement. are under development. For more information on We had set a Healthy Future 2015 goal to this framework, visit our website. LA11 achieve a 90th percentile employee engagement The P&D approach at Johnson & Johnson rating when compared to external benchmarks. In 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 80 functions; the new approach is being pilot tested Workplace in 2016. Everyone—from the plant manager to the production operator—is responsible for workplace safety. Health & Safety 50 We encourage, but do not require, thirdparty certification to the Occupational Health and Safety Assessment Series management system We continue to build on our (OHSAS 18000), and in 2015, 37 percent of our manufacturing and R&D sites were third-party Healthy Future 2015 certified to OHSAS. goals to develop engaged, health-conscious, safe employees. Safety Culture Roadmap (More on page 85) Our human capital is our most In 2014, we began work on improving our safety Contents culture by developing and piloting a standardized Achieved a 27 percent improvement important capital. Safety is our in employee safety performance enterpriseapproach for all of Johnson & Johnson Supply People expectation. Our goal is for every Chain (JJSC). The Safety Culture Roadmap wide, realizing a Lost Workday Case employee to arrive home to their ensures each manufacturing facility conducts (LWDC) rate of 0.08. Places families in the same, if not better assessments of its safety culture, looking at Exceeded Practices condition, as when they arrived leadership, safety education and awareness, at work. and processes and habits. In 2015, the Safety Achieved a 28.5 percent increase in Governance Labor Practices Culture Roadmap was deployed across our & Ethical & Workforce contractor safety performance at all Performance Our Worldwide Environment, Health & Safety Supply Chain to individuals and sites around the Johnson & Johnson manufacturing and Employee Supply Chain Recruitment, (EHS) Policy, supplemented by our Worldwide world. Following the assessments, individual site R&D facilities, realizing a LWDC rate of Quality & Safety Development EHS&S Standards (the Standards), set the action plans were developed to address areas of 0.18. (Target 15 percent improvement; of Products & Retention weakness; improvement activities began in the expectations for our health and safety efforts. LWDC rate of 0.12.) Customer Workplace second half of 2015. Going forward, each site Health & Safety The Standards are reviewed annually and Did Not Meet Relationship will continue to implement its action plan, Management Health-Conscious, revised as necessary. Compliance with these Standards is currently A safety leader or if implementation is complete, will Supply Safe Employees is anyone who has Achieved a nine percent increase in monitored by our Management review findings and identify additional Chain Risk Employee any influence on safety crashes per million miles (CPMM), Management Diversity & Inclusion Awareness and Action Review focus areas to be addressed in 2016. in the workplace or who realizing a rate of 6.01. (Target 15 percent Compliance Transparency System (MAARS), an assessment influences at least one The site assessment will be repeated other colleague. improvement; CPMM rate 4.7.) Procurement Stakeholder program that provides a framework every two years so organizations & Supplier Engagement have visibility to how their culture is Did Not Meet for Johnson & Johnson sites to Management performing. In 2016, the Safety Culture Financial proactively identify and mitigate EHS&S Human Rights Performance Roadmap will be expanded to R&D sites, risks, and includes annual self-assessments and periodic independent assessments. We logistics operations and fleet operations, and all began a project to reinvigorate this system in offices with over 500 employees. 2015, to increase its alignment with the audit In 2015, the Johnson & Johnson Consumer processes of other Johnson & Johnson risk Supply Chain organization began working on a program to reconnect employees to the importance of safety. The campaign, Your 50. Includes data from all manufacturing, R&D, warehouse, distribution center and office building locations, unless Safety, My Responsibility, was launched in 2015, otherwise noted. For information on how data from acquisitions translated into more than 20 languages and and divestitures are managed, please see the Report Profile deployed across the globe, all part of the overall section of this report. Exceptions will be noted in the relevant sections in which they occur. Safety Culture Roadmap. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 81 Contents People Places China Joint Management-Worker Committees Practices Most of our operating company manufacturing Governance Labor Practices and R&D locations have formal joint management& Ethical & Workforce worker health and safety committees. Our sales Performance Employee and service field employees are represented by Supply Chain Recruitment, SAFE Fleet teams worldwide. In addition, one-third Quality & Safety Development of those working in office settings are represented of Products & Retention Workplace in health and safety committees through our Customer Relationship Health & Safety Office EHS program. Where local collective Management Health-Conscious, bargaining agreements exist, requirements for Colombia Supply Safe Employees Safety culture is the working conditions, including health and safety, Chain Risk Employee attitude (behaviors), beliefs, are typically incorporated into the agreements. Management Diversity & Inclusion perceptions and values These requirements may include personal Compliance Transparency protective and safety equipment, health and safety Procurement Stakeholder that management, employees committees and their designated representatives, & Supplier Engagement and contractors share in inspections, complaint processes and training. Management Human Rights Financial Performance relation to safety. More information on the Company’s commitment to health and safety can be found on our website. Safety culture is not a program. LA5, LA8 The safety culture of an organization must be evaluated, leveraged, managed— Performance and cultivated—just as diligently as projects and key performance indicators. We exceeded our Healthy Future 2015 goal to achieve a 15 percent improvement in employee safety performance enterprise-wide, as measured Brazil by our Lost Workday Case (LWDC) rate, (goal of 0.09), with a rate of 0.08. Our LWDC rates were 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 82 address the main sources of ergonomic injuries Lost Workday Case Rate and Total Recordable at Johnson & Johnson, and it will include offices, Injury Rate Frequencies LA6 customer logistics services, and acquisitions Total Lost51 Region Recordable Workday51 along with our manufacturing and R&D locations. Injury Rate CaseRate51 A self-assessment tool has been created for use Asia-Pacific 0.20 0.06 by locations experiencing higher ergonomic injury rates, to be followed by mitigation efforts of the Europe, Middle East 0.49 0.05 risks identified by the assessment. and Africa Our LWDC and total recordable injury rates Latin America 0.77 0.02 (TRIR) are tracked at an enterprise and regional level and are shown at right. Our TRIR in 2015 North America 0.73 0.13 was 0.56. This performance reflects the addition of Worldwide 0.56 0.08 data from recent acquisitions, including Synthes. Contents Non-injury type statistics that are classified as Lost Workday Case Rate “illness,” such as mental stress cases, are included 2015 Benchmark Comparison People in our total recordable rate. These statistics are not Lost Workday Company tracked by gender. We experienced no fatalities Case Rate Places lower in Asia-Pacific, EMEA and Latin America, and one partial finger amputation in 2015. ORC HSE 0.40 and higher in North America. Our efforts to In 2014, we made the decision to broaden Practices PSG 0.25 support and drive our safety culture continue, with our Serious Injury and Illness Case (SIIC) definition Governance Labor Practices & Ethical & Workforce a focus on ensuring a strong safety culture across to include cases that put a greater emphasis on Johnson & Johnson 0.08 Performance our operations, and integrating these programs the illness side of the metric, such as hearing Employee Supply Chain Recruitment, with acquisitions. loss, disability lasting over 180 days, and surgery section of this report. LA7 Enterprise-wide safety Quality & Safety Development The leading causes of LWDC within our that addresses cumulative trauma. We believe performance is discussed with the Regulatory, of Products & Retention the revised metric is more reflective of employee operations continue to be ergonomics and Slips, Compliance & Government Affairs Committee Customer Workplace Trips and Falls (STF), which were 33 percent and 30 health. However, broadening the metric means Health & Safety and the Science, Technology & Sustainability Relationship percent of our LWDC rate, respectively, in 2015. more injuries are reported in it, and after reaching Management Health-Conscious, Committee of the Board of Directors. Safe Employees To address STFs, the StepRight program, a five-year low in 2013, the rate is trending Johnson & Johnson continues to compare Supply Chain Risk Employee a campaign initiated to raise awareness of the upward, to 0.069 in 2015. our safety results to two industry benchmarks: Management Diversity & Inclusion causes of STFs, has been extended in an effort to Our health and safety non-compliances also ORC HSE Strategies (45 broad global companies) Compliance Transparency fully embed awareness regarding the prevention continue to trend upward, from 192 in 2014 to and the Pharmaceutical Safety Group (PSG) (14 Procurement Stakeholder of STFs with our employees. The top 10 locations 398 in 2015. This increase is due, in part, to the pharmaceutical companies). As of the time of & Supplier Engagement with the highest incidence of STF-related LWDCs inclusion of several new categories not captured this report, the ORC HSE Strategies LWDC rate Management Financial conduct fall prevention site assessments, include in previous reporting (fire code, food service, 2015 benchmark was 0.40, and the PSG 2015 Human Rights Performance elevators, and health clinics). In 2015, we paid fall prevention as a priority focus in the MAARS benchmark was 0.25. The Company’s LWDC rate joint assessments, and provide quarterly progress fines of $675 for violations related to an elevator was 0.08 in 2015. reports to the EHS&S Leadership Council. violation at our Janssen site in Vacaville, California. In collaboration with our safety culture initiative, See the Compliance and Data Summary sections Contractors a StepRight video competition was held in 2015. of this report for five-year data trends. The competition had four categories, one for each We do not track absenteeism at an enterprise We have a Healthy Future 2015 goal to achieve of the four main causes of slips trips and falls: level. Occupational disease is also not tracked, a 15 percent improvement (a target LWDC rate slippery surfaces, housekeeping, distractions, and since these types of diseases are not prevalent of 0.12) in contractor safety performance at all stairs. The winning videos are being used to raise in our workforce. We have extensive wellness Johnson & Johnson manufacturing and R&D awareness. programs for our employees; these are discussed A three-year plan has been developed to in the Health-Conscious, Safe Employees 51. Calculated based on calendar days 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 83 facilities. Unfortunately, we did not meet this goal; Future 2015 goal to achieve a 15 percent our overall contractor LWDC rate trended upward improvement to a target rate of 4.7 CPMM in from 0.12 in 2013 and 0.16 in 2014 to 0.18 in fleet safety performance worldwide. In 2015, our 2015 Results Helmets 2015. The Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) for CPMM was 6.01, up from our 2014 performance contractors working on-site was 0.6 in 2015, up of 5.95 and our 2010 baseline of 5.53. Over the from our rate of 0.50 in 2014, in part due to the past year, our Consumer and Medical Devices inclusion of data from recent acquisitions. In 2015, we experienced no fatalities and one partial finger amputation. Our segments saw CPMM increase, while our Our Misson Pharmaceutical segment saw a decrease in CPMM. for Kids LWDC rate increase was due, in part, to Our Injuries Per Million Miles Students from 44 schools, including an increase in contractor incidents in our 0 fatalities (IPMM) rate decreased from 0.10 in Pharmaceutical segment and the inclusion 0 injuries 2014 to 0.07 in 2015, well below our Huong An School, Vietnam (below), of contractor safety incidents from the 0 crashes target rate of 0.20. The Consumer took part in successful Helmets for Contents newly integrated Synthes business. In the segment maintained its IPMM rate, Kids events in 2015. Average helmet previous report two major actions were while the Medical Devices and People announced: the creation of 11 global Pharmaceutical segments improved. use rate increased significantly Places standardized Permits-To-Work and the hiring These improvements are partially the result of from 2.2 percent to 90.7 percent of two additional staff members to focus on the implementation of our full-ban mobile phone contractor safety. Implementation of the Permitspolicy, as well as increased driver/manager in five new project schools and Practices To-Work is ongoing, and the staff members have accountability through SAFE Fleet goals, increased remained high at 92.5 percent at Governance Labor Practices been hired. As we have not achieved our goal, we management engagement and support, and the & Ethical & Workforce 39 schools. Students or teachers Performance will carefully analyze the current processes and addition of advanced safety features within some Employee Supply Chain Recruitment, target our weakest areas for corrective actions. fleets. To address high-risk driving behaviors, such were protected from potential head Quality & Safety Development During the goal period (2010-2015), as speeding and harsh braking, we expanded our injury in 28 reported crash cases, of Products & Retention our Worldwide Engineering and Technology telematics coaching programs in the U.S, and the Customer Workplace Organization (WWETO) group created and results are promising. The objective is to assist our thanks to helmets donated by Relationship Health & Safety Management Health-Conscious, implemented a construction safety strategy for drivers in identifying and improving unsafe driving Johnson & Johnson. Find out more large capital investment projects, leading to a habits to reduce the risk of crash and/or injury. Supply Safe Employees significant reduction of accidents/incidents in this And to share what we have learned with at AIP-Foundation.org. Chain Risk Employee Management Diversity & Inclusion challenging, fast-changing environment. During others, we have created a website, Compliance Transparency this time period, the population of contractors www.e-safetyforall.com, with information on safe Procurement Stakeholder working daily on WWE-managed projects driving, vehicle safety, and other topics. & Supplier Engagement increased significantly, while their Lost Workday Management Financial Case Rate and Recordable rates decreased. Human Rights Performance 52. For information on how data from acquisitions and Fleet Safety 52, 53 divestitures are managed, please see the Report Profile section of this report. In the U.S., limited data from a subset of Synthes operations are not yet reflected in these numbers. Many companies have large fleets of company 53. SAFE Fleet data are collected on employees of J&J and its vehicles and Johnson & Johnson is no exception; affiliates who drive company-owned or leased, and personallysome employees spend up to 50 percent of their owned vehicles for Company business. Employees in the latter category are those who: 1. Drive for Company business as a time driving on company business. Since 1995, “regular part” of their job, and 2. Employees who receive a car our crashes per million miles driven (CPMM) rate allowance to purchase their own vehicle, and/or those who are has decreased significantly. Our vehicle count reimbursed for vehicle expenses such as fuel, maintenance, insurance and other miscellaneous charges associated with decreased slightly in 2015, compared to 2014. vehicle upkeep, and/or those who receive a regular mileage Unfortunately, we did not meet our Healthy allowance. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 84 Health-Conscious, “It’s an investment, Safe Employees not a cost.” 54 Alex Gorsky, Chairman and Chief Executive, on employee health and wellness. Contents Caring for people, People one person at a Places time, is what we do. Practices And it starts here, with our employees. Governance Labor Practices & Ethical & Workforce Performance Employee Supply Chain Recruitment, Quality & Safety Development Caring for the health and well-being of of Products & Retention Johnson & Johnson employees is a key Customer Workplace component of our Company culture. With a Relationship Health & Safety vision to have the healthiest employees, we Management Health-Conscious, Safe Employees continue to apply new and innovative approaches Supply Chain Risk Employee to encourage and engage our employees in Management Diversity & Inclusion their own health (or personal best). Compliance Transparency Procurement Stakeholder The Healthiest Employees/ & Supplier Engagement Healthy Future 2015 Management Financial Human Rights Performance Key to sustainability is personal health and wellbeing—a shared core value for every human TO DO GOOD AND BE WELL, JUST TRI T he idea of “Do Good, Be Well” encourages Johnson & Johnson employees to compete in fitness-related fundraising events as Johnson & Johnson teams to help those in need, while being. Health is also at the heart of our Company. improving personal health and wellness. Johnson & Johnson became a title sponsor of TriRock Philadelphia in 2013, As our employees are considered to be our most doubled team J&J participation in 2014, and three-peated participation in 2015. precious resource, caring for their health and wellbeing is of paramount importance. This is that were set to provide an enterprise-wide focus A key first step to help employees understand reflected in the three Healthy Future 2015 goals and support for the health and well-being of our their health status is to participate in a confidential, global workforce. And since the initiation of these voluntary health risk assessment. In turn, this 54. This information is based on data gathered from goals in 2010, notable progress has been made, can inform them about changes they can make Johnson & Johnson locations/operating companies worldwide (367 locations total, with some companies with fewer than 50 confirming this established commitment to our to achieve a healthier lifestyle. With this in mind, employees not included), unless otherwise noted. core values. in 2010, we set a goal for 80 percent of the 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 85 Our Healthy Future 2015 goals challenged employees to be more health conscious Make it Count! Goal 155 Goal 90 percent of employees have access 90% 2010 34% to Culture of Health (COH) programs 93 percent of employees have access to all 2015 93% 12 fully implemented COH Programs Overall: Increase of 59 percent since 2010 2010 7% Outside U.S. Outside U.S.: 91 percent access in 2015 2015 Outside U.S. 91% (increase of 84 percent since 2010) Goal 2 56 employee population to complete a health risk 80 percent of employees have Contents completed a health risk assessment Goal assessment and “know their numbers.” By the 2010 30% 80% and “know their numbers” end of 2015, this objective was reached with People 92 percent of employees55 having taken this 92 percent of employees have completed a 2015 92% health risk assessment step through completion of personal biometrics Places and a health risk questionnaire (a 62 percent Overall: 62 percent increase since 2010 2010 14% Outside U.S. increase compared to 2010). Outside the U.S., Outside U.S.: 87 percent, with a 73 percent Practices the participation rate is 87 percent, a 73 percent increase since 2010 2015 Outside U.S. 87% Governance Labor Practices increase since 2010. & Ethical & Workforce Performance The “Make it Count!” campaign helped to Employee reach this goal, by demonstrating the advantages Goal 3 57 Supply Chain Recruitment, 80 percent of assessed population of a healthy lifestyle through a series of dynamic Quality & Safety Development are considered “low” health risk of Products & Retention portraits and on-site engagements featuring Goal 73 percent of all profiled employees are 80% Customer Workplace Johnson & Johnson employees from all continents Health & Safety considered “low” health risk Relationship and cultures. The images put a relatable face to Management Health-Conscious, the objective and demonstrated the energy and Individual health risks trend better than 2015 73% Supply Safe Employees national norms (in the U.S.) 92% excitement that results from the knowledge of one’s Chain Risk Employee Management Diversity & Inclusion health status. Alongside the images was the call to Compliance Transparency action to “Make it Count!” by knowing your numbers. Procurement Stakeholder Our “Culture of Health” Healthy Future 2015 & Supplier Engagement goal is for 90 percent of employees across Management the globe to have access to a rich and fully Financial Human Rights Performance implemented set of health programs and services.56 55. Tobacco free, HIV policy, health profile, employee assistance, physical activity, healthy eating, medical surveillance, health promotion, stress and energy management, cancer awareness, return-to-work, travel health. 56. Represents unique participation from 2013, 2014 and 2015. Total population does not include locations with fewer than 50 employees; a total of 331 locations. 57. Have only zero-to-two (of 10) key health risks. Due to the large increase in sample size and outside U.S. representation (where health risks vary significantly), year-on-year data The Energy for Performance® initiative in Dubai (left) and India. comparisons do not reflect overall population health trends. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 86 These services are centered on prevention, protection and performance. The goal illustrates Johnson & Johnson is committed to our commitment to taking positive action via advancing our workplace Culture of Health, an environment that cultivates the right health choices. At the end of 2015, we surpassed our and we are constantly striving to set the best goal with 93 percent of Johnson & Johnson employees being able to access the complete standards both within and beyond our industry. portfolio of Culture of Health programs (reflecting an increase of 59 percent since 2010). Outside the U.S., our progress has been even more significant, with 91 percent access at the end of 2015—an increase of 84 percent since 2010. Finally, we continue to monitor the overall Contents health of our employees. Based on the 2015 employee health results, 73 percent of our People global employees were characterized as having a “low” health risk.57 While this result is below Places the aspirational goal of 80 percent established in 2010, it is the result and real reflection of the Practices input from our employees who participated in our Governance Labor Practices & Ethical & Workforce health assessment process in 2015. As expected, Performance reaching out to a global population with a high Employee Supply Chain Recruitment, participation rate resulted in a true depiction of Quality & Safety Development current health risks, setting a global base line. As of Products & Retention we start 2016, having 73 percent of our global Customer Workplace employee population considered as having a “low” Relationship Health & Safety health risk is a very strong indicator of the overall Management Health-Conscious, Safe Employees good health of our population. We will continue to Supply Chain Risk Employee monitor this lagging indicator as a true “outcomes” Management Diversity & Inclusion measure for the success of our interventions with Compliance Transparency emphasis on addressing the key drivers Procurement Stakeholder for population health risks with a focus on total (spiritual, mental, emotional and physical) and training and 28,000 had attended keynotes.58 & Supplier Engagement well-being. explores how all these dimensions interact The training has made a difference— Management and impact our personal energy levels and participants have reported healthier eating, Financial Another reflection of our commitment to Human Rights Performance employee health and wellbeing is related to aligns the change process to an individual core increased movement, energy, focus, productivity one of our key Culture of Health programs— mission or purpose. In 2010, our aspirational and successful management of life engagement. the Energy for Performance® initiative (which goal was to reach approximately 50 percent of stems from the Corporate Athlete® program the Johnson & Johnson employee population Building on Success developed by the Johnson & Johnson Human (57,000 employees) with the principles of Energy Performance Institute®). The program is unique for Performance® (either through key note, half-, In the U.S., where our health programs have been in that it sees health as multidimensional one-, twoor two-and-a-half day trainings). By in place the longest, efforts continue to enhance 2015, over 33,000 employees had received programs and services that can be applied globally 57. Have only zero-to-two (of 10) key health risks. Due to the in future years. One example is our ongoing focus large increase in sample size and outside U.S. representation 58. Unique attendees for keynotes were not tracked, allowing (where health risks vary significantly), year-on-year data for the possibility that some who attended keynotes also on work-life effectiveness. We continue to be comparisons do not reflect overall population health trends. participated in trainings. recognized as leaders in this area and were 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 87 invited to participate in the 2015 White House • E  xpanding select programs and services to Council on Women and Girls and Council of our families and communities Economic Advisers Convening on the Working Families Agenda. As we work toward this 2020 vision, it is our hope In the meantime, our Employee Assistance that this continued commitment will count toward Program (EAP) continues to support our an even deeper understanding of how to care employees, their families and our businesses as for and engage our employees in their health. By we strengthen our culture of mental well-being cultivating this kind of environment, we bring the with 99 percent of our employees having access ultimate reward of health and well-being to our to EAP services globally. employees. We understand that at the core of wellbeing is the ability to effectively address the very Sharing Knowledge important issues that often occur outside of the Contents work place, striving to set the best standards both Johnson & Johnson is a recognized leader when within and beyond our industry. We continue to it comes to employee health and well-being, People commit to key work-life issues such as flexibility using our experience to assist in advancing and our ever-evolving benefits offerings that well-being around the world through a variety Places underscore our strong support for the modern-day of engagements and partnerships. We have family, no matter what shape that family takes. built strong relationships with key business and Practices These 2015 efforts also serve as a precursor to industry organizations in order to share our unique Governance Labor Practices expanding work-life initiatives on a worldwide experiences and insights in this space. We share & Ethical & Workforce basis. Johnson & Johnson is immensely proud our knowledge and expertise with businesses Performance Employee to be at the forefront of driving the type of critical and communities around the world, encouraging Supply Chain Recruitment, change needed to align workplace policies with others to take on a leadership position when it Quality & Safety Development of Products & Retention the realities of the 21st-century family. comes to investing in employee health. Workplace A few of these are highlighted below: Customer Relationship Health & Safety Looking Forward Management Health-Conscious, Bipartisan Policy Center’s (BPC) CEO Council on Supply Safe Employees Looking to 2020, our vision continues to be to Health and Innovation Chain Risk Employee have the healthiest workforce, allowing every Harvard Business School; Johnson & Johnson— Management Diversity & Inclusion The Pursuit of Wellness Business Case employee to reach their “personal best,” wherever Compliance Transparency they are along the health continuum. With this 5th Asia-Pacific Wellness Forum (at Google Singapore) Procurement Stakeholder in mind, 2020 enterprise-wide employee health & Supplier Engagement American Heart Association CEO Roundtable Management goals have been set. These goals build upon the Financial CEO Roundtable on Cancer Prevention Human Rights Performance foundation of the Healthy Future 2015 goals and focus on: Rutgers Institute for Ethical Leadership: 2015 Ethical Leadership • C  ontinued outreach to employees with the Carter Center Productivity Summit principles of Energy for Performance® and Global Wellness Institute—Participating on exploring how to sustain and embed these Re-Defining Workplace Wellness principles into the work-site culture Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation (APEC) • Innovation, personal choice and engagement Roundtable on Mental Health via digital health tools Life Science Innovation Forum (LSIF)/APEC— •  ealthy eating, physical activity, mental wellH Meeting on Health & the Economy being and work-life effectiveness 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 88 Employee Diversity & Inclusion Employee Resource Groups are inclusive and voluntary groups that are organized around a particular shared interest or dimension. These groups have been initiated by employees and usually focus on a shared interest or characteristic, such as race, ethnicity, gender or sexual orientation. Each group’s main intent is to create an open forum Our Global Diversity & Inclusion Employee Resource Groups for idea exchange and to strengthen Contents Vision challenges us to maximize the Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) at the linkage to and within diverse power of diversity and inclusion to communities. People Johnson & Johnson companies have partnered drive innovation, superior business with the Office of Diversity & Inclusion in creating Places an open forum to exchange ideas and to AALC African American Leadership results and sustainable competitive strengthen the linkage to and within diverse Council Practices advantage. communities. Our enterprise-wide ERGs are ADL Alliance for Disability Leadership Governance Labor Practices uniquely positioned to provide key insights and & Ethical & Workforce Differences in age, race, gender, nationality, sexual strategically focused on driving better outcomes AMENAH Association for Middle Eastern Performance Employee orientation, physical ability, thinking style and and North African Heritage on behalf of our people, our marketplace and our Supply Chain Recruitment, background of our employees enhance our work communities. We estimate these groups engage ASIA Asian Society for Innovation and Quality & Safety Development environments, and allow us to better connect with of Products & Retention almost 13,000 employees across 186 U.S. Achievement Workplace the health needs of people in communities around chapters and 18 non-U.S. chapters. Customer GLOBAL Gay and Lesbian Organization Relationship Health & Safety the world. Attracting, developing and retaining a See Labor Practices & Workforce for for Business and Leadership Management Health-Conscious, base of employees that reflects the diversity of workforce diversity data. LA12 For more Supply Safe Employees our customers is essential to our success, which information, visit our website. HOLA Hispanic Organization for Leadership Chain Risk Employee hinges on relationships with diverse professional and Achievement Management Diversity & Inclusion and patient organizations, civic groups and Compliance Transparency HONOR Helping our Neighbors with Our suppliers. See the Procurement & Supplier Procurement Stakeholder Resources Management section of this report for more & Supplier Engagement Management information on supplier diversity. MILLENNIAL Bridging Generational Financial Diversity Human Rights Performance SAPNA South Asian Professional Network and Association VLC Veteran’s Leadership Council WLI Women’s Leadership Initiative 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 89 Transparency Contents A recently released SustainAbility Product Transparency report, entitled “2016 Global Trends: As our approach to transparency evolves, we continue to track our efforts specified as a Healthy Future 2015 goal to have all major 59 brand (currently numbering 21) websites share product People Impacts for Corporate Leadership” sustainability information. In 2015, all major brands (100 percent) had some level of external Places identified transparency as one of transparency to address their customers’/consumers’ most relevant questions. In addition, our 12 global sustainability trends shaping Consumer segment provides information on HealtyEssentials.com. Links to the major brand Practices websites can be found below. the economic, political, and social Governance Labor Practices landscape and business agenda Pharmaceutical & Ethical & Workforce Performance Employee in 2016. INVEGA® SUSTENNA®/ INVOKANA®/ Supply Chain Recruitment, IMBRUVICA® PREZISTA® REMICADE® SIMPONI® (ibrutinib) XEPLION® INVOKAMET ™ (darunavir) (infliximab) (golimumab) Quality & Safety Development (paliperidone (canagliflozin) & Retention In 2014, we initiated efforts to expand our public palmitate) of Products Workplace reporting to further satisfy stakeholder interests Customer Relationship Health & Safety and reduce the need for questions from various ZYTIGA® STELARA® VELCADE® XARELTO® Management Health-Conscious, groups that might lead to selective disclosures. (ustekinumab) (bortezomib) (rivaroxaban) (abiraterone Safe Employees acetate) Supply These efforts continue and are reflected in our Chain Risk Employee 2015 report in the forms of increased data around Management Diversity & Inclusion energy and carbon, water, quality and safety of Compliance Transparency products, and compliance. Medical Devices Procurement Stakeholder & Supplier Engagement Management DePuy Synthes Ethicon, Inc. Johson & Johnson Sterilmed, Inc. Financial Companies Vision Care, Inc. LifeScan, Inc. Human Rights Performance Consumer Neutrogena® o.b.® Le Petit Aveeno® Johnson’s® Listerine® Marseillais® 59. “Major” brands determined by each business segment based on a combination of factors, including sales, stakeholder interest in sustainability considerations, etc. List of major brands for Medical Devices has been adjusted between 2013–2015 from eight to five, and for Janssen in 2015 from nine to 10. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 90 Stakeholder Engagement G4-24–G4-27 Contents We believe that business is strengthened by the level People of engagement it has within the Places communities where it operates, as well as with the various internal Practices and external stakeholders in social, Governance Labor Practices & Ethical & Workforce environmental and governance Performance Supply Chain Employee Recruitment, matters. As the largest broadQuality & Safety Development based healthcare company, of Products & Retention Workplace our engagement spans a wide Customer Relationship Health & Safety range of stakeholders that allows CARE INSPIRES CARE The global platform CARE INSPIRES CARE™, or CARINHO INSPIRA Management Health-Conscious, Supply Safe Employees us to serve the needs of more CARINHO™ in Portuguese, encourages selfless acts of care—big and small—with the goal of making the world a more caring place. Here, an employee volunteers at the nonprofit care facility “Casa Ondina Lobo” Chain Risk Employee people. in São Paulo during the 2015 “Semana do Carinho,” which included a special celebration with food, music Management Diversity & Inclusion and dancing for the elderly. Compliance Transparency We consider a variety of factors before engaging Procurement Stakeholder with stakeholders to ensure the most optimal & Supplier Engagement outcome. Some of these factors include: • The potential for the stakeholder group to challenge, disproportionately affecting the most Management Financial have a positive impact on other stakeholder vulnerable members of populations across the Human Rights Performance • The possible alignments of our goals and groups, our customers, the public at large and globe. As part of our commitment to advance values with that of the stakeholder group; Johnson & Johnson; global public health, Janssen is partnering • Our ability to improve health conditions; with governmental, academic and advocacy • Our ability to effectively participate in the • Our ability to improve social, environmental or engagement. organizations that are able to help provide other conditions; solutions to those who are most affected. Here are a few examples: The Company is working in collaboration with • The opportunity that we and the stakeholder several major partners, including the United States group have to learn from one another; Multi-Stakeholder Engagement Agency for International Development (USAID), • The identity, including the composition and Tuberculosis (TB) and its multi-drug resistant the Global Drug Facility (GDF) and Pharmstandard values, of the stakeholder group; form MDR-TB present an ongoing global health to take major steps toward ending TB. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 91 Donate a Photo Johnson & Johnson has been dedicated to helping people and causes all over the world. One of the creative ways we are engaging stakeholders in the U.S, U.K. and Asia-Pacific region is through our platform Donate a Photo. This social media app allows the Company to raise more awareness for causes and connects people to nonprofits, helping everyone make an even bigger difference. For every photo shared through the app, Johnson & Johnson donates $1 to the designated cause. Every cause in Donate a Contents Photo sets a goal. When a cause’s goal is met, another cause takes its place. Some of People the organizations supported include: Places Foundation of the National Student Nurses’ Association Practices DoSomething.org Governance Labor Practices U.S. Fund for UNICEF & Ethical & Workforce Girl Up Performance Employee Supply Chain Recruitment, Nothing but Nets Quality & Safety Development Operation Smile of Products & Retention Customer Workplace Every child suffering from cleft lip or cleft palate deserves Health & Safety PHOTOS HELP HEAL A CHILD’S SMILE For more examples of stakeholder engagement, Relationship access to exceptional medical solutions. For every photo donated, Johnson & Johnson gives $1 to Management Health-Conscious, visit the Our Stakeholders section of our website. Operation Smile. That $1 will help Operation Smile give children around the world with cleft lip, cleft palate Supply Safe Employees or another facial deformity the critical supplies they need for life-changing surgery. It takes 240 photos to Chain Risk Employee provide a safe surgery that will help one child eat, speak and smile with confidence. Community Engagement Through Management Diversity & Inclusion Volunteerism Compliance Transparency Employee Engagement ambassadors. The I Care. I Do. movement is Procurement Stakeholder I Care. I Do. is an employee engagement and intended to be two-fold: both a grassroots effort Giving back is woven into the fabric of & Supplier Engagement awareness program built around sustainability and a leadership-supported program. To facilitate Johnson & Johnson. Employees of the Management Financial ambassadors who make a commitment to peer-to-peer learning, ambassadors are provided Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies are Human Rights Performance care, do and share. The program connects with a toolkit that includes message guides, committed to making a positive impact in the them with other sustainability ambassadors and talking points, branded artwork, videos, program communities where they live and work, playing opportunities to positively impact Citizenship & slides, logos, email signatures and more to help active roles in educational, civic, cultural and Sustainability outcomes in the Medical Devices ambassadors promote the initiative. Besides the faith-based organizations. The Company’s segment through taking action in one of five toolkit, the site acts as a hub for employees to Volunteer Support Program helps employees different areas: environment, sustainable product learn more about Citizenship & Sustainability, ways become involved and connected with volunteer innovation, brand and reputation, community, and to take action in the five focus areas, as well as efforts in their local communities. The program personal health and wellness. how they can get involved through I Care. I Do. serves as a resource for employees by creating The goal of the ambassador program is for Roll-out of the program beyond Medical Devices partnerships and relationships with local nonprofit employees to commit to an action, to share began in 2015. organizations; coordinating volunteer days that action with others and to recruit new for Johnson & Johnson companies, groups 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 92 and individuals; and recognizing excellence in better connect with young caregivers through and donating about 1,000 pints of blood. In volunteerism. social media. The campaign, titled “Terribly Tiny our Latin America region, across six countries As a global company, our volunteerism efforts Tales,” was designed to capture the small but (Brazil, Colombia, Argentina, Chile, Mexico, and vary in focus by region and by business segment. meaningful moments that come with a familyPuerto Rico), we implemented close to 50 new At our worldwide corporate headquarters in oriented approach to diabetes care. volunteerism efforts that reached almost 6,000 New Brunswick, New Jersey, for example, we Additionally, JJDDC participated in diabetes people. support organizations such as Elijah’s Promise, camps in Korea, Mexico and the U.S. to help Over the past five years Johnson & Johnson which provides thousands of meals to community children overcome the fear of diabetes and learn companies in Asia-Pacific have steadily built residents each year and where Johnson & Johnson about healthy ways to manage the disease. In a culture of volunteering through a focused employees volunteered more than 1,000 hours Korea, LifeScan Korea partnered with the Korea “volunteer month” campaign. What began as in 2015. Additionally, more than 700 employees Insulin Dependent Diabetes Association (KIDDA), one month of intense activity in June 2010 has volunteered at the Children’s Specialized Hospital the nation’s largest association for Type 1 diabetes developed into a season of caring across the Foundation, spending over 2,000 volunteer hours. patients, on a diabetes camp and trip for young region. This year’s campaign saw nearly 11,000 Contents As an enterprise-wide effort, along with our Janssen people with the disease. Through the camp, employees (45 percent), including the region’s business, employees partnered with Stop Hunger JJDCC became the first corporate partner in most senior business leaders, volunteer their time People Now, helping to alleviate global child hunger. More Korea to organize this kind of diabetes camp for across 318 programs, supporting 157 charities than 4,000 employees volunteered and packaged children. At a seminar sponsored by OneTouch®, and touching the lives of nearly 30,000 people. Places over 700,000 meals for people in nearly a dozen the young campers learned about diabetes As our employees are becoming more engaged in countries. management, insulin therapy and how to properly volunteer efforts, we recognize the importance of Practices In our Medical Devices segment, our self-test blood glucose. providing short-term volunteer opportunities. In our Governance Labor Practices & Ethical & Workforce Johnson & Johnson Diabetes Care Companies LifeScan Mexico helped empower kids EMEA region, we launched the “Trust Secondment Performance (JJDCC) employees are actively engaged across with Type 1 diabetes, ages six to 18, at 10 Strategy Program,” giving selected employees the Employee Supply Chain Recruitment, the world. World Diabetes Day is the world’s camps across Mexico with the tools and skills opportunity to share their skills and knowledge Quality & Safety Development largest diabetes awareness campaign, held in they needed to manage their condition. Group base with trusted non-governmental organizations of Products & Retention November every year since 1991 in more than discussions enabled the campers to share their (NGOs) in long-term assignments (three-to six Customer Workplace 100 countries. Every year, JJDCC supports this fears and triumphs, all with an aim toward helping months), in line with the J&J Worldwide Corporate Relationship Health & Safety important cause with awareness-raising activities them develop a positive attitude about managing Contributions Strategy. Unique about the program Management Health-Conscious, Safe Employees and events about this growing epidemic. diabetes. Diabetes-related complications are the is its commitment to place the needs of the Supply Chain Risk Employee In São Paulo, Brazil, team members number one cause of death in Mexico. selected and trusted NGOs first, ensuring that our Management Diversity & Inclusion sponsored events with patient support groups, In the U.S., JJDCC donations helped an partners gain access to much-needed skill sets in Compliance Transparency including blood testing at shopping centers and American Diabetes Association summer camp, order to build and strengthen their organizational Procurement Stakeholder metro stations. In partnership with Janssen, Camp Korelitz, in Ohio. This week-long residential structure and support growth. In 2015, 65 & Supplier Engagement LifeScan Brazil delivered 300 OneTouch UltraMini® camp is for children living with Type 1 or Type 2 employees participated in this volunteer leave Management Financial blood glucose meters to the National Diabetes diabetes. JJDCC supports more than 120 camps opportunity. Human Rights Performance Congress. annually with meters, strips and pump supplies We believe it’s important to recognize In Mexico, team members participated in a to ensure children have the supplies they need to employees who are passionate and highly five-kilometer walk to raise diabetes awareness at have a healthy and fun week. The contributions of engaged within their communities. Some of Mexico City’s Revolution Monument. OneTouch® supplies help to offset expenses for our business segments and regions formally In Japan, team members set up displays with the not-for-profit camp organizations. acknowledge employees’ volunteerism with handouts and brochures in partnership with the Each business holds its own designated recognition grants that can be applied to nonprofit Japan Association for Diabetes Education and volunteer month or volunteer day. At Janssen organizations of their choice. Care, promoting the benefits of blood glucose locations in the U.S., for example, more than testing. 1,800 employees volunteered at nonprofits as part In India, the team collaborated with an online of the annual month of service in 2015, raising content startup to create a campaign that would a few hundred thousand dollars for nonprofits 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 93 Financial Performance Contents Johnson & Johnson delivered Economic Value Retained EC1 A basic indicator of our economic impact is calculated using economic value generated and economic strong underlying growth in 2015, value distributed, as outlined by the Global Reporting Initiative. Our economic value retained is provided People with full-year sales of $70.1 billion in the chart below. Places and adjusted net earnings of $17.4 billion, driven by 60 Economic Value Retained 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Practices in billions of dollars (U.S.) the performance of our Governance Labor Practices & Ethical & Workforce Pharmaceutical business and Direct Economic Value Generated Performance Employee iconic Consumer brands. As we Revenues 65,030 67,224 71,312 74,331 70,074 Supply Chain Recruitment, Quality & Safety Development enter 2016, our core business is & Retention Economic Value Distributed of Products Workplace very healthy, and recent decisive Customer Relationship Health & Safety actions we’ve taken in support of Operating, Employee & Other Costs 48,364 48,821 48,898 52,459 50,786 Management Health-Conscious, Safe Employees each of our businesses position us Supply Chain Risk Employee well to drive sustainable long-term Payments to Providers of Capital 6,727 7,146 7,768 8,301 8,725 Management Diversity & Inclusion Compliance Transparency growth, faster than the markets Community Investments 706 966 993 1,080 1,040 Procurement Stakeholder we compete in. & Supplier Engagement Management Economic Value Retained 9,233 10,291 13,653 12,491 9,523 Financial We have achieved our near-term priorities, Human Rights Performance exceeding our financial targets with full-year operational61 sales growth of 1.8 percent. Excluding the net impact of acquisitions, divestitures and hepatitis C sales, on an operational basis, worldwide sales increased 6.5 percent.62 A complete Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial Condition is provided in our 2015 Annual Report. 60. Non-GAAP financial measure that excludes intangible amortization expense and special items. 61. Operational measures exclude the impact of currency translation. 62. Non-GAAP measure. See Reconciliation of Non-GAAP Financial Measures in our Annual Report. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 94 Report Profile G4-13, G4-23, G4 28–33 This report provides the Company’s Citizenship of acquisition. Environmental, health and safety, Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Contents & Sustainability activities and progress as of and employee health and wellness performance December 2015. It is our 13th annual Citizenship data do not include data from acquisitions that This report has been prepared in accordance People & Sustainability Report. Our first environmental have been part of the Company for less than three with the GRI’s 2013 Sustainability Reporting report was in 1993. Reporting for 2015 is years. Data from the acquisition of Synthes, Inc., Guidelines (G4 Core). A GRI Index is included, Places presented in our 2015 Annual Report and our completed in 2012, is now included from 2013 with references to G4 indicators. We continue to Practices 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report (available onwards and, where relevant for the goals, the be challenged by data collection at the enterprise online), with additional information available on our 2010 baseline has also been adjusted. Exceptions level, as the Company’s structure is based upon Report Profile and Citizenship & Sustainability website. are noted where they occur within this report. the principle of decentralized management. Assurance Statement The primary audiences for these reports and Timing and details of recent acquisitions are However, we are succeeding in increasing the 2015 Data Summary our Citizenship & Sustainability website continue included in Note 20 (Business Combinations number of indicators we report against, as noted United Nations Global to be our employees and external stakeholders, and Divestitures) on page 62 of our 2015 Annual in the Index, while we continue to improve upon Compact Statement the latter of whom are an extremely broad and Report. Where noted, data are adjusted to reflect our internal data verification processes. Global Report Initiative diverse group. The Company has a variety of other a divestiture, starting with the year in which a In 2014, our report process included the use (GRI) Index mechanisms by which it shares Citizenship & divestiture occurs. of data collection templates, facilitating additional Sustainability progress internally. Numerous sources, including socially validation and assurance capabilities. This Information presented in our reports and on responsible investment (SRIs) groups, noncontinued for our 2015 report. In some instances, our website is from the administration, research governmental organizations (NGOs), multiple data estimates provided in prior reports have been and development, manufacturing, marketing stakeholder engagements, senior company removed, due to the expanded data validation and selling organizations operated by the leadership and other feedback helped to guide the process. As indicated in the Healthy Future 2015 Johnson & Johnson Family of Companies, unless report’s organization and information. Goals Progress table, the 2015 performance for otherwise indicated. No external manufacturing selected Healthy Future Goals, including some GRI is included in our data, except as indicated in this Indicators, has been assured by ERM Certification report. As we engage further with our supply chain and Verification Services (ERM CVS). See ERM on Citizenship & Sustainability topics, additional CVS Assurance Statement for their Independent information on these efforts will continue to be Assurance Statement on the following page. incorporated into our reports. There have been no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope, boundary or measurement methods applied in this report. Acquisitions are accounted for in our financial statements from their respective dates 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 95 Independent Our Assurance Activities Our Observations We planned and performed our work to obtain all the inforWe have provided J&J with a separate management report Assurance Statement to mation and explanations that we believe were necessary to with our detailed findings and recommendations. Without provide a basis for our assurance conclusions. A multi-disaffecting the conclusions presented above, we have the Johnson & Johnson ciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists following key observations: performed assurance procedures as follows: • The scope of this second assurance engagement was • A visit to J&J Corporate Offices in New Brunswick, NJ increased to cover 22 of the 2015 goals, compared to 14 and a number of conference calls to interview: last year, increasing stakeholder confidence in the reported – relevant staff in order to understand and evaluate the performance. Based on its corporate responsibility strategy ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was systems and processes (including internal review/auand materiality assessment, J&J has developed a revised engaged by Johnson & Johnson (J&J) to provide limited dit) used for collecting, evaluating and reporting the and more focused set of external goals for 2020, in most assurance on the 2015 performance for 22 Healthy Future performance information and data for the selected cases supported by quantitative metrics and targets as 2015 Goals and other selected data in the Johnson & HF goals; described on page 9 of the Report. In order to ensure that Johnson 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Annual Report the performance information for all goals and metrics can – management representatives responsible for the se(the Report) as set out below. be consistently collected and reported to stakeholders, lected HF goals and the implementation of manageas well as assured, over the full five-year period, we recContents ment processes and the related activities undertaken ommend an early review of the baseline data for the new Scope of Our Assurance Engagement since 2010 in order to meet the 2015 goals; 2020 metrics. People Whether the 2015 performance for 22 of the Healthy Future – staff responsible for the internal verification of the • During 2015 J&J further developed its internal reporting 2015 Goals as described on pages 10-12 of the Report, and reported performance information for each of the for selected indicators in the data tables on pages 97 to 101, systems and controls around the reported performance selected HF goals; Places as indicated with A is fairly presented in all material respects. for the goals. We recommend that J&J continues to • A review of the internal reporting guidelines for each of improve the consistency of the internal verification process, the selected HF goals; including the documentation of the procedures undertaken Practices Reporting Criteria and results, through training and developing a guidance • A high-level review of the greenhouse gas (GHG) data Healthy Future (HF) 2015 Sustainability Goals and related document for the internal verifiers. definitions as described in the Report. WBCSD/WRI GHG to confirm consistency with the findings of our separate Report Profile and Protocol for the Greenhouse Gas emissions. GHG verification engagement including completeness Assurance Statement and consistency over time and the restatements of the 2015 Data Summary Assurance Standard baseline and prior year data; United Nations Global • A review of samples of underlying documentary Compact Statement ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements (ISAE 3000 Revised). evidence to support the reported progress including Global Report Initiative internal and external documents; and (GRI) Index Assurance Level Jennifer Iansen-Rogers • A review of the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure consisHead of Report Assurance Limited assurance. tency with our findings. 17 June 2016 Respective Responsibilities The Limitations of Our Engagement J&J is responsible for preparing the Report and for the The reliability of the assured information is subject to inherent collection and presentation of the information, including the uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, performance data. calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this ERM Certification and Verification Services, London ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the www.ermcvs.com email: post@ermcvs.com agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed context. In addition, the assured information should be read and exercising our professional judgement. in conjunction with the boundary and consolidation policies under ‘Report Profile’ on page 95 and the explanatory footERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS notes throughout the Report. conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities Regarding the reporting criteria, while not affecting our and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to Our Conclusion ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention conclusions regarding the reported progress, we draw atconflict of interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken this to indicate that the 2015 performance for the 22 selected tention to J&J’s disclosures regarding limitations in alignment engagement work have provided no consultancy related services to this Healthy Future 2015 Goals on pages 10-12 of the Report, between the reported performance and the original 2015 client in any respect. and for the selected indicators in the data tables on pages goal definitions where relevant. 97 to 101, as indicated with A , is not, in all material respects, fairly presented. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 96 2015 Data Summary Table Employee Health and Safety UNIT 2 011 2 012 2 013 2 014 2 015 Serious injury/illness rate 1, 2, 3 Incidents per 100 employees 0.028 0.027 0.020 0.059 3 0.069 A Contents Lost workday case rate (LWDC) 1, 2 Incidents per 100 employees 0.11 0.09 0.11 0.11 0.08 A People Fleet car accidents 4 Crashes per million miles driven 5.94 5.82 6.14 5.95 6.01 A Places Ergonomic injuries 1, 2 Percentage of lost workday cases 30 33 34 25 33 Practices Contractor lost workday case rate 1 Incidents per 100 contractors 0.14 0.17 0.12 0.16 0.18 A Report Profile and Assurance Statement Safety non-compliances 1, 2 Number of findings 9 6 7 192 398 2015 Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Statement Safety fines paid 1, 2 U.S. dollars 7,311 648 205,000 7,488 675 Global Report Initiative (GRI) Index 1. Does not include acquisitions that have been part of the Company for less than three years. 2. Includes data from all manufacturing, R&D, warehouse, distribution centers and office buildings. 3. New expanded definition that includes continuous impairment and surgical intervention. 4.Data are collected on employees of Johnson & Johnson and its affiliates who drive personally owned vehicles for Company business. Employees in this category are those who: 1) Drive for Company business as a “regular part” of their job, and 2) Employees who receive a car allowance to purchase their own vehicle, and/or those who are reimbursed for vehicle expenses such as fuel, maintenance, insurance and other miscellaneous charges associated with vehicle upkeep, and/or those who receive a regular mileage allowance. A Included in the scope of ERM CVS assurance engagement. Please see page 96 for their findings and conclusions. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 97 2015 Data Summary Table Environment UNIT 2 011 2 012 2 013 2 014 2 015 Environmental non-compliances 5, 6 Number of findings 30 29 45 72 77 Environmental fines paid 5, 6 U.S. dollars 5,000 3,500 0 416,195 3,800 Contents Accidental releases 5, 6 Number of events 9 8 7 24 30 People Percent of manufacturing/R&D facilities OHSAS certifications 5, 7 30 25 28 30 37 Places with certification Percent of manufacturing/R&D facilities ISO 14001 certifications 5, 7 99 93 95 95 96 Practices with certification Energy use 5, 8, 9 Billion terajoules 8 12,972 12,734 13,086 12,949 12,837 A Report Profile and Assurance Statement 2015 Data Summary Facility CO2e emissions 5, 10 Metric tons 1,172,142 1,125,412 1,132,392 1,122,888 1,114,764 A United Nations Global Compact Statement On-site clean or renewable energy capacity 8 Megawatts 38.7 45.58 47.68 55.7 54 11 Global Report Initiative (GRI) Index CO2 fleet emissions 5, 8, 12 Average emissions per vehicle (g/km) 170 161 149.6 142.8 141.8 A CO2 project capital spent Energy/CO2 project spend, $MM 48.2 22.2 37.6 34.4 26.5 Cumulative CO2 emissions avoided CO2 project results 138.4 145.9 181.5 213.9 228 annually, thousand metric tons Water use 5, 7, 8 Million m3 10.7 11.0 11.7 11.7 11.1 Recycled water use 5, 7, 8 Million m3 0.69 0.59 0.74 0.79 0.75 5. Does not include acquisitions that have been part of the Company for less than three years. 6. Includes data from all manufacturing, R&D, warehouse, distribution centers and office buildings. 7. Includes data from all manufacturing and R&D locations. 8. Data have been adjusted to reflect divestitures. 9. Includes site-specific data from all Johnson & Johnson-owned and leased sites over 50,000 square feet, as well as manufacturing and R&D sites under 50,000 square feet, unless otherwise noted. 10. E  missions data are adjusted for prior years due to divestitures, acquisitions and updated emissions factors. As a result, data presented here will not correspond to the figures in the 2014 Report or those submitted to CDP in the respective years. 11. Online or in progress. 12. Fleet vehicles are those vehicles owned or leased by Johnson & Johnson, and provided to drivers in field sales and service roles. In countries other than the U.S., vehicles are also provided to employees based on level as part of their overall compensation package. Personal vehicles driven as part of a business role or need are not part of the Fleet Program. A Included in the scope of ERM CVS assurance engagement. Please see page 96 for their findings and conclusions. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 98 2015 Data Summary Table Environment (cont.) UNIT 2 011 2 012 2 013 2 014 2 015 Wastewater discharged 13, 14, 15 Million m3 7.74 8.04 8.27 8.46 8.22 Non-hazardous waste disposed 13, 14, 15 Million kg 42.2 44.8 45.1 45.2 45.3 Contents People Hazardous waste disposed 13, 14, 15 Million kg 29.7 29.4 33.2 38.5 34.7 Places Waste site remediation 13 Number of active remediation sites 18 17 18 17 21 Practices Total waste generated 13, 15 Million kg 72.0 74.2 78.3 83.7 80.0 Report Profile and Sulfur dioxide emissions 13, 14, 15, 16 Metric tons 127 108 111 135 131 Assurance Statement 2015 Data Summary Mono-nitrogen oxides (NOx) emissions 13, 15, 16 Metric tons 245 237 253 254 252 United Nations Global Compact Statement Global Report Initiative Hazardous air pollutant emissions 13, 15, 17 Metric tons 44 36 53 55 53 (GRI) Index Volatile organic compound emissions 13, 15, 17 Metric tons 1,386 1,244 1,069 1,367 1,299 Particulate matter emissions 13, 15, 17 Metric tons 131 125 211 150 156 Refrigerant emissions 13, 15 Metric tons 9.6 8.96 7.47 8.43 10.24 Cumulative number of Earthwards® Greener products 15 24 33 52 73 80 products LEED buildings 15 Number certified 12 15 20 25 29 Suppliers participating in CDP supply chain Number 96 129 139 173 181 climate program, at Johnson & Johnson request 13. Does not include acquisitions that have been part of the Company for less than three years. 14. Includes data from all manufacturing and R&D locations. 15. Data have been adjusted to reflect divestitures. 16. Estimated. 17. Based primarily on engineering judgment, including batch process and mass balance. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 99 2015 Data Summary Table Employees and Diversity UNIT 2 011 2 012 2 013 2 014 2 015 Women on the Board of Directors Number and percent of board 3 / 25% 3 / 23% 3 / 25% 3 / 23% 3 / 27% Contents Women in workforce Percent of employees 44.9 18 47.5 19 46.5 19 45.4 20 45.4 20 People Women in management Percent of employees 38.8 18 40.3 19 41.8 19 41.7 42.3 Places Practices Suppliers and Diversity Report Profile and Assurance Statement UNIT 2 011 2 012 2 013 2 014 2 015 2015 Data Summary United Nations Global Minority/Women-owned business spend U.S. dollars, millions 1,305 1,234 1,357 1,522 1,391 A Compact Statement Global Report Initiative (GRI) Index Small Business spend U.S. dollars, millions 3,149 2,731 2,700 3,200 2,951 Number of Minority/Women-owned business Total number 2,200 1,700 1,600 1,500 1,900 suppliers Veteran-owned business spend U.S. dollars, millions 103 101 85 82 90 Lesbian/Bisexual/Gay/Transgender-owned U.S. dollars, millions 1.7 1.6 1.5 2.4 1.3 business spend Minority/Women-owned business supplier Percent total spend 8.2 8.4 8.3 11.8 9.7 spend 18. Data available for U.S. only. 19. Data are from our North American region. 20. Global data. A Included in the scope of ERM CVS assurance engagement. Please see page 96 for their findings and conclusions. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 100 2015 Data Summary Table Operations and Statistical Data 21 UNIT 2 011 2 012 2 013 2 014 2 015 U.S. dollars, millions 65,030 67,224 71,312 74,331 70,074 Sales Percent change over previous year 0.5 3.4 6.1 4.2 (5.7) Contents U.S. dollars, millions 9,672 10,853 13,831 16,323 15,409 Net earnings 22 Percent change over previous year (27.5) 12.2 27.4 18.0 (5.6) People Places Market price per share (year-end close) U.S. dollars 65.58 69.48 92.35 105.06 102.72 Practices U.S. dollars, millions 7,548 7,665 8,183 8,494 9,046 R&D As percentage of sales 11.6 11.4 11.5 11.4 13 Report Profile and Assurance Statement Operating companies Number (approximate) 250 275 275 265 250 2015 Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Statement Employees Number (approximate) 117,900 127,600 128,100 126,500 127,100 Global Report Initiative (GRI) Index Effective income tax rate Percentage of income 21.8 23.7 10.6 20.6 19.7 U.S. dollars, billions 2.6 2.3 2.5 2.6 2.5 Advertising costs As percentage of sales 4 3.4 3.5 3.5 3.6 Total U.S. dollars, millions 706.1 966.3 993 1,080.4 1,040 A Charitable contributions As percentage of pretax income 5.7 7 6.4 5.3 5.4 Non-cash 587.1 835.0 835.5 908.7 877 21. Additional information available in the 2015 Johnson & Johnson 10-K report. 22. Net earnings attributable to Johnson & Johnson. A Included in the scope of ERM CVS assurance engagement. Please see page 96 for their findings and conclusions. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 101 United Nations Global Compact Human Rights CROSS-REFERENCE UNGC PRINCIPLES JOHNSON & JOHNSON APPROACH LEARN MORE TO GRI INDICATORS 1. S  upport and respect the protection Our commitment to respect human rights is embodied in Human Rights HR4–6 of internationally proclaimed human several of our policies and statements, including: Pages 72–73 LA14–15 rights. • Code of Business Conduct Labor Practices LA2, LA4, LA12 2. M  ake sure that business is not • Statement on Human Rights Contents Pages 74–77 complicit in human rights abuses. • Global Labor & Employment Guidelines • Policy on Employment of Young Persons People • Responsibility Standards for Suppliers Places Practices Report Profile and Assurance Statement Labor Standards 2015 Data Summary CROSS-REFERENCE UNGC PRINCIPLES JOHNSON & JOHNSON APPROACH LEARN MORE TO GRI INDICATORS United Nations Global Compact Statement 3. U  phold freedom of association and Our Statement on Human Rights incorporates references to the Human Rights HR4 Global Report Initiative (GRI) Index the effective recognition of the right key labor issues identified in the UNGC, including prohibition of Pages 72–73 to collective bargaining. child labor, forced labor, human trafficking and discrimination. Our Global Labor & Employment Guidelines articulate our expectations Labor Practices HR6 4. S  upport elimination of all forms of for labor and employment practices at our sites. These guidelines Pages 74–77 forced and compulsory labor. require open communication with all employees, mandate respect 5. S  upport effective abolition of for each employee’s right to freedom of association and good Procurement & HR5 child labor. faith collective bargaining, prohibit discrimination and forced labor Supplier Management 6. E  limination of discrimination in of any kind, and require adherence to and enforcement of child Pages 66–71 respect of employment and labor laws. Our workplace practices and policies on providing fair occupation. compensation, equal opportunity, safe and healthy workplaces and other commitments to human rights reflect our belief that the success of our Company is linked with employee satisfaction and well-being. We foster compliance with these policies on a continuing basis through internal training programs, certification processes for external manufacturers and risk-based audit programs. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 102 United Nations Global Compact Environment CROSS-REFERENCE UNGC PRINCIPLES JOHNSON & JOHNSON APPROACH LEARN MORE TO GRI INDICATORS 7. B  usinesses are asked to support For 130 years, the Company’s desire to make a difference has Product Stewardship EN7, EN27, EN28 a precautionary approach to inspired every invention, every product and every breakthrough Pages 34–43 environmental challenges. we have brought to human health. This commitment to serving the needs of others is guided by Our Credo, which shapes our Our Ingredients & Contents 8. U  ndertake initiatives to promote approach to business and defines our responsibilities to societyRaw Materials greater environmental responsibility. at-large. One of the most important responsibilities emphasized in Page 40 People Our Credo is our obligation to the environment: “We must maintain 9. E  ncourage the development and in good order the property we are privileged to use, protecting the Sourcing of Places diffusion of environmentally friendly environment and natural resources.” Raw Materials technologies. Pages 41–43 Practices Our commitment to the environment is embodied in several of our policies and statements, including: Environment, Health & Safety Environmental G4–14 Report Profile and Assurance Statement Policy; Climate Friendly Energy Policy; Statement on Human Right Responsibility 2015 Data Summary to Water and Respecting Biodiversity. Page 32–33 United Nations Global Compact Statement We incorporate environmental performance goals throughout Water EN8–10, EN22 Global Report Initiative our operations and regularly report on our progress, seeking Pages 51–54 (GRI) Index continuous improvement in energy efficiency, emissions reductions, resource conservation and waste reduction. We strive to minimize Climate EN3–6, EN15–20, the environmental impact of our products—from design through Pages 44–50 EN 30 disposal—and we collaborate with others to develop innovative ways that technology can help address long-term sustainability Waste EN23 challenges. Page 55–56 As a global company, we work to exercise far-reaching influence Biodiversity EN11–13 with regard to sourcing of materials and set a goal for our most Conservation important, or Segment 1, suppliers to publicly report on two or www.jnj.com more sustainability goals in any of the following goal categories: energy reduction, waste reduction, water use reduction, workforce Supply Chain, EN32, EN33 injury/illness reduction, workforce wellness, and community and Procurement & human rights investment. Supplier Management Pages 60, 66–71 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 103 United Nations Global Compact Anti-Corruption CROSS-REFERENCE UNGC PRINCIPLES JOHNSON & JOHNSON APPROACH LEARN MORE TO GRI INDICATORS 10. Businesses should work against The ethical principles embodied in Our Credo are the lenses Governance & SO3–SO5, HR2, corruption in all its forms, including through which our employees make many business decisions Ethical Performance HR9, LA16 extortion and bribery. each day. To help ensure that we conduct business according Pages 58–59 to these principles, we have an extensive list of policies and Contents procedures that define what we expect of our people and our Human Rights business partners throughout the world. Details are provided on Pages 72–73 People our Citizenship & Sustainability website. Places In 2015, the Johnson & Johnson Code of Business Conduct, previously known as the Johnson & Johnson Policy on Business Practices Conduct, was modernized and renamed to advance a culture of accountability in an increasingly complex business environment, Report Profile and Assurance Statement and, with availability in 25 languages, to better reflect the needs 2015 Data Summary of our global, diverse workforce. Training for all employees is part United Nations Global of the Code relaunch. Compact Statement Global Report Initiative Our policies require anti-corruption training for employees who (GRI) Index may present a compliance risk to the Company and place a significant emphasis on the training requirement to ensure compliance. In 2015, more than 101,974 employees completed this training worldwide. Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Strategy and Analysis Statement from the most senior decision maker of the G4-1 Chairman’s Letter organization Chairman’s Letter G4-2 Description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities Successes and Opportunities Contents People Organizational Profile G4-3 Name of the organization Organizational Profile Places G4-4 Primary brands, products, and/or services section Organizational Profile Practices G4-5 Location of organization’s headquarters Organizational Profile Report Profile and Number of countries where the organization operates, and names Assurance Statement G4-6 of countries with either major operations or that are specifically Organizational Profile 2015 Data Summary relevant to the sustainability issues covered in the report United Nations Global G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form Organizational Profile Compact Statement Global Report Initiative Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served G4-8 Organizational Profile (GRI) Index and types of customers/beneficiaries) Scale of the reporting organization including quantity of products G4-9 Organizational Profile or services provided Total workforce by employment type, gender, employment G4-10 Labor Practices and Workforce contract and region Percentage of employees covered by collective bargaining G4-11 Labor Practices and Workforce agreements Organizational Profile Procurement & Supplier Management G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain Supply Chain Supply Chain Significant changes during the reporting period relating to size, Organizational Profile G4-13 structure, or ownership or its supply chain Report Profile Explanation of whether and how the precautionary approach or G4-14 Environmental Responsibility principle is addressed by the organization Externally developed economic, environmental, and social G4-15 Our Governance; External Commitments charters G4-16 Memberships in associations Public Policy 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 105 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Operational structure: List all entities in the consolidated financial G4-17 Organizational Profile statements G4-18 Process for defining report content and the Aspect Boundaries Our Materiality Assessment G4-19 List Material Aspects Identified Our Materiality Assessment G4-20 Aspect Boundary within the organization Our Materiality Assessment Contents G4-21 Aspect Boundary outside the organization Our Materiality Assessment People Restatements are handled on a case-by -case basis G4-22 Explanation of the effect of any restatements and either explained in text or using references such Places as footnotes and endnotes. Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope Report Profile Practices G4-23 and Aspect Boundaries Our Materiality Assessment Report Profile and Assurance Statement Stakeholder Engagement 2015 Data Summary Stakeholder Engagement United Nations Global G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization Stakeholder Engagement Compact Statement Global Report Initiative Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom Stakeholder Engagement (GRI) Index G4-25 to engage Stakeholder Engagement Approaches to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of Stakeholder Engagement G4-26 engagement by type and by stakeholder group Stakeholder Engagement Stakeholder Engagement G4-27 Key stakeholder topics and concerns and organization response Stakeholder Engagement Report Profile G4-28 Reporting period Report Profile G4-29 Date of most recent previous report Report Profile G4-30 Reporting cycle Report Profile G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report and its contents Report Profile Report the “in accordance” option the organization has chosen, G4-32 Report Profile and GRI Index Policy and current practice with regard to seeking external G4-33 Report Profile assurance for the report 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 106 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Governance G4-34 Governance structure of the organization Governance & Ethical Performance Reporting beyond “core” requirements Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and G4-35 Governance & Ethical Performance Reporting beyond “core” requirements social topics G4-36 Responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics Governance & Ethical Performance Reporting beyond “core” requirements Processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest G4-37 Governance & Ethical Performance Reporting beyond “core” requirements Contents governance body on economic, environmental and social topics Governance & Ethical Performance People G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 2015 Proxy Statement, pages 5–7 Reporting beyond “core” requirements Places G4-39 Indicate if chair of highest governance body is also an executive Governance & Ethical Performance Reporting beyond “core” requirements officer 2015 Proxy Statement, pages 5–7 Practices G4-40 Process for nomination and selection of highest governance body 2015 Proxy Statement, pages 5–7 Reporting beyond “core” requirements Report Profile and Processes in place for highest governance body to ensure G4-41 Johnson & Johnson Policy on Business Conduct Reporting beyond “core” requirements Assurance Statement conflicts of interest are avoided 2015 Data Summary Roles for development, approval, and updating of organization’s Corporate Governance Materials United Nations Global G4-42 purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and Reporting beyond “core” requirements Compact Statement goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts Global Report Initiative Measures taken to develop and enhance highest governance (GRI) Index G4-43 body’s collective knowledge of economic, environmental and Corporate Governance Materials Reporting beyond “core” requirements social topics Processes for evaluating highest governance body’s own G4-44 Corporate Governance Materials Reporting beyond “core” requirements performance Highest governance body’s role in the identification and G4-45 management of economic, environmental and social impacts, Corporate Governance Materials Reporting beyond “core” requirements risks, and opportunities Highest governance body’s role in reviewing effectiveness G4-46 of organization’s risk management processes for economic, Corporate Governance Materials Reporting beyond “core” requirements environmental and social topics Frequency of highest governance body’s review of economic, G4-47 Corporate Governance Materials Reporting beyond “core” requirements environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves G4-48 organization’s sustainability report and ensures all material Corporate Governance Materials Reporting beyond “core” requirements aspects are covered Process for communicating critical concerns to highest Governance & Ethical Performance G4-49 Reporting beyond “core” requirements governance body Corporate Governance Materials 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 107 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Governance (cont.) Nature and total number of critical concerns that were Governance & Ethical Performance G4-50 communicated to the highest governance body and the 2016 Johnson & Johnson Notice of Reporting beyond “core” requirements mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement Linkage between compensation for members of highest 2016 Johnson & Johnson Notice of G4-51 governance body, senior managers, and executives, and Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, Reporting beyond “core” requirements organization’s performance pages 34 to 64 2016 Johnson & Johnson Notice of Contents G4-52 Process for determining remuneration Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, Reporting beyond “core” requirements pages 38 to 42 People 2016 Johnson & Johnson Notice of G4-53 Stakeholders’ views regarding remuneration Reporting beyond “core” requirements Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement, page 36 Places Ratio of the annual total compensation for highest-paid to the G4-54 Confidential median annual total compensation for all employees Practices Ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the Report Profile and organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of significant G4-55 Confidential Assurance Statement operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all employees 2015 Data Summary United Nations Global Compact Statement Ethics and Integrity Global Report Initiative G4-56 Organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of Governance & Ethical Performance (GRI) Index behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics Ethical Business Practices Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical Governance & Ethical Performance G4-57 and lawful behavior, and matters related to organizational integrity, Reporting beyond “core” requirements Ethical Business Practices such as helplines or advice lines Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns Governance & Ethical Performance about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters related Ethical Business Practices G4-58 Reporting beyond “core” requirements to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line Human Rights management, whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines Human Rights Economic Performance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Financial Performance G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial Performance Those risks posed to Johnson & Johnson by climate change and related policies are not considered to be significant. However, Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the such risk analysis is included as part of our G4-EC2 Financial Performance organization’s activities due to climate change continued involvement in the Carbon Disclosure Project. This analysis is included in a complete report filed with CDP and available at www.cdproject.net. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 108 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Economic Performance (cont.) Johnson & Johnson sponsors various retirement and pension plans, including defined benefit, defined contribution and termination indemnity plans, which cover G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations Financial Performance most employees worldwide. Plan descriptions and the fair value of plan assets can be found in Note 10 “Pensions and Other Benefit Plans” on page 50 of our 2015 10K / Annual Report. Contents Johnson & Johnson Annual Report 2015 G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government (See Note 8 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding income taxes) People Aspect: Market Presence Places G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Not Identified as a Material Issue Practices Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local G4-EC5 Not Identified as a Material Issue minimum wage at significant locations of operation Report Profile and Assurance Statement Not Identified as a Material Issue 2015 Data Summary In a global, decentralized business, hiring United Nations Global locally helps us best meet customer needs. Compact Statement Each subsidiary within our business segments Proportion of senior management hired from the local community G4-EC6 is, with some exceptions, managed by at significant locations of operation Global Report Initiative citizens of the country where it is located. (GRI) Index Our operating companies hire from the communities in which we do business and follow all applicable labor laws and requirements. Aspect: Indirect Economic Impacts G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Given the diverse nature of our business the Development and impact of infrastructure investments and G4-EC7 gathering of this information is not feasible at services supported this time Given the diverse nature of our business the Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of G4-EC8 gathering of this information is not feasible at impacts this time Aspect: Procurement Practices Procurement & Supplier Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations G4-EC9 Procurement & Supplier Management of operation 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 109 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Environmental Aspect: Materials Product Stewardship G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Product Stewardship/Earthwards® Not applicable. Given the diverse nature of Product Stewardship our business, and the variety of products Contents G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume Product Stewardship/Earthwards® produced, this metric is not considered meaningful. People Not applicable. Given the diverse nature of Product Stewardship our business, and the variety of products Places G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Product Stewardship/Earthwards® produced, this metric is not considered meaningful. Practices Aspect: Energy Report Profile and Assurance Statement Environmental Responsibility We are subject to the European Union 2015 Data Summary G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Climate Emissions Trading System program at three Climate of our sites United Nations Global Compact Statement Climate G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization Global Report Initiative Climate (GRI) Index Climate G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization Climate Climate G4-EN5 Energy intensity Climate Climate G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption Climate Product Stewardship G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Product Stewardship/Earthwards® 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 110 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Environmental (cont.) Aspect: Water Environmental Responsibility G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Water Water Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source Contents Water Classifications of local water sources are not People G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Water tracked at the enterprise level. Water impacts Water are managed locally. Places Water G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Water Practices Aspect: Biodiversity Report Profile and Assurance Statement Environmental Responsibility G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach 2015 Data Summary Biodiversity United Nations Global Information regarding proximity of operations Compact Statement Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, to areas of high biodiversity value is not G4-EN11 protected areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside Biodiversity Global Report Initiative tracked at the enterprise level. Biodiversity protected areas (GRI) Index issues are managed locally. Information regarding proximity of operations Description of significant impacts of activities, products, and to areas of high biodiversity value is not G4-EN12 services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas of high Biodiversity tracked at the enterprise level. Biodiversity biodiversity value outside protected areas issues are managed locally. Examples of habitats protected or restored are provided on our website. Not tracked G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored Biodiversity comprehensively at the enterprise level. Biodiversity issues are managed locally. Total number of International Union for Conservation of Nature Information regarding number of IUCN Red (IUCN) Red List species and national conservation list species G4-EN14 List Species is not tracked at the enterprise with habitats in areas affected by operations, by level of extinction level. Biodiversity issues are managed locally. risk 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 111 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Environmental (cont.) Aspect: Emissions Environmental Responsibility G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Climate Climate Climate G4-EN15 Direct greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 1) Contents Climate Climate People G4-EN16 Energy indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2) Climate Places G4-EN17 Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 3) Climate Climate Practices Climate G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Climate Report Profile and Assurance Statement Climate G4-EN19 Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions Climate 2015 Data Summary United Nations Global Climate G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances (ODS) Climate Compact Statement Global Report Initiative G4-EN21 NOX, SOX, and other significant air emissions Emissions (GRI) Index Aspect: Effluents and Waste Environmental Responsibility G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Water Waste Compliance Places Water G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination Water G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method Waste G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills Compliance Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms of the Basel Convention This information is not collected at an G4-EN25 Waste Annex I, II, III, and VIII, and percentage of transported waste enterprise level at this time. shipped internationally Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of This information is not collected at an Water G4-EN26 water bodies and related habitats significantly affected by the enterprise level at this time. Water impacts Water organization's discharges of water and runoff are managed locally. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 112 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Environmental (cont.) Aspect: Products and Services Product Stewardship G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Product Stewardship/Earthwards® Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products Product Stewardship G4-EN27 and services Product Stewardship/Earthwards® Contents Not applicable. Given the diverse nature of People G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that our business, and the variety of products are reclaimed by category produced, this metric is not considered meaningful. Places Aspect: Compliance Practices Environmental Responsibility Report Profile and Compliance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Assurance Statement Compliance with Laws & Regulations 2015 Data Summary United Nations Global Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonCompact Statement G4-EN29 monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws Compliance and regulations Global Report Initiative (GRI) Index Aspect: Transport Climate G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Climate Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and Climate G4-EN30 other goods and materials for the organization's operations, and Climate transporting members of the workforce Aspect: Overall G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Not Identified as Material Total environmental protection expenditures and investments G4-EN31 Not Identified as Material by type 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 113 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Environmental (cont.) Aspect: Supplier Environmental Assessment Procurement & Supplier Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain We do not track new suppliers differently from Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Procurement & Supplier Management existing suppliers, as our system is designed G4-EN32 Contents environmental criteria Supply Chain to identify those suppliers with the higher potential risk profile. People Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in Procurement & Supplier Management G4-EN33 the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain Places Aspect: Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Practices Human Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Report Profile and Assurance Statement Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, Human Rights G4-EN34 2015 Data Summary addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights United Nations Global Compact Statement Social Global Report Initiative Labor Practices and Decent Work (GRI) Index Aspect: Employment Labor Practices and Workforce G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Procurement & Supplier Management Employee & Labor Relations Practices Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee G4-LA1 Labor Practices & Workforce turnover by age group, gender and region Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided Labor Practices & Workforce G4-LA2 to temporary or part-time employees, by significant locations of Employee & Labor Relations Practices operation Labor Practices & Workforce G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender Employee & Labor Relations Practices 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 114 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Social Labor Practices and Decent Work (cont.) Aspect: Labor/Management Relations Labor Practices & Workforce G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Employee & Labor Relations Practices Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including Labor Practices & Workforce G4-LA4 Contents whether these are specified in collective agreements Employee & Labor Relations Practices People Aspect: Occupational Health and Safety Places G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Workplace Health & Safety Workplace Health & Safety Practices Actual percentage of total workforce Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint Workplace Health & Safety represented in formal joint managementG4-LA5 management-worker health and safety committees that help Workplace Health & Safety worker health and safety committees is not Report Profile and monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs tracked at the enterprise level at this time. Assurance Statement 2015 Data Summary We do not track absenteeism at an enterprise Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, level. Occupational disease is also not United Nations Global G4-LA6 and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by Workplace Health & Safety tracked, since these types of diseases are not Compact Statement Workplace Health & Safety region and by gender prevalent in our workforce. Injury rates are not Global Report Initiative tracked by gender. (GRI) Index Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to Workplace Health & Safety G4-LA7 their occupation Workplace Health & Safety Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade Workplace Health & Safety Actual percentages are not tracked at the G4-LA8 unions Workplace Health & Safety enterprise level. Aspect: Training and Education Employee Recruitment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Employee & Labor Relations Practices Training records are currently maintained at a local or operational level. However, systems Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and Employee Recruitment G4-LA9 are being implemented that will compile this by employee category Employee & Labor Relations Practices at an enterprise level within the next several years. Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support Employee Recruitment G4-LA10 the continued employability of employees and assist them in Employee & Labor Relations Practices managing career endings Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and Employee Recruitment G4-LA11 career development reviews, by gender and by employee Employee & Labor Relations Practices category 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 115 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Social Labor Practices and Decent Work (cont.) Aspect: Diversity and Equal Opportunity Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support Labor Practices & Workforce G4-DMA the continued employability of employees and assist them in Employee & Labor Relations Practices managing career endings Contents Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees Labor Practices & Workforce G4-LA12 per employee category according to gender, age group, minority Employee Diversity & Inclusion group membership, and other indicators of diversity People Aspect: Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Places G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Compensation Practices Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by G4-LA13 Compensation Confidential employee category, by significant locations of operation Report Profile and Assurance Statement 2015 Data Summary Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Labor Practices United Nations Global Compact Statement Procurement & Supplier Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain Global Report Initiative (GRI) Index We do not track new suppliers differently from Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor Procurement & Supplier Management existing suppliers, as our system is designed G4-LA14 practices criteria Supply Chain to identify those suppliers with the higher potential risk profile. Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labor Procurement & Supplier Management G4-LA15 practices in the supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain Aspect: Labor Practices and Grievance Mechanisms Human Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Grievance data by type is not tracked at the enterprise level at this time. A global system to Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and Human Rights G4-LA16 gather this enterprise data being developed. resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights Implementation is expected to take several years. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 116 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Social Human Rights Aspect: Investment G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Total number and percentage of significant investment G4-HR1 agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses or Not tracked at the enterprise level Contents that underwent human rights screening Total hours of employee training on human rights policies or People G4-HR2 procedures concerning aspects of human rights that are relevant Human Rights Human Rights to operations, including the percentage of employees trained Places Aspect: Non-Discrimination Practices Human Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Report Profile and Assurance Statement Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions Human Rights Confidential 2015 Data Summary G4-HR3 taken Human Rights United Nations Global Compact Statement Aspect: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Global Report Initiative (GRI) Index Procurement & Supplier Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Human Rights Procurement & Supplier Management Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise Supply Chain G4-HR4 freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated Human Rights or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Human Rights Aspect: Child Labor Procurement & Supplier Management Supply Chain G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Human Rights Procurement & Supplier Management Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for Supply Chain G4-HR5 incidents of child labor, and measures taken to contribute to the Human Rights effective abolition of child labor Human Rights 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 117 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Social Human Rights (cont.) Aspect: Forced or Compulsory Labor Procurement & Supplier Management Supply Chain G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Human Rights Contents Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk Procurement & Supplier Management for incidents of forced or compulsory labor, and measures to Supply Chain People G4-HR6 contribute to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory Human Rights labor Human Rights Places Aspect: Security Practices Practices Percentage of security personnel trained in the organization’s G4-HR7 human rights policies or procedures that are relevant to Not identified as a Material Issue Report Profile and operations Assurance Statement 2015 Data Summary Aspect: Indigenous Rights United Nations Global Compact Statement Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of G4-HR8 Not identified as a Material Issue Global Report Initiative indigenous peoples and actions taken (GRI) Index Aspect: Assessment Human Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Assessments against our Global Labor and Employee Guidelines are conducted Total number and percentage of operations that have been Human Rights on an ongoing basis through local Human G4-HR9 subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments Human Rights Resources and our Global Employee & Labor Relations function. Assessment data are considered confidential. Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment Procurement & Supplier Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain We do not track new suppliers differently from Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human Procurement & Supplier Management existing suppliers, as our system is designed G4-HR10 rights criteria Supply Chain to identify those suppliers with the higher potential risk profile. 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 118 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Social Human Rights (cont.) Aspect: Supplier Human Rights Assessment (cont.) Procurement & Supplier Management Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in G4-HR11 Supply Chain the supply chain and actions taken Contents Aspect: Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms People Human Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Places Grievance data by type is not tracked at the enterprise level at this time. A global system to Practices G4-HR12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts filed, addressed, and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights Human Rights gather this enterprise data is being developed. Implementation is expected to take several years. Report Profile and Assurance Statement 2015 Data Summary Social Society United Nations Global Compact Statement Global Report Initiative Aspect: Local Communities (GRI) Index G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Stakeholder Engagement Percentages of operations with implemented Percentage of operations with implemented local community G4-SO1 Stakeholder Engagement programs are not tracked at an enterprise engagement, impact assessments, and development programs level at this time. Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts This information is not collected at an G4-SO2 on local communities enterprise level at this time. Aspect: Anti-Corruption Governance & Ethical Performance G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ethical Business Practices Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks Governance & Ethical Performance G4-SO3 related to corruption and the significant risks identified Ethical Business Practices Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and Governance & Ethical Performance Breakdowns by employee category and G4-SO4 procedures Ethical Business Practices region have not been established at this time Governance & Ethical Performance G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Confidential Ethical Business Practices 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 119 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Social Society (cont.) Aspect: Public Policy G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Public Policy Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/ G4-SO6 Public Policy beneficiary Contents Aspect: Anti-Competitive Behavior People G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Governance & Ethical Performance Places Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, antiG4-SO7 Governance & Ethical Performance Confidential trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes Practices Report Profile and Aspect: Compliance Assurance Statement Compliance 2015 Data Summary G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Compliance with Laws & Regulations United Nations Global Compact Statement G4-SO8 Monetary value of significant fines and total number of nonCompliance Confidential monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and regulations Compliance with Laws & Regulations Global Report Initiative (GRI) Index Aspect: Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Procurement & Supplier Management G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Supply Chain We do not track new suppliers differently from Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for Procurement & Supplier Management existing suppliers, as our system is designed G4-SO9 impacts on society Supply Chain to identify those suppliers with the higher potential risk profile. Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the Procurement & Supplier Management G4-SO10 supply chain and actions taken Supply Chain 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 120 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Social Society (cont.) Aspect: Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Human Rights G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Human Rights Grievance data by type is not tracked at the Contents Number of grievances about impacts on society filed, addressed, Human Rights enterprise level at this time. A global system to G4-SO11 gather this enterprise data is being developed. and resolved through formal grievance mechanisms Human Rights Implementation is expected to take several People years. Places Social Product Responsibility Practices Aspect: Customer Health and Safety Report Profile and Assurance Statement G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Customer Health & Safety 2015 Data Summary United Nations Global Percentage of significant product and service categories for which G4-PR1 Quality & Safety of Products health and safety impacts are assessed for improvement Compact Statement Global Report Initiative Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations Quality & Safety of Products (GRI) Index G4-PR2 and voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of Confidential Compliance with Laws & Regulations products and services during their life cycle, by type of outcomes Aspect: Product and Service Labeling G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Product & Service Labeling Type of product and service information required by the organization's procedures for product and service information G4-PR3 Product & Service Labeling and labeling, and percentage of significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Quality & Safety of Products G4-PR4 voluntary codes concerning product and service information and Confidential Compliance with Laws & Regulations labeling, by type of outcomes G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Customer Relationship Management 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 121 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Index cont. In this report Online GRI Disclosure Level GRI Profile Reason For Omissions/ Disclosure Description Cross Reference/Page Explanations Social Product Responsibility (cont.) Aspect: Marketing Communications G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Ethical Marketing Governance & Ethical Performance G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products Ethical Marketing Contents Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Compliance G4-PR7 voluntary codes concerning marketing communications, including Confidential People advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Compliance with Laws & Regulations Places Aspect: Customer Privacy Practices G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Report Profile and Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of The number of complaints is not available at G4-PR8 Assurance Statement customer privacy and losses of customer data this time. 2015 Data Summary United Nations Global Aspect: Compliance Compact Statement G4-DMA Generic Disclosures on Management Approach Compliance with Laws & Regulations Global Report Initiative (GRI) Index Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws Quality & Safety of Products G4-PR9 and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and Confidential Compliance with Laws & Regulations services 2015 Citizenship & Sustainability Report 122
