14 CORP OR AT E RESP ONSIB IL I T Y REP ORT contents 2-3 Doğuş Group Structure COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 54 Business Ethics 4-5 Operational Map 56 Human Rights Our Group ENVIRONMENTAL ENGAGEMENT 6 Company Profile 60 Environmental Awareness Programs 8 Awards and Recognitions 63 Energy Efficiency 11 Strategic Partnerships and Membership 65 Waste Management 66 Water Consumption 12 Message from THE CEO 67 PERFORMANCE DATA CSR at DoĞuŞ Group 14 CSR Management Approach and Policies 96 ABOUT THIS REPORT 15 Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 97 INDEXES Economic Engagement 18 Compliance and Risk Management 20 Responsible Investment 22 New Investments in 2014 22 Local Economic Development Programs 25 Supply Chain Management 26 Public Policy Contributors 26 Customers Employee Engagement 32 Open Communication 33 Employee Health and Safety 34 Employee Satisfaction and Engagement 35 Employee Suggestion System 36 Performance Management 37 Training and Development Programs DOĞUŞ GROUP STRUCTURE automotıve CONSTRUCTION MEDIA bankıng & fınancıal servıces CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 3 F&B TOURISM & REAL ESTATE ENERGY NEW SERVICES INITIATIVES OPERATIONAL MAP CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 5 CORPORATE value with its high-tech infrastructure. Doğuş Group continues contributing to Turkey’s ongoing process of transformation and innovation. Utilizing its global perspective, world-class brands, and PROFILE noteworthy partnerships, the Group’s vision – particularly with regard to services – is a valuable asset to Turkey. The Group is able to maximize the value of its brands by utilizing the highest quality human resources and the most advanced technology to maintain the high standards that have made it a regional leader in the services sector. Founded in 1951, Doğuş Group has Doğuş Group always provides its services based upon the principles of customer satisfaction and trust. As a result of this approach, the been taking its place among the Group has created reputable brands with global standards and has been representing Turkey worldwide. To become a leading regional leading business conglomerates player, the Group builds alliances with local and international partners towards its growth strategy. The Group has contributed to of Turkey. The Group is a this process by creating a synergy with global partners including the following: BBVA (Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria, S.A.) in finance, corporate leader in the region. Volkswagen AG and TÜVSÜD in automotive, CNBC and Condé Nast in media, Hyatt International Ltd. and HMS International Hotel GmbH (Maritim) in tourism, Latsis Group, Kiriacoulis Group and Adriatic Doğuş Group is active in eight core businesses1: financial services, Croatia International (ACI) Group in marine, and the International automotive, construction, media, tourism and services, real estate, Azumi Group in the food & beverage industry. energy and F&B. In addition, the Group sustains its growth with new investments in the areas of technology, sports and entertainment. Standing out as a pioneer of change, Doğuş Group is always ready to adapt to the developments around the world. In line with this Doğuş Group utilizes a management style that is both customeradaptation strategy, the Group also has the advantage of capitalizing focused and productivity-centered. While it is formed through on its broad range of experience and collaborations. By signing material gains, it embodies a strong corporate citizenship approach partnership agreements with the leading companies, Doğuş Group which is at the center of all business practices of the Group and signals its intention to accelerate its investments throughout the world. which benefits the entire society. In line with this approach, the Group implements several corporate responsibility and sponsorship Doğuş Holding and Its Responsibilities2 projects, with a special focus on child development, education, It is the mission of Doğuş Holding to fulfill steering, coordination, environment, culture-arts and sports. control and audit functions, as well as to generate value for the Group and its companies, monitor activities of the Group companies Doğuş Group is aware of its responsibilities and acts in accordance on behalf of the shareholders, and perform the financial audit with a vision that includes leading by example and contributing to and administer control systems. Doğuş Holding aims to create economic development. The Group plays a significant role in the competitive companies that put regional growth at the focal point Turkish economy by creating numerous employment opportunities of their operations. In the management of its subsidiaries, Doğuş and generating high levels of business volume. The Group’s Corporate Holding is committed to fulfilling the following responsibilities: Social Responsibility Strategy is to support economic, social and environmental development and increase the level of prosperity by »» Updating the Group’s strategy along with the changing investment creating innovative and sustainable business models in every sector climate and steering the Group companies in line with the and region. predetermined strategy. »» Ensuring generation of sufficient financial resources to realize the Doğuş Group has more than 250 companies and over 50,000 employees. Group’s long-term vision. The Group has created strong customer loyalty while building brand 1 Doğuş Group Companies’ products and services details with the market presence information of 2014 can be found in Doğuş Group 2014 Annual Report (http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/faaliyetraporlari/DogusGroupAnnualReport14.pdf). For more information please visit the Group’s corporate web site. 2 Detailed information about the Holding functions can be found in Doğuş Group Annual Report 2014 at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/faaliyetraporlari/DogusGroupAnnualReport14.pdf CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 7 »» Formulating and managing corporate initiatives so as to enable the »» Ensuring optimum use of technology, knowledge and human Group to adapt in the quickest manner possible to the developing and resources across the Group. evolving business environment. »» Formulating and maintaining corporate values and communicating »» Leading the creation and management of strategic alliances and them within and outside the Group. corporate partnerships. »» Instilling an awareness of social responsibility and corporate »» Providing communication among the Group companies and citizenship. identifying opportunities that will result in synergies. »» Implementing the ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) approach to »» Coordinating and consolidating the financial and corporate assure that the business risks undertaken by the Group companies reporting of the Group companies. are aligned with shareholders’ risk appetite. KEY FINANCIAL INDICATORS (TL THOUSAND) ROE 2012 2012 Restated 3 2013 2014 Revenues 11,000,016 6,649,328 8,644,506 10,372,853 Gross Profit 2,790,710 776,615 1,083,348 1,185,416 Profit Before Net Finance 1,047,284 961,861 1,036,479 1,046,099 Cost Net Profit for the Year 744,003 744,003 127,591 60,739 General Administration (1,351,433) (591,404) (748,359) (886,260) Expenses Selling, Marketing and (294,942) (263,955) (312,559) (395,275) Distribution Expenses Total Assets 56,085,148 17,815,222 20,748,914 26,854,001 Total Shareholders’ Equity 10,801,229 10,801,229 10,586,002 10,626,543 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS (%) ROE 2012 2012 Restated 3 2013 2014 Gross Profitability 25.4 11.7 12.5 11.4 Net Profitability 6.8 11.2 1.5 0.6 ROAReturn on Assets 1.3 4.2 0.6 0.2 ROEReturn on Group Equity 6.9 6.9 1.2 0.6 3 Effective from 1 January 2013, the Group has adopted the new reporting standard (IFRS 11Joint Arrangements). The proportionate consolidation method applied to the Group’s interest in joint ventures is replaced by the “equity method” effective for annual periods beginning on or after 1 January 2013. Therefore, key financial indicators for 2012 are restated for comparative presentation. AWARDS AND Creative Social Media Communication Service Category, the 26th Crystal Apple Turkey Advertising Awards Competition RECOGNITIONS »» “Best Domestic Cash Management Bank in Turkey”, Euromoney Cash Management Survey 2014 »» “CDP 2014 Turkey Climate Disclosure Leadership” in Carbon Disclosure Leadership Index, CDP »» “Best Bank in Sustainability” by the Turkish Green Building Council at the 3rd International Green Building Summit »» “Global Green Award” for environmental achievements and Doğuş Holding sustainable practices, Association Otherways Management & Consulting »» “The Best Bank for Sustainability in Turkey”, World Finance »» D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Music Festival, »» garanti.com.tr, “1st Prize” in the Online Banking Category, “Silver Stevie in Best Corporate Image Activity”, Stevie Awards 2014 Golden Spider Awards »» garanti.com.tr, “1st Prize” in the Corporate Website Category, 2014 Golden Spider Awards »» ogretmeninsiniriyok.com, “1st Prize” in the Education Banking and Financial Services Category, 2014 Golden Spider Awards »» garantitalentcamp.com, “1st Prize” in Events Category, 2014 Golden Spider Awards Garanti Bank »» flexicard.com, “1st Prize”, in Financial Services Category, 2014 »» “Operational Excellence Appreciation Award”, WellsFargo Golden Spider Awards »» “Best Trade Finance Bank in Turkey”, Global Finance »» andclub.com.tr, “2nd Prize” in the Financial Services Category, »» “Most Innovative New Solution”, Global Finance 2014 Golden Spider Awards »» “Sustainability Awards 2014” in Environmental and Social »» nba-garanti.com, in Sports Category, 2014 Golden Spider Performance Category, European Bank for Reconstruction and Awards Development EBRD »» “Garanti Bank 2013 Annual Report”, “Gold Award” in Vision Garanti Bank SA Annual Reports Competition, LACP »» “The Best Bank for Corporate Financing”, Finmedia »» “2013 The Best Project Finance Adviser” in Europe Middle »» “Silver Award for Excellence” for the social media East and the Africa Region, Project Finance Awards, EMEA communication campaign, “SEQR the City”, Romanian PR Finance Awards »» “Most Targeted Mobile Ad” in Mobile Ad Category, Honor »» “Banker of the Year”, Business Arena Magazine Award, Webby Awards »» “The Best Consumer Internet Bank in Romania”, Global »» Became the first bank to receive a “Green Office” diploma Finance Magazine from WWF Turkey »» “The Best Dynamic of the Economies Attracted”, Finmedia »» “Experimental Banking” campaign, “The Best Film in the »» “The Most Efficient Branches and Employees” (medium and Banking Industry”, the 26th Crystal Apple Turkey Advertising large banks category), Finmedia Awards Competition »» “The Largest Share of Retail Customers of all Bank »» “Experimental Banking” campaign “The Best Digital Customers, and the First National Internet Banking Service Campaign”, the 26th Crystal Apple Turkey Advertising Awards that is Pre-approving Loan Applications in Real Time (iLoan)”, Competition Finmedia »» “Experimental Banking” campaign, “Best Online Video”, the »» “Bank of the Year 2013”, Nine O’Clock 26th Crystal Apple Turkey Advertising Awards Competition »» “Experimental Banking” campaign, the “Judges’ Special Garanti Pension and Life Award” in Film Category, the 26th Crystal Apple Turkey »» “Respect for Human Award 2014”, “Kariyer.net / GE”, PERYÖN Advertising Awards Competition Human Resources Summit »» “Experimental Banking” campaign, Silver Apple in the »» “Training and Development Management Award 2014”, Viral Project Service Category, the 26th Crystal Apple Turkey PERYÖN People Management Award Advertising Awards Competition »» “Insurance Sector Marketing Campaign of the Year”, Silver »» “Experimental Banking” campaign, Bronze Apple in the Most Awards, Stevie Awards CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 9 »» “Platinum” and “The Best Annual Report Cover Platinum”, Safety Exemplary Application”, United Nations, General Annual Report Category, League of American Communications Assembly Professionals Vision Awards, League of American »» Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles, “Most Sold Light Communications Professionals (LACP) Commercial Vehicle Brand”, ODD Sales and Communication »» Golden Award in Financial Services Annual Report Category, Awards 2014 Gladiators ARC (Annual Report Competition) »» Volkswagen Commercial Vehicles, Crafter Magazine »» Garanti Pension Hobby Clubs, “Public Relations” and Advertisement, “Red Award for Most Creative Page Design in “Financial Services”, “United Nations Special Award”, IPRA Press”, Kırmızı 2014 Advertisement Awards (International Public Relations Association) »» Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Volkswagen Golf, “European Compact Class 1st Prize”, AutoBild Autoshow Golden Wheel Garanti Securities »» Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Medina Turgul DDB Range »» “Daily Bulletin of the Year”, TÜYİD Turkish Investor Relations Advertisements, “Silver Effie Award in Automotive Category”, Society Effie Awards »» “Best Investment Bank”, International Finance Magazine »» Volkswagen Passenger Cars, “Lovemark in Automotive Category Award”, MediaCat Ipsos Awards Garanti Mortgage »» Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Jetta TV Commercial, “TV »» Garantimortgage.com, “Website Awards”, Gold Winner in Application of the Year in Automotive Category Award”, the Bank & Finance Category, Horizon Interactive Awards Crystal Apple Festival of Creativity »» Garantimortgage.com, “Website Awards”, Webby Honoree »» Volkswagen Passenger Cars, Jetta TV Commercial “Most Winner in Financial Services/Banking Category Website Successful TV Application of the Year Award”, ODD Sales and Awards, The Webby Awards Communication Awards 2014 Gladiators »» Audi A4 2,0 TDI Model Advertisement, “Magazine Application Garanti Fleet Management of the Year Award”, ODD Sales and Communication Awards 2014 »» “Outstanding Achievement”, in Automobile Category, Gladiators Interactive Media Awards 2014 »» Audi A3 Sedan Model, “Car of the Year Awards”, World Car Awards Garanti Technology »» Audi Quattro Advertisement, “Best Car Advertisement in the »» “The Vision Award”, CA Press Award”, Kırmızı 2014 Advertisement Awards »» “The Bank Best Utilizes Technology”, Compec »» “Platinum Sales and Service Provider Award”, Thermo King, »» “HP 2014 Best Automation Project Award”, HP OEM »» “2014 EMC Customer Reference Best Infographic Award”, EMC World 2014 vdf »» “FICO Decision Management Award” for Fraud Control »» “3rd Place Award” for “Mobile Application Project”, FSAG IT »» iGaranti, “Best New Product or Service of the Year / Financial Project Awards Services” Silver Stevie, The Stevie Awards 2014 »» iGaranti, The Top Score on 2014 European Mobile Banking Functionality Benchmark Report of Forrester Research Construction Garanti Culture »» “Culture, the Arts and Entertainment”, 11th Kırmızı Awards Doğuş Construction »» “The Best Employers of Turkey 2014 Award” and “Occupational Health and Safety Special Prize”, Great Place to Automotive Work Institute »» The ENR Top 250 International Constructors, Engineering News Record Doğuş OTOMOTİV »» “Building Construction Company Receiving Highest Number »» Traffic is Life!, “Best Radio Application of the Year Award”, of Job Applications”, “Employers of the Year Awards 2014”, ODD Sales and Communication Awards 2014 Gladiators Yenibiris.com and Hürriyet Newspaper HR »» Traffic is Life!, Economic and Social Council Panel “Traffic »» “Best Picture in Tunnel and Underground Construction Category Award” for a picture captured in Üsküdar Ümraniye New Investments Çekmeköy Metro Project, ITA »» “Placement among the Best 37 Pictures of 2014” for two pictures captured in Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro Pozitif Project, in “Annual Readers’ Photography Competition”, ENR »» Babylon, “The Best Live Music Hall”, 13rd Time Out İstanbul (Engineering News Record) Awards Media Doğuş Customer Systems »» Approximately 1,050 awards to date for broadcasts and social »» “The Best Lifestyle Website of Turkey”, 2014 Gold Spider responsibility campaigns Awards »» 119 awards in various areas from ministries, organizations, associations and foundations, professional chambers, Doğuş Planet / n11 universities and high schools in 2014 »» Kariyer.net, “Respect to Human Award” Doğuş Technology »» Web Development Microsoft Gold Partner Certificate Tourism and Services Related Group »» Madebycat, “Advertisement, PR, Interactive Agency Sites 1st D-Hotel Maris Prize”, 2014 Golden Spider Awards »» “Six Star Diamond Award”, the American Association of Hospitality Science 2014 Darüşşafaka Doğuş »» “Hideaways Award”, Robb Report Best of Best Russia 2014, »» Championship in 2 nd National Basketball League Germany 2014 »» Championship in TÜBAD Tournament Grand Hyatt Salıpazarı Port Management and Investments »» Tripadvisor for the “Certificate of Excellence” in 2014 »» “Port of the Year”, Seatrade Insider Cruise Awards Park Hyatt İstanbul »» One of the top hotels in the world on Condé Nast Traveller’s 2014 Gold List »» Tripadvisor for “Certificate of Excellence”, 2014 »» “Five Star Diamond”, American Academy and Hospitality Sciences, 2014 Villa Dubrovnik »» Tripadvisor 2014 Traveller’s Choice »» Nomination for the best “Above and Beyond Hotel” by Mr. & Mrs. Smith Maritim Club Alantur »» Chosen as Top Quality Hotel 2014 by HRS »» Holidaycheck.com, Highly Recommended Hotel Certificate 2014 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 11 STRATEGIC MEMBERSHIPS PARTNERSHIPS In 2014, Doğuş Group had memberships in the following organizations either on a corporate or individual basis: AND MEMBERSHIPS »» ASTD – American Society for Training and Development »» CDP – Carbon Disclosure Project »» DEİK – Foreign Economic Relations Board »» DenizTemiz TURMEPA – Turkish Marine Environment Protection Association »» EFAMA – European Fund and Asset Management Association STRATEGIC SECTORAL PARTNERSHIPS »» FERMA – Federation of European Risk Management Association »» Finans Kulüp Finance Professionals’ Foundation of Turkey »» FODER – Financial Literacy and Inclusion Association At Doğuş Group we also give utmost importance to strategic sectoral »» Forum İstanbul partnerships and collaborate with global leaders related to our »» KİD – Corporate Communications Association business activities. Our sectoral partnerships are: »» KRYD – Enterprise Risk Management Association »» ÖSGD – Corporate Volunteer Association »» Finance Sector: BBVA (Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria) »» Para Durumu (Turkey’s first financial literacy initiative) »» Automotive Sector: Volkswagen AG, TÜVSÜD, Meiller, Scania »» PERYÖN – Personnel Management Association of Turkey »» Media Sector: CNBC, MSNBC, Condé Nast, National Geographic, »» TBCSD – Turkish Business Council for Sustainable Development Curtco Robb, NBC News »» TEİD – Ethics and Reputation Society »» Tourism Sector: Hyatt International Ltd., HMS International Hotel »» TİDE – The Institute of Internal Auditing, Turkey GmbH, Kiriacoulis Group, Lamda Development, Adriatic Croatia »» TKYD – Corporate Governance Association of Turkey International, Gucci, Armani, Porsche Design, Hublot, Loro Piana, »» TÜBİYAD – Finance & IT Executives Association Bell & Ross, Arnold & Son »» TÜFİDER – Financing Institutions Association »» Entertainment Sector: Azumi Group, Doors Group, IMG »» TÜSİAD – Turkish Industrialists’ and Businessmen’s Association »» Healthy Life: Chenot Group »» UNEP FI – United Nations Environment Programme Finance »» Others: SK Group, Crate & Barrel, REIDIN, Darüşşafaka Initiative »» UNGC – United Nations Global Compact »» UNPRI – United Nations Principles for Responsible Investments »» WEF – World Economic Forum »» WWF – Green Office Program MESSAGE FROM To Our Esteemed Stakeholders, THE ceo In Doğuş Group, we always give the utmost importance to being a responsible company, focusing on continuous growth and paying attention to the concerns of the companies of the Group, our employees, shareholders and other key stakeholders. Last year, with a clearly focused Corporate Social Responsibility strategy that demonstrates our strong ambition to become a good ‘Corporate Citizen’, we created a positive, clear understanding of the CSR approach of Doğuş Group for the future. Our strategy is also driven by our corporate values to create shared value for Doğuş Group’s stakeholders and for economic development. We know very well that the sustainability and progress of organizations are very much linked to the development of the environment; prosperity for any enterprise is inextricably linked to the prosperity of the community in which operates. The only way to develop is to move forward and grow together. Doğuş Group has realized about USD 3.4 billion in the last five years (total investments in the past 10 years have reached USD 5.4 billion). While approximately 16% of these investments have been actualized in foreign countries, the majority of the investments of the Group were realized in Turkey. Operating in several industries evolving constantly with many opportunities and challenges arising from business, technological and regulatory changes, innovation and sustainability are both keys to our success. We are proud of several important achievements in this regard. With over 50 thousand employees in 2014, through Banking and Financial Services, Automotive, Construction, Media, Tourism and Services, Real Estate, Energy and F&B sectors and its new initiatives, Doğuş Group continues to be the leader in the sustainable and accountable management approach. In eight sectors, with more than 250 Doğuş Group companies, we hired more than 7,000 new employees in 2014 and our women employee rate reached to 51% in the reporting period. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 13 Remaining grounded in our values, we continue to adapt to new The crucial goal of the responsible investment approach of Doğuş situations as the world around us and the expectations of our Group is to ensure that the managements of current and newly stakeholders change. Though we encountered several challenges, we partnered companies align their business targets with the long-term have made considerable progress on our sustainability journey since social, economic and environmental concerns of stakeholders. Several issuing our last report. In fact, our commitment to sustainability has social and environmental programs were established in 2014 by our never been stronger, as the value it creates, including greater customer Group companies; they can be examined in detail in the companies’ satisfaction, enhanced employee engagement and improved financial own corporate responsibility reports, or as case studies in Doğuş results, has become apparent. Group’s seventh Corporate Responsibility Report. While we are proud of our 2014 achievements, we continue to progress and to be challenged The initiator of our Corporate Social Responsibility approach was in finding solutions to the changing requirements of our stakeholders. the United Nations Global Compact Principles, which we signed in Our corporate responsibility strategy and the exciting performances 2007. But the ‘Equality at Work Platform’, a global leadership initiative of our companies give us confidence to plan future steps. We believe, established for setting the agenda for closing the gender equality gap as Doğuş Group, that sustainability creates value for our business and is also very important for our Group. The goal of this 3-year project stakeholders. is to increase the participation of women in the business work force in Turkey and to reduce the gender gap in our nation’s economic I am herewith very pleased to present our seventh Corporate contributions and opportunities by 10 percent. Doğuş Group will Responsibility Report, which includes the social, environmental and develop a “mentoring” system especially for the development and economic performances of Doğuş Group in 2014. While growing our progress of our female employees; studies to support their development existing business, we will continue to value our social and economic were carried out in 2014 and the project will begin in 2015. Doğuş environment for the prosperity of our world and the community. We Group companies total women employee rate reached 51% in 2014, so believe that responsible business practices will foster a sustainable we are very proud of announcing that our strategic approach to the future; we thank all our stakeholders, and especially our Group employment of women is continuously improving. companies, for supporting and making common cause with us in this endeavor. Doğuş Group’s new financial literacy education program, which aims to increase children’s consciousness about money management, Respectfully Yours, savings and budgeting from an early age and turn it into behavior, is called 3 Kumbara. It had spread to 9 cities in all the regions of Turkey, and reached 70,000 students in 2014. In the current educational year 3 Kumbara has rolled out to another 30 cities throughout Turkey, reaching 230,000 students. Another forty-one cities will be added in Hüsnü Akhan the following year; 3 Kumbara will span the country to all 81 cities, Doğuş Group aiming to reach 500,000 children and their parents. CEO CSR AT DOĞUŞ CSR MANAGEMENT APPROACH AND POLICIES GROUP The UN Global Compact (UNGC) together with its ten principles about Human and Labor Rights, Environment and Anti-corruption, which we signed in 2007, is the basis of our CSR strategy and policies. We are also one of the pioneers in Turkey on CSR Reporting with respect to Responsible growth is the key objective of Doğuş Group’s corporate GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) International Framework, beginning strategy, and is essential to our vision of being a ‘leader’ with our in 2010. brands in the Turkish services sector and the surrounding areas. With a customer focused approach, we believe that sustainable growth is Doğuş Group CSR Management Model was disclosed together with about our material issue towards all of our key stakeholders. the CSR strategy and policies4 in the 2012 CSR Report. Because we are a multi-business conglomerate with global and local presence As Doğuş Group, we have a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) in several sectors, it is essential to clarify strategy and policies Strategy that defines the structure of the CSR and sustainability through a stakeholder engagement process. Therefore in 2013, programs in our Group companies. Intending to be a regional leader in Doğuş Group CSR Committee worked on key stakeholders and the the services sector, we have set up our CSR policies to coordinate and economic, environmental and social material issues of our Group. The manage sustainability performances. workshops were managed by an independent consultancy according to AA1000SES (Stakeholder Engagement) standard and its methodology. The CSR Strategy of Doğuş Group is to increase the level of prosperity Key Stakeholders and Material Issues of Doğuş Group were published by creating innovative and sustainable business models in every in the 2013 CSR Report5 as well. sector and region, in which we operate as a Group, and ensure the sustainability of development in terms of economic, cultural, social Corporate Governance and environmental aspects. Doğuş Group’s corporate governance framework is the widest control mechanism, both internally and externally, for stimulating the Being one of Turkey’s leading business groups, we strive to conduct all proper and efficient use of corporate resources and simultaneously our business operations in a responsible way, taking into consideration eliciting accountability for those resources. We believe that our Group our stakeholders’ concerns and requirements, as well as profitability. companies must be run with the contributions of our stakeholder groups in response to the ecologic environment and the community of which they are a part of. Therefore when decisions are to be made, Doğuş Group companies are encouraged to take into account how their Doğuş Construction decisions impact all these constituents. Doğuş Construction became a part of the world’s largest voluntary Corporate Social Responsibility is itself a complex process of selfcorporate responsibility initiative by signing United Nations Global regulatory codes, especially with supply chains and multi-stakeholder Compact on October 8, 2012. Consequently, the Company shared its business models. Corporate governance for Doğuş Group is a precursor first Corporate Social Responsibility Report with its stakeholders in to CSR which both enables CSR performance and encapsulates it. September 7, 2014 with the aim of encouraging them to take part in this international roof and to spread its principles. Governance Structure Doğuş Holding’s Board of Directors consists of 12 members and meets Other signatories of Doğuş Group include Doğuş Holding (2007), Garanti at least four times annually and, if necessary, at any particular time for Bank (2012), Doğuş Otomotiv (2010) and Ayson Geotechnical (2012). Group activities. There are two oversight committees which directly report to the Board: the Risk and Audit Committee and the Human Resources Coordination Committee. There is also a Legal Advisory 4 The details of Doğuş Group CSR Strategy and related policies within the CSR Management Model can be found in Doğuş Group CSR Report 2012 at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/faaliyetraporlari/dogus_kss_2012.pdf 5 The details of Doğuş Group Key Stakeholders and Material Issues can be found in Doğuş Group CSR Report 2013 at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/faaliyetraporlari/dogus_fl_2013.pdf CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 15 Council. Doğuş Holding has 14 departments. There are no independent Doğuş Group operates strictly in line with its Code of Ethics considering members on the Board of Directors. the principles of transparency and accountability. This business conduct is applied in our relations with all our stakeholders, including Detailed information on the Board and Committees, besides the Code customers, employees and the society as a whole. Our operations, of Ethics and the audit processes can be found in Group’s web site6 and business activities and future plans are communicated regularly on in the annual reports. engagement platforms; our processes and activities are shaped in line with the feedback we receive as well. Stakeholder Dialogue in Group Companies MATERALITY AND STAKEHOLDER In Doğuş Group companies, stakeholder dialogue platforms are ENGAGEMENT very much related to their key stakeholders’ needs and concerns. Every Doğuş Group company pays careful attention to stakeholders’ requirements. Stakeholder engagement is among the pillars of our Materiality corporate strategy. Several stakeholder engagement processes are The main principles of CSR are based on materiality and the social, managed by the Group companies in order to ask, learn, analyze economic and environmental impact of our Companies with a and respond to their expectations. Customer satisfaction surveys, major focus on key stakeholders’ expectations, and Doğuş Group’s employee loyalty surveys, partner and supply chain meetings and materiality process was constituted in line with this vision. We believe surveys, investor meetings and presentations, in addition to many it is critically important for all our Companies to get the process online information tools, are common dialogue platforms which every of materiality correctly; identifying the material issues creates a Doğuş Group company utilizes annually. successful and essential link between strategy and sustainability. Integrating CSR and sustainability into the business is a necessary driving force for reporting. The Material Issues of Doğuş Group are identified in line with AA1000SES standards and published in the 2013 CSR Report. For a conglomerate as diverse as Doğuş Group, a Group level assessment of materiality cannot cover all material issues faced by each company within the Group. Our approach is to have a Group level materiality assessment and provide guidance for all our businesses. Some of our Group companies have published their individual CSR Reports, which include their CSR strategies and stakeholder engagement processes. Doğuş Group Stakeholder Engagement Approach For Doğuş Group, stakeholder engagement is at the heart of our sustainability and stakeholder strategy and policies. We encourage our Group companies to consider the environment in which they operate and to meet the requirements of the stakeholders affected by their operations while achieving their objectives successfully 7. 6 http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/en/home-page.aspx 7 Doğuş Group Stakeholder Dialogue Platforms are published in 2011 Corporate Responsibility Report http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/faaliyetraporlari/Dogus_Group_Corporate_Responsibility_Report_20111.pdf, pages 66-67 ECONOMIC 01 ENG AG E MEN T ECONOMIC Global and local risk experiences in the last years have made effective risk management mechanisms crucial. Increasing scrutiny, as well as a push for stronger governance coming from ENGAGEMENT not only regulatory bodies (including Turkish Commercial Code) but also the investing community, makes it essential for companies to have in place solid risk management and control systems for ensuring viability and sustainable growth. Doğuş Group, with diverse business operations in different regions and countries, has already been cognizant of its need to monitor and manage various Doğuş Group’s Economic risks, including not only its strategic, business and operation risks but external risks as well. Responsibility Policy is set to manifest As for Doğuş Group’s risk management activities in 2014, it was Group companies, enabling them a successful year in terms of maintaining and improving risk management practices, both at the Group level and at the Company to manage their economic impact, level, and enhancing the risk culture across the Group. Risk Committee meetings are held on a regular basis and these meetings taking stakeholder benefits into generate valuable and relevant risk information, which is discussed and escalated if deemed necessary. Risks are managed on a daily consideration. This policy is a guiding basis by various levels of management in each of the subsidiaries, and supporting risk management activities, such as providing a principle for all Group companies. framework for related guidance and reporting mechanisms, are conducted by the risk function teams. Doğuş Group Economic Responsibility Policy The Group Risk Management Function works closely with the company Doğuş Group: Risk Management Departments in order to strengthen its risk culture »» Fulfills its responsibilities while proceeding with investments and ERM penetration and obtain sound and timely information for towards sustainable growth targets, considering the Group’s direct assessing and evaluating the decision making processes. In addition to and indirect economic impact, establishing an independent reporting infrastructure for companies »» Ensures that the Group companies manage their operations and and providing policies, guidance and know-how to Group companies, strive for the highest economic benefit within their value chain, raising group-wide awareness for different types of risks and ERM aware that they are important actors of economic development in culture is a continued undertaking facilitated by periodical risk their sectors, roundtables, workshops, dashboards and reports throughout the »» Evaluates, monitors, and manages its contribution to economic organization. The Department is also responsible for risk retention development under the principles of Risk Management, Responsible and transfer through design and procurement of corporate insurance Investment and Local Economic Development. cover with relevant insurance policies. Every major sector has its own Risk and Audit Committee. The Committee, which functions under the Board of Directors, is also COMPLIANCE AND RISK responsible for assessing risks and proposing appropriate solutions MANAGEMENT according to risk appetite of shareholders. Internal Audit is an independent department designed to improve Doğuş Group acts proactively in terms of risk management in and add value to Doğuş Group’s operations. It helps the Group to order to ensure that its business operations in different industries accomplish its objectives by bringing a systematic, disciplined and regions are not adversely affected as a result of market, approach to evaluating and improving the effectiveness of risk operational, liquidity and/or counterparty risks. Risk Management management, control and governance processes. and Internal Audit Departments within every major sector and at the Group level provide and maintain awareness for different types The Internal Audit Department of Doğuş Holding is responsible of risks, including emerging risks, and ensure that appropriate risk for performing financial, operational (process) and IT audits at management mechanisms are in place. Doğuş Group companies in accordance with its annual risk-based CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 19 audit plan. The Department operates with a risk-based approach, to globally-accepted standards and that cannot provide reliable tracking all internal audit findings and coordinating follow-ups to disclosures with regards to its actions. ascertain that appropriate action is taken. Results are periodically reported to the Risk and Audit Committee of Doğuş Holding, which Much attention is paid by Doğuş Group to the disclosure of its financial in turn monitors and reviews the scope, extent and effectiveness and non-financial information to its shareholders, employees, of the activity of the Internal Audit Department of Doğuş Holding customers, national and international business partners, suppliers, and receives a report. The Internal Audit team consists of qualified existing and potential investors of its publicly floated companies, professionals in different audit disciplines with relevant experience and the public at large. The Group makes all relevant information in the business processes that are under review. available on its website and informs the public about its corporate strategy, activities, and new fields of investment via annual reports, In addition, every major sector within Doğuş Holding has its own periodic press releases, and conferences. The Group’s financial Internal Audit Department. The Internal Audit Department of Doğuş statements are drawn up quarterly in accordance with International Holding works closely with the Internal Audit Departments of various Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). Independent semi-annual and sectors to improve the effectiveness of control environments within year-end audit reports are shared with the public. the Group companies. All Doğuş Group affiliated companies listed on Borsa İstanbul (BIST) Anti-corruption and Bribery have their individual Investor Relations Departments that are able to Doğuş Group audit processes include analyzing risks related to effectively manage the flow of information to their stakeholders in corruption in every part of our business. To ensure full alignment, line with national regulations. The fields of activity and performance each Company’s compliance risk assessment processes are reviewed of the Group’s publicly-floated companies are disclosed in conformity and documented by the Internal Audit Department and reported to with the principles of their respective companies by the Capital the Group’s Audit Committee. All risk assessment results are shared Markets Board of Turkey (SPK). regularly with the senior management. In addition, all our Companies assess and monitor the integrity and compliance performances within Ethical Principles their own management processes. Our Doğuş Group Internal Audit Strict compliance with the Code of Conduct and Standards is a Team can play an essential role if there is a necessity of consultancy, key principle for Doğuş Group. As such, actions that violate the assurance, cooperation, advisement, monitor or investigation need Company’s Code of Conduct are subject to disciplinary measures. about possible corruption cases within any of the Group companies As a participant to the United Nations Global Compact since April under the control of Group Audit Committee. 2007, the Group has reaffirmed its commitment to fight corruption both internally and in other areas, which may fall within its sphere As a part of assurance activities, Doğuş Group monitors potential of influence. corruption risks, evaluates the internal control systems and provides advice for improvement to the Group companies. Anti-corruption and Ethical principles are spelled out and documented in procedures bribery are our top compliance priorities in our risk management under the following headings: plans and the related subjects are covered in Doğuş Group Ethical Principles. »» Time and resource utilization at the companies, »» Relations with customers, subcontractors, suppliers of goods Transparency and Accountability and other companies and individuals with whom the company has Doğuş Group adheres to strict business ethics that include commercial interactions, transparency and accountability in an environment where all »» The acceptance of gifts, invites, aids and donations, players, from large corporations to individual customers, and from »» Relations with the media, employees to society in general, are affected by each other’s actions. »» Actions that can result in conflict of interest, In all of its operations and business activities, Doğuş Group has »» Safeguarding of information pertaining to the companies, personal fully integrated globally-accepted principles of responsible business information, professional misconduct, security and harassment. conduct. All stakeholders have been informed of the Group’s position on these matters. Upholding these principles and high ethical Climate Change Risks standards is not limited to its own business dealings; the Group also Climate change risks are monitored in the external risks category and requires that the same approach be followed by all of its stakeholders, in the scope of long-term risks within Doğuş Group’s risk monitoring on both national and international levels. Doğuş Group embraces the systems. principle of “not being involved” with any party that acts contrary Since we have business lines which may be directly affected by climate The crucial goal of the responsible investment approach of Doğuş change, such as energy, climate change impact is directly monitored Group is to ensure that current and newly partnered companies’ by our Risk Management division. The risks related to the impact managements align their business targets with the long-term social, of climate change have short-term effects on insurance programs economic and environmental concerns of the stakeholders. which we manage at preferred costs. In the Group’s insurance related business lines, the climate change risks are considered under risk Doğuş Group has reached about USD 3.4 billion in the last five years based pricing. During the elementary insurance program buying (total investments in the past 10 years have reached USD 5.4 billion). process, the essential clauses are included and defined within the While approximately 16% of these investments have been actualized scope of assurance. in foreign countries, the majority of the investments of the Group were realized in Turkey. Our real estate business lines project progress in general expenses with the green building approach and improved evaluation systems. The new investments policy of the Group is to strengthen our current In the construction and real estate sectors, our Group companies are business lines and to increase our market share. It is very important paying more attention to climate change related issues during the for us to enhance our product and service portfolio by entering into constructing, maintenance and repair phases of the projects. new business sectors. Our new investment decision mechanisms are grounded on several market and sector scenarios, in addition to the Group’s short and long term targets and vision. All of the investment decision processes include the corporate responsibility strategy. Garanti Bank Economic, social and environmental aspects of the Group’s growth Commitments to Climate Change process are analyzed by the related divisions and experts. Garanti Bank publicly declared its commitment to six initiatives in climate change within the scope of United Nations Climate Summit, held in 2014 in New York: Ayhan Şahenk Foundation »» ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Certificate Public Service »» Reduction Targets for Greenhouse Gas Emissions Since its establishment in 1992, the Ayhan Şahenk Foundation »» Increased Awareness has been undertaking initiatives in the areas of education, »» Environmental and Social Impact Analysis health and environment as well as offering social aid to those »» Environmentally-friendly Cooling and Lighting Systems living in disadvantaged areas. With the vision and philosophy »» Environmentally-friendly Supply Chain of its founder, Mr. Ayhan Şahenk, the Foundation continued to implement significant projects in 2014 for the benefit of people and community with a responsible perspective to help the government in fulfilling its social welfare duties. RESPONSIBLE INVESTMENT Garanti Bank Loan Allocation Processes As Doğuş Group, we believe that companies, which demonstrate One of the issues investigated while financing projects is whether powerful and transparent corporate governance and have the location of the project is in one of RAMSAR (protected) sustainable business policies, generate financial benefits in addition sites. In accordance with the Environmental and Social Loan to enhancing value to brand reputation and gaining the trust Policies, Garanti Bank doesn’t finance projects and operations of stakeholders. Effective environmental, social and economic in RAMSAR areas without financial restrictions or conducting management systems and policies ensure companies credibility environmental and social impact assessment. In addition, the and sustainability because of a reliable risk management. Our environmental and social impacts of the funded projects, based investment policies actively encourage Group companies to improve on the Environmental and Social Loan Policies, are investigated their business standards by integrating the corporate responsibility to increase its positive effects to the highest level. Therefore, approach to their management systems, monitoring their social and the impact of these projects on water resources are taken into environmental impact, and addressing corporate responsibility as a account in loan processes and requests are made to reduce business case and risk management system. water use and the impacts on water quality to the lowest level CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 21 in line with the principles determined according to each sector, Responsibility to Implement High Technology and measures are taken for the efficient consumption of water In metro line rail systems, high-tech driverless vehicles will resources and their reuse/recycle. be employed as well as platform isolator door systems in each station, besides facilities for handicapped such as lifts and In loan process, impact of projects on natural resources walking platforms. This metro line will make great contribution (consumption), and biodiversity, their environmental impacts, to İstanbul’s transportation network due to its integration to measures to be taken and issues regarding compliance to Marmaray and Metrobus lines as well as to Bostancı Metro Line legal regulations are examined and evaluated in detail within that will be constructed in the near future. the scope of Environmental Impact Assessment Process. The investigation starts from Environmental and Social Loan Policies Responsibility to Ensure Minimal Disturbance to Inhabitants and continues with Sectoral Policies. Articles regarding the By changing the construction methods at sections where project’s Environmental Impact Assessment commitments and station construction works and roads are intersected, necessary compliance with legal regulations are added to loan contract. measures are taken to release the roads that are blocked due After loan allocation, environmental performance of the project to traffic. Information meetings are held with inhabitants is monitored as well. prior to the commencement of road closing works and they are notified via brochures and posters about the works that will be performed. Garanti Asset Management Responsibility to Provide Information UN Principles for Responsible Investment Information regarding the works is provided to the concerned After becoming a signatory of the United Nations Principles parties via project website and light boards available at the site for Responsible Investment in 2011, the Company established entrances. The Company introduces the project to visitors with its Responsible Investment Policy and Responsible Investment an introductory film and brochures, and provides information Committee. The Committee is the highest authority for on the issues that concerns the inhabitants. integrating Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance factors into the processes of establishing an “investment scope” for securities and evaluating credit risks inherent in corporate bonds. The Company annually reports its performance in Doğuş Energy Responsible Investment practices to the UN, accessible on the Artvin Dam and HEPP Project website www.unpri.org. Artvin Dam and Hydroelectric Power Plant (HEPP) Project aims to contribute to national economy by reducing the dependence on foreign energy. Observations, inventory analysis and similar applications are carried out to monitor, develop and protect the Doğuş Construction diversity of wildlife in collaboration with the Artvin National Responsibility to Make Contribution to Urban Infrastructure Parks Directorate, since a part of Artvin Dam and HEPP Project Projects enters “Çoruh Valley Wildlife Development Area”. Doğuş Construction is implementing its fourth metro project in İstanbul besides to Taksim-Şişli, Kadıköy-Kartal and OtogarIn addition, “Olive Branch Story” Project prepared by Directorate Kirazlı-Başakşehir. This metro line includes 16 stations, double of Provincial Food Agriculture and Livestock was sponsored. line tube tunnel with a length of 20 km. This metro line has Thanks to the project, olive types beneath reservoir will be a route that extends on west-east axis in a way to include the protected and young grafted new olive groves will be created. districts of Üsküdar, Ümraniye, Çekmeköy and Sancaktepe. The construction of Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro that commenced in 2012, is a very crucial project that will Salıpazarı Port Management and Investments bring solution to İstanbul’s transportation problem. While Karaköy Cruise Port implementing a project that will enable 700,000 inhabitants On May 16, 2013, Doğuş Group placed the highest offer for the to travel every day without being stuck in traffic, Doğuş privatization of the İstanbul Salıpazarı Cruise Port, with a USD Construction has undertaken necessary measures and 702 million bid, winning the right to operate the port area for responsibilities in order not to bring life to a halt in the heart 30 years. Following the signing of Transfer of Operating Rights of the city. Agreement with Turkish Maritime Management on February 24, 2014, the Company took over the management of the pier and Entertainment started its operations. Salıpazarı Port Project is a city project The Purchase of Itsumi with a master plan coherent with the neighborhood texture of Our Group bought 50.10% of Ryo-Tei Itsme Gıda Ürünleri Turizm the Karaköy region and İstanbul. With the project, the Karaköy ve Ticaret A.Ş., settled in İstanbul, in accordance with the coastline, which is currently closed to public access, will be share transfer agreement dated January 22, 2014. Since Itsumi’s transformed into an open public promenade connecting the positioning in offering high quality food service to A-class city with the sea. Through the corridors planned between the customers in the domestic market overlaps with the objectives buildings, visual and physical access to Bosphorus will be of our Group as a strong and well-known brand, it formed the enabled. The maximum height of the new buildings will be lower basis of the investment. than the heights of the current ones. The Purchase of Günaydın Et Restaurants Our group bought 70% of Günaydın Group Companies settled in İstanbul in August, 2014. The overlap of Günaydın Et NEW INVESTMENTS IN 2014 Restaurants’ positioning in offering high quality food service in the domestic market with the objectives of our Group, which has an extensive and strong service network and is a well-known With the investments carried out in the domestic market and in brand in its field, formed the basis of the investment. abroad in 2014, we provided important contribution to the economy of Turkey and the region in terms of employment and growth. New investments of Doğuş Group in 2014 include the following: New Initiatives Radore Data Services Our Group’s subsidiary Doğuş SK Investment Capital, Tourism established to invest in small and medium-sized companies in Villa Dubrovnik Purchase 2013, became partners of Radore Veri Merkezi Hizmetleri A.Ş., Our Group bought 86.8% of Villa Dubrovnik settled in Croatia which is among the leading companies of Turkey in the field in accordance with the share transfer agreement dated March of server hosting and leasing services, with a share of 57% on 12, 2014. Villa Dubrovnik is positioned in the market as a strong December, 1 2014 through İş Girişim. Radore, which became one brand offering high quality accommodation service to A-class of the leading companies in the sector with a rapid growth since customers. Its potential of adding value to Doğuş Tourism 2004, provides server hosting and leasing, hosting and cloud Group’s growth-oriented investment policy formed the basis for infrastructure services. the investment. The Purchase of Argos We bought 80% of Argos Turizm Yatırım ve Ticaret A.Ş., owner LOCAL ECONOMIC of Argos Hotel in Nevşehir-Cappadocia Region in accordance with the share transfer agreement dated March 26, 2014. The DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS purchase of Argos, which offers high quality accommodation service in the region, has been carried out in parallel with the vision of Doğuş Tourism Group to be the leader in its region and Doğuş Group’s corporate responsibility strategy fully intends to expand in the sector. ensure the well-being of the communities where we operate, and the Group’s vision and values also support this target. Beginning from The Purchase of Corpera the local supply chain, Doğuş Group has a strong economic impact on Our Group bought 50% of Corpera Turizm Yatırımları A.Ş., the local communities and high business standards support in public settled in İstanbul, in accordance with the share transfer policy platforms as well as providing employment. agreement dated November 18, 2014. The purchase of Corpera was carried out within the scope of growth strategy of Doğuş Tourism Group in the domestic market. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 23 Doğuş Holding teachers of these children are also educated about financial Para Durumu for Financial Literacy (Turkey’s first financial literacy in order to ensure the sustainability of the program. literacy initiative reaches out to the public) Operation-wise, a teacher from every city, where the program is Financial literacy is an individual’s ability to make informed offered, is trained to become a “3 Kumbara” instructor in his/her judgments and effective decisions about the use and management own city. The program started with a pilot study in 2011, as a six of his/her money. Thus, financially literate consumers manage week project with Lütfi Banat Elementary School where children their income, save and invest wisely and avoid fraudulent were taught how to use and manage money. In the 2 nd phase, “3 practices. The term has gained much importance all around the Kumbara” reached 25,000 children in the pilot city İstanbul. In world, as each person and household is the base of economic the 2 nd and preparation phase following the initial pilot study, sustainability in a country. both national and international programs as well as standards were analyzed by the Advisory Board of experts in their fields Para Durumu, Turkey’s first private media and interaction-based (psychologists, pedagogues, teachers etc.). This phase enabled financial literacy initiative, reaches out to the public via a multithe program to be revised and developed so that the content platform weekly TV show, a page in the most widely circulated matches international standards. national newspaper, Posta, as well as the weekend section of Hürriyet, another prominent newspaper. Para Durumu is also In the 3rd phase, parallel to the ongoing education in İstanbul, “3 published in the monthly women’s magazine, Elele, actively uses Kumbara” has spread to 9 cities (Antalya, Erzurum, Eskişehir, social media channels such as Facebook and Twitter, and operates Denizli, Hatay, Kahramanmaraş, Niğde, Rize, Şanlıurfa) in a very popular blog and website at www.paradurumu.tv. all the seven regions of Turkey, reaching 70,000 students. “3 Kumbara” has rolled out to another 30 cities throughout Turkey Para Durumu was founded and is spearheaded by Özlem within the ongoing 2014 2015 educational year reaching 230,000 Denizmen who is our Head of Social Projects at Doğuş Holding. students in its 4th phase. This will be followed by 41 cities in the We empower and encourage Mrs. Denizmen in her capacity as following year. Thus by the end of the 5th phase, “3 Kumbara” will a social entrepreneur in this important effort for promoting be spanning the country to all 81 cities, aiming to reach 500,000 sustainable change in Turkish society. As a result of this children and their parents. Impact analysis surveys are being initiative, Mrs. Denizmen was honored by the White House conducted and reported out periodically through seminars Entrepreneurship Summit and as a Young Global Leader at the by an independent impact analysis team consisting of leading 2011 World Economic Forum. Additionally, Para Durumu is academicians in this field, in cooperation with Bahçeşehir recognized as a Financial Literacy initiative of Turkey by OECD. University. These special programs were presented as a model for financial education to the Ministry of National Education. Financial Literacy for Women: İSMEK We have initiated a new personal finance education movement Para Durumu has already become an address where people seek for women, cooperating with “Para Durumu” and with support solutions and guidance on personal finance problems, financial of the Ministry of Family and Social Policies and İstanbul products, saving for a house, budget decisions, investment Metropolitan Municipality. The movement aimed to reach choices, credit card issues, and more. It has become a pioneering and raise financial awareness of 20,000 women in İstanbul venue for people to “talk about money” in public. by the end of 2014. After the completion of this phase of the movement, an education model which has been developed by Financial Literacy for Children: 3 Kumbara “Para Durumu” will be carried out further and become a nationDoğuş Group has started the “3 Kumbara” financial literacy wide education plan, taught at various Municipality Arts and education program, which aims to increase children’s Vocational Training Centers around the country. By the end consciousness about money management, savings and managing of 2014, the program has successfully reached a total of 19,000 their budgets from an early age and turn it into behavior. “3 women. The closing ceremony will take place as we reach 20,000 Kumbara” is undertaken with the support of the Ministry of women, planned for February 2015. National Education of Turkey, the social enterprise Para Durumu and FODER (Financial Literacy and Inclusion Association). The project aims to teach 4th grade elementary school students about savings, sharing, needs and wants as well as entrepreneurship Garanti Bank to make these children financially literate. “3 Kumbara” Support for Women Entrepreneurs incorporates a three-step awareness raising sustainability Organizing gatherings such as Anatolian Meetings and KOBILGI model of financial literacy. Accordingly, the parents and the SME Informative Meetings in order to inform the SMEs, the backbone of the economy, Garanti Bank considers it as an from the industry together with young entrepreneurs. In 2014, important responsibility to back women entrepreneurs for meetings were held in Bilkent University, Ankara. the social and economic advancement of Turkey. Besides allocating funds to women entrepreneurs, the Bank supports Join the Workforce Join Life them through training programs and activities that encourage October 2014 marked the introduction of the project “İşe Katıl entrepreneurship. The Women Entrepreneurs Executive School Hayata Atıl” (Join the Workforce Join Life) under the patronage of training program, which was launched in 2012 in collaboration the Ministry of Family and Social Policies and with the support with Boğaziçi University Lifelong Learning Center, continued of Garanti Bank, which is aimed at increasing the employment in the cities of Adana, Eskişehir, Diyarbakır and Kayseri in of people with disabilities. 2014. Under the program, 370 entrepreneurs in these four cities successfully completed the program and earned certificates. Under the project, people with disabilities are provided with support in various matters such as job selection according to KAGIDER Cooperation their characteristics, abilities and preference, and adjustment Women Entrepreneurs Meetings, a co-organization of Garanti to the working environment and social life, based on the “aided Bank and the Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey employment” model that is implemented for the first time in (KAGIDER), continued to inform women entrepreneurs in Turkey. The objective is to place 300 people with disabilities fundamental topics. In 2014, meetings were held in five cities in five cities in appropriate jobs following their education and across Turkey with the participation of almost 1,100 women. training led by 60 professional business coaches. Garanti Bank, for the purpose of supporting and encouraging women entrepreneurship, organized Turkey’s Woman Entrepreneur Competition in cooperation with the Ekonomist magazine and KAGIDER for the 8th time. Garanti Bank SA Support for Local Economic Environment Entrepreneurship Foundation Garanti Bank contributed to the development of local economy Garanti Bank is the main sponsor of the Entrepreneurship in Romania through various activities, including: Foundation of Turkey, which is set up in 2014 to let university students discover the entrepreneurial spirit. With its Fellow »» Garanti Bank granted a financing to a locomotive manufacturer Program, the Entrepreneurship Foundation makes university for the financing of the first electrical multiple unit train in students part of a large network, giving them the chance to Romania. be introduced to inspiring entrepreneurs and learn from their »» Garanti Bank granted a loan for the construction of a four star experiences. Within the scope of the program, 40 students hotel in Bucharest, a very important project contributing to the designated for the first year will join a network and take part in development of the capital’s attractivity as a tourism destination. conferences every two months, where they will get the chance »» Garanti Bank granted a loan for the reconditioning of to get together with role models. a historical building in downtown Bucharest, as part of a financing agreement. BUMED Partnership to Support Entrepreneurship »» Garanti Bank financed the partial refinancing of the In an effort to help develop the entrepreneurship ecosystem investment in a shopping mall from Galati, an important project in Turkey and to give the Turkish economy new businesses for the city’s economic development, being the first of its kind and establishments, Garanti Bank is engaged in a strategic in Galati. partnership with BUBA (BUMED Business Angels) established »» Garanti Bank signed a lending agreement with the IFC, by BUMED (Boğaziçi University Alumni Association). Having member of the World Bank Group, with the purpose of financing adopted an understanding that regards entrepreneurship as a Romanian small and medium businesses. Out of the total continuous process, BUBA targets to lead up entrepreneurs that amount, a part was dedicated for the on-lending to companies are not yet ready by way of trainings, seminars and various owned or managed by women. programs. Sign of Success Campaign Young Entrepreneurs Meetings As a part of the Women Entrepreneur Program, the campaign Garanti Bank organizes in cooperation with TOBB (The Union ran from October 2013 until January 2014 and targeted women of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey) “Young who had investment projects or wanted to expand their already Entrepreneurs Meetings” that bring prominent role models established businesses (especially SMEs). CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 25 The Entrepreneurship Workshop Programs SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT The Entrepreneurship Workshop Programs (Ateliere de Antreprenoriat) was organized by Romanian Business Leaders Foundation and supported by Garanti Bank. The training was Doğuş Group believes that the Group’s supply chain plays an important focused on the essential areas that determine the success of a role in the decisive factors of the stakeholders and represents an recently founded business and had an interactive approach. essential resource to achieve the Group’s strategic goals. We very strongly give importance to supply chain management systems and Support of Innovation Spirit in Romania encourage business partners regarding sustainable practices. We Garanti Bank was the main sponsor of Techsylvania, an event acknowledge that the value of supply chain service and quality have that took place in Cluj-Napoca and promoted innovation. The direct and recognizable impacts on our Group’s product and service foremost creative minds, technologists and innovators in the quality, so we support any kind of improvement within the supply region were invited to participate in a wearable devices software chain systems, such as assessments, awareness programs, audits, development competition as well as IT conferences. The event social and environmental issues. was based on the idea that Cluj-Napoca was repeatedly compared to the Silicon Valley area, a business area for IT businesses and During our purchasing process, all international quality, health an important market for multinational software developing and safety certifications are requested from the suppliers. Supplier companies. agreements include employee health and safety clauses. n11.com Doğuş Holding Open Market Business Model Supplier Agreements n11.com aims to support the growth of SMEs by carrying the In the agreements made with the companies providing service, open market business model all over Turkey. In December, 2014, social security premiums and payments of supplier employees n11.com began to organize “n11.com Anadolu’ya Uğur Getiriyor” are controlled and it is assured that there are no employees (n11.com Brings Luck to Anatolia) seminars to increase the trade under the age of 18. Suppliers are requested every second month volume of SMEs all over Turkey. The first leg of the seminar a statement from the Social Security Institution as a proof of series launched to explain the importance of e-commerce was no debt and a 5-year letter of guarantee. According to Doğuş organized with the support of Antalya Union of the Chambers of Holding A.Ş. and Doğuş Group Purchasing Procedures, the Artists and Artisans in Antalya. purchased products are communicated to the Audit Department and thereby monitored within the Group. While purchasing products and services, necessary document Doğuş Avenu are requested from suppliers to control their processes These Regional Chain documents are aimed for MSDS, ISO 9001:2008, ISO 22000, OHSAS Crate and Barrel opened its first store in Europe by Doğuş 18001, TSE HYB, ISO 14001, waste oil disposal contract, stock Avenue in May 2014, and second and third stores in the same inventory and supplier audit system, R&D department, training month and December in Acıbadem and İstinyePark respectively. department, hygiene control system, porter examinations, In September 2014, the first Crate and Barrel store in Russia was grounding and drinking water analysis. opened in AFIMALL City in Moscow. Having adapted the “Onestop-shop” philosophy, Crate and Barrel offers a wide product portfolio including furniture, kitchen utensils, tableware, accessories, textiles and bath accessories for every need and all Doğuş Retail living spaces. İstanbul is the first chain of the regional operation Risk Management in Supply Chain in the franchise system also covering Azerbaijan, Bulgaria, Independent Inventory Companies conduct instant inventory Georgia, Croatia, Kazakhstan, Romania, Ukraine and Russia. analysis in stores every six months, and the results are evaluated by the risk committee in management meetings. Targets for 2015 include completion of “Risk Analysis throughout Supply Chain”, prevention and compensation of losses and leaks throughout the chain, and annual assessments about insurance process. d.ream Garanti Bank Supplier Selection Collaborations in the Sector Supplier selection criteria start with the necessary license Garanti Bank participates in various working groups and permits for production, packaging, and import that are develops projects in cooperation with the finance sector through determined as pre-conditions by Food Safety Department. its memberships in national and international initiatives such HACCP based control system is applied in enterprises for as UNEP FI (The United Nations Environment Programme customers to prevent any harm due to food. Prerequisite Program Finance Initiative), TBB (The Banks Association of Turkey), is managed by the Central Management. All suppliers are UNGC (United Nations Global Compact) and SKD (Business requested the Legal Document provided by relevant Ministries. World and Sustainable Development Association). Garanti took In livestock suppliers, ISO22000 is required or a Supplier Audit is part in the establishment of the Sustainable Finance Working carried if it is not available. Environmental factors are also taken Group within SKD, of which it is a member of the board, and into consideration in supplier selection. In products containing undertook the current co-chairmanship of this Working Group. oil and its derivatives damaging environment, such as garbage bags, recyclable products are given preference. If they are not With the aim of raising awareness and facilitating cooperation in recyclable, the goods are not purchased. In addition, to ensure the banking sector, Garanti Bank organized an Environmental risk management in the supply chain, ethics hotline is available and Social Risk Assessment training in cooperation with United for suppliers. Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEPFI) in the first quarter of 2013. In addition, the Sustainable Finance Forum is organized in collaboration with UN Global Compact, UNEP FI and SKD every year. PUBLIC POLICY CONTRIBUTIONS As one of the leading conglomerates of Turkey, we are aware of our CUSTOMERS responsibility to enhance communities, in which we operate, and our important role on the public policy processes, which has an impact on our business sectors. Since its foundation, Doğuş Group has been taking its place among the leading business conglomerates of Turkey. Active in eight core Doğuş Group companies are among the major economic actors businesses including banking and financial services, automotive, in Turkey’s economy with employment, investments, taxes and construction, media, tourism and services, real estate, energy and community development programs. We comply with all applicable entertainment, we utilize a management style that is both customerlegal laws and regulations regarding our businesses. focused and productivity-centered. While formed through material gains, it embodies a strong corporate citizenship approach, which Doğuş Holding’s public policy contribution efforts including all is at the center of all our business practices and benefits the entire community engagement programs, payments to trade associations society. and taxes to governmental bodies are approved by the Board of Directors to ensure the relevance of policies. Customer Satisfaction Oriented Group Culture and Approach Doğuş Group companies are committed to customers’ well-being and Doğuş Group companies engage with several councils and satisfaction, and a loyal customer approach on every stage of their associations related to their business and sectors. All have active roles operations. To ensure this, every company has its own customer in those communities to act as important actors of their industries. satisfaction strategy and monitors performances accordingly. Related information can be found on the corporate web sites of the Product and service quality, as well as customer health and safety, Companies. are the crucial key performance indicators of our Group companies. We monitor and evaluate the customer satisfaction oriented Group culture in every stage, through auditing and feedback mechanisms. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 27 Product Training Customer Supply Chain and Service Compliance and Complaint Management Quality Development Management The management and strategic approach to customer satisfaction Garanti Bank SA and loyalty are very important in service sector companies and also Automation of Client Data Collection in sustainable company policies. Since we underline the customerAs of November 2014, the bi-annual NBR (National Bank of oriented culture that embeds customer satisfaction throughout our Romania) Financial Rating for legal entity clients has been organizational practices, focus is on the total customer experience, automated. Instead of collecting official financial statements customer service standards and accountability. Creating and from all clients, and then manually introducing them in the installing a “culture” of customer service in which employees are intranet application, only financials from a limited sample encouraged and expected to go to great lengths to satisfy customers of clients are collected and only the qualitative indicators are is another hallmark of a successful company. We work to create an introduced in the application. All qualitative information will environment where employees focus on customer satisfaction in be automatically processed centrally, and fed in the intranet each encounter, every day. applications, saving significant time. Due Diligence Automation and Centralization The verification of the SME and corporate customers in the Responsible Marketing accredited database platforms has been automated, and conducted since June 2014 by accessing a single platform, which Communication brings together all seven individual platforms used in the past, thus saving time for the employees. All promotion and advertising activities of our brands are carried out in accordance with responsible marketing communication principles and relevant laws and regulations, and all employees, third parties Garanti Pension and Life and suppliers are required to comply with these practices. Hobby Clubs In 2008, Garanti Pension and Life initiated the Hobby Clubs Project with the goal of keeping customers happy by providing pleasant moments not only after their retirement but also during Garanti Bank the wealth accumulation phase. Currently, the project covers 18 Disabled-Friendly Banking different hobbies ranging from arts to sports and is implemented In addition to sustainable products and services, Garanti Bank with the participation of 150 partners, all of which are leading aims to increase the accessibility of its banking services on institutions in their fields. the back of initiatives geared towards people with disabilities. To this end, Garanti started the renovation of its branches Garanti Pension and Life members participating in Hobby and Paramatik ATM network in 2012, and gave training to its Clubs benefit from discounts up to 50% on hobby courses, employees, with the aim of making life easier for its customers training and hobby equipment they use in their different hobby with disabilities. fields. The Hobby Clubs website, hobimlemutluyum.com, gives members the opportunity to discover the different aspects of their hobbies and share their thoughts and accomplishments with other members. New events are organized every month to Garanti Fleet allow members the opportunity to develop their social lives and Customer Satisfaction communities concurrently. With the aim of ensuring driving safety of customers, the Company provides “Safe and Protective Driving Techniques Training” and “Advanced Driving Techniques” to its 300 vehicle users every year. Garanti Leasing Quality Standards Four different surveys were applied to query customer Processes, job descriptions and procedures are redesigned as a satisfaction in 2014. Necessary actions are taken by measuring result of information fed from many sources such as meetings the quality of products and services through the survey results. held during the year, customers complaints, suggestions and Overall satisfaction rate of customers from the products and notifications, both from customers and employees, surveys services is 94%. applied for information gathering inside or outside the company, field studies and technology-based developments. Garanti Technology Customer Services Garanti Asset Management In addition to customer satisfaction surveys, a system enabling Informing Customers users to create a Complaint Notice for other problems was Within the scope of Asset Management studies, the Company developed. Users can access this system through the Service shows great attention to the contracts signed with clients to Management System screen. After understanding the complaint include transactions to contain information in a clear and both through the record and via e-mail, the authorized employee precise manner. In addition, reports are sent to customers has to respond to these complaints as soon as possible, either by at regular intervals specified in the contract, and face to face solving it or assigning it the appropriate department. The records meetings are organized. Customers can view their reports and are not closed until the complaint is resolved. A resolution has to account activities through Garanti Saklama (Storage) Branch be approved by the user. internet system. Before providing Portfolio Management Service specific to customers, a discretionary test is applied to prevent dissatisfaction that may occur during the use of the service. Maritim Hotel Club Alantur Customer Surveys Regular customer surveys are carried out covering topics such Garanti Mortgage as employees, service areas, food-beverage and the hotel. Improving Quality Standards Necessary studies are conducted in the improvement areas by Intranet became more useful with the user experience in sharing the results with all department managers. Evaluations the foreground, new modules were added. With the tracking of visitors via Holidaycheck, Tripadvisor and similar websites module, the effective follow-up of Mortgage loan applications are analyzed as well. and pricing by branch employees is ensured. The competition module enables providing a more suitable offer to the customers in response to competitor bank offers. 444Evim (Home) call center employees direct the customers to the most appropriate branch with Şubebul (Find Branch) module. Branch employees were provided with an expertise cost calculation tool to calculate expertise cost online. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 29 D-Marin Marinas Group Doğuş Avenu Customer Health and Safety Informing Customer Accurately Customers cannot enter the boatyard without taking the same Product label formats coming from USA are handled by the safety precautions as employees. The port area and commercial company lawyer to include all information and explanations areas are equipped with special equipment (smoke sensors, required by law. The labels varying according to product fire-fighting and first aid kits, etc.) in order for all customers types include product code, product description, product to be able to spend time safely, and all employees are trained content information and details, retail price including VAT to intervene properly in case of emergencies. Drills conducted and origin. The products that will contact with food are also at regular periods ensure that employees are always ready for labelled as “suitable for contact with food”. Shelf labels are employee and customer safety. edited according to the format of each product and arranged by relevant measures. During discount periods, discount rates are clearly stated in the stores and customers are informed via e-mail. Different types of surveys and forms are available in n11.com stores such as “Your Comments” questionnaire, which includes Customer Protection customer opinions and suggestions, “My Customer Says” form, n11.com carries out separate studies to protect the safety of which is filled by the store employees and includes request and both buyers and sellers. n11.com established “Brand Protection suggestions of the customers conveyed verbally, and “Customer Center” to protect the security of the sellers and cooperate with Satisfaction After Delivery Survey” which is conducted by phone the owners of the brand rights. The purpose of “Brand Protection after the delivery of furniture. Center” is to support brands about copyright and intellectual property. Shopping in n11.com is under the guarantee of “Payment Protection System” consisting of product control, testing and approval processes. Doğuş Technology Product and Service Security The establishment of an integrated management system in compliance with the international standards within Doğuş Technology aims to ensure the quality, security and sustainability of services and products. The studies carried out to obtain ISO/IEC 27001:2005 Information Security Management System certificate continued in 2014. Confidentiality, integrity and accessibility features of information assets are secured, and risks are reduced to an acceptable level. The establishment of an ISO/IEC 20000 based “IT Service Management System” aimed to continual improvement of IT services, aligning them with the best practices, and customeroriented management of service processes. By installing ISO 22301 “Business Continuity Management System”, services and responsible business units were determined together with their action plans to ensure business continuity in unexpected situations. 02 E MPLOY EE ENG AG E MEN T EMPLOYEE Equality at Work Platform The Equality at Work Platform was established as part of the efforts of a task force formed under the World Economic Forum ENGAGEMENT (WEF) and supported by the Ministry of Family and Social Policies to combat inequalities based on gender. Doğuş Group will develop a “mentoring” system special for the development and progress of our female employees. With these studies, we will implement a project that will enable our female employees, wearing both a spouse and manager hat, to climb the career ladder quickly. The For Doğuş Group, employee studies to support their development were carried out in 2014 and the project will begin in 2015. engagement is a business approach to ensure that the employees OPEN COMMUNICATION are motivated to contribute to our success as well as enhance Our employee engagement policy is based on establishing a culture of open and honest dialogue among our employees and increasing their own well-being. the percentage of actively engaged employees in the future for sustainable growth and more efficient and innovative business lines. Since engagement is strongly linked to positive business Doğuş Group Employees and Decent Work outcomes, it is important to encourage best practices regarding Responsibility Policy open communication. We believe that only companies engaged with their employees have values strong and sustainable enough to confront the future with clear evidence of trust. We are also committed to extending and developing our employee engagement strategies, which we believe Doğuş Holding are fundamental to the Group’s future success. Open Communication Open Communication Strategy encourages employees to Doğuş Group believes that its success is directly linked to the engage in all business activities of the Holding. “CEO Talks” Group’s culture of valuing and empowering its employees. One in which employees come together with the CEO is organized of the key principles of our Employee Responsibility Policy is every month. In addition, the employees who got promoted providing a great place to work for the employees. come together with the CEO at dinner. Doğuş Group; DĞŞTALKS, a two days event attended by all Doğuş Group »» Encourages its employees to work with Doğuş Group for the senior managers, is organized once a year since 2013. The duration of their professional life. Hence we strongly support event provides an open platform to meet the Chairman of employment and rotation within the Group and actively provide the Group, and discuss about their companies’ strategies and opportunities toward career variety to our successful employees. the Group vision. In both 2013 and 2014, around 400 Doğuş »» Seeks employee feedback with open and transparent executives from all over the world have participated at the communication mechanisms. Meeting. In 2014, DĞŞTALKS was organized under the concept »» Provides the best working conditions. of “collaboration”. »» Pays attention to the balance between business and social life of our employees, and supports their professional and personal development through training programs, mentoring and coaching. »» Takes precautions and provides solutions for employees’ physical DMS – Doğuş Customer Systems (DMS) and mental health and safety. Open Communication »» Values equal opportunity employment, and requires the same Our employees can forward their proposals verbally. A green level of awareness and practices from its business partners and light is given to the proposals if they are aligned to our policies supply chain. and procedures. Open communication is essential for DMS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 33 and all employees are encouraged by top management to speak Occupational physicians are obliged to inform employees about up and express themselves. As of 2014, bi-monthly Directors health, raise awareness against diseases to avoid potential risks meeting were initiated. CEO Open Office, CEO Strategy Update in the short and long-term keep both for themselves and their and weekly team meetings are planned for 2015. families. Employees are informed on an individual basis about: »» Common diseases, which are usually not driven by short-term REIDIN causes, and symptoms of preclinical processes, since common Open Door Policy diseases may result from a long preclinical process that can take The Company has an open door policy. Each employee can years. organize a meeting or communicate with any manager or »» The measures that can be taken against health risks that may CEO. Senior management spends time with employees at every result due to genetic reasons in the short and long-term. occasion and organizes regular meetings. The CEO has already delivered the message, that he is also accessible for engaging in Several articles are written in the e-mail format about many social activities with the teams. topics such as chronic diseases, and smoking. With the Healthy Thursday Project in Doğuş, interactive discussions are held with employees by inviting a physician, who is an expert in his field (e.g. in breast cancer). EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY Due to the fact that employees need to work with a screen, a comprehensive examination was made by two ophthalmologists Doğuş Group always ensures employee safety and health as a universal invited for four days, and employees were informed about their value. Doğuş Group Human Resources and Employee Engagement situations and directed for further examination if necessary. Policy with the related targets outline the Group’s commitment to strengthen a safety and health oriented culture conductive to the Against the flu, which may create epidemic, the traditional flu mental and physical well-being of our employees. vaccine application was also applied in 2014. All Doğuş Group employees attend employee health and safety Other Health and Safety Activities in Doğuş Holding in 2014 courses and are periodically informed about first-aid, occupational were as follows: diseases, infectious diseases, obesity, prophylaxis methods and »» Doğuş Holding and Doğuş Group gave a total of 28 trainings general hygiene practices. According to the employees’ work and for 79 people and 43 trainings for 136 people on occupational position, they are also informed about protective security systems health and safety respectively. and tools for maximum personal security. »» The ambulance team was available to take patients to hospital quickly without delay in emergency situations. There were 30 cases in 2014. »» Two porter examinations were carried out for the employees Doğuş Holding responsible for food service. Health and Safety »» Cafeteria, floor kitchens, mother’s room and Kahve Dünyası The occupational health and safety general assembly, including (Coffee World) audits were held every two months. both the employer and employee representatives, acts as »» Water samples were taken from different points every two both monitoring and audit unit. Occupational physicians and months and sent for analysis; the results were evaluated. occupational safety specialists commissioned by OHS General »» Material Information Safety Forms of all chemicals entering Assembly make regular efforts on this issue, report the results the buildings were archived to better prepare against possible to the General Assembly with regular intervals. During the poisoning events. regular meetings carried out every two months, all kinds of »» First aid, search and rescue, evacuation and firefighting occupational health and safety issues collected by employee teams were built to be ready in case of emergencies. Location representatives from colleagues are evaluated, discussed and measurements (dust, lighting, etc.) were carried out. recorded. The results are monitored at the next meeting. vdf not satisfied with, emerge as a result of surveys. Feedback is Health and Safety provided to employees as a result of the survey. Action plans are All employees of the Company received employee health and developed by Human Resources Department for the areas that safety trainings. Regular trainings were organized for newly need improvement. recruited employees as well. The Occupational Health and Safety Committee and the Emergency Teams are established Employee Satisfaction Activities within IT Programs in by completing necessary trainings received from authorized Doğuş Holding institutions. The teams and procedures were prepared in A satisfaction survey was carried out by the IT Department accordance with relevant regulations. during 2014. 105 Doğuş Holding employees participated in the survey, and 94% of respondents were satisfied with the support and hardware services provided by the IT Department. Improvement studies were initiated for issues that had low Ayson Geotechnical satisfaction rate. Health and Safety Ayson implements an Occupational Health and Safety Management System in line with OHSAS 18001:2007 standard certified by LRQA (Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance), provides Garanti Pension and Life its continuity, and constantly improves its efficiency. OHS Pension Plan Committee Meetings are held every month to take the opinions Being a Garanti Pension employee is sufficient to benefit from of employees on Occupational Health and Safety issues and to Garanti Pension Group Pension Plan. The employees join ensure their participation. the system as they start working. The contribution, which is determined by the employees, may vary from TL 25 to 100. The company deposits the determined amount of contribution into the private pension account of employees. Vesting period term EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION is available in Employer Pension Contract and entitlement will be obtained according to the specified plan. Total number of AND ENGAGEMENT funds is 20. Distribution of the fund is also determined by the employees themselves. In today’s uncertain economic climate, both employee job satisfaction and employee engagement are important for business sustainability. Top-performing organizations understand that measuring employees’ Garanti Factoring contentment levels and emotional commitment to the organization Employee Satisfaction on a regular basis can put them at a competitive advantage. Development areas are detected by determining improvement potentials as a result of career interviews carried out once a While employee satisfaction and employee engagement are both year and employee loyalty surveys carried out every two years. critical to maintaining a happy and productive workforce, achieving In 2013, the Company worked with Aon Hewitt Company in satisfaction without engagement will have significantly less impact employee loyalty survey and loyalty was measured with three on business results. After all, engaged employees are emotionally basic behaviors. Hewitt’s method was applied and the Employee committed to working hard, demonstrating initiative, and expending loyalty was measured as 42% as a result of the last survey extra discretionary effort — and doing so in alignment with strategic carried out in 2013. 7/24 phone counseling service is provided priorities to move the organization forward. for our employees to support their private lives on many issues including law and psychology by employee hotline “Leap”. Doğuş Holding Employee Satisfaction Survey Doğuş Otomotiv An Employee Satisfaction Survey is conducted every 2 years. Employer Brand Study According to the most recent survey, satisfaction rate and Within scope of the vision create “Fan Employee for Fan loyalty index reached 66.3/100 and 73.5/100 respectively. Human Customer” and be the most preferred company in Turkey; resources areas that employees are most satisfied and are “Employer Brand” study was initiated to professionally manage CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 35 the employer perception in the eyes of employees, make employer EMPLOYEE SUGGESTION SYSTEM communication with a single voice, and strengthen the employer perception internally and externally in 2014. Face to face focus group studies were carried out with Doğuş Otomotiv employees As Doğuş Holding we agree that employee suggestions are a form of within the scope of Employer Brand studies. In addition, webemployee-to-management communication that benefits employees based values study was carried out, and the perceptions of as well as employers. Our suggestion system gives employees a those who resigned, newly recruited and declined the job offer voice and a role in determining Company policies and operating were measured. Doğuş Otomotiv’s perception of experienced procedures. We also support employee suggestion systems in Doğuş professional, university and vocational school students was also Group of companies to help increase efficiency, eliminate waste, measured. The perception of 8,551 people about the Company improve safety, and improve the quality of our companies’ products was surveyed. and services. Doğuş Construction Garanti Pension and Life Reunion of Doğuş Construction Kids ‘Development Begins with Me’ Platform Doğuş Construction believes the success and motivation of its To improve communication with employees, minimize employees is closely related to their intra-familial harmony. communication-based problems, include them in the process by Therefore, for the purpose of enabling the children to observe taking their suggestions, make them feel stronger and a part of the working environment of their parents and to socialize with the whole, a communication platform named “Gelişim Benden their fellows, Doğuş Construction organizes events, called Başlar” (“Development Begins with Me) has been created. “Reunion of Doğuş Construction Kids”. The second reunion took Opinions and suggestions are shared through an agenda place in August 2014, where the children had the opportunity including the issues that concern all the employees via the to spend enjoyable time with their parents and participate Platform. By coming together with mixed groups, consisting of in various activities such as painting. The company plans to employees that shared suggestions and opinions, meetings were continue organizing similar events targeting children. organized with working groups. Major improvements were made in nearly 40 processes, applications and approaches in 10 different subjects since vdf 2013, by carrying out studies within the scope of topics such Employee Surveys as performance management, career maps, training and The ‘Opinion Barometer’ survey is carried out by VW FS AG development processes, employee relations practices and every year in all Volkswagen companies within the scope success reward system. of Employee Satisfaction. In 2014, employee loyalty and satisfaction were measured in a more comprehensive manner by joining “Great Place to Work” as well as this survey. Outcomes were evaluated together with related departments, and ideas Maritim Hotel Club Alantur were shared in terms of satisfaction points and expectations. Satisfaction Surveys Individual interviews were made with the employees of vdf In satisfaction surveys, opinions effecting the operation of Sigorta Aracılık Hizmetleri A.Ş. under the heading “Discussions the employees in a positive way are awarded. A small zoo with HR” and a more detailed satisfaction study was carried construction was recommended by one of the employees; with out. As a result of these interviews and meetings, action plans the approval of CEO, a cat house and a poultry section were to be implemented in 2015 were taken (Employee Council, vdf created. Value Representatives, Focus Group, FunPractical Workshops, Team Coaching, etc.) and a long-term training and development process was initiated with the support of a consulting firm. Mother-Infant Policy Employees who are new mothers continue to enjoy certain rights after returning to work. Being aware of changing life conditions for new parents, we support them with a private, healthy and safe nursing room in addition to other maternity leave and pay rights in PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT accordance with the law. Doğuş Group is committed to the principle that a good performance management system works toward the improvement of the overall Doğuş Holding organizational performance, managing the performance of Activities for Mothers employees to ensure achievement of the overall organizational Milk room for nursing mothers was redesigned to be comfortable ambitions and goals. in 2014, and child development seminars were organized for the mothers. For 2015, seminars are planned to raise awareness among pregnant employees. Three employees gave birth in 2014 and 15 employees took parental leave. Return to work rate after Doğuş Holding maternity leave was 100%. Performance Management System Doğuş Holding Performance Management System plays a very important role in business success by ensuring that employees understand the importance of their contributions to corporate Doğuş Otomotiv goals and objectives. The system primarily aims to facilitate Nursery a transparent relationship between the employee and the The nursery, fully owned by the Company, was enabled to 218 line manager based on trust and empowerment. After target female employees and the costs were completely covered in setting interviews at the beginning of the year, employees 2014. As of 2014, 12 female employees having children between provide performance forms to Human Resources Department 0-66 months benefited from it. The children of employees, who for control and filing. Performance grades, forming the basis completed 66 months before the education year, can benefit of premium, are determined with assessment interviews at from the nursery until they start school as well. the end of the year. Business goals in the performance system weigh 70% and values and competencies 30%. Trainings were provided to promote performance system for all employees in 2014. A “Performance System and Values Guide” was developed to be used as a guide in the performance period and distributed to all employees. Performance premium payments are made in May according to salary coefficient ratios determined by the management in line with the performance grades of employees every year. REIDIN Performance Assessment Performance assessment process is conducted every year and employees are rewarded with a bonus system by evaluating their performance results every quarter. With the OKR (Objectives and Key Result) system, employees are supported to reach 4-5 main goals set by the Company at the beginning of the year. The system enables the Company goals to be reduced to departmental and individual level. 7geese system is used to monitor this system. Employees enter their Objectives and Key Results that are agreed upon with their supervisors every quarter and revise them regularly. Since 7geese system is open to all employees, each employee can see and monitor the goals of another employee via the system and the main company target benefitting from this goal. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 37 TRAINING AND The performance and award systems were improved as well. DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS The development and training programs were associated with the performance system. In this context, a total of 6,933 hours of training was provided in 2014 with 60 training programs, and Doğuş Group considers it crucial to train and develop its employees in the orientation program was renewed. A movie named “Being a order to be a sustainable and innovative company. The training and Member of Doğuş Group”, which includes the opinions of Doğuş development programs thereby increase employees’ performance and employees, was added to the orientation presentation. motivation and enhance their ability to make more effective decisions about both their professional and personal lives. Garanti Investment Career Development Doğuş Holding The Company creates an environment that provides equal Employee Development opportunity in the career development of employees, encourages Training and development activities are of vital importance for and rewards excellence, creativity and quality, and facilitates Doğuş Holding Human Resources. By analyzing training needs communication. The objectives of business, management, of employees stated in performance sheets, annual trainings teamworks and career development are prepared in line with catalogs are created. Training catalog is composed of both the objectives of the Company, and provided to employees to personal and professional development trainings. Employees measure their success in their duties. Employees use individual are also provided with English language learning opportunities development goals as an important tool to achieve their career as education abroad and through private tutoring. plans, and create consensus by discussing all their objectives with their managers. Managers are closely involved in the Attendance to trainings and satisfaction of employees are performance of employees, do their share for the development monitored throughout the year. Employees are encouraged to of the employees, and provide equal educational opportunities take part in training programs necessary to prepare them for to all. senior positions. Discount agreements with universities for graduate programs and foreign language courses are also made. In 2014, coaching sessions were conducted for employees’ career development. Leadership programs designed for different levels are also available. Leadership programs consist of different programs to develop management skills of employees as well as support their professional and personal development. The goal of Human Resources Department is to focus on the strengths of employees, develop their leadership skills, and design training programs, in which they can develop and experience their abilities and skills with different perspectives. These programs aimed to enabling a new perspective for employees and raising their awareness. Joint environments were organized, in which employees can externalize their abilities with artistic activities, and a wide variety of training programs aim to develop their strategic thinking, coaching and communication skills. As a result of these investments in education, 15-20% percent of employees were promoted to senior positions in Group companies in the last 4 years. 03 COM MUNI T Y ENG AG E MEN T COMMUNITY Doğuş Group. In this context, we provide the necessary support for the social welfare of local communities living in these regions. We strive to fulfill our requirements locally, thereby benefit from local ENGAGEMENT sources and support the local economy as well. Before starting operation in a region, detailed analysis studies are performed by our teams. The impact of our operations on local community is also considered in these studies. In addition, we also carry out information meetings for local community and mutually Doğuş Group strives to support share opinions and listen to drawbacks before creating zoning plan in our projects. These meetings are not only for information sharing, the development of communities but also serve to avoid any misunderstandings and conflicts, and to fulfill the expectations of local communities as much as possible. and contributes to both local and regional growth and new Doğuş Construction employment opportunities. The Impact of Operations on Local Communities The Company avoids activities that may adversely affect local communities. Nevertheless, “White Tables” are also Doğuş Group Community Engagement Policy established to assess any results, where individuals can Doğuş Group tailors programs and opportunities to each Group consult and share their opinions. company and the changing needs of their communities. In 2012, we have worked on our community engagement policy to address effective engagement processes for the Group companies and published our community engagement strategy with our stakeholders D-Resort Sibenik in the 2013 CSR Report. Communication with Local Community Contacts with the local community are regular and open-door. As Doğuş Group, we: The Company has previously credited the new infrastructure »» Internalize ethical investment principles both for the community of the location (sewage, water, lighting and road system) and and our business. is continuously in touch with the community to develop a »» Analyze the concerns of the community and enable people to be separate road access to the village after the finalization of the part of the decisions which may have the potential impact on their construction to solve the current traffic problems caused by social life and well-being. the construction. »» Give top priority to being responsive to community needs. »» Monitor business processes for anti-corruption and comply with respective laws and regulations, believing that the primary responsibility of a company is doing its business ethically for the Doğuş Real Estate community’s well-being. Relations with Local Communities »» Encourage our business partners and Group companies to Investments are made in the operating regions by evaluating establish necessary monitoring mechanisms in order to detect and the needs, requests and demographic structures of the prevent potential corruption risks. local communities. As in previous investments, such as the »» Aim to be a role model to our stakeholders with an ethical investment in a shopping center, discussions are held with business approach, and to execute awareness programs that extend local communities, including artisans, and their opinions our approach among suppliers and other third parties. and suggestions are prioritized. Positive reactions from local communities and municipalities are also ensured by giving Local Communities priority to locals during the recruitment process, building The opinions, requests and development of local people in the roads, bridges, intersections, etc. to meet the needs of the regions, where we carry out our activities, are among the priorities of investment region. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 41 Social Impact Management as its main stakeholders while at the same time utilizing its Inevitably there are social change implications, positive and negative, touchpoints, Gönül Payı social citizenship approach has been at each stage of the business life-cycle of our Group companies’ a model for sustainable value creation aimed at mobilizing the operations. With more than 200 companies in eight sectors, evaluating society. and monitoring social impact management systems and detailed analysis before and after the operations are crucial for our businesses. Prior to making investments, our related departments conduct detailed Doğuş Kids (Doğuş Çocuk) analyses about the concerns and requirements of local communities. Established in December 2004, Doğuş Kids is the social We organize community briefing meetings before the investments responsibility platform of Doğuş Group and it is based on with the local communities and listen and try to respond to their the perspective that our future will be largely shaped by concerns with the related Impact Analysis Reports and evaluation today’s children and child development. We believe that this results about the projects. perspective should be given utmost importance by all players today, including the business sector. Contributing to the development of young children, through Doğuş Holding education, entertainment activities and projects since its Gönül Payı – A Şahenk Initiative/Social Citizenship Platform inception, Doğuş Kids aims to create a more conscious and (Share of Heart) responsible society in the areas of child development, education Gönül Payı is the first (and only) social brand which is in direct and arts & culture. communication with Doğuş Group customers. Launched by utilizing more than 70 brands and 170 touchpoints of Doğuş With this objective in mind, Doğuş Kids engages in partnerships Group brands including hotels, restaurants, stores, gyms and with other institutions including non-governmental auto dealers, as well as online channels of Doğuş brands, organizations, international organizations, state and N11.com and 220plus.com.tr, Gönül Payı has identified Doğuş governmental bodies. All of these institutions share Doğuş Kids’ customers as one of its core stakeholders and encouraged their vision of cultivating social change through our children. active participation as social citizens. It engages people and prompts their choice and involvement by giving the message “Gönlünüzden Geçsin Bir Hayat Değişsin/Change lives with your choice” as its call-to-action. There’s no benchmark to Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra Gönül Payı in Turkey as a social initiative with its direct reach The “Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra” was established in 2006 to 3 million people through 100 different touchpoints to inspire as Turkey’s first national and permanent children’s symphony their choice and involvement. Besides directly communicating orchestra. The Orchestra is comprised of conservatory students with Doğuş Group’s customer base, Gönül Payı has been between 11 and 18 years of age from different regions of Turkey; touching lives, inspiring and empowering people through its it introduces the wonder of symphonic music to Turkish children platforms, namely Stay in the Game (Childrens Platform), Today as performed by their peers. is Tomorrow (Youth Platform), Live On! (Ageing Well Platform). Its aim is empowering people towards realizing their potentials In 2014, Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra performed in Şanlıurfa regardless of their age. Its approach is the idea that changing and Gaziantep. The Orchestra also took stage in Ankara within even one life is a step towards creating a better society. With this the events of the National Sovereignty and Children’s Day, with idea as its cornerstone, Gönül Payı has been actively listening to the cooperation of the Directorate General of State Opera and people and empowering them based on their specific interests, Ballet & Turkish Radio and Television Children’s Choir. abilities, targets and demands, through its social citizenship platforms formed as per age groups of the society; children, So far Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra has held 56 concerts young people and the elderly. in 3 countries and 22 provinces, performing before more than 65,000 concert-goers. The orchestra will concentrate more on Gönül Payı candidly promotes volunteerism, social citizenship international concerts in the future. As in Turkey, it aims to make and self-realization and it has been inciting people and creating the modern voice of Turkish children be heard in international value in a sincere, collective and sustainable manner. Engaging platforms. Doğuş employees (Do Platform), customers and the society Doğuş Kids Symphony Orchestra Website The Festival has already constituted a loyal audience of its Having reached its target member number of 100,000 in less than own which constantly increases each year. The festival retains 5 years, the Doğuş Kids website was replaced by the Doğuş Kids its distinctive character in Turkey for featuring nothing but Symphony Orchestra website as of July 2010. The Doğuş Kids classical music, offering a total of seven concerts in four days at Symphony Orchestra website aims to create a communication sunset and by night. By now, Since 2005, the festival has reached platform among the orchestra members and furthermore, it more than 160,000 audiences and held almost 3,500 artists aims to inform and educate young people on classical music. within 77 concerts. The goal is to foster a growing interest in the Festival in the years to come, thereby disseminating a taste for D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Music Festival classical music in the general public and hosting international Doğuş Group continues to contribute to and provide support for artists and orchestras more often in Turkey. the development of classical music. The Group strives to ensure its access to a wider section of the population and help Turkish Presidential Symphony Orchestra of Turkey artists produce world-class pieces. Since 2005, Doğuş Group has Symphony on Campus Project been organizing the D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical The Presidential Symphony Orchestra of Turkey, which was Music Festival in Bodrum. This Festival highlights the support established in 1826, has been one of the few special orchestras in that is required for the development of diverse forms of music. the world that has managed to survive to date. In November 2007, Doğuş Group signed an agreement, with the Ministry of Culture D-Marin Turgutreis International Classical Music Festival is and Tourism, to become the main sponsor of the Orchestra for a a member of the European Festivals Association (EFA) which period of 3 years and to start the “Technical Betterment Project” is the umbrella organization for festivals across Europe. For of the concert building of the Orchestra. The renovation work more than 50 years, the Association has grown into a dynamic was completed in less than a year, by October 2008, covering the network representing more than 100 music, dance, theatre renovation of the entire inner building and the concert hall, the and multidisciplinary festivals, national festival associations landscaping as well as the renewal of the orchestral and office and cultural organizations from about 40 (mainly European) furniture. countries. In line with its main sponsorship of the Presidential Symphony In 2014, on its 10 th anniversary, the Festival took place on July Orchestra of Turkey, which was renewed in early 2012 for another 31 & 1-2-3 August, hosted many gifted artists and well-known 3 years, Doğuş Holding initiated a new corporate sponsorship orchestras from Turkey and other countries, including the project in 2009: “Symphony on Campus.” The objective of this world-renowned Turkish pianist Fazıl Say and Vanessa-Mae, project was to take the orchestra on a tour, covering state British violinist with album sales reaching several million. In universities in Anatolian cities where the orchestra had never 2014, a total of 21,500 audiences followed the festival, which was visited, to promote classical music among university students joined with nearly 600 artists at seven concerts during four days. and regional communities. At the end of five years, the project reached more than 26,000 audiences in a total of 24 cities. The The proceeds obtained from the Festival were donated to the Symphony on Campus Project will continue covering many Tohum Autism Foundation to be used for educational materials more universities in the upcoming period. at the Foundation’s private school for children with autism and for the training of teachers specialized in this area. In Bodrum Castle Renovation the meantime, some of the proceeds were used for providing Doğuş Group initiated the “Bodrum Castle Redevelopment professional skills to the mothers of handicapped children with Center” to contribute to Bodrum’s arts and culture scene. Within the cooperation of the Bodrum Health Foundation. the scope of the project, Doğuş Group renewed the concert venue’s technical infrastructure and landscape, increased the number In 2014, the Festival has been also awarded a “Silver Stevie” in of seats, redesigned the stage and preserved the historical the category “Best Corporate Image Activity” in Stevie Awards structure of the venue while facilitating a contemporary look. 2012, which is one of the most prestigious organizations in the In addition, the cocktail lounge got renovated and the venue got United States, receiving thousands of submissions from 60 redesigned to ensure a comfortable and safe environment for its countries. guests with disabilities. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 43 Soma Aid Campaign Mobile Healthcare Units In order to help the local victims of Soma disaster, Doğuş In 2014, the Foundation worked in 22 places including 15 Group has started a volunteer-based social aid project within schools and 7 neighborhoods with mobile health vehicles. its employees and Group companies. Embracing the slogan During these activities, free health service was provided to “All Together for Soma”, Doğuş Group has signed a protocol 21,064 people, including 4,331 general examinations, 15,192 eye with AFAD to contribute to the health, shelter and social needs examinations, and 1,541 detailed eye examinations. In General of the affected area. The protocol ensures the construction Health examinations, complete blood count of 1,043 people, of residential premises that will consist of 301 houses for the biochemistry analysis of 1,173 and full urinalysis of 345 people victims’ families to live in comfortably. In addition to the houses, were made, ECG of 257 people were recorded. Over 455,000 Doğuş Group will also build a primary school and playground people benefited from these health services from 1997, the within the premises. beginning year of the project, until the end of 2014. Two Power Wheelchair donations were made; dry food aid was delivered to 3,543 families and clothing aid was delivered to 1,022 students. In 2014 Ramadan Iftar dinner, more than 61,000 people were Ayhan Şahenk Foundation hosted averaging 2,000 people daily. Schools and Scholarships The construction of a modern center with 30 classrooms, 4 ateliers and 1 conference hall has been started to contribute the education and integration of autistic children to the society Garanti Bank in Van. The construction studies of Anatolian Vocational and Community Volunteers Foundation Technical High School of Girls, consisting of 24 classrooms, 9 Garanti Bank has been a supporter of Toplum Gönüllüleri laboratories, a multipurpose hall and an amphitheater in the Vakfı (TOG Community Volunteers Foundation), an initiative garden, started to contribute to the girls in Artvin in terms of of change and transformation, seeking to turn youthful acquiring a profession, was completed and opened to education. energy into a positive benefit for the society, ever since its Niğde Faik Şahenk Technical and Industrial High School has establishment. Organized in clubs, societies or groups in their been subjected to a wide range of maintenance, repair and universities, young Community Volunteers execute sustainable renovation work. Garden walls, garden floor, exterior walls, all social responsibility projects according to the needs identified interior doors, toilets, teachers room, students’ furniture were in their communities. Every year the Foundation supports the renewed; interior and exterior painting of the school and student realization of over 980 projects and activities, implemented by dormitories were also remade. Electronic scoreboard was 40,000 young people in over 120 university clubs. established in the gym, whose floor coating, stage upholstery and locker rooms were renewed. Multi-purpose hall and dining Volunteer Clovers Club room of Şanlıurfa Ayhan Şahenk Technical and Industrial The employees design and execute numerous projects under Vocation High School, whose exterior paint was renewed, was the roof of Volunteer Clovers Club, and ensure voluntary equipped with air conditioning and solar energy system to participation of all managers in these projects by organizing save energy. To ensure the internal and external security of activities during the “Future Meetings”. In November 2014, the school, night vision cameras and Mobese system have been two schools in Beldibi, Antalya were repaired and given a implemented. makeover with the voluntary participation of employees in an effort to contribute to the education and social development of 500 new desks were bought for Ferit Şahenk Secondary School in the children. In addition, Volunteer Clovers gave support to the Darıca, garden walls and railings of the school painted. distribution of food and clothing items given away in Soma in cooperation with the Food Banking and Basic Needs Association 440 new desks were bought for İstanbul Zeytinburnu Ayhan (Gıda Bankacılığı ve Temel İhtiyaç Derneği). Under the ongoing Şahenk Secondary School; the school was equipped with a “Our Book Box” project, Volunteer Clovers donated books to security camera system. more than 18 schools in different cities across Turkey. 201 students benefited from our foundation’s scholarship and Teachers Academy Foundation (Öğretmen Akademisi Vakfı) educational support, including 195 students in Turkey and 6 The Teachers Academy Foundation (ÖRAV) was established by students abroad. Garanti Bank in 2008 with the objective of contributing to the personal and professional development of teachers, who can help raise the new generations aware of their personal and SALT societal responsibilities, who research, are inquisitive, think With the intention of creating cultural awareness and public analytically, and exhibit self-confidence. ÖRAV is the first and memory, Garanti Bank, identifying the social need for a the only non-profit organization focusing on this area, and with cultural environment able to recognize research and creation its first project launched in May 2009, it has reached 92,932 as an opportunity, has set itself the goal of forming a cultural teachers in 80 provinces by the end of 2014. institution that is unique, autonomous, and, most importantly, able to develop interactively with its users. With this in mind, No Limits in Teaching (Öğretmenin Sınırı Yok) the cultural associations platform Garanti Contemporary Art In parallel to the Öğretmenin Sınırı Yok (No Limits in Teaching) Center, Ottoman Bank Museum and Garanti Gallery, operating project, which is currently continuing with the name “Learning within the Bank and having been successful in their own fields, and Leading Teacher”, the Foundation has contributed to the have been restructured as one independent institution under personal and professional development of 99,692 teachers the name of SALT in 2011. and 80 provinces through projects such as “Result Oriented Communications”, “The Chemistry of Teaching” and “Program SALT, set up in Beyoğlu, Galata and Ulus on the basis of for the Development of Education Executives”. In addition to these “three buildings-one program,” is a cultural institution which projects, the Foundation is running eCampus, a complementary implements a number of programs in diverse fields such as and permanent education platform. The number of active users contemporary art, social and economic history, architecture, at eCampus is 79,615. design and urban living. Entrance to SALT, which develops innovative programs aimed at experimental thinking and İstanbul Modern Collaboration research and evaluating critical subjects such as visual and Since 2005, Garanti Bank has been sponsoring the education material culture, is free of charge. In this regard, SALT is an program of İstanbul Modern, the first and only modern art institution with its doors truly open to society as a whole. “SALT museum in Turkey. The program is intended to play a central role Research,” administered under SALT Galata, serves as a valuable in fostering creative and inquisitive individuals who are familiar resource for students, academics and researchers. with, and actively participate in the arts, and to supplement classroom education. The number of children and youngsters From 2011 until year end 2014, Salt Beyoğlu, Salt Galata and Salt given education under the Garanti-sponsored Istanbul Modern Ulus hosted 51 exhibitions, 44 events in conjunction with the education programs exceeded 541,684 by the end of 2014. exhibitions, and 137 guided exhibition tours and workshops for students, as well as publishing 14 comprehensive publications. Genç Hayat Foundation The number of visitors totaled 1,129,111 during the same period. Since 2010, Garanti Bank has been supporting the Genç Hayat Foundation and the Color Wheel project carried out at Teacher SAHA Training High-Schools. The project has reached 22 high schools As the corporate sponsor of the SAHA Association that aims to and 3,150 students. contribute towards the presence and visibility of contemporary art from Turkey, Garanti Bank intends to improve the education UNICEF Support and production infrastructure of artists, curators, art historians UNICEF has developed a framework for rights-based, childand critics, and to enhance their interactions with international friendly educational systems and schools that are characterized networks. as “inclusive, healthy and protective for all children, effective with children, and involved with families and communities and Garanti Mini Bank Children’s Movie Festival children”. Garanti Bank has been co-organizing Turkey’s first children’s film festival, the “Mini Bank Children’s Movie Festival”, with Since 2012, Garanti Bank has been providing support to the TURSAK (the Turkish Foundation of Cinema and Audio-Visual UNICEF initiative “Şimdi Okullu Olduk” (We Are Students Now) Culture) since 2004. The festival gave approximately 78,000 for the development and execution of school development plans children in thirteen cities, including those with very limited to bring primary schools into alignment with the Primary access to cinema such as Kars, Ordu, Mardin, Konya, Aksaray, Schools Standards. Mersin, Adana, Erzurum and Rize, the opportunity to get familiar with the art of cinema. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 45 Tohum Autism partnership with the Romanian Olympic and Sports Committee, Through the support it has extended to Tohum Turkey Autism the Diplomatic Institute and the Romanian Fencing Federation, Early Diagnosis and Education Foundation in 2014, Garanti Bank under the auspices of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order to has been instrumental in the bringing the education portal uphelp the Romanian fencers and children who want to practice to-date, which the Foundation developed for use by autistic fencing. children and their families. The update is expected to attract an increased number of users and broadened use for the portal that ‘Donations NGOs’ Menu currently has 12,543 members. For the first time in Romania, Garanti Bank launched a special section dedicated to donations for non-for-profit and nonWheelchair Basketball Leagues governmental organizations. ‘Donations NGOs’ are integrated In a bid to support the participation of people with disabilities in the internet banking platform “Garanti Online”, and in the in social life, Garanti Bank began sponsoring women’s, men’s whole network of BancoSmart ATMs, across the country. The and juniors’ National Wheelchair Basketball Teams, as well as new functionality offers customers a new option of instantly Wheelchair Basketball Leagues from April 2013. transferring any sum of money to various selected NGOs that support social, educational, and environmental causes. #CuIncredere Platform GarantiBank International Garanti Bank launched a social media platform named Scholarships #CuIncredere (With Trust), through which the Bank presented Scholarships are awarded to selected Turkish students of the less known people or projects which have had a positive impact “Master of Laws: Advanced Studies Program in European and within the community. Six videos were made for each cause International Business Law”. The scholarships cover the full and uploaded on Garanti Bank’s YouTube channel. They were tuition fees of the successful candidates. Each year GBI may, subsequently shared on Facebook and had a high impact in at its sole and absolute discretion, offer one of the successful social media. Magor Csibi coordinates the WWF in Romania, applicants of the scholarships the possibility of an internship Andrei Mitrașcă is the first Romanian pilot who made it to the at its Head Office in Amsterdam, during a period of their study Pikes Peak race, while Zoli Toth is a percussionist whose most time in the Netherlands. recent show is named “Bach in Showbiz”. Liviu Mihaiu is the president of an NGO named “Save the Danube and the Delta”, while Corina Puiu and Ionuț Soleanicov co-founded “Teach for Romania” organization, which attracts and prepares ambitious Garanti Bank SA young people in order to become future leaders in education. Bucharest International Marathon Cristian Vasile has a photo project named “Optimist Bucharest” Garanti Bank participated and competed in the Bucharest which became highly popular and consists of uploading International Marathon, as part of Team Panda, alongside impressive positive photos of Bucharest in social media. WWF Romania. Garanti team members ran in the marathon in order to raise funds which were subsequently directed to WWF Other Activities with Social Contribution Romania projects which support the protection of nature and »» Prin Transilvania: Garanti Bank supported blogger Andrei the environment. Crivat whose purpose was promoting Transylvania as a place full of stories to be discovered by tourists and Romanians, places Christmas Bazaar that have not been promoted up to now, but still, are extremely Garanti Bank supported the Christmas Fair organized by beautiful and inspiring. the representatives of diplomatic missions in 40 countries. »» Cervantes Institute: Garanti Bank continued its partnership The money raised following this event was donated to the with the I nstitute in 2014, and helped in organizing its activities associations that help children with health problems. related to theatre, dance, music, literature and arts. »» Creative Est: Garanti Bank supported the first festival Scheherezade Foundation dedicated to the cultural and creative industries in Romania, Garanti Bank was partner of an event aiming to provide social which focused on design, contemporary art, music, film and services to children and young people in rural areas, from technology. Giurgiu County. Moreover, the Bank supported Scheherazade Foundation also on the occasion of its Annual Gala, organized in Garanti Pension and Life education in a more positive light. Garanti Pension struggles to Back to School: Educating, not Employing Children lift public effectiveness about the importance of education and (İşimiz Okumak) children who abandon their education for money. Moreover, the Since 2010, aiming to lure primary and secondary school Company intends to spread the project to other schools soon so working children (most particularly the ones on the streets) as to let more children benefit from the project. back to school on a full time basis, Garanti Pension and Life has been carrying out “İşimiz Okumak” (Back to School: Educating, Support for Cappadocia Vocational School not Employing Children) project, in collaboration with Garanti Pension and Life has been collaborating with the İstanbul Province National Education Directorate and Boğaziçi Cappadocia Vocational School for preparing students to the University. As a part of the project, about 5,000 children from professional world, since 2008. The Company added a section 38 schools in İstanbul have been taught how to enhance their called “Banking and Insurance” to the curriculum of Cappadocia achievements and increase their loyalty to their education. Vocational High School in the 2007-2008 academic year. Garanti Pension and Life continued to manage the project in Within the scope of this project, the Company’s executives different counties of İstanbul where there is intensive number give lectures on the private pension system and life insurance of child labor and at 17 schools in 2014. Nearly 1,500 students sector, help students to obtain the Private Pension Intermediary have attended extra lessons for their academic success by License, and share their experiences with the students. their teacher’s assistance and there were also social studies for children that will enhance their self-improvement and The Company also supports students in their preparation for help to express themselves better. Within the perspective business life by offering them summer internships and job that supporting academic success with social skills is an opportunities. Garanti Pension continued its support to the undeniable truth, Garanti Pension and Life’s cooperation with school throughout 2014. Uygur Children Theatre since 2012 is still on purpose of raising children’s self-improvement. Professional drama instructors Support for Mobile Healthcare Units have been organizing drama workshops for children to enhance “Public Healthcare Program”, launched by Ayhan Şahenk awareness about themselves. Foundation in 1997, provides people healthcare services freely. Garanti Pension and Life has been a permanent supporter of the Since the first day of the Project, Garanti Pension and Life has project for nearly 10 years. Well-designed vehicles with medical been implying the importance of “family” when it comes to equipment visit different cities of Turkey to get examined stopping and preventing child labor. Therefore in the second children and people who have limited income for treatment. half of 2014, the Company introduced “Family and Children More than 430,000 people took advantage of this service since Communications” seminars for parents who force/encourage the beginning. their children to work. These workshops are intended to create awareness about children’s right to a proper education by having Support for Community Volunteers Foundation one on one chats with families. In addition, studies performed by Community Volunteers Foundation for children’s education and personal development Since the beginning of the project, 800 Garanti Pension and Life are supported since 2006. These projects include support to volunteers have given their support and been a role model for repairs at schools in villages, preparing children with limited children. Garanti Pension volunteers organised and sponsored opportunities to high school and university exams, and teaching various activities such as museum and shopping mall visits, reading and writing. Children are supported with active Bosphorus tours and boat trips, basketball games, movie participation of employees. screenings, etc. Furthermore, they visited the children at their schools in order to help them with their school lessons. Since the beginning of the project, 525 students have been Garanti Factoring redirected to school completely. Compared with similar projects “CO-OP” (Cooperative Education) Project in the world, it has had considerable amount of success by CO-OP is an integrated educational model of university study taking many children off the streets and out of work. Moreover, and the business world. Based on the work of the student a significant improvement in academic success of these children during his or her undergraduate education, the goal is to has been observed. In addition, the children’s parents now view integrate education and business. For students who have taken CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 47 advantage of the CO-OP opportunity, the transition into their briefings held for trainers and civil society organizations twice workplace after graduation has been much easier and smoother. a year. SALT Research and Programs team prepare video guides It is a continuous process, completed in a single block of time: a in Turkish sign language in cooperation with artists and sign minimum of 3 months and maximum of 9 months. language interpreters and exhibitions tours are conducted. All programs of SALT are free of charge. Garanti Factoring has cooperated with CO-OP Project for five years, offering students internships via “The World of Receivable Finance” lessons. Undergraduate students from any faculties of the university, who wish to work through CODoğuş Otomotiv OP, apply to the CO-OP Directorate. Submitting an application Traffic is Life! doesn’t necessarily mean that a student will be selected for Doğuş Otomotiv’s primary responsibility is to contribute to CO-OP. A high academic record, recommendations and other traffic, which is closely related to the automotive industry. The required criteria are necessary for the CO-OP application. A Company has gathered all its traffic related safety projects student accepted into the CO-OP program is called a CO-OPer. under the platform “Traffic is Life!”. This platform has, for ten years, continued its studies devoted toward creating a long-term Scholarship Project cultural change in the society about traffic safety. The project Scholarship for 12 university students have been provided with has become the most comprehensive and stable community the Garanti Factoring Scholarship Fund, established within engagement study on traffic safety with the successful practices Community Volunteers Foundation. carried out in accordance with the needs and expectations of the society. “Traffic is Life!” Platform is based on the belief that the most Garanti Mortgage important way to create social awareness about traffic safety is SALT Contribution to provide traffic safety training programs; it carries out various Within the “Summer Homes: Claiming the Coast” exhibition, training programs for different target audiences. Garanti Mortgage supported the program “What day is it today?” which consisted of an international movie anthology and held Traffic is Life for Youth! in SALT Beyoğlu between the dates 5th September-16th November The 15-29 age group has been identified as the group at greatest 2014. Starting from 11th of September, a feature-film oriented risk, according to 2013 accident statistics of World Health to summer homes placed in different geographies was shown, Organization, indicating that traffic safety related projects within the scope of the program that was carried out in SALT should be increased in universities. Beyoğlu open-air cinema, once a day for 10 weeks. »» Traffic Safety Distance Education, prepared for university students, who are future active drivers, was disseminated in 2014, taken as an elective course by 12,393 students in 10 universities. Garanti Culture »» This course became the first course on traffic safety to be Research and Library Services included in any university curriculum. It is offered in Marmara Garanti Culture is a non-profit cultural institution. While there University, İstanbul Ticaret University, Çukurova University, are commercial, material and charitable initiatives, services are Işık University, Trakya University, Bahçeşehir University, predominantly for research and library services to public. Sakarya University, Kocaeli University, Erzurum Technical University and Erzurum Atatürk University. Public libraries, research center and exhibitions are available »» Traffic Safety-Distance Education project gained social in the buildings. SALT Interpretation program develops elective course status, and was recommended to universities sustainable partnerships based on cooperation with schools by the Board of Higher Education of Turkey. It was selected and non-governmental organizations. Guided and Critical as “Traffic Safety related Model Application” in Social and Exhibition Tours are conducted for high schools, universities Economic Council of 2014 United Nations General Assembly. and youth communities. During workshops conducted by »» “Traffic is Life!” brand, reinforcing its distance education artists, architects or researchers are providing an appropriate project with field activities, provided access to a total of 4,328 research and application environment for students to provide students in 7 provinces and universities with seat belt simulator professional and personal development. Potential partnerships application, traffic seminars, interviews and social media and collaborative projects are discussed during Trainers Day stands during 2014. .Traffic is Life for Children! traffic was communicated to teachers as well students. In the According to 2013 data of Turkey Statistical Institute (TSI), 29.7% training, designed for primary school 3rd grade students and of Turkey’s population, 76.5 million individuals, are children. attended by 140 students, traffic safety issues were taught in an In corporate social responsibility practices to be applied in our entertaining way with small traffic signs by underlying traffic country, which can be considered as a “Country of Children” rules with visual elements. The trainings were carried out by according to these data, targeting children is of vital importance. three Doğuş Otomotiv volunteer employees. “Traffic is Life!” took a major step to promote traffic safety culture Traffic is Life for Adults! in Turkey by developing projects in a number of different areas, Believing that it is necessary to start the change from its own from training activities to field events, for the children, who are employees to create traffic safety awareness in the society, our future. The platform aims to increase the added value of the Doğuş Otomotiv provided a total of 8,966 hours of training to project by encouraging the participation of parents and teachers 2,011 employees through a variety of educational practices. 1,114 in the studies carried out for children. “Traffic is Life!”, took its Doğuş Otomotiv employees were given the basic principles of brand name from the imagination of a child, and has developed first aid with “First Aid in Traffic” program, an important part pioneering applications for our children. of traffic safety trainings. Traffic is Life! training programs »» “Traffic is Life!” supported the creation of safety culture were not limited to employees. ‘Güle Güle Kullanın – Güvenle among primary school students with the “Mükemmel Şehir” Kullanın” (Use Happily and Use Safely) online education (Excellent City) content prepared in line with the curriculum module was created for authorized dealer employees, and 600 of primary school 4th grade “traffic” course in collaboration authorized dealer employees in direct contact with the customer with the General Directorate of Innovation and Educational were informed about the basic components of traffic safety Technologies and Ministry of National Education. through online training module. Authorized dealer employees, »» “Hayatı Öğreniyorum” (I am Learning Life) trainings, who received online training, transferred the information they developed for primary school 3rd grade students within the acquired about traffic safety to 492,629 customers during the scope of Safe Traffic Project, were disseminated and provided delivery of the vehicle. to primary school teachers in Mardin as the training of the trainer in 2014. The training contributed to traffic education of To reinforce public awareness, public service ads including 8,000 primary school students indirectly with the training given traffic safety messages were prepared in collaboration with the to 160 teachers from 46 primary schools connected to Mardin General Directorate of Security and Traffic Safety Platform. To Provincial Directorate of National Education. highlight the importance of the issues such as “excessive speed” »» A training was provided by Doğuş Otomotiv employees to and “seatbelt use”, which are the main causes of serious traffic Kocaeli Tuzla Tapduk Emre Primary School 3rd grade students accidents in Turkey, a radio spot on excessive speed and a TV with “Hayatı Öğreniyorum” (I am Learning Life) training set. spot on seat belt use were shot. 135 students were trained in this context. »» The excessive speed radio spot was one of the most often »» Traffic is Life! Platform, taking part in events such as 23 April broadcast radio spots; with over 400,000 seconds of broadcasting, Fenerbahçe Children’s Festival and Didim D-Marin Summer it was considered a model application by many institutions. Festival with awareness-raising activities, reached thousands It was also selected “Best Radio Application” in 2014 Gladiator by teaching traffic signs with memory and interactive games, Awards of Automobile Distributors Association. in an easy way. »» Turkey’s version of “Embrace Life” movie (Hayata Bağlı Kal), »» Considering the 10-year history of Traffic is Life! Platform, which broke rating records on the Internet, and won a record “Arka Koltuk Benim” (Rear Seat is Mine) advertising campaign is number of awards in such platforms as the Cannes Film among the studies that attract the most attention from the public. Festival, was shot again in collaboration with BP Turkey, the The advertising campaign, targeting parents and children, was General Directorate of Security and the Traffic Safety Platform, published in various media throughout 2014 to increase traffic highlighting the importance of seat belt use. safety awareness. Cooperation with Vocational High Schools “I am learning Life” Training: With the aim of providing Activities of Doğuş Otomotiv at Vocational High Schools information about basic rules of traffic and traffic signs to continued in 2013 at existing schools, and a new class has been children, an interactive training was organized with “Hayatı added; the activities for the 5th Volkswagen Laboratory were Öğreniyorum” (I am Learning Life) activity booklets in Tuzla initiated at Adıyaman Besni Osman İsot Anatolian Vocational Tapduk Emre Primary School. In this way, the importance of and Technical High School. Doğuş Otomotiv continued to provide CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 49 supporting materials such as demo parts and educational were accepted. Technical training and play preparations began. documents for 114 schools; maintenance of training tools were The first play is planned for 2015. conducted, workshop visuals renewed and training activities were organized. Doğuş Oto Orchestra Doğuş Oto has an orchestra with 12 members. Rehearsals are Through continuous visits and interviews during the year, the generally held on weekdays during working hours. In 2014, the company listened to the expectations, requests and wishes orchestra appeared 9 times in various events of Doğuş Group. of students and contributed to their personal and academic development with guidance and counseling activities. Three day site visits were organized for the Volkswagen Laboratory students of Diyarbakır Burhanettin Yıldız Industrial Vocational TÜVTÜRK High School, covering Doğuş Otomotiv Logistics, Training Traffic Responsibility Action Center and İstanbul facilities. Volkswagen Laboratory teacher “Traffic Responsibility Action” (Trafikte Sorumluluk Hareketi) trainings continued at Şekerpınar Training center. is a corporate social responsibility project, carried out under the coordination of the Turkish Ministry of Transport, Atelier internships were organized in 17 Authorized After-sales Maritime Affairs and Communications, in cooperation with the Service Centers for a total of 122 students from 4 Volkswagen institutions and organizations operating in the field of traffic Laboratories and Industrial Vocational High Schools in the 2014safety, with the support of TÜVTÜRK. “Traffic Responsibility 2015 academic year. A total of 60 students graduated from two Action” aims at raising awareness in the public on traffic safety classes in 2014, 25 of whom have begun to work in Authorized and individual responsibilities. After-sales Service Centers, and another 24 continued their university education. Part-time employment was provided In order to produce permanent and sustainable solutions to the for some who continue their second degree education. The problem of traffic safety, many stakeholder organizations have company also recruited 12 new graduates who finished their been included in the project. The stakeholders of the project act military service. 308 students have graduated from Doğuş like the steering committee of the project, providing support, Otomotiv Vocational Schools Program so far, and 236 students assessment and sharing experience and know-how. still continue their education. First announced publicly at the press conference held on May 4, Support to Ayhan Şahenk Foundation 2010 in Ankara, the first stakeholder meeting of the project was The company has donated TL 1.5 million to Ayhan Şahenk held on the same day. Stakeholder meetings are held regularly. Foundation in 26 June 2014 for the maintenance and repair of The meetings are of great importance, as they provide the Niğde Faik Şahenk Anatolian Vocational and Technical High opportunity to assess the course of the project and benefit from School, Darıca Faik Şahenk Secondary School and Zeytinburnu new cooperation opportunities. Ayhan Şahenk Secondary School. After the conclusion of the work, the remaining portion, TL 230,000 was used for the “Traffic Responsibility Action” reaches the target groups through maintenance and repair of Şanlıurfa Direkli Ayhan Şahenk specific sub-projects. “Bosom Buddies Action” aims at raising Anatolian Vocational and Technical High School. awareness on traffic safety in 4th grade students, their teachers, parents and school bus drivers. “Youth in Traffic Action” targets Audi Göcek Race Week the 12 th grade students, their teachers, parents and school bus The 15th “Audi Göcek Race Week”, one the most important drivers. “It’s Your Turn to Learn, Mr. Driver” is the latest subexamples of Audi Turkey’s support for sailing and organized by project targeting school bus drivers. Göcek Yacht Club, was held in 17-22 May, 2014. Nearly 40 boats and 400 sailors competed in the race. In 2014, 75 children started Bosom Buddies Action sailing courses and 3 of them rose to the national team candidate “Bosom Buddies Action” aims at raising awareness on traffic camp. With the support of Audi, the number of children trained safety and individual responsibilities in 4th grade students, by the Göcek Yacht Club is expected to increase to 120. their teachers, parents and school bus drivers. The project is carried through the cooperation protocol between the Doğuş Oto Theatre Ministry of Transport, Maritime Affairs and Communications, In 2014, Doğuş Oto Theatre was implemented and the preGeneral Directorate of Road Transport Regulation, Ministry of qualifying round was completed with 60 applicants, 12 of whom National Education, General Directorate of Basic Education, and TÜVTÜRK. The project is carried under five steps: Training the teachers to increase their capacity is the first step 1) Representative teachers attend the training seminar on of the project. Then, the teachers train the parents, school bus traffic safety. drivers and students by using the project materials and contents. 2) Representative teachers train the other 4th grade teachers at their schools using the materials provided to them. The training set for the students consists of 10 case studies 3) All class teachers train their students by using the original on various topics and supports the existing curriculum. This materials provided to them within the scope of the project method was intentionally chosen as the students stated they during the traffic safety course. wanted the contents to appeal to them. 4) All class teachers train the parents of their students by benefiting from the original content provided to them within Traffic Safety and First Aid Clubs and Traffic Olympics the scope of the project. Apart from the in-class practices, Traffic Safety and First Aid 5) All class teachers carry out informative activities for the Clubs are positioned as a vital element of the project. Being school bus drivers at their schools. usually inactive, these clubs are turned into the coordinating bodies for the teams in schools that develop communication A website has been developed within the scope of the project campaigns on traffic safety for the “Traffic Olympics”. (www.candostlarihareketi.com). This site aims at supporting the practices at schools and provides an interactive environment Teams can apply to the “Traffic Olympics”, a prize-competition for all students, by providing original and creative contents on among the students designed to promote active learning and traffic safety. engagement. In the first year of this prize competition, students went beyond the expectations, by simply putting into practice As of December 2014,491 schools from 45 different cities were their communication campaigns in their cities, whereas they included in the project. Approximately 135,000 students, 270,000 had originally been supposed to just ‘design’ it. It is both parents, 8,000 drivers and 4,600 teachers were reached. surprising and pleasing to witness vigorous volunteers in action, who often tended to defend that they would have no time for Youth in Traffic Action such activities. We believe the most touching outcome of the “Youth in Traffic Action” (Trafikte Gençlik Hareketi) is a project is the “Traffic Olympics”. Thanks to the success in the corporate social responsibility project supported by Goodyear first year, the competition is now open to all high schools all Turkey. The project is run within the scope of the “Traffic over the country. Responsibility Action”. Since its launch in 2010, “Traffic Responsibility Action” has always been seeking ways to reach In the first three years, “Youth in Traffic Action” reached 150 more people through collaboration with various stakeholders. teachers, 30,000 students, 60,000 parents and 1,500 school bus In an attempt to bring the business world together to achieve drivers directly in 17 different cities. Nonetheless, it is evident greater safety in traffic, “Traffic Responsibility Action” sought that the value produced for the entire stakeholders is just greater ways to establish a platform. It was during this process that than that. The project partners are highly satisfied with the TÜVTÜRK and Goodyear planted the seeds of the “Youth in outcomes of the project. Traffic Action”. Quantitative pre and post-tests were used to assess the change In face of the worrisome figures declared by the WHO with in the target groups. Alterations in the level of knowledge in regard to the cause of death for age-groups, the stakeholders all target groups are as follows: (for the 2012-2013 academic of the “Traffic Responsibility Action” had already expressed year) teachers: 8%; parents: 12%; school bus drivers: 15%; the need to address the youth, because road crashes were the students: 13%; and (for the academic year 2013-2104) teachers: number one cause of injury deaths for the age group 15-29 on a 9%; parents: 11%; school bus drivers: 14%; students: 11%. global scale. However, feedbacks from the target groups show that these figures are only representative of the positive change in the The project aims at raising awareness on traffic safety and target groups. “Traffic Olympics” alone has proved how creative developing individual responsibility among the target groups: and enthusiastic the youth can be when motivated and guided teachers of Traffic and First Aid course, school bus drivers, 12 th correctly and effectively. The people these students reached grade students and their parents. are of paramount importance, as it proves the efficiency of the project’s mechanism. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 51 It’s Your Turn to Learn, Mr. Driver “It’s Your Turn to Learn, Mr. Driver” reached its targets in the “It’s Your Turn to Learn, Mr. Driver” (İyi Dersler Şoför Amca) first year, and gained experience, feedback and motivation for is a CSR project carried out with the support of Michelin Tires the coming years. Turkey. The project is run within the scope of the “Traffic Responsibility Action”, which is also an outcome of the Communication Activities collaboration efforts. The project partners are the Ministry of Since 2010, eight introductory films were made for the “Traffic Transport, Maritime Affairs and Communications, General Responsibility Action”. The films focus on traffic safety and Commandership of Gendarmerie, TÜVTÜRK Vehicle Inspection individual responsibilities themselves. Two main films were Stations and Michelin Tires. The project started in August 2014 approved as public service ads and broadcasted on national TV after the signing of the collaboration agreement by the partners. channels to be watched at least once by the 80% of the population. Through collaboration with the stakeholders, posters and other In Turkey, students in remote areas depend on the free-ofinformative materials were distributed through their channels. charge school bus service. Every day, they travel to town By this way, messages reached millions of people. or city centers to receive education, because the number of students in where they live is not viable to open up and run a The Facebook page of the project received nearly 64,000 likes and school there. Therefore, they come together in certain schools proved to be the perfect media to run interactive communication to receive education. In the year 2014, 817,000 primary school activities. Since the beginning of the project, the Facebook page kids benefited from the school bus service (this system is called has been used to deliver special messages regularly, to hold prize ‘mobile education’). competitions, thereby always keeping the issue of traffic safety on the agenda. The Twitter account of the project has received While this system provides better education opportunity to kids, more than 10,000 followers and this channel has been used to it also brings along some risks. Traffic safety is one of them. A kid deliver messages on traffic safety. So far, more than 5,000 tweets spends at least two hours in traffic to receive education. Many have been shared. researches and studies have proved that capacity of professional drivers is not enough. While the regulation stipulates the training of school bus drivers in the mobile education system, quality and quantity, standards of such training is not clarified. Doğuş Construction Therefore, there is a need for a standard training program for Doğuş Construction Şile Diabetes Education and Life Village school bus drivers in the mobile education system. Doğuş Construction believes that it is a crucial responsibility to inform the society especially the families with genetic The project aims at developing capacity of school bus drivers. load about early diagnosis of diabetes in order to prevent and On the other hand, it also aims at increasing the capacity of the fight against this health problem. With this perspective, the trainers, raising awareness among kids and their parents. Company supports the construction of “Şile Diabetes Education and Life Village” which will be the largest diabetes education The project benefited from the personnel of the General centre of Europe. A land of 50,250 m 2 in Doğancılar Village is Commandership of Gendarmerie and Ministry of National allocated to the Turkish Diabetes Foundation by the Ministry of Education. 20 trainers from 10 cities attended to a comprehensive Treasure. The project is developed as a holiday village concept seminar. When they returned to their cities, they invited two on an area of 18,000 m 2 and with a construction area of 5,814 persons from each town to the training seminar (228 in total). In m 2. Annually, it is planned to give education on diabetes to the next step, the trainers in the towns provided trainings for all 5,000 children, youngsters and adults in this camp that includes the school bus drivers in the mobile education system. In this accommodation units, an administrative building, a conference way, the project reached 6,108 drivers directly. and meeting hall with an area of 1,714 m 2, 784 m 2 restaurant with a 184 seating, swimming pool, car park, playfield as well as The project proved to be very beneficial in its first year. This is an open air theatre. a very specific field and the project meets a very specific and vital need. Assessment and evaluation activities were carried Ethics Summit 2014 out in all trainings. In the first seminar with 20 trainers, the Doğuş Construction sponsored to “Ethics Summit 2014: Ideals overall improvement was 24.4%; it was 25.2% in the seminars and Facts” organized by TEID (Ethics and Reputation Society) in for trainers and 19.9% in the trainings for drivers. The figures Bilgi University on June 12. In the summit that brought senior are based on the correct answers given in the pre and post tests. executives of the leading companies together, the participants exchanged ideas with one another on the concepts of ethical sponsors and overall improved the sports results and financial value, sustainability and responsible leadership that are the basis stability of the club. Croatian-Turkish Friendship Organization of newly emerging business model. The participants mentioned was also supported financially. “reputation management” as one of the most significant elements besides to financial concerns for companies. Donations were provided for the establishment of ballet school in Šibenik, and for computer equipment to a disabled children’s Charity Support school in Šibenik. Doğuş İnşaat made various investments for charity events With the cooperation of Polytechnic of Šibenik, students had in the fields of education and health and for environmental the opportunity for practice at the Hotel in Turkey (D-Hotel regulation in the areas where it carried out its projects. Doğuş Maris). Students were trained for 2 months, all expenses were İnşaat provided a total amount of TL 2,439,042 for community covered. The goal was to train the young professionals for their engagement, donations and sponsorship support. future career in tourism. 25 students are now prepared for work obligations and D-Resort Šibenik will also provide them the opportunity to start their professional careers in 2015. Doğuş Media Group Social Engagement Approach Doğuş Media Group with its publications and dedicated projects Capri Palace Hotel & Spa puts forward concrete examples of its approach on corporate Support for Culture social responsibility, an important part of its corporate identity. The Hotel is a member of Fondazione Capri, local foundation The group aims to fulfill its intermediate role for the good created with the mission to protect and improve cultural and of society by supporting various projects on environment, artistic activities on the Island. Donations will be provided to education, health, and culturearts and working with civil the municipality of Anacapri for the refurbishment of Piazza society organizations, state and local authorities. Some of Vittoria, works will start in November 2015. the projects and CSOs supported in 2014 were TEGV, UNICEF, TURMEPA and Wings for Life. On 23rd April 2014, NTV aired special programs during the day, Argos in Cappadocia hosting TEGV. Viewers were called to action and significant Restoration Project awareness has been created. Within the scope of “Educating women as financial entrepreneurs and transform traditional hand skills into trade” Dialogue in the Dark Exhibition project in 2014, a restoration project was initiated for the old NTV, NTV Radio and Radio Voyage supported Dialogue in the school area (registered Republican artifacts belonging to 1930s Dark Exhibition as media sponsors. In the exhibition visitors and 1060s) in Uçhisar village, which was vacant for two years. are led by blind guides in groups through specially constructed The construction will be completed in 2015. With this area, dark rooms in which scent, sound, wind, temperature and women living in the village will be brought into economy and texture convey the characteristics of daily environments. The in social life. concept has been proved quite effective. Over the last twenty years Dialogue in the Dark has been presented in more than 30 Support for History and Culture countries and 130 cities throughout the world since its opening in Uçhisar Castle stairs were lightened. The renovation of the 1988. More than 7,000,000 visitors worldwide have experienced mosque next to the Hotel in Uçhisar village was also supported. Dialogue in the Dark and thousands of blind guides and trainers The repair and decoration of VIP hosting area located in Göreme have found employment through Dialogue in the Dark. Open Air Museum was undertaken. The Hotel mends historic village paths and the unique rock carvings remaining under these paths. By uncovering abandoned places of an underground living system spanning 3,000 years, which were doomed by D-Resort Sibenik filling with debris and garbage, the dissemination of unique Sponsorships and Internships information coming from the history was ensured. A sponsorship was provided to the local basketball club oriented towards development of young players, which attracted other CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 53 Equality Real Estate The Company has been developing strategies to bring women Social Responsibility Projects into society and social life. For open positions, priority is given Several projects are managed to contribute to the social, cultural, to female candidates within the scope of required qualifications artistic and economic development of local communities. The so that the number of female employees to form the majority. major projects include technical and administrative support as Women living in relevant regions are also prioritized in choices. per the project activities given to »» Bodrum Castle Performing Center Construction, undertaken by Doğuş Holding. With this project it was aimed to host the D-Marin Marinas Group cultural and artistic activities in Bodrum. Contributions to Social Life »» Darülaceze Okmeydanı Decoration Project including a café, a The Marine Group conducted several activities to contribute to museum, a bakery and a greenhouse. With this project which is social life. These included: D-Marin Turgutreis International undertaken by Doğuş Holding, it is aimed to provide sustainable Classical Music Festival, D-Marin Turgutreis Summer Season opportunities for the elders to have an active life and join society. Thursday Concerts, D-Marin Sea Film Festival, Šibenik Sansone »» Van Autistic Children Education Center Construction Festival, International Children Festival (Sibenik), Krka Rowing undertaken by Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. Club, GKK Šibenik Basketball Team, KK Zadar Basketball Club »» Soma Housing & Other Facilities Complex Construction Sponsorship, D-Marin Göcek Wobbly Boat Race, D-Marin Göcek undertaken by Doğuş Holding. Within the scope of the project Sailing Race, D-Marin Göcek Fishing Competition, D-Marin a living complex comprising 304 flats, a mosque and a school is Göcek Art Days, D-Marin Göcek April 23 Children’s Festival planned to be constructed. Sailors Stand, D-Marin Göcek Volleyball Tournaments, DMarin »» Recep Tayyip Erdoğan University Faculty Building Göcek Fethiye International Culture and Art Days Sponsorship, Construction undertaken by Doğuş Holding. Stand at D-Marin Göcek Tourism Week Activities, D-Marin Göcek Disabled Boat Tours, and Support Activities to D-Marin Göcek Disabled Theater. Pozitif Marinas aim to establish closer relationships with local Music for Soma communities and improve their life quality with all social (cafeAll proceeds from Pozitif ’s summer 2014 concerts and festivals, bar, restaurant, shops as commercial areas), cultural (classical including Bob Dylan, Travis, Pixies, Sun Ra Arkestra, Belleruche, music festivals, summer concerts) and sports activities (sailing One Love Festival and Babylon Soundgarden Festival, were competitions, etc.) as well as creating employment in the regions donated to Community Volunteers Foundation’s initiative, Soma they operate. Youth Scholarship, which aims to support young people who have lost their relatives in the Soma tragedy. Social Inclusion Band REIT With the slogan “Music for everyone”, Social Inclusion Band Social Responsibility Projects aims to gain active and equal participation in the society for The Company intends to contribute to the social, cultural, disadvantaged young people who suffer from various physical or artistic and economic development of communities in which it social handicaps, through volunteering musicians and talented operates. To achieve this, several social responsibility projects disadvantaged people. Social inclusion Band plays at Babylon on were implemented. The major projects include technical and a monthly basis, which gives them an opportunity to be on stage administrative support as per the project activities given to at a world-known venue, free of charge. »» Artvin Girl Vocational School Construction, undertaken by Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. »» The revision of Darüşşafaka Doğuş Sport Club. »» Van Autistic Children Education Center Construction undertaken by Ayhan Şahenk Foundation. n11.com REIDIN also implemented an exclusive project for TEV to Social Supports provide scholarships to more than 200 students. n11.com has been supporting Darüşşafaka Doğuş Basketball team since 2013. n11.com undertakes the main sponsorship of Traditional Uludağ Uğur Böcekleri (Ladybirds) Festival organized by Kahramanmaraş Search-Rescue Nature Sports and Darüşşafaka Amateur Radio Operators Club (KADAK) and Büyük Sır Village Basketball local government in Kahramanmaraş for the last two years. Darüşşafaka Doğuş Basketball was established with the cooperation protocol signed between Doğuş Holding A.Ş., Another long-term project that is supported by n11.com is Darüşşafaka Association and Darüşşafaka Sports Club. The Dreamstalk conference series, designed by perception strategist purpose of the initiative is to bring new athletes to Turkish and Koç University lecturer Semih Yalman to encourage sports, starting with basketball, keep young people away from dreaming, carry dream concept perception to positive behaviour bad habits, make people love sport, and create a significant and ensure expression opportunities outside fixed patterns. impact on Turkish and European basketball. Darüşşafaka Dreamstalk team, aiming to achieve interesting dreams, Doğuş Basketball is located in İstanbul and plays home games listened to the dreams of hundreds of students and helped to in Darüşşafaka Ayhan Şahenk Sports Hall. achieve nine of these dreams by visiting nine universities in its first year. Salıpazarı Port Management and Investments Support for Istanbul Design Biennial Doğuş Related Group Under the coordination of the Salıpazarı Port Management and Sponsorships Investments, Doğuş Group and Bilgili Holding were one of the Doğuş Related Group provides sponsorship support to Unicef, five co-sponsors of the 2 nd IKSV İstanbul Design Biennial, which Tohum Autism Foundation, FODER (The Financial Literacy took place between November 1st and December 14th 2014. As Association), Fundraising School, Support to Life Association, part of this co-sponsorship, Doğuş Group and Bilgili Holding Hope Foundation for Children with Cancer, ALS MHN hosted the Academy Programme of the Biennial at Antrepo 7 Association, Solidarity Association for the Physical Disabled, located in the Salıpazarı Port Area. KAGIDER (Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey), Physically Handicapped People Foundation, Turkey Breast During the six week period, Antrepo 7, which was opened Foundation and Koruncuk-Turkey Children in Need of Protection to public for the first time, hosted the Biennial’s Academy Foundation. Programme as well as other exhibitions, seminars, conversations and workshops. The Academy Programme featured 72 projects organised by over 33 academic institutions from İstanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus, Europe REIDIN and the United States. Throughout the Biennial, Antrepo 7 Contributions to Society attracted over 30,000 guests. REIDIN is aware of the importance of social responsibility and making contributions to the society. Having prioritized the education topic, it is aiming to create a brighter future for BUSINESS ETHICS8 children. Therefore the Company analyzed the needs at Aksaray Eskil Elementary School and provided a printer and other paperwork needs. Business ethics is among the important and vital principles of Doğuş Group values and strategies. We pursue the highest ethical standards In Van, REIDIN helped to establish a library at Van Hıdır in all aspects of our business. Ethical business principles and Elementary School that had no books at all. REIDIN sent out implementations, and audits with monitoring systems are crucial about 100 books that were chosen by a teacher, who had the assets that we encourage for our Group companies. professional experience and knowledge on the needs of children. 8 Doğuş Group ethical principles can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/en/investor-relations/corporate-governance-principles/code-of-ethics.aspx CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 55 Doğuş Holding provides Prevention of Criminally Related Money Laundering Anti-corruption Processes and Terrorist Financing training with regard to anti-corruption The main responsibility regarding Doğuş Holding’s ethical policies and practices. This training must be taken every two performance is vested in the Audit Committee, which reports years. 16,500 employees completed the training in 2013-2014. directly to The Board of Directors. The Internal Audit Department Anti-corruption policies and practices are also mentioned is responsible for auditing the Group companies’ effectiveness within the Ethical Principles and Righteousness Rules training; in internal control systems. Furthermore the internal auditors 17,000 employees received this training. are important actors with regard to consulting, assurance, collaboration, suggestions, monitoring and the investigation processes of anti-corruption cases. GarantiBank International Even though designing internal controls for preventing, Anti Corruption System detecting and managing corruption is under the responsibility GarantiBank International (GBI) is compliant with all applicable of the Company’s management, evaluating the effectiveness of laws and regulations relating to the prevention of money the companies’ internal control systems is always included in laundering and terrorism finance. These are implemented our audit plan. In addition, internal auditors provide consulting, and enforced within the Bank by means of written policies security, collaboration, advice, observation and investigation and procedures and supervised by Garanti Bank’s Compliance services in line with the guidance of audit committee during the Committee and Compliance Officer. All employees of GBI corruption management process of the Company. Corruption take the e-learning module ‘Compliance and Integrity’ which audits are regularly performed in all units of the Companies. includes GarantiBank anti-corruption policies and procedures. Corruption audit may also be performed in line with the The Anti-Money Laundering, Anti-Terrorism Financing & Antidirective of senior management. Studies are carried out through Corruption Policy of GarantiBank International N.V. establish risk matrices created for the operational process suspicious for the general framework for maintaining the fight against corruption, and the financial effect of the corruption is sought. money laundering, terrorist financing and corruption. The Third Party Due Diligence Policy of GarantiBank International Potential corruption risks are monitored as a part of security N.V. outlines rules of engagement regarding third parties and practices, the adequacy of relevant controls is evaluated and the due diligence process to be applied for assessing the level recommendations are made for improvements. The risks of corruption risk associated with third parties which may be that may lead to abuse and corruption are included in the engaged with GarantiBank International N.V. Third parties checklists created for all operational and financial processes. identified as being “in-scope” for risk based due diligence must The topic is also mentioned under the title of “misconduct” in be assessed to determine the level of risk and appropriate level ethical principles procedure published by Human Resources of due diligence. Department. During audit studies every three months, the fulfillment of improvement suggestions related to internal The Gifts, Entertainment and Hospitality Policy of GarantiBank control systems of companies are controlled. In addition, International N.V. outlines acceptable and non-acceptable denunciations made to companies’ senior management are behaviour(s) for giving and accepting gifts and hospitality to evaluated immediately by Internal Audit Department and ensure compliance with anti-corruption, anti-bribery laws investigations are carried out. and the Code of Conduct and Ethics Policy of GarantiBank International N.V. All new recruits are provided with the ethical principles procedure. The procedure is also available on the intranet and human resources portal for easy access. Garanti Bank SA Measures against Corruption Risks The Bank has implemented measures to timely identify and Garanti Bank monitor potential conflict of interest situations which may Anti-corruption and Risk Management System generate corruption risks. There are annual checks in this There are various control mechanisms in risky processes to respect and also there is an alert procedure for whistleblowing. avoid corruption cases. The effectiveness and adequacy of The employees receive training in this regard in the induction these controls are tested by audit departments. The Bank program and annually in mandatory compliance trainings (online and in class), followed by online testing. As a result of and Process Management Directorate, and later to all managers this ongoing process, 100% of employees are trained about antiand directors in 2014. corruption policies and procedures. All senior managers working in Doğuş Oto received the mobbing training as well. A total of 644 man/hours of training was given; 8 directors, 52 managers, 67 officials attended the training. Garanti Fleet Code of Ethics Garanti Fleet Management Services SA. defines ‘Code of Ethics’ as the fundamental policies, procedures and rules that all TÜVTÜRK executives and employees are obligated to comply with. These Code of Ethics rules are designed to ensure that Garanti Fleet Management Code of Ethics booklet designed for all employees and executives and employees display high standards of conduct, stakeholders has been published. In addition, each information are aware of the impact of their conduct and attitudes on the and denunciation from Call Center and Ethics Hotline are incorporation, and display highly qualified behaviors. recorded and evaluated. 600 people received code of ethics Also, most of the departments are scheduled for audits every training. year, else every second year. Internal controls are performed every 2 weeks, every month or quarterly depending on internal control plan of Internal Audit Department. In 2014, 20 employees were educated about Internal Audit, Code of Ethics, Anti-Fraud Policy and Compliance Policy by Internal Audit Department. d.ream Total training hours for all employees were 12 hours. Ethical Principles Ethical Principles Handbook was prepared and Ethics Hotline was established in 2014. d.ream Ethics Committee was established within the scope of ethical principles. The foundation purpose of Ethics Committee is to support the Board Doğuş Otomotiv of Directors with audit compliance principles, programs and Code of Ethics9 methods of d.ream, and focus on compliance problems. The Doğuş Otomotiv established a Code of Ethics Committee to ethical principles, published under the name “Ethical Principles prepare a Corporate Code of Ethics, to include real case studies Manual”, will be printed as a booklet and distributed to all from the automotive retailing and services sector and complied employees, and ethical principles training will be provided as with international ethics standards, in 2011. The committee well. 450 people received the “Abuse Prevention Training”. members worked on the code for one year and in 2012 the Doğuş Otomotiv Code of Ethics, with the Board of Directors’ approval, was transmitted to the employees and the public. HUMAN RIGHTS Doğuş Otomotiv Code of Ethics is the first corporate ethics code in Turkey which was not adapted from international samples and includes local and sectoral case studies. Until January 2015, Doğuş Group Human Rights Policy 377 people received 188.5 man/hours code of ethics training. At Doğuş Group, we manage our operations in compliance with local laws and regulations, United Nations Global Compact principles lead The Company also started its mobbing trainings in 2013. The the Group’s Human Rights Policy. Our Human Rights Policy also aim of the training is to help participants distinguish, take refers to the main principles of United Nations Universal Declaration measures against and produce solutions for mobbing concept; of Human Rights and its protocols, United Nations Convention of raise awareness about the psychological effects of mobbing International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, ILO and its legal consequences. The training was first given to the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the Executive Committee and the employees of Human Resources Vienna Declaration and Program of Action. 9 Doğuş Otomotiv Code of Ethics can be found on the corporate web site at http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/en/corporate-responsibility/code-of-ethics.aspx CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 57 Doğuş Group; Doğuş Construction »» Gives special importance to establishing dialogue platforms Human Rights Training regarding human rights while operating our businesses and ensuring Employees are informed about human rights during orientation. its continuity. 21 people received a total of 73.5 hours of orientation in 2014. »» Takes precautions to protect the rights of local communities. »» Requires the human rights approach from every business partner, including suppliers. »» Conducts and encourages training and awareness programs Grand Hyatt and Park Hyatt İstanbul regarding human rights in its value chain and among employees. Human Rights Training Human rights trainings are given to all new recruits within the Since its foundation Doğuş Group has shared a set of core values scope of orientation program. Refresher training is given to all based on integrity, understanding, excellence, creativity, unity and other employees once a year. 100% of employees of Grand Hyatt responsibility. These values continue to guide and drive business and Park Hyatt took this training. decisions made by each company within the Group. Salıpazarı Port Management and Investments Doğuş Holding Security Trainings Human Rights Training for the Security Employees In parallel with ISPS (International Ship and Port Facility To support the implementation of the Human Rights Policy, Security) trainings, Security Department receives training on Doğuş Holding provided an updated human rights training illegal human trafficking. Training on narcotics is also given in program to the security employees, and continued to develop coordination with the General Directorate of Security. useful new corporate tools in 2014. 84 security employees attended human rights trainings in 2014. Garanti Bank Human Rights Training 17,000 Bank employees received human rights training. The ideal time to complete the training is 3.5 hours, a total of 59,500 hours of training were provided. Newly recruited security employees receive basic security training and refresher training every 5 years, which include human rights topics. Ethical principles are published on the Bank’s intranet. In-class and web-based trainings are organized on ethical principles as well. During audit activities, compliance with ethical principles are taken into account and the employees are informed when required. 04 EN V IRONMEN TA L ENG AG E MEN T ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS PROGRAMS ENGAGEMENT Doğuş Group’s environmental awareness approach mainly depends on employees as an important part of the implementation processes, because it is their engagement that will increase the probability of a successful implementation of all kinds of environmental practices. Employees are an important source of knowledge, expertise, and We monitor the environmental ingenuity when it comes to the Company, its procedures and its equipment. performances of the Group companies In addition, community awareness also should be the part of the with care and support their efforts to environmental awareness approach as progress towards a more sustainable approach to business is essential if we are to compete minimize the current and potential in a reality of limited resources and interlinked ecological systems. We believe in this double effect of awareness to reach successful and negative environmental impacts of effective results regarding environmental awareness. products and services within the ecologic and social environment. Doğuş Holding DenizTemiz Foundation Since 2007, Doğuş Holding has been one of the corporate Doğuş Group Environmental Responsibility Policy members of the DenizTemiz Turmepa Foundation. DenizTemiz We acknowledge that environmental responsibility is directly related Foundation was founded on April 8, 1994 by leading business to the change of communities’ consumption trends and culture, and institutions and the marine sector with the aim of protecting therefore has a very powerful effect on human rights as well. Doğuş the seas and the 8,333 kilometer coast line that stretches Group is committed to behave in alignment with its environmental around most of Turkey from Hopa to the İskenderun region. policy and encourages all Group companies to follow suit. Environmental Awareness The key elements of our environmental responsibility policy are To create environmental awareness among employees, visuals stated below: related to water savings and energy are shared on LED screens. Since the Company has a smart building, electricity and water Doğuş Group: facilities are equipped with censors. By changing Open Garden »» Is committed to comply with regulatory and voluntary codes and Irrigation System from dripping to sprinkler, 5,000 tons of plans its business processes with environmental consciousness. annual water savings were achieved. The vegetable oil wastes »» Requires environmental management approach from its business are collected by the municipality. partners and supply chain. »» Analyzes the environmental impact of its investment and supply Inspection and maintenance of shuttle buses, which have chain processes, and pursues new technologies to minimize to be less than 5 years old as stated in the contracts, are potential negative impacts. regularly reported. Service routes are planned to be optimum. »» Builds systems and supports awareness programs in order to decrease The vehicles (rented and owned) have diesel and BlueMotion paper consumption, and encourages the use of recycled paper. systems. »» Operates in accordance with environmental management systems which shape our consuming behaviour, waste management processes and ensures effective logistics management. »» Encourages its employees to act with environmental consciousness when making operational decisions and conducting their processes, and strives to create environmental awareness. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 61 Ayhan Şahenk Foundation Garanti Bank SA Reforestation Activities Bucharest International Marathon Within the scope of environmental studies, spring and fall Garanti Bank participated and competed in the Bucharest maintenance of Ayhan Şahenk Sevgi Forests, created by 550,000 International Marathon, as part of Team Panda, alongside saplings in Bodrum, Marmaris, Niğde, Şanlıurfa and Beykoz, WWF Romania. Garanti team members ran in the marathon in Alemdağ and Silivri districts of İstanbul was made; 1,500 new order to raise funds which were subsequently directed to WWF saplings, including 1,300 grown-up ones, were planted. Romania projects which support the protection of nature and the environment. Garanti Bank Environmental Management System Garanti Asset Management After the audits performed by the German independent Green IT audit institution, TÜV SÜD, in October 2012, Garanti Bank By switching to Solid State disk system with low energy Environmental Management System was certified with ISO consumption in PCs, less heat emission and power consumption 14001. In 2014, the System has reached to 605 branch/region/ were achieved in systems. Magnetic tape use was stopped by unit directorate buildings. Environmental Management System abandoning the data cartridge system, thus, the use of these is planned for all buildings until the end of 2015. materials, produced with carbon and considered as chemical waste, has been annulled. By making periodic maintenance WWF Sponsorship (cleaning, fan maintenance, etc.) of PCs, the heating rate and Garanti has been the main sponsor of WWF Turkey for 22 years thus carbon emissions and electricity costs were reduced. Energy with the slogan Garanti for Nature. WWF is the world’s leading saving PCs with no fan are preferred in new PC purchases. conservation organization with 2,000 conservation projects Energy consumption is also reduced by keeping closing, funded and managed, and 4,000 employees worldwide. standby and screen saver time-out settings of monitors and PCs to minimum, thus enabling the shutdown of these devices when For any purchase paid with WWF Bonus Card, Garanti not in use. Old PCs are donated after re-configuring them for Bank donates, on behalf of the credit cardholder, 0.5% of the further use. By sending not-usable devices (printer cartridges) purchase’s value to WWF projects, for preserving the protected to relevant places for recycling, contribution to the environment areas in the Carpathians, along the Danube and in the Danube is achieved as well. Delta. TÜVTÜRK GarantiBank International Green IT Recicleta The central servers used in the data center have been Garanti Bank supports a “green” philosophy within the company consolidated and the number of servers was reduced. The and also outside of it. Thus, the Company joined the Recicleta new servers in this consolidation are more effective in terms project, the first carbon neutral project in Romania, aiming to of electricity consumption; energy savings were also targeted. collect paper waste from office buildings and recycle it. The Paper consumption was reduced in all stations with the paper is transported by cargo-bicycles, unique in Romania. dissemination of document archiving system. In this way, both People with disabilities ride the bicycles, thus having a job. paper and toner savings were achieved by taking less printout. The production of printer toners in unsuitable conditions or Green IT their disposal seriously threatens the environment and human Virtualization studies of server systems constituting IT health. Therefore an environmentally friendly project was infrastructure continued to reduce energy consumptions, carried out with the support of Lexmark Turkey. In this project, carbon emissions and purchasing costs. The card printing the deposited toner wastes are collected in a center and brought system in the printer inventory was completed and the number to use again by recycling in proper conditions, without harming of prints and paper consumption was decreased. A Service environment. Management System was commissioned and several approval processes including invoice approval and purchase request forms have been moved into digital environment, reducing paper use. Studies were initiated about the scrap sale of Doğuş Construction electronic waste; licensed companies will be commissioned to Environmental Interaction Responsibility dispose of electronic devices. Soil movements are monitored regularly on and below the surface in order to minimize environmental effects, also relative measurements on gas, noise, dust are made and necessary measures are taken. Not only washing pools are placed at the D-Hotel Marİs entrance and exit points of the sites in order to wash vehicles’ Environmental Activities wheels, but also surrounding roads are washed and cleaned Fertilizers are produces in the compost field and drip irrigation regularly by street washers. Water used at the sites is filtered by systems are used. Unconscious fishing is not allowed in the means of holding tanks, cleaned before being transferred to the bay, and measures are taken for the yachts coming to bay not sewage system. Hazardous wastes such as chemical materials, to pollute the sea. Environmental cleaning and forestation used motor oil and batteries are collected and disposed of in activities are organized continuously, making shelters for birds hazardous waste collection centers. Also, wastes such as paper and squirrels as well. The Company cooperates with TÜRÇEV and boxes are delivered to recycling plants. for cleaning beaches and environment for seven years. Environmental Awareness among Employees Under the responsibility of D-Green committee, trainings are All employees receive “Orientation Trainings” which include organized in schools and in-house, and events for Blue Flag Environmental Management System practices. All employees Environmental activities to raise awareness among local people. are informed about the environmental effects of operations By building teams under D-Green Committee established in with “Environmental Handbook for Employees”. “Zero Harm to 2013, the 5 km-road outside the hotel, marine debris in the bay Environment” is targeted in projects. Environmental trainings caused by the boats, the Tavşan (Rabbit) Island, the beaches and are conducted regularly and drills are implemented. sea of surrounding bays are regularly cleaned, the rabbits in the island fed, all waste separated and necessary trainings for employees provided. Reforestation activities were carried out for the wasteland, which occurred as a result of the fire in the Doğuş Media Group forest behind the hotel. NTV Green Screen Project Since 2008, NTV’s summer lineup has been mainly composed of environmental programs, called the “NTV Green Screen”. This project calls attention to environmental problems and raises D-Resort Göcek public awareness on related issues, responding to questions Environmental Activities and correcting common misunderstandings about “green” For the facility (Blue Point Beach), which is located in the issues, including global warming, renewable energy, organic Fethiye-Göcek special environmental protection zone, the diets, green holidays etc. in a variety of formats. The project environmentally sensitive blue flag certification is targeted. is being supported by other brands of the Doğuş Media Group Coastal and seabed cleaning of Kumburnu District was done as well, and the Group has been awarded prizes by NGOs and by social responsibility teams of D-Hotel Maris and D-Resort academic institutions for its efforts and contributions made to Göcek in May, 2014. With the support of these teams, bins were environmental issues. placed for collecting waste, saplings planted and environmental CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 63 arrangements conducted. A presentation was made for the Aslancık and Boyabat Energy elementary school students of Göcek Deniz Temiz School, the Environmental Management Systems sister school of the Company, and brochures were distributed. ISO9001 Quality Management System, ISO14001 Environmental Management System, ISO18001 Occupational Health and Safety Management System and ISO50001 Energy Management System certificates were received in 2014. The Company is the first Park Hyatt İstanbul Hydroelectric Power Plant to get ISO50001 Energy Management Environmental Certificate System Certificate in Turkey. Projects such as switching to LED After the audit of Ministry of Culture and Tourism, lights, installing sensors and system changes were conducted Environmentally Responsible Tourism Facility Certificate has to reduce energy consumption. Risk management, quality been taken as a result of the studies and measures carried out in certification and carbon certification studies were also carried out. the Hotel in 2014. Salıpazarı Port Management and Investments Argos in Cappadocia LEED Certificate Environmental Activities Current project aims for LEED Gold Certificate, and all Aware of the global warming problem, the Company management buildings will be constructed in line with LEED/BREEAM is developing projects in Central Anatolia region where drought standards. Several measures, including the use of seaway in risk is really high. Projects include: finding original groundwater logistics practices and procedures to be applied for construction resources, whose streambeds are corrupted, repairing and vehicles during their entrance and exit, are planned for the making them usable again; establishing rain water drainage constructions. system and collecting the water in original rock carving cisterns; and restoring the original cisterns filled with mud and partly demolished since they were not used for many years. ENERGY EFFICIENCY D-Marin Marinas Group Our environmental responsibility policy commits us to procure and Environmental Activities use energy efficiently, cost-effectively and responsibly, and we expect Major infrastructure studies were initiated under the all Group companies to use energy efficiently at their facilities, to environmental opinion policy to be an exemplary marina preserve current natural resources, reduce carbon emissions and by using solar and wind energy. Efforts are undertaken to support all energy efficiency programs. disseminate water saving measures. At Doğuş Group we lead and promote energy efficiency programs to Activities to contribute to environmental contribution included: ensure that the Group companies do their business in accordance with Cooperation with Turmepa DenizTemiz Foundation in Turkey, the our environmental responsibility policy. Blue Flag Award, Products Made of Recycling Products and their Exhibition, Environmental Training for Captains and Sailors, Seabed Cleaning (D-Marin Turgutreis, D-Marin Didim, D-Marin Göcek, D-Marin Mandalina, D-Marin Dalmacija, Flisvos, Garanti Technology Gouvia, Lefkas), 5 Gold Anchor Award (D-Marin Turgutreis, Activities for Energy Savings D-Marin Didim, D-Marin Göcek, D-Marin Mandalina, Flisvos). Motion sensor fluorescent luminaries are used in garages. The batteries of UPS’ (about 1000 pieces) are given to the Company in charge of changing the batteries, to be delivered to battery recyclers determined by the Ministry. The office lights that are not used, are put out by the employees on duty after 21.00. Six meeting rooms with video conference facility were opened for use in Güneşli Campus. With the iPads provided to all Unit Managers, Executive Vice Presidents, Branch Managers and Special attention was given to the protection of natural areas and field technicians, all users were given the opportunity to carry resources within the projects carried out in 2014. Starting from out video conference from their location. DC precise coolers, this idea, several applications were implemented in the new whose efficiency decreased in the last three years, were replaced buildings such as using recycled materials, automatic lighting, with new systems. 85% of the physical servers in the Data Center individual lighting control, sensor water use, using ambient was virtualized. temperature regulated heating systems, and using wooden and similar materials. D-Resort Grand Azur MARMARİS Activities for Energy Savings Doğuş Center Maslak Several studies are carried out to reduce energy consumption; use Activities for Energy Savings of energy saving and LED armatures and frequency controlled The status of insulation is detected by taking thermal camera systems are the leading ones among these studies. Thanks to shots, and the power consumption of engines is monitored. energy saving lights, nearly 10% energy savings were achieved. Lighting levels are controlled by making measurements with The Building Energy manager makes sure that all equipment and luxmeter. A curtain system was established to limit the solar devices are A-class and have high performance. The Company light from skylight windows, which was installed in previous has a Blue Flag international environment certification and years with the aim of savings. Thus, energy to be used for cooling continues its efforts for the Green Star certificate. There are also in the summer was saved. A sensor system was established to studies to generate hot water from solar energy. For renewable reduce the electricity used by the escalator. energy use, wind turbine and photovoltaic panel researches are conducted. Following air quality control inside the building, the working hours of fresh air facilities were limited, thus saving energy. An energy efficiency contract was signed with YKS Tesis Yönetim A.Ş., and studies were carried out by authorized engineers Villa Dubrovnik for energy saving. Elevator cabin and revolving door lightings Activities for Energy Savings were changed with LED luminaries. Carbon emissions were In the laundry there is a standard set up for the softer program measured and evaluated. on washing machines to wash on eco-programs with lower temperatures for lower energy consumption. The Hotel has central software for smart room system, implemented in all hotel residence, which can be regulated on optimal temperature Pozitif depending on outside temperature. In that way the guest can Activities for Energy Savings control air condition only 3 degrees up or down. The light and All lighting units located within the venue are selected from AC in resident areas are only turning automatically, when guests energy efficient armatures. Photocell wash basin is preferred or employees are in the room, by inserting the room card in the to achieve water savings. In the long term, energy consumption switch board panel. of activities carried out within Pozitif is planned to be reduced with solar panels and similar alternative ways. All waste of the events is separated and recycled regularly as well. Doğuş Real Estate Activities for Energy Savings To reduce energy consumption, all lighting applications have been programmed with sensor systems for activation according to working hours of office employees. In addition, the employees can use the office phone to increase or reduce lighting intensity according to the need of the environment. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 65 WASTE MANAGEMENT Electronic Waste Project Garanti Bank continued to recycle electronic waste and encourage its employees via informative e-mails to collect their Doğuş Group is active in eight core businesses: banking and financial electronic waste at home. Garanti Bank also placed e-waste services, automotive, construction, media, tourism and services, real recycling bins in headquarters and Training Center in Dikilitaş. estate, energy and entertainment. With around 250 companies and In order to increase the awareness of the employees in this area, over 50,000 employees, we have a strong effect on communities and an exhibition was organized in headquarters in Zincirlikuyu the related areas of responsibility. Every sector where we do business with the artworks created from electronic waste in collaboration has various impacts on the environment, and each of our Companies with Mimar Sinan University. Garanti Bank participated in has their own strategy to manage their impact. Waste management is “HP Planet Partners Program” for the disposal of waste printer one of the core elements of environmental responsibility. cartridges. Doğuş Group companies have detailed waste management and disposal processes, according to their products and services. All Group companies comply with the laws and regulations concerning waste Ayson Geotechnical management. Waste Disposal System Wooden, iron and metal wastes are collected separately in waste storages and sent for disposal. Waste oil in cafeteria is collected by the food subcontractor and given to authorized oil Ayhan Şahenk Foundation collector companies. In addition, medical waste is collected in Paper Recycling accordance with regulations within the scope of the contract Waste paper collected from Doğuş Group companies and from made with municipalities and sent for disposal. Ayson has had other companies sent for recycling were 454,136 and 81,964 kg in ISO 14001 Environmental Management System Certificate since 2014 respectively, totaling 536,100 kg. 2009, fulfilling all the obligations required by this system. The goals of the Waste Paper Project are to support social responsibility projects with the income obtained from waste paper collected, and raise awareness among new and potential Körfez Aviation companies of the Group to ensure that they make use of their Emission Standards waste paper through the Foundation. The Company fulfills its responsibilities to comply with carbon emission measurements published by ICAO (International Civil Aviation Organization), of which our country is a member. Among the studies carried out are rearranging approaching Garanti Bank and departing patterns of aircrafts at the optimum level, and Carbon Footprint developing takeoff and landing procedures to ensure minimal Considering the fact that the first step to fight against climate noise effect for the residential areas around the airport. New change is to determine greenhouse gas emission profile, Garanti generation aircraft engines reduce the air pollution with Bank has been measuring its carbon footprint since 2009 and technological innovations. In addition, there is a separate implementing a number of initiatives to manage it. Garanti payment item, called “emission surcharge”, among the fees paid Bank shares its greenhouse gas emissions and climate change to the authorities in EU airports. strategy primarily to CDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) since 2010. The Bank was awarded with “Carbon Performance Leadership” by CDP, which is considered the world’s largest environmental initiative, on November 26, 2012. Garanti Bank obtained limited audit for the first time in CDP reporting in 2014, and was awarded “CDP 2014 Turkey Climate Disclosure Leadership”, receiving the highest score among 42 companies in the assessment of Turkey Climate Disclosure Leadership Index of CDP. Boyabat Energy D-Hotel Maris Emission Reduction Project Waste Water Treatment Systems Within the scope of Voluntary Emission Reduction Project 68% of total water consumption of the Hotel is regained from mechanisms of Boyabat, Verified Carbon Standard and Social waste water plant. While the irrigation of about 90 hectares area Carbon Standard rules and requirements have been developed. with shrubs and trees is conducted with drip irrigation system, In this context, the related documents were received and audited sprinkler systems are used for lawns due to savings. Frequency by an independent firm. Thanks to clean energy production, control is available in pumps to reduce energy consumption in there is an amount of 497,174 tons of CO2, whose verification irrigation systems. has been made and is available for sale. An estimated annual emission reduction of the project was determined as 580,882 tons of CO2. Grand Hyatt Activities to Reduce Water Consumption During the “Green Star” Environmentally Sensitive WATER CONSUMPTION Accommodation Facility Document application process and after certification, detailed consumption analyses were carried out to monitor the consumption of all outlets by installing filter Doğuş Group strives to manage water in an environmentally sound counters. Information regarding water savings is given on TV and socially responsible manner, while cost-effectively addressing the Info Channel in guests rooms. Water savings were achieved by short-term and long-term water related risks to our businesses. Our using efficient perlators in the sinks and showers available in recent focus has been on developing awareness based water strategy, staff areas. driven by individual business units, and focusing on assets where fresh water is scarce or effluent quality is challenged. Our “Environmental Responsibility Policy” states our commitment to developing management practices that conserve and protect freshwater resources and enhance the efficiency of water usage at our facilities. TÜVTÜRK Activities to Reduce Water Consumption Several studies, such as sensor faucet, waterless urinals, the installation of rainwater collection and filtration well, are carried out in selected stations. In addition, water consumption in stations is recorded at the local level with water consumption charts and additional measures are taken at the local level. Doğuş Construction Waste Water Treatment Systems Waste water treatment systems are used in some of construction sites and water from treatment systems is used for road cleaning and tire washing. The system is regularly controlled by Project Machine Supply Units, and water loss is avoided by carrying out maintenance and repairs. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 67 PERFORM A NCE DATA 05 Performance data LOCAL ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTION DATA Doğuş Holding 2013 2014 Local Purchasing (TL) N/A 112,692,794 LOCAL CONTRIBUTION DATA LOCAL PURCHASING (TL) Local Purchase Value Local Purchase Value Local Purchase Ratio Local Purchase Ratio Company (TL) 2013 (TL) 2014 (%) 2013 (%) 2014 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 10 N/A 90,000,000 N/A 100 Garanti Bank International NV N/A 29,854,575 N/A 76 Garanti Bank SA 11 40,227,000 53,253,000 94 89 Garanti Pension & Life 8,668,000 11,273,000 100 100 Garanti Leasing N/A 5,263,000 N/A 100 Garanti Asset Management 8,921,633 7,368,489 95 73 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 982,000,000 999,000,000 15 13 vdf Group N/A 5,273,990 N/A 100 TÜVTÜRK N/A 63,000,000 N/A 100 Construction Doğuş Construction 140,000,000 209,264,109 55 63 Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. 183,477,341 5,700,000 100 95 Media Doğuş Media Group N/A 661,274,779 N/A 88 Tourism & Services D-Hotel Maris N/A 52,486,333 N/A 94 D-Resort Göcek N/A 45,370,433 N/A 99 D-Resort Grand Azur N/A 21,696,191 N/A 98 D-Resort Sibernik N/A 1,820,000 N/A 7 Grand Hyatt İstanbul N/A 17,279,163 N/A 98 Park Hyatt N/A 4,540,085 N/A 87 Capri Palace N/A 7,350,000 N/A 75 Villa Dubrovnik N/A 7,287,026 N/A 80 Argos in Cappadocia N/A 4,139,151 N/A 90 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 69 Maça Kızı N/A 11,320,410 N/A 93 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur N/A 8,782,622 N/A 94 Doğuş Retail Group N/A 49,095,900 N/A 44 D-Marin Turgutreis N/A 2,833,293 N/A 100 D-Marin Göcek N/A 2,394,995 N/A 99 D-Marin Didim N/A 2,928,679 N/A 99 D-Marin Mandalina N/A 3,295 N/A 74 D-Marin Borik N/A 517 N/A 74 D-Marin Dalmacija N/A 21,171 N/A 93 Zea Marina N/A 495,841 N/A 90 Lefkas Marina N/A 226,954 N/A 93 Gouvia Marina N/A 580,287 N/A 98 D-Life / Henri Chenots N/A 3,558,523 N/A 10 Körfez Havacılık N/A 2,246,000 N/A 25 Real Estate Doğuş Reit N/A 46,049,660 N/A 100 Doğuş Real Estate N/A 216,622 N/A N/A Doğuş Center Maslak N/A 4,834,714 N/A 100 Energy Doğuş Enerji Üretim ve Ticaret A.Ş. N/A 381,900,631 N/A N/A Boyabat HEPP 3,913,672 180,379,264 100 100 Aslancık HEPP 244,729 7,976,307 100 100 New Investment Pozitif Group N/A 91,093,591 N/A 88 Doğuş Müşteri Sistemleri A.Ş. N/A 5,263,784 N/A 40 Doğuş Planet 2,033,051 1,680,000 85 90 Doğuş Avenu Dış. Tic. A.Ş. N/A 38,200,000 N/A 69 Salıpazarı Liman İşletmeciliği ve Yatırımları A.Ş. N/A 14,723,681 N/A 98 10 Includes Central purchases for certain goods and services only. 11 Figures incl VAT. EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT DATA COLLECTIVE BARGAINING TABLE Collective Bargaining Collective Bargaining % of Employees % of Employees Company Agreement 2013 Agreement 2014 Covered 2013 Covered 2014 GarantiBank International N.V. Yes Yes 95 80 TÜVTÜRK Yes N/A 88.8 0 D-Hotel Maris N/A Yes N/A 10.5 D-Resort Grand Azur Yes Yes 71.03 79 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur Yes Yes 79.88 64.9 Doğuş Construction Yes Yes 75.12 70.94 PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT Total Employee Total Employee % Total workforce % Total workforce Company Performance Viewed Performance Viewed 2013 2014 2013 2014 Holding Doğuş Holding 137 135 100 87 Foundation Ayhan Şahenk Vakfı N/A 5 N/A 100 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 16,324 16,821 93 96 GarantiBank International N.V. 165 N/A 70 N/A Garanti Bank SA 889 857 90 90.40 GarantiBank Moscow 82 N/A 100 N/A Garanti Pension & Life 732 N/A 85 N/A Garanti Leasing 155 157 95 100 Garanti Asset Management 50 35 88 53.85 Garanti Securities 104 N/A 100 N/A Garanti Factoring 242 188 100 100 Garanti Mortgage 73 12 66 100 69 Garanti Payment Systems 623 733 84 100 First Period: 1161 First Period: 94 Garanti Technology 1181 100 Second Period: 1234 Second Period: 93.5 Garanti Kültür N/A 19 N/A 82.6 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 587 671 100 100 Vdf Group 193 242 100 100 TÜVTÜRK N/A 102 N/A 92 LeasePlan 73 83 100 86.46 Media Doğuş Media Group 1,190 1,221 87 96 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group N/A 47 N/A 76 D-Hotel Maris N/A 36 N/A 21 D-Resort Göcek N/A 13 N/A 21 D-Resort Grand Azur N/A 24 N/A 20 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 291 96 100 97 Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas 106 84 100 79 Antur N/A 49 N/A 86 Doğuş Retail Group 155 N/A 100 N/A D-Marin Didim N/A 3 N/A 10 D-Gym 73 N/A 100 N/A Körfez Havacılık 31 N/A 100 N/A CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 71 Total Employee Total Employee % Total workforce % Total workforce Company Performance Viewed Performance Viewed 2013 2014 2013 2014 Real Estate Doğuş Real Estate 33 33 90.91 63.46 Doğuş Center Maslak N/A 4 N/A 100 Energy D Enerji Üretim ve Yatırım A.Ş. 14 13 100 93 Doğuş Enerji Toptan Elektrik Ticaret A.Ş. 6 6 100 86 Doğuş Enerji Üretim ve Ticaret A.Ş. 33 25 25 76 Entertainment d.ream A.L.E Gıda ve Turizm Tic. A. Ş. N/A 110 N/A 77 Havana Yayıncılık Turizm ve Gıda Paz. Tic. A. Ş. N/A 383 N/A 62 Bal Turizm ve Gıda Pazarlama A. Ş. N/A 48 N/A 91 Dafne Yayıncılık Turizm ve Gıda Pazarlama A. Ş. N/A 5 N/A 71 Büke Turizm ve Lokantacılık Tic. A. Ş. N/A 65 N/A 92 Zuma Turizm ve Gıda Paz.Tic. A. Ş. N/A 48 N/A 62 New Investments Doğuş Planet 180 165 96 72 Doğuş Teknoloji N/A 139 N/A 84 Reidin N/A 33 N/A 39 DGSK N/A 5 N/A 100 Doğuş Avenu Dış. Tic. Aş. N/A 191 N/A 100 12 4 Garanti Mortgage employees were transffered to Garanti Bank in the 2013. Therefore, although Garanti Mortgage has 69 employees, 73 employees’ performance were reviewed. NEW EMPLOYMENT AND PROMOTIONS Women Women New New Women Women Total Total Employee Employee Company Employment Employment Employment Employment Promotion Promotion Promoted Promoted 2013 2014 New 2013 New 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Holding Doğuş Holding 27 38 15 25 12 9 4 5 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 3,786 1,878 2,109 1,102 3,469 2,514 2,229 1,597 GarantiBank International N.V. N/A 24 N/A 9 N/A 34 N/A 19 Garanti Bank SA N/A 283 N/A 221 N/A 31 N/A 24 GarantiBank Moscow N/A 17 N/A 11 N/A 2 N/A 2 Garanti Pension & Life 324 304 238 221 200 158 137 108 Garanti Leasing 20 33 10 21 11 13 4 4 Garanti Asset Management 13 19 8 10 7 5 3 2 Garanti Securities 27 24 8 11 8 4 6 1 Garanti Factoring 67 15 46 6 36 18 21 7 Garanti Mortgage 42 25 10 2 16 5 9 1 Garanti Fleet Management 25 18 13 5 7 0 2 0 Garanti Payment Systems 535 347 224 169 163 29 45 13 Garanti Technology 215 272 71 126 259 359 91 130 Garanti Kültür 2 3 2 3 1 2 1 2 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 67 126 16 67 33 56 13 19 DoğuşOto 246 276 61 63 13 14 6 2 Vdf Group 44 65 30 40 15 13 10 4 TÜVTÜRK 8 19 3 6 1 9 1 4 LeasePlan 17 39 10 21 10 7 7 1 Construction Doğuş Construction 14 18 6 7 8 12 5 9 Ayson Geoteknik ve 767 67 8 2 0 13 0 1 Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. Media Doğuş Media Group 189 136 76 65 31 57 16 30 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group Head Office 18 21 9 10 7 2 4 1 D-Hotel Maris 295 229 89 107 44 63 10 15 D-Resort Göcek 51 131 16 49 0 11 0 3 D-Resort Grand Azur 142 164 55 67 13 19 2 7 D-Resort Sibernik N/A 1 N/A 1 N/A 0 N/A 0 Grand Hyatt Istanbul 70 54 27 22 24 23 7 8 Park Hyatt Istanbul – MaçkaPalas 51 54 13 20 7 8 1 4 Villa Dubrovnik N/A 49 N/A 19 N/A N/A N/A N/A Maça Kızı N/A 187 N/A 12 N/A 0 N/A 0 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 22 64 9 21 1 7 0 1 Antur 17 20 10 12 4 1 1 0 D Watches and Jewellery N/A 19 N/A 7 N/A 1 N/A 0 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 73 Women Women New New Women Women Total Total Employee Employee Company Employment Employment Employment Employment Promotion Promotion Promoted Promoted 2013 2014 New 2013 New 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Doğuş Retail Group 55 55 31 28 8 10 3 3 D-Marin Marinas Group 6 5 4 2 0 0 0 0 Head Office D-Marin Turgutreis 9 3 3 1 0 2 0 0 D-Marin Göcek 5 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 D-Marin Didim 3 7 1 2 0 3 0 1 D-Marin Mandalina 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 D-Marin Borik 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 D-Marin Dalmacija 2 1 0 0 0 1 0 1 D-Gym 38 N/A 17 N/A 73 N/A 27 N/A D-Life 8 5 7 3 0 0 0 0 Körfez Havacılık 5 3 2 1 0 N/A 0 N/A Real Estate Doğuş Real Estate 4 27 2 8 5 N/A 2 N/A Energy D Enerji Üretim ve Yatırım A.Ş. 5 4 1 3 0 3 0 2 Doğuş Enerji Toptan Elektrik 3 8 1 4 2 0 0 0 Ticaret A.Ş. Doğuş Enerji Üretim ve 18 1 1 0 0 1 0 0 Ticaret A.Ş. Entertainment d.ream Armani Ristorante N/A 33 N/A 10 N/A 6 N/A 6 A.L.E Gıda ve Turizm Tic. A. Ş. N/A 55 N/A 12 N/A 28 N/A 4 Altınhan Turizm Ticaret A.Ş. N/A 12 N/A 4 N/A N/A N/A N/A Aresta Gıda Ticaret ve San.A.Ş. N/A 44 N/A 4 N/A N/A N/A N/A Bal Turizm ve Gıda Pazarlama A. Ş. N/A 19 N/A 2 N/A 4 N/A 2 Boğaziçi Borsa Lokantacılık N/A 28 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A İşl. San.Tic. A.Ş. Büke Turizm ve Lokantacılık N/A 37 N/A 4 N/A 8 N/A N/A Tic. A. Ş. D Eğlence Bar Restoran N/A 94 N/A 13 N/A N/A N/A N/A İşletmeciliği ve Yatırım A.Ş. D Et ve Et Ürünleri Gıda N/A 157 N/A 21 N/A N/A N/A N/A Pazarlama Tic. A.Ş. Dafne Yayıncılık Turizm ve N/A 1 N/A 1 N/A 3 N/A N/A Gıda Pazarlama A. Ş. Darphane Lok. İşl. San. Tic. A.Ş. N/A 4 N/A 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A Doors Akademi Eğitim ve N/A 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Danışmanlık Hizmetleri A.Ş. Women Women New New Women Women Total Total Employee Employee Company Employment Employment Employment Employment Promotion Promotion Promoted Promoted 2013 2014 New 2013 New 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 Etiler Turistik Tesisler N/A 15 N/A 3 N/A N/A N/A N/A İşletmeciliği Ticaret A.Ş. Havana Yayıncılık Turizm ve Gıda N/A 312 N/A 70 N/A 66 N/A 7 Paz. Tic. A. Ş. Kivahan Turizm Ticaret A.Ş. N/A 20 N/A 3 N/A N/A N/A N/A Köprü Restoran İşletmeciliği N/A 25 N/A 5 N/A N/A N/A N/A Tic. A.Ş. Lacivert Turizm A.Ş. N/A 24 N/A 2 N/A N/A N/A N/A LPM İstanbul Restoran N/A 81 N/A 25 N/A N/A N/A N/A İşletmeciliği ve Yatırım A.Ş. Masa Restaurant Grup İşl. N/A 41 N/A 6 N/A N/A N/A N/A San ve Tic. A.Ş. Meto Turizm İşletmeciliği ve N/A 53 N/A 4 N/A N/A N/A N/A Tasarım Dekorasyon Tic. A.Ş. Mezzaluna Gıda İşl. San N/A 98 N/A 3 N/A N/A N/A N/A ve Tic. A.Ş. Mora Turizm Otelcilik Rest. İşl. N/A 22 N/A 1 N/A N/A N/A N/A San. Tic. A.Ş. Nahita Restoran İşletmeciliği ve N/A 24 N/A 8 N/A N/A N/A N/A Yatırım A.Ş. Ryo Tei Itsme Gıda Üretim N/A 33 N/A 8 N/A N/A N/A N/A Turizm ve Tic. A.Ş. Sait Restoran Turizm İşl. İnş. N/A 86 N/A 4 N/A N/A N/A N/A Eml. ve Tic. A.Ş. Zuma Turizm ve Gıda Paz.Tic. A. Ş. N/A 50 N/A 19 N/A N/A N/A N/A New Investments13 IMG-Doğuş 11 3 6 2 N/A 0 N/A 0 Pozitif Müzik A.Ş. N/A 60 N/A 25 N/A 3 1 Pozitif Yapım A.Ş. N/A 2 N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A N/A Pozitif Arena Konser Salonları N/A 14 N/A 7 N/A N/A N/A İşletmeleri A.Ş. Doğuş Müşteri Sistemleri A.Ş. N/A 27 N/A 18 N/A 51 N/A 30 Doğuş Planet 133 108 55 54 9 14 1 6 DoğuşTeknoloji 51 71 10 19 21 34 7 12 Related Group N/A 25 N/A 13 N/A 5 N/A 2 Reidin N/A 27 N/A 6 N/A 2 N/A 2 Doğuş Avenue Dış. Tic. A.Ş. N/A 191 N/A 80 N/A 6 N/A 4 Salıpazarı Liman İşletmeciliği ve N/A 78 NA 21 N/A N/A N/A N/A Yatırımları A.Ş. 13 New investments include companies established in 2014. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 75 TRAINING Company Man/Hour 2013 Man/Hour 2014 Holding Doğuş Holding 67 37.48 Banking and Financial Services Garanti Bank 54 44 Garanti Bank International N.V. 15.76 32.73 Garanti Bank SA 17.6 12.63 Garanti Bank Moscow 2.43 14.6 Garanti Pension & Life 60 59.52 Garanti Leasing 45 52.5 Garanti Asset Management 29.4 19.21 Garanti Securities 12.19 13.82 Garanti Factoring 44 14 Garanti Mortgage 6 25 Garanti Fleet Management N/A 18.70 Garanti Payment Systems 8 21 Garanti Technology 7.5 49.42 Garanti Kültür 3.7 2.78 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 25 50 Doğuş Oto 33 26 vdf Group 30 54 TÜVTÜRK 52 72 LeasePlan 26.55 24.45 Construction Head Office 7.6 Doğuş Construction 15.95 Artvin Dam and HEPP & Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Metro 15 Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Subway 2,320 Project – 3,431.01 Artvin Dam and HEPP Project– 3,720.94 2,070 Adana Kavşakbendi Dam and HEPP Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. N/A Project – 2,988.53 Kandil Dam and HEPP Project 3,188.14 N/A Körfez Bay Crossing Project 1,448.04 232 Petkim Port Project 1,114.77 3,265 Media Doğuş Media Group 4.8 1 Company Man/Hour 2013 Man/Hour 2014 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group 10.72 30.46 D-Hotel Maris 2.36 27.72 D-Resort Göcek 10.09 29.42 D-Resort Grand Azur 11 11.26 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 5.59 3.01 Park Hyatt İstanbul – Maçka Palas 9.68 4.25 Villa Dubrovnik N/A 16 Maça Kızı N/A 35.54 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 8 5.42 Antur 27.6 9.24 Doğuş Retail Group 21.15 18.5 D-Marin Marinas Group 15 16 D-Marin Turgutreis N/A 9 D-Marin Göcek N/A 3.11 D-Marin Didim N/A 4.8 D-Gym 4 N/A D-Life 22.22 N/A Körfez Havacılık 66 64 Real Estate Doğuş REIT 20 15.83 Doğuş Real Estate 4.35 4 Energy D Enerji Üretim ve Yatırım A.Ş. 11.66 15.4 Doğuş Enerji Toptan Elektrik Ticaret A.Ş. 11.66 15.75 Entertainment d.ream 0.43 0.315 New Investments Pozitif Müzik A.Ş. N/A 0.067 Pozitif Yapım A.Ş. N/A 1.33 Pozitif Arena Konser Salonları İşletmeleri A.Ş. N/A 0.57 Doğuş Planet 3.7 30.5 DoğuşTeknoloji 51.3 72 Reidin N/A 1.28 DGSK N/A 8 Doğuş Avenu Dış. Tic. A.Ş. N/A 32 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 77 EMPLOYEE SATISFACTION SURVEY Survey Result (%) Survey Result (%) Frequency Frequency Company 2013 2014 2013 2014 Holding Doğuş Holding 81 N/A Biennially N/A Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 52 50 Every year Every year Garanti Bank SA N/A 54 N/A Every year Garanti Pension & Life 44 N/A Every year N/A Garanti Leasing 52 52 Every year Every year Garanti Factoring N/A N/A Biennially N/A Garanti Payment System N/A 67 N/A Every year Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv N/A 70.2 Biennially Biennially vdf Group 83.5 81 Every year Every year TÜVTÜRK 70 62 Every year Every year LeasePlan 75 Every year Construction Ayson Geotechnical & Marine Construction Co. N/A 95 N/A Every year Tourism & Services D-Hotel Maris N/A 69 N/A Every year D-Resort Göcek N/A 89 N/A Every year D-Resort Grand Azur N/A 89 N/A Every year Grand Hyatt İstanbul 86 89.8 Every year Every year Park Hyatt İstanbul – MaçkaPalas 79.2 87.8 Every year Every year Real Estate Doğuş Construction 78 82 Based on need Every Year New Investments Doğuş Planet 56.7 51.9 Every Year Every Year EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND SAFETY COMMITTEES Percentage of Percentage of Health and Safety Health and Safety Total Workforce Total Workforce Company Committee 2013 Committee 2014 Represented in H&S Represented in H&S Committees (%) 2013 Committees (%) 2014 Holding Doğuş Holding Yes Yes 4 4 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank Yes Yes 35 37 Garnti Bank SA N/A Yes N/A 1 Garanti Pension N/A Yes N/A 7 Garanti Leasing Yes N/A 18 N/A Garanti Asset Management N/A Yes N/A 4.55 Garanti Securities N/A Yes N/A 8.70 Garanti Factoring Yes Yes 18.65 3.20 Garanti Mortgage N/A Yes N/A 5.5 Garanti Fleet Management Yes Yes 20 25 Garanti Payment System N/A Yes N/A 1 Garanti Technology N/A Yes N/A 2 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv Yes Yes 3.9 4 Doğuş Oto N/A Yes N/A 5.78 vdf Group Yes Yes 5 6 TÜVTÜRK Yes Yes 8 2 LeasePlan Yes Yes 7 4 Construction 5 (Head Office) 5 (Head Office) Doğuş Construction Yes Yes 2 (For the projects) 2 (For the projects) Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. Yes Yes 0.02 0.02 Media Doğuş Media Group Yes Yes 2.5 1 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group Head Office N/A Yes N/A 10 D Hotel Maris N/A Yes N/A 5 D-Resort Göcek N/A Yes N/A 8.6 D Resort Grand Azur Yes Yes 5 5 Grand Hyatt İstanbul Yes Yes 5 6 Park Hyatt İstanbul Maçka Palas Yes Yes 10 18 Villa Dubrovnik N/A Yes N/A 5 Maça Kızı N/A Yes N/A 10 Maritim Club Alantur Yes Yes 4.5 5 Antur Tourism N/A Yes N/A 10 D Marin Marinas Group N/A Yes N/A 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 79 Percentage of Percentage of Health and Safety Health and Safety Total Workforce Total Workforce Company Committee 2013 Committee 2014 Represented in H&S Represented in H&S Committees (%) 2013 Committees (%) 2014 Energy D Enerji Üretim ve Yatırım A.Ş. N/A Yes N/A 7 Doğuş Enerji Toptan Elektrik Ticaret A.Ş. N/A Yes N/A 11 Doğuş Enerji Üretim ve Ticaret A.Ş./Artvin HEPP N/A Yes N/A 3 Entertainment D.Ream d.ream Yes Yes 3.70 11 LPM N/A Yes N/A 11 Fenix N/A Yes N/A 10 Anjelique N/A Yes N/A 11 Lacivert N/A Yes N/A 14 Nahita (M. Ofis) N/A Yes N/A 3 Nusret Etiler N/A Yes N/A 3 Ulus 29 N/A Yes N/A 7 Çubuklu 29 N/A Yes N/A 7 Ajia N/A Yes N/A 12 Mezzaluna İstinyepark N/A Yes N/A 12 Go Meso İstinyepark N/A Yes N/A 14 Doors Merkez Üretim N/A Yes N/A 14 Kitchinette Kanyon N/A Yes N/A 12 Borsa Boğaziçi N/A Yes N/A 11 Parle N/A Yes N/A 14 Borsa Adile Sultan Sarayı N/A Yes N/A 8 Zuma N/A Yes N/A 11 New Investments Pozitif Müzik A.Ş. N/A Yes N/A 8.69 Doğuş Planet Yes Yes 3 6 Doğuş Teknoloji N/A Yes N/A 6 Doğuş Avenu Dış. Tic. A.Ş. N/A Yes N/A 3.6 Salıpazarı Liman İşletmeciliği ve Yatırımları A.Ş. N/A Yes N/A 5 WAGES Company Female/Male 2013 Female/Male 2014 Holding Doğuş Holding 1.45 0.74 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 0.94 0.93 Garanti Bank International N.V. 0.3545 0.52 Garanti Bank SA 1.5 1.55 Garanti Bank Moscow 1.06 0.95 Garanti Pension & Life 0.57 0.83 Garanti Leasing 0.49 0.40 Garanti Asset Management 0.41 0.55 Garanti Securities 0.50 0.74 Garanti Factoring 0.65 0.66 Garanti Mortgage 0.46 1.89 Garanti Fleet Management N/A 0.75 Garanti Payment Systems 0.01 0.01 Garanti Technology 0.96 0.90 Garanti Kültür 0.44 0.95 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 0.93 0.89 Doğuş Oto 0.92 0.94 vdf Group 0.98 0.81 TÜVTÜRK 0.70 0.71 LeasePlan 1.01 0.75 Construction Doğuş Construction (Head Office) 0.56 0.62 Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. 0.76 0.86 Media Doğuş Media Group 1.10 1.11 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group Head Office 0.38 0.75 D-Hotel Maris 0.31 0.83 D-Resort Göcek 0.41 0.89 D-Resort Grand Azur 0.41 0.91 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 1.06 1.04 Park Hyatt İstanbul – MaçkaPalas 1.45 1.24 Villa Dubrovnik N/A 1.06 Maça Kızı N/A 1.58 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 0.32 0.89 Antur 0.89 0.99 D Watches and Jewellery N/A 0.46 Doğuş Retail Group 1.09 1.02 D-Marin Marinas Group Head Office 0.70 0.52 D-Marin Turgutreis 0.77 0.60 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 81 Company Female/Male 2013 Female/Male 2014 D-Marin Göcek 0.50 0.52 D-Marin Didim 0.78 0.57 D-Marin Mandalina 0.80 0.80 D-Marin Borik 0.60 0.60 D-Marin Dalmacija 0.91 0.85 D-Gym 0.5 N/A D-Life 1.73 1.81 Körfez Havacılık 0.12 0.46 Real Estate Doğuş REIT 0.27 N/A Doğuş Real Estate 0.49 0.74 Doğuş Center Maslak 0.15 0.43 Doğuş Gebze Center 0.2714 0.26 Energy D Enerji Üretim ve Yatırım A.Ş. 0.44 0.53 Doğuş Enerji Toptan Elektirk Ticaret A.Ş. 0.39 0.55 Doğuş Enerji Üretim ve Ticaret A.Ş. 0.44 0.46 Entertainment d.ream d.ream 0.37 1.05 Armani Ristorante N/A 0.64 A.L.E Gıda ve Turizm Tic. A. Ş. N/A 1.09 Altınhan Turizm Ticaret A.Ş. N/A 1.12 Aresta Gıda Ticaret ve San.A.Ş. N/A 0.98 Bal Turizm ve Gıda Pazarlama A. Ş. N/A 1.29 Boğaziçi Borsa Lokantacılık İşl. San.Tic. A.Ş. N/A 1.23 Büke Turizm ve Lokantacılık Tic. A. Ş. N/A 1.07 D Eğlence Bar Restoran İşletmeciliği ve Yatırım A.Ş. N/A 1.15 D Et ve Et Ürünleri Gıda Pazarlama Tic. A.Ş. N/A 0.75 Dafne Yayıncılık Turizm ve Gıda Pazarlama A. Ş. N/A 0.91 Darphane Lok. İşl. San. Tic. A.Ş. N/A 1.10 Doors Akademi Eğitim ve Danışmanlık Hizmetleri A.Ş. N/A 2.27 Etiler Turistik Tesisler İşletmeciliği Ticaret A.Ş. N/A 1.01 Havana Yayıncılık Turizm ve Gıda Paz. Tic. A. Ş. N/A 0.94 Kivahan Turizm Ticaret A.Ş. N/A 0.98 Köprü Restoran İşletmeciliği Tic. A.Ş. N/A 0.88 Lacivert Turizm A.Ş. N/A 1.19 LPM İstanbul Restoran İşletmeciliği ve Yatırım A.Ş. N/A 0.98 Masa Restaurant Grup İşl. San ve Tic. A.Ş. N/A 0.93 Meto Turizm İşletmeciliği ve Tasarım Dekorasyon Tic. A.Ş. N/A 1.29 Mezzaluna Gıda İşl. San ve Tic. A.Ş. N/A 1.20 Mora Turizm Otelcilik Rest. İşl. San. Tic. A.Ş. N/A 0.80 Nahita Restoran İşletmeciliği ve Yatırım A.Ş. N/A 0.59 Ryo Tei Itsme Gıda Üretim Turizm ve Tic. A.Ş. N/A 0.67 Sait Restoran Turizm İşl. İnş. Eml. ve Tic. A.Ş. N/A 0.67 Zuma Turizm ve Gıda Paz.Tic. A. Ş. N/A 0.78 Company Female/Male 2013 Female/Male 2014 New Investments IMG Doğuş N/A 0.44 Pozitif Müzik A.Ş. N/A 0.72 Pozitif Yapım A.Ş. N/A 0.67 Pozitif Arena Konser Salonları İşletmeleri A.Ş. N/A 0.83 Doğuş Müşteri Sistemleri A.Ş. N/A 0.74 Doğuş Planet 0.78 0.43 DoğuşTeknoloji 0.98 0.92 Related Group N/A 0.96 Reidin N/A 0.48 DGSK N/A 0.25 Darrüşafaka Doğuş N/A 14.73 Doğuş Avenu Dış. Tic. A.Ş. N/A 0.74 Salıpazarı Liman İşletmeciliği ve Yatırımları A.Ş. N/A 1.09 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 83 TURNOVER RATES Employee Turnover Rate (%) Employee Turnover Rate (%) Company 2013 2014 Holding Doğuş Holding 4.9 0.09 Foundation Ayhan Şahenk Vakfı N/A 20 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 11.5 10.7 Garanti Bank International N.V. 11.5 11.9 Garanti Bank SA 10.7 17.51 Garanti Bank Moscow 17 18 Garanti Pension & Life 32.8 34 Garanti Leasing 18.6 17 Garanti Asset Management 14.03 16.92 Garanti Securities 30.769 11.3 Garanti Factoring 23.56 11.20 Garanti Mortgage 50.724 32 Garanti Fleet Management 19.117 16.67 Garanti Payment Systems 57.006 7 Garanti Technology 11.09 8.6 Garanti Kültür 25 17.39 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 7.84 7.49 Doğuş Oto 10.86 12.87 vdf Group 3 2.89 TÜVTÜRK 7.5 17 LeasePlan 13.7 14.8 Construction Doğuş Construction 11.3 12.66 Technical Engineering and Consultancy Inc. 7.14 0.44 Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. 4.16 0.354 Media Doğuş Media Group 18 18 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group Head Office 12 12 D-Hotel Maris 39.14 18 D-Resort Göcek 38.16 29.5 D-Resort Grand Azur 47 24 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 23 24.7 Park Hyatt İstanbul – MaçkaPalas 53 55.9 Villa Dubrovnik N/A 3.7 Maça Kızı N/A 113 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 29.19 62.71 Antur 23 22 D Watches and Jewellery N/A 9 Employee Turnover Rate (%) Employee Turnover Rate (%) Company 2013 2014 Doğuş Retail Group 55 38 D-Marin Marinas Group Head Office 10.647 20 D-Marin Turgutreis 4.5 0.0006 D-Marin Göcek 2 0.02 D-Marin Didim 5.5 0.11 D-Marin Mandalina 1 0 D-Marin Borik 0 0 D-Marin Dalmacija 1 1 D-Gym 35.06 N/A D-Life 1.86 0.36 Körfez Havacılık 9.67 10 Real Estate Doğuş REIT 0 0 Doğuş Real Estate 27.27 5.29 Doğuş Center Maslak 25 0 Doğuş Gebze Center 11.7 5 Energy D Enerji Üretim ve Yatırım A.Ş. 7 6 Doğuş Enerji Toptan Elektirk ve Ticaret A.Ş. 17 25 Doğuş Enerji Üretim ve Ticaret A.Ş. 3 0 Entertainment D.Ream d.ream 14.2 93 Armani Ristorante N/A 65 A.L.E Gıda ve Turizm Tic. A. Ş. N/A 92 Altınhan Turizm Ticaret A.Ş. N/A 93 Aresta Gıda Ticaret ve San.A.Ş. N/A 92 Bal Turizm ve Gıda Pazarlama A. Ş. N/A 91 Boğaziçi Borsa Lokantacılık İşl. San.Tic. A.Ş. N/A 97 Büke Turizm ve Lokantacılık Tic. A. Ş. N/A 92 D Eğlence Bar Restoran İşletmeciliği ve Yatırım A.Ş. N/A 92 D Et ve Et Ürünleri Gıda Pazarlama Tic. A.Ş. N/A 96 Dafne Yayıncılık Turizm ve Gıda Pazarlama A. Ş. N/A 100 Darphane Lok. İşl. San. Tic. A.Ş. N/A 100 Doors Akademi Eğitim ve Danışmanlık Hizmetleri A.Ş. N/A 78 Etiler Turistik Tesisler İşletmeciliği Ticaret A.Ş. N/A 82 Havana Yayıncılık Turizm ve Gıda Paz. Tic. A. Ş. N/A 93 Kivahan Turizm Ticaret A.Ş. N/A 97 Köprü Restoran İşletmeciliği Tic. A.Ş. N/A 93 Lacivert Turizm A.Ş. N/A 95 LPM İstanbul Restoran İşletmeciliği ve Yatırım A.Ş. N/A 87 Masa Restaurant Grup İşl. San ve Tic. A.Ş. N/A 90 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 85 Employee Turnover Rate (%) Employee Turnover Rate (%) Company 2013 2014 Meto Turizm İşletmeciliği ve Tasarım Dekorasyon Tic. A.Ş. N/A 98 Mezzaluna Gıda İşl. San ve Tic. A.Ş. N/A 97 Mora Turizm Otelcilik Rest. İşl. San. Tic. A.Ş. N/A 97 Nahita Restoran İşletmeciliği ve Yatırım A.Ş. N/A 87 Ryo Tei Itsme Gıda Üretim Turizm ve Tic. A.Ş. N/A 92 Sait Restoran Turizm İşl. İnş. Eml. ve Tic. A.Ş. N/A 100 Zuma Turizm ve Gıda Paz.Tic. A. Ş. N/A 99 New Investments IMG-Doğuş 1 15 Pozitif 5 12.71 Doğuş Müşteri Sistemleri A.Ş. N/A 18 Doğuş Planet 21 28.63 DoğuşTeknoloji 12.62 8 Related Group N/A 29 Reidin N/A 20.5 DGSK N/A 0 Darrüşafaka Doğuş N/A 30 Doğuş Avenu Dış. Tic. A.Ş. N/A 21.7 Salıpazarı Liman İşletmeciliği ve Yatırımları A.Ş. N/A 1.2 TOTAL WORKFORCE Female Female Male Male Total Total Company Workforce 2013 Workforce 2014 Workforce 2013 Workforce 2014 Workforce 2013 Workforce 2014 Doğuş Holding 64 83 46 52 110 135 Foundation Ayhan Şahenk Vakfı N/A 5 N/A 0 N/A 5 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 10,648 10,833 8,089 8,203 18,737 19,036 Garanti Bank International N.V. 97 95 137 140 234 235 Garanti Bank SA 635 566 254 382 889 948 Garanti Bank Moscow 58 57 24 26 82 83 Garanti Pension & Life 651 683 246 223 897 906 Garanti Leasing 75 82 80 75 155 157 Garanti Asset Management 23 40 34 25 57 65 Garanti Securities 42 48 62 67 104 115 Garanti Factoring 135 108 107 80 242 188 Garanti Mortgage 21 23 48 49 69 72 Garanti Fleet Management 25 22 43 49 68 71 Garanti Payment Systems 357 372 378 361 735 733 Garanti Technology 399 470 782 849 1,181 1,319 Garanti Kültür 21 19 3 4 24 23 Automotive DoğuşOtomotiv 165 218 422 450 587 668 DoğuşOto 248 262 1,124 1,207 1,372 1,469 vdf Group 115 145 80 97 195 242 TÜVTÜRK 18 23 56 90 74 113 LeasePlan 33 47 40 49 73 96 Construction Doğuş Construction (Head Office) 47 50 107 111 154 161 Technical Engineering and 3 0 11 9 14 9 Consultancy Inc. Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. 6 7 18 388 24 395 Media Doğuş Media Group 465 435 910 834 1,375 1,269 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group Head Office 24 38 37 30 61 68 D-Hotel Maris 148 125 361 334 509 459 DResort Göcek 34 50 84 111 118 161 D-Resort Grand Azur 92 105 173 174 265 279 D-Resort Sibenik N/A 1 N/A 0 N/A 1 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 71 65 220 211 291 276 Park Hyatt İstanbul 28 30 78 76 106 106 Villa Dubrovnik N/A 36 N/A 43 N/A 79 Maça Kızı N/A 37 N/A 181 N/A 218 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 40 61 158 164 198 225 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 87 Female Female Male Male Total Total Company Workforce 2013 Workforce 2014 Workforce 2013 Workforce 2014 Workforce 2013 Workforce 2014 Antur 25 24 26 33 51 57 D Watches and Jewellery N/A 14 N/A 8 N/A 22 Doğuş Retail Group 72 80 86 95 158 175 D-Marin Marinas Group Head Office 8 8 4 6 12 14 D-Marin Turgutreis 8 8 60 56 68 64 D-Marin Göcek 11 11 45 45 56 56 D-Marin Didim 7 7 50 49 57 56 D-Marin Mandalina 10 10 20 20 30 30 D-Marin Borik 2 2 10 10 12 12 D-Marin Dalmacija 21 21 67 68 88 89 D-Gym 28 N/A 49 N/A 77 N/A D-Life 17 9 14 11 31 20 Körfez Havacılık 6 7 25 23 31 30 Real Estate Doğuş REIT 4 6 7 6 11 12 Doğuş Real Estate 12 20 22 32 34 52 Doğuş Center Maslak 1 1 3 3 4 4 Doğuş Gebze Center 12 6 22 15 34 21 Energy D Enerji Üretim ve Yatırım A.Ş. 9 8 11 8 20 16 Doğuş Enerji Toptan Elektrik Ticaret A.Ş. N/A 5 N/A 7 N/A 12 Doğuş Enerji Üretim ve Ticaret A.Ş. 2 2 31 30 33 32 Entertainment d.ream d.ream 58 360 104 1,923 162 2,283 Armani Ristorante N/A 41 N/A 11 N/A 52 A.L.E Gıda ve Turizm Tic. A. Ş. N/A 25 N/A 116 N/A 141 Altınhan Turizm Ticaret A.Ş. N/A 5 N/A 10 N/A 15 Aresta Gıda Ticaret ve San.A.Ş. N/A 7 N/A 81 N/A 88 Bal Turizm ve Gıda Pazarlama A. Ş. N/A 7 N/A 44 N/A 51 Boğaziçi Borsa Lokantacılık İşl. N/A 8 N/A 77 N/A 85 San.Tic. A.Ş. Büke Turizm ve Lokantacılık Tic. A. Ş. N/A 8 N/A 62 N/A 70 D Eğlence Bar Restoran İşletmeciliği N/A 15 N/A 83 N/A 98 ve Yatırım A.Ş. D Et ve Et Ürünleri Gıda Pazarlama N/A 26 N/A 212 N/A 238 Tic. A.Ş. Dafne Yayıncılık Turizm ve Gıda N/A 2 N/A 19 N/A 21 Pazarlama A. Ş. Darphane Lok. İşl. San. Tic. A.Ş. N/A 1 N/A 5 N/A 6 Doors Akademi Eğitim ve Danışmanlık N/A 3 N/A 6 N/A 9 Hizmetleri A.Ş. Etiler Turistik Tesisler İşletmeciliği N/A 7 N/A 31 N/A 38 Ticaret A.Ş. Female Female Male Male Total Total Company Workforce 2013 Workforce 2014 Workforce 2013 Workforce 2014 Workforce 2013 Workforce 2014 Havana Yayıncılık Turizm ve Gıda Paz. N/A 120 N/A 499 N/A 619 Tic. A. Ş. Kivahan Turizm Ticaret A.Ş. N/A 5 N/A 25 N/A 30 Köprü Restoran İşletmeciliği Tic. A.Ş. N/A 7 N/A 32 N/A 39 Lacivert Turizm A.Ş. N/A 4 N/A 32 N/A 36 LPM İstanbul Restoran İşletmeciliği ve N/A 28 N/A 53 N/A 81 Yatırım A.Ş. Masa Restaurant Grup İşl. San ve Tic. A.Ş. N/A 9 N/A 71 N/A 80 Meto Turizm İşletmeciliği ve Tasarım N/A 5 N/A 52 N/A 57 Dekorasyon Tic. A.Ş. Mezzaluna Gıda İşl. San ve Tic. A.Ş. N/A 7 N/A 138 N/A 145 Mora Turizm Otelcilik Rest. İşl. N/A 8 N/A 69 N/A 77 San. Tic. A.Ş. Nahita Restoran İşletmeciliği N/A 16 N/A 39 N/A 55 ve Yatırım A.Ş. Ryo Tei Itsme Gıda Üretim Turizm N/A 9 N/A 29 N/A 38 ve Tic. A.Ş. Sait Restoran Turizm İşl. İnş. Eml. N/A 5 N/A 85 N/A 90 ve Tic. A.Ş. Zuma Turizm ve Gıda Paz.Tic. A. Ş. N/A 23 N/A 53 N/A 76 New Investments IMG-Doğuş 9 9 11 9 20 18 Pozitif Müzik A.Ş. N/A 47 N/A 71 N/A 118 Pozitif Yapım A.Ş. N/A 1 N/A 5 N/A 6 Pozitif Arena Konser Salonları N/A 7 N/A 7 N/A 14 İşletmeleri A.Ş. Doğuş Müşteri Sistemleri A.Ş. N/A 30 N/A 21 N/A 51 Doğuş Planet 82 136 104 159 186 295 DoğuşTeknoloji 32 48 71 115 103 163 Related Group N/A 43 N/A 41 N/A 84 Reidin N/A 13 N/A 26 N/A 39 DGSK N/A 1 N/A 4 N/A 5 Darrüşafaka Doğuş N/A 1 N/A 39 N/A 40 Doğuş Avenu Dış. Tic. A.Ş. N/A 80 N/A 111 N/A 191 Salıpazarı Liman İşletmeciliği ve N/A 21 N/A 57 N/A 78 Yatırımları A.Ş. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 89 ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE DATA ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS (TL)13 Company Total Amount 2013 Total Amount 2014 Garanti Factoring 1,800 0 DoğuşOtomotiv 84,373 188,124 vdf Group 15.556 19.624 TÜVTURK 65,000 N/A Doğuş Construction 40,735 49,100 Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. 25,200 10,600 D-Hotel Maris 25,839 66,685 D Resort Göcek 5,140 9,650 D-Resort Grand Azur 12,000 4,200 Park Hyatt İstanbul-MaçkaPalas N/A 2,550 Capri Palace N/A 46,195 Argos in Cappadocia N/A 91,558 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur N/A 2,960 D-Marin Turgutreis 149,868 206,247 D-Marin Göcek 51,591 112,208 D-Marin Didim 183,712 181,720 D-Marin Mandalina 216,432 207,991 D-Marin Dalmacija 0 617,601 Flisvos Marina 534,743 N/A Zea Marina 192,170 61,253.577 Lefkas Marina N/A 8,164 Gouvia Marina 84,704 212,415.588 Doğuş Center Maslak N/A 93,163 Doğuş Enerji Üretim ve Ticaret A.Ş. 96,199 N/A Aslancık HEPP 3,950,000 211,075 Boyabat HEPP N/A 225,224 Salıpazarı Liman İşletmeciliği ve Yatırımları A.Ş. N/A 184,265 13 Average exchange rates of Central Bank of the Republic of Turkey have been used. ENERGY CONSUMPTION Electricity Consumption kWh Electricity Consumption kWh Company 2013 2014 Holding Doğuş Holding 1,672,418 14 1,650,196 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 15 130,388,064 N/A Garanti Bank International N.V. 533,895 540,000 Garanti Bank SA 1,200,250 2,500,850 Garanti Bank Moscow 227,215 228,700 Garanti Pension & Life 950,000 850,000 Garanti Leasing 900,000 490,000 Garanti Asset Management 9,293.00 200.311 Garanti Securities 9,292.50 N/A Garanti Factoring 180,000 180,000 Garanti Fleet Management 300,000 272,575.67 Garanti Technology 12,606,479 12,364,689 Garanti Kültür N/A 602,465.51 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 3,577,363 3,690,356 vdf Group 22,791 326,289.60 TÜVTÜRK 13,500,000 12,165,990 LeasePlan 81,650 64,700 Construction Head Office Head Office 5,440 5,881 Artvin Dam and HEPP Artvin Dam and HEPP Doğuş Construction 4,900,000 3,268,000 Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Subway Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Subway Project Project 390,000 401,190 Head Office Head Office 429 267 Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş Üsküdar Ümraniye Subway Project 5,133,727 N/A Artvin Dam and HEPP Project 4,009,065 N/A Media Doğuş Media Group 16 9,300,000 9,200,000 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group Head Office 296,809 265,323.47 D-Hotel Maris 5,510,715 1,575,839 D-Resort Göcek 1,591,749 2,428,940 D-Resort Grand Azur 3,197,565 3,286,045 D-Resort Sibenik N/A 5.307 Grand Hyatt İstanbul 6,829,446 7,016,071 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 91 Electricity Consumption kWh Electricity Consumption kWh Company 2013 2014 Park Hyatt İstanbul – Maçka Palas 3,459,681 3,632,193 Capri Palace N/A 1,634,000 Villa Dubrovnik N/A 907,744 Argos in Cappadocia N/A 491,386 Maça Kızı N/A 875,385 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 1,575,284 1,661,743 D Watches and Jewellery N/A 31,468,752 Doğuş Retail Group 2,234,769 41,975 D-Marin Turgutreis 3,884,312 4,498,781 D-Marin Göcek 1,851,303 1,954,306 D-Marin Didim 3,418,769 3,559,187 D-Marin Mandalina 1,725,834 908,610 D-Marin Borik 103,047 105,912 D-Marin Dalmacija 2,476,620 2,542,440 Flisvos Marina 9,510,000 N/A Zea Marina 3,673,200 5,567,801 Lefkas Marina 1,542,000 1,324,380 Gouvia Marina 2,230,400 2,468,857 D-Gym 1,653,160 N/A D-Life N/A 323,525 Körfez Havacılık 71,305 81,560 Real Estate Doğuş REIT 1,925 3,530.774 Doğuş Real Estate 54,793 149,220.07 Doğuş Gebze Center 16,503,358 16,184,133 Doğuş Center Maslak 1,567,199 1,636,901 Energy Doğuş Enerji Üretim ve Ticaret A.Ş. 225,000 106,598 Boyabat HEPP 1,661,835 4,043,829 Aslancık HEPP 184,435 100,299 Entertainment d.ream N/A 19,678,786 New Investments Pozitif Müzik A.Ş. N/A 591,902 Doğuş Müşteri Sistemleri A.Ş. N/A 55,348 Doğuş Planet 145,000 155,000 Doğuş Teknoloji N/A 543,441 Doğuş Avenu Dış. Tic. A.Ş. N/A 301,987 14 Headquarters’ energy consumption amount includes D-Energy, D-Marin Dalaman, D-Marin Didim, D-Marin Turgutreis, D-Marin Göcek, D-Marin Marinas Group, Garanti Yatırım Ortaklığı A.Ş, Doğuş Sigorta Aracılık Hizmetleri A.Ş., Antur Tourism, Doğuş Holding, Doğuş Retail Group, Doğuş Tourism Group, Altınkılıçlar Kahve Kakao Ürünleri Tic. ve San. A.Ş. and some smaller companies within the headquarters. 15 Consumption amount includes all Garanti Bank branches, ATMs, Garanti Payment Systems, Garanti Technology and Garanti Mortgage data. 16 Only Maslak building is included. WATER CONSUMPTION (m3) Company Water Consumption 2013 Water Consumption 2014 Holding Doğuş Holding 5,322.14 17 5,975.01 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank 330,932 N/A Garanti Bank International N.V. 2,171 2,250 Garanti Bank SA 4,950 5,680 Garanti Moskow 919 855,00 Garanti Pension & Life 3,000 2,500 Garanti Leasing 2,800 2,509 Garanti Asset Management 1,168 1,097 Garanti Securities 1,168 1,668 Garanti Factoring 694,043 955,000 Garanti Fleet Management 940 1,182.91 Garanti Technology 10,942 10,000 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 25,888 18 30,709 vdf Group 2,760 2,996 TÜVTÜRK 93,000 70,000 LeasePlan 700 701 Construction Head Office Head Office 4,450 4,770 Doğuş Construction Artvin Dam and HEPP Artvin Dam and HEPP 575,000 345,802 Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Subway Üsküdar-Ümraniye-Çekmeköy Subway 24,500 11,957 Head Office Head Office 400 596 Üsküdar Ümraniye Subway Project Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. 1,567,231 N/A Artvin Dam and HEPP Project 40,800 N/A Total: 1,608,431 + 7,300 (Reuse Water) Media Doğuş Media Group 12,600 10,700 Tourism & Services Doğuş Tourism Group 1,054 1,182 D-Hotel Maris N/A 55,370 D-Resort Göcek 143,346 37,368 D-Resort Grand Azur 13,095 70,023 Grand Hyatt Istanbul 89,288 86,163 Park Hyatt Istanbul – Maçka Palas 22,295 27,458 Capri Palace N/A 19,500 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 93 Company Water Consumption 2013 Water Consumption 2014 Villa Dubrovnik N/A 8,603 Argos in Cappadocia N/A 2,936 Maça Kızı N/A 18,595 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 59,860 45,051 D Watches and Jewellery 97,976 592,74 Doğuş Retail Group N/A 6,655 D-Marin Marinas Group Head Office 149,5 149,5 D-Marin Turgutreis N/A 92,790 D-Marin Göcek 91,890 41,680 D-Marin Didim 71,389 61,660 D-Marin Mandalina 50,523 21,156 D-Marin Borik 58,577 1,633 D-Marin Dalmacija 34,648 42,976 Flisvos Marina 35,215 71,568 Zea Marina 102,000 36,388 Lefkas Marina 1,471 35,094 Gouvia Marina 26,961 100,536 D-Gym 71,234 N/A D-Life 14,973 30,818.79 Körfez Havacılık 312 515 Real Estate Doğuş REIT 146 184,55 Doğuş Real Estate 537,360 540,300 DoğuşGebze Center 55,691 59,538 Doğuş Center Maslak 9,806 10,015 Energy Doğuş Enerji Üretim ve Ticaret A.Ş. 1,002 1,870 Boyabat HEPP 171 2,148 Aslancık HEPP 84 103,09 Entertainment d.ream N/A 147.94 New Investments Pozitif Group N/A 3,800 Doğuş Planet 2.705 2,705 Doğuş Teknoloji N/A 3,909 Doğuş Avenu Dış. Tic. A.Ş. N/A 416 Salıpazarı Liman İşletmeciliği ve Yatırımları A.Ş. N/A 97,128 17 Water consumption data includes other companies such as in Electricity Consumption Data. 18 Headquarters and Logistics Center PAPER CONSUMPTION (KG) Company Waste Paper 2013 Waste Paper 2014 Recycled Paper 2013 Recycled Paper 2014 Foundation Ayhan Şahenk Vakfı N/A N/A N/A 1,060 Banking & Financial Services Garanti Bank International N.V. 6,040 0 2,680 7,200 Garanti Bank S.A 3,500 3,840 2,500 2,860 Garanti Moskow 7.642 6,583 N/A N/A Garanti Pension & Life 2,000 1,500 750 500 Garanti Leasing N/A 828 N/A N/A Garanti Asset Management 1,155 N/A 1,666 1,082 Garanti Securities 2,175 N/A 1,666 N/A Garanti Factoring 6,000 4,000 1,336 1,180 Garanti Fleet Management 700 2,250 2,000 225 Garanti Technology 414,000 N/A 38,000 66,500 Automotive Doğuş Otomotiv 888,697 1,175,319 547,749 703,544 vdf Group 1,000 1,200 750 900 TÜVTÜRK N/A 145,800 N/A 145,800 LeasePlan 1.254 1,650 625 1,280 Construction Head Office Head Office Head Office Head Office 1,900 5,672 1,900 4,800 Artvin Dam and HEPP Artvin Dam and HEPP Artvin Dam and HEPP Artvin Dam and HEPP Doğuş Construction 1,850 650 1,800 500 Üsküdar-ÜmraniyeÜsküdar-ÜmraniyeÜsküdar-ÜmraniyeÜsküdar-ÜmraniyeÇekmeköy Subway Çekmeköy Subway Çekmeköy Subway Çekmeköy Subway 16,800 1,000 16,100 900 Head Office Head Office Head Office Head Office 300 405 180 343 Üsküdar Ümraniye Üsküdar Ümraniye Subway Project Subway Project Ayson Geoteknik ve Deniz İnşaat A.Ş. 1,800 N/A 700 N/A Artvin Dam and HEPP Artvin Dam HEPP Project Project 850 N/A 20 N/A Tourism & Services D-Hotel Maris 9,365 N/A 5,450 N/A D-Resort Göcek 500 1,000 400 800 D-Resort Grand Azur 1,653 1,812 165 N/A Grand Hyatt İstanbul N/A 37,650 41,990 37,650 Park Hyatt İstanbul 14,480 11,130 13,220 11,130 Maritim Hotel Club Alantur 38,000 40,100 11,000 N/A CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 95 Company Waste Paper 2013 Waste Paper 2014 Recycled Paper 2013 Recycled Paper 2014 Antur N/A 1,250 N/A 4,500 Doğuş Retail Group 950 N/A 350 N/A D-Marin Turgutreis N/A 60,000 N/A 50,000 D-Marin Göcek 5,235 6,950 3,480 6,950 D-Marin Didim 3,100 30,000 1,900 26,000 D-Marin Dalmacija 8,290 7,520 8,290 0 Flisvos Marina 1,075 2,050 1,075 2,050 Zea Marina N/A 440 N/A N/A Lefkas Marina N/A 1,080,000 N/A 250,000 Gouvia Marina N/A 44,200 N/A 76,800 D-Gym 350 N/A 350 N/A D-Life 600 600 300 300 Körfez Havacılık 1,000 50 800 750 Real Estate Doğuş REIT N/A 212 356 212 Doğuş Gebze Center 1,000,000 19 876,000 1,000,000 876,000 Head Office: 250 Head Office: 210 Head Office: 15 Doğuş Center Maslak N/A Hall Building: 36,000 Hall Building: 31,000 Hall Building: 36,000 Energy Doğuş Enerji Üretim ve Ticaret A.Ş. 2,290 300 2,090 190 Boyabat HEPP 1,200 N/A 50 226.60 Aslancık HEPP 421,350 174 21,200 N/A New Investments Pozitif Group N/A 5,000 N/A 2,000 Doğuş Planet 750 900 600 700 Doğuş Avenu Dış. Tic. A.Ş. N/A N/A N/A 6,550 19 Includes all shops within the mall. COLLECTED PAPER by AYHAN ŞAHENK FOUNDATION (kg) 2007 322,770 2008 353,800 2009 354,920 2010 376,845 2011 469,130 2012 295,972 2012 175,956 2013 503,442 2014 454,136 ABOUT THIS REPORT All detailed information about Doğuş Group companies can be found in their own reports separately. Unless otherwise stated, Doğuş Group 2014 Corporate Responsibility We encourage and appreciate feedback from all our stakeholders, Report covers all businesses, including the subsidiaries, of Doğuş both internal and external. Your suggestions are vital and help us Group companies’ Corporate Responsibility performance, in line to improve both the quality of our reporting and the quality of our with the Group CSR Strategy. The reporting period for this, Doğuş products and services. Group’s 7th Corporate Responsibility Report, is the calendar year 2014. As mentioned in our first Corporate Responsibility Report (2008), we Please e-mail your suggestion / views / opinions to: remain committed to report our CSR performance annually. Gülçİn Akdağ Savan All our reports are uploaded in the public domain on our Company Corporate Communications Specialist website. We continue to follow the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G3.1 gakdag@dogusgrubu.com.tr Reporting Guidelines, the most widely adopted non-financial reporting framework throughout the world, used to help communicating Location of the Group’s Headquarters: sustainability performance, in addition to encouraging transparency Doğuş Holding A.Ş. and accountability. Maslak Ayazağa Cad. No: 2, 34396 Sarıyer / İstanbul In 2012, we reviewed our Corporate Responsibility management Phone : +90 212 335 32 32 approach and policies and commitments, and scaled up our application Fax : +90 212 335 30 90 level to B. In 2013 and 2014 we also used the international corporate Web : www.dogusgrubu.com.tr responsibility standard ISO26000 requirements to check our Corporate Responsibility performance, and included the ISO26000 index to our report as well. In the preparation of this report, all Doğuş Group companies were covered and the information used in the report was consolidated from surveys prepared according to GRI G3.1 Reporting Guidelines, submitted by the reporting teams in each Group company. In each section, best practices among the Group companies were selected and shared. Doğuş Group very proudly announces that the Group’s companies have begun to report their own Corporate Responsibility performances according to GRI Framework, led by Doğuş Otomotiv and Garanti Bank. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 97 GROUP COMPANIES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORTS Garanti Bank Sustainability Report 2014 http://www.garanti.com.tr/en/our_company/sustainability/developments/report.page? Doğuş Otomotiv Corporate Responsibility Report 2014 http://www.dogusotomotiv.com.tr/en/corporate-responsibility/corporate-responsibility-reports.aspx Doğuş Construction Group Corporate Responsibility Report http://www.dogusinsaat.com.tr/dogusinsaat/dogusinsaat_files/dogustanduyarli2013trkucuk.pdf Ayson Geoteknİk ve Denİz Tİcaret A.Ş. Corporate Responsibility Report https://www.unglobalcompact.org/system/attachments/cop_2014/106221/original/Ayson_Geoteknik_ve_ Deniz_%C4%B0n%C5%9Faat_A.%C5%9E._2012__2013_%C4%B0lerleme_Raporu.pdf?1410074315 INDEXES GRI CONTENT INDEX In presentation of this year’s report, the reporting project team used the GRI indicators, submitting them to the related departments of the Group companies through sector specific questionnaires. The team prepared the report content by consolidating the findings of the questionnaires collected from each sector. Since Doğuş Group operates with more than 200 companies in eight different sectors, every GRI indicator could not be applied to the entire group. The responses gathered from different sectors and Group companies were not always comparable and combinable, therefore limiting the number of indicators to be used for reporting purposes. Response Status Explanations The indicator is fully addressed in the Full referenced pages of the report and other sources. The indicator is partially addressed in the referenced pages of the report due to lack of Partially data and/or information covering the entire group. INDEXES GRI G3.1 Profile Performance ISO26000 UNGC Information Reference Pages Indicators 1. Strategy and 6.2 Analysis Senior Management Declaration 1.1 / Full 6.2 Message from the CEO 12-13 Basic effects, risks and opportunities 1.2 / Full 6.2 Message from the CEO 12-13 6.6.6 6.8.3 Compliance and Risk 18-20 Management 2. Corporate Profile Corporation Name 2.1 / Full About This Report 96 Brands, products and services 2.2 / Full Our Group 6-11 Detailed information about Group of Companies operations can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/en/sectors.aspx Our Group 6-11 Operational structure of the corporation 2.3 / Full 6.2 Corporate Governance 14 Our Group 6-11 Headquarters 2.4 / Full About This Report 96 Countries in which the 2.5 / Full Our Group 6-11 corporation operates Detailed information about Group of Companies operations can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/en/sectors.aspx Ownership properties and legal state 2.6 / Full Our Group 6-11 More of information is available online in Doğuş Group’s Annual Report 2014. https://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/faaliyetraporlari/DogusGroupAnnualReport14.pdf Markets serviced 2.7 / Full Our Group 6-11 Detailed information about Group of Companies operations can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/en/sectors.aspx Our Group 6-11 Corporation scale 2.8 / Full Performance Data 68-95 2.9 / Full Our Group 6-11 More information is available online in Doğuş Important changes in size, structure Group’s Annual Report 2014. and ownership situations https://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/faaliyetraporlari/DogusGroupAnnualReport14.pdf Awards 2.10 / Full Awards&Recognitions 8-10 3. Report Profile Reporting period 3.1 / Full About This Report 96 Date of previous report 3.2 / Full About This Report 96 Reporting frequency 3.3 / Full About This Report 96 Contact information about report 3.4 / Full Back Cover 110 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 99 GRI G3.1 Profile Performance ISO26000 UNGC Information Reference Pages Indicators Report contents 3.5 / Full Materiality 15 Materiality and Stakeholder 15 Engagement About This Report 96 In 2010 the methodology used for defining the material issues for Doğuş Group was based on GRI key performance indicators and the sectoral priorities of Doğuş Group companies. Benchmarking with peers brought us to a prioritized analysis of industrial issues. In 2011, this study is being enlarged to a Corporate Responsibility Strategy Study with the establishment of a CSR Working Group, created by representative members from all Doğuş Group companies. In 2012 CSR Team studied the Group social, environmental and economic responsibility policies and determined the material focus areas accordingly. We expect all our stakeholders to benefit from this Report. About This Report 96 Report contents limits 3.6 / Full Indexes 97 About This Report 96 Report scope and contents limitations 3.7 / Full Indexes 97 Reporting principles on joint ventures About This Report 96 3.8 / Full and other subsidiary companies Indexes 97 Data assessment techniques and CSR at Doğuş Group 14 3.9 / Full calculation methods About This Report 96 Reasons for the repetition of information 3.10 / Full About This Report 96 in the previous report Important changes in the report scope 96 3.11 / Full About This Report and contents No important changes. GRI Index 3.12 / Full Indexes 98-109 Report supervision 3.13 / Full 7.5.3 No independent assurance. 4. Governance, Liability and Sharing Practices Corporation governance structure 4.1 / Full 6.2 P r inciple Corporate Governance 14 10 More of information about the governance structure, including the committees under the Board of Directors is available online in Doğuş Group’s Annual Report 2014. https://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/faaliyetraporlari/DogusGroupAnnualReport14.pdf Autonomy of the Chairman of the Board 4.2 / Full 6.2 Governance Structure 14-15 Chairman of the Board of Directors is not an executive officer in Doğuş Group. GRI G3.1 Profile Performance ISO26000 UNGC Information Reference Pages Indicators Number of Independent Members 4.3 / Full 6.2 Governance Structure 14-15 in the Board of Directors Stakeholders’ and employees’ involvement 4.4 / Full 6.2 Materiality and Stakeholder 15 in management 6.8.3 Engagement Employee Engagement 32-37 Open Communication 32 Employee Suggestion 35 System Full stakeholder list is available online in Doğuş Group’s CSR Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/faaliyetraporlari/Dogus_Group_Corporate_Responsibility_Report_20111.pdf (Pages; 74-75) Linkage between compensation of 4.5 / Full 6.2 CSR at Doğuş Group 14-15 the executives and the sustainability performance Corporate Governance 14 Corporate Governance 14 Processes preventing conflicts of interest 4.6 / Full 6.2 Compliance and Risk 18-20 Management More of information is available online in Doğuş Group’s Annual Report 2014. https://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/faaliyetraporlari/DogusGroupAnnualReport14.pdf CSR Management Strategy of the corporation 4.7 / Full 6.2 CSR at Doğuş Group 14-15 Materiality 15 Materiality and Stakeholder 15 Engagement Corporation’s rules of mission and behaviour 4.8 / Full CSR at Doğuş Group 14-15 regarding CSR performance Materiality 15 Materiality and Stakeholder 15 Engagement CSR performance and the supervision of 4.9 / Full Message from the CEO 12-13 its risks by senior management CSR at Doğuş Group 14-15 Self-check of senior management about 4.10 / Full CSR at Doğuş Group 14-15 CSR performance Risk management attitude of the 4.11 / Full Principle Message from the CEO 12-13 corporation in fields related to CSR 3,4,5,6 CSR at Doğuş Group 14-15 Compliance and Risk 18-20 Management Foreign enterprises and activities in 4.12 / Full Principle Message from the CEO 12-13 areas regarding CSR 1,2 CSR Management Approach 14 and Policies CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 101 GRI G3.1 Profile Performance ISO26000 UNGC Information Reference Pages Indicators Strategic Partnerships and 11 Union and association memberships 4.13 / Full Memberships Strategic Sectoral 11 Partnerships Stakeholders list 4.14 / Full Materiality and Stakeholder 15 Engagement Full stakeholder list is available online in Doğuş Group’s CSR Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/faaliyetraporlari/Dogus_Group_Corporate_Responsibility_Report_20111.pdf (Pages; 74-75) Key stakeholders determining process 4.15 / Full Materiality 15 Materiality and Stakeholder 15 Engagement More of information is available online in Doğuş Group’s CSR Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/faaliyetraporlari/Dogus_Group_Corporate_Responsibility_Report_20111.pdf (Pages; 74-75) Stakeholder participation process 4.16 / Full Materiality and Stakeholder 15 Engagement Full stakeholder list and engagement platforms are available online in Doğuş Group’s CSR Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/faaliyetraporlari/Dogus_Group_Corporate_Responsibility_Report_20111.pdf (Pages; 74-75) Materiality 15 Stakeholder participation and primary 4.17 / Full subjects, responsiveness performance Materiality and Stakeholder 15 Engagement Performance Indicators Economic 6.2 Principle Doğuş Group Economic Management Approach Performance 18 6.8 1,2,7 Responsibility Policy / Full Direct economic value produced EC1 / Full 6.8 Our Group 6-11 and distributed 6.8.3 6.8.7 Responsible Investment 20-22 6.8.9 New Investments in 2014 22 Performance Data 68-95 New Employment and 72-74 Promotions Detailed information is available online in Doğuş Group’s Annual Report 2014. https://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/faaliyetraporlari/DogusGroupAnnualReport14.pdf (pages 5-6, 69-141) The effect of climate change on the financial EC2 / Full 6.5.5 Principle 7 Message from the CEO 12-13 success of the corporation, risks and opportunities Doğuş Group Economic 18 Responsibility Policy Climate Change Risks 19-20 GRI G3.1 Profile Performance ISO26000 UNGC Information Reference Pages Indicators Corporate liabilities regarding defined There is no salary based pension contribution at EC3 / Full benefit pension plan Doğuş Holding. Important financial assistance received from EC4 / Full There was no significant financial assistance rethe state ceived from government in the reporting period except for the following: • Grand Hyatt– Grand Hyatt benefits from an electricity incentive due to its “Green Star Certificate for Environmentally-sensitive Resorts”, received in 2014. • IMG – Government support was received for the transfer and accommodation of international buyers to Fashion Week, organized by IMG Doğuş in collaboration with IHKIB. • Aslancık Energy– The company made use of an incentive for its investments that covers VAT and customs duty exemptions for imported equipment. • Media – Star Avrupa Radyo ve Televizyon Yayıncılığı A.Ş. received a grant from the General Directorate of Foreign Economic Relations of the Treasury of the Republic of Turkey for the implementation of ‘Erasmus for All’ project, within the scope of ‘EU and Turkey Civil Society Dialogue III Media Grant Program’ of Republic of Turkey Ministry for EU Affairs. Policy, practice and rates of payment EC6 / Partially 6.6.6 Economic Engagement 18-29 regarding payments made to local suppliers 6.8 6.8.5 Supply Chain Management 25-26 6.8.7 Local Economic 68-69 Contribution Data Local employment EC7 / Full 6.8 Principle 6 Economic Engagement 18-29 6.8.5 6.8.7 Responsible Investment 20-22 New Investments in 2014 22 New Employment and 72-74 Promotions Investments made for public interest EC8 / Full 6.3.9 Responsible Investment 20-22 6.8 6.8.3 Local Economic 22-25 6.8.4 Development Programs 6.8.5 6.8.6 Public Policy Contributions 26 6.8.7 6.8.9 Community Engagement 40-57 Important indirect economic effects EC9 / Full 6.3.9 Message from the CEO 12-13 6.6.6 6.6.7 Responsible Investment 20-22 6.7.8 6.8 New Investments in 2014 22 6.8.5 6.8.6 Local Economic 22-25 6.8.7 Development Programs 6.8.9 Supply Chain Management 25-26 Local Economic 68-69 Contribution Data CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 103 GRI G3.1 Profile Performance ISO26000 UNGC Information Reference Pages Indicators Management Approach Environmental 6.2 Principle Environmental 60 Performance 6.5 7,8,9 Responsibility Policy / Full Percentage of materials used as EN2 / Partially 6.5 Paper Consumption 94-95 recycled input material 6.5.4 Collected Paper by Ayhan 95 Şahenk Foundation 6.5 Direct energy consumption EN3 / Partially Energy Consumption 90-91 6.5.4 Saved amount of energy due EN5 / Partially 6.5 Energy Efficiency 63-64 to improvements 6.5.4 Energy Consumption 90-91 Products and services that provide EN6 / Full 6.5 Environmental Awareness 60-63 energy efficiency 6.5.4 Programs Energy Efficiency 63-64 Attempts to reduce indirect energy EN7 / Full 6.5 Environmental Awareness 60-63 consumption and reductions obtained 6.5.4 Programs Energy Efficiency 63-64 Total amount of water used according EN8 / Partially 6.5 Water Consumption 92-93 to its sources 6.5.4 Water sources significantly affected EN9 / Full 6.5 There are no water sources significantly by water extraction 6.5.4 affected by withdrawal of water. Doğuş Group uses water from public water system. Production centres within protected areas EN11 / Full 6.5 Principle 8 Environmental Awareness 60-63 6.5.6 Programs Doğuş Group companies do not have any operations in or adjacent to protected areas of high biodiversity value. Effects on biological diversity EN12 / Full 6.5 Principle 8 Environmental Awareness 60-63 6.5.6 Programs Doğuş Group companies do not have any operations in or adjacent to protected areas of high biodiversity value. Protected or reclaimed living spaces EN13 / Full 6.5 Principle 8 Environmental Awareness 60-63 6.5.6 Programs Doğuş Group always respects, protects and restores the habitat which it operates in. Strategies regarding bio-diversity, EN14 / Full 6.5 Principle 8 Environmental Awareness 60-63 activities in progress and future plans 6.5.6 Programs Doğuş Group companies do not have any operations in or adjacent to protected areas of high biodiversity value. Number of the species in IUCN Red List in EN15 / Full 6.5 Doğuş Group companies do not have any the living spaces in the areas affected by the 6.5.6 operations related to IUCN Red List. operations and the species in the national protection list, according to extinction risk level GRI G3.1 Profile Performance ISO26000 UNGC Information Reference Pages Indicators Attempts to reduce emissions EN18 / Partially 6.5 Principle Climate Change Risks 19-20 6.5.5 8,9 Environmental Awareness 60-63 Programs Energy Efficiency 63-64 Doğuş Holding discharges its waste water, Total water discharge EN21 / Full 6.5 which is supplied from the local 6.5.3 administrations, directly into the city sewer system. 100% of the used water is discharged to the city sewerage systems in the operation areas. Total waste according to type EN22 / Partially 6.5 Waste Management 65-66 and disposal method 6.5.3 Paper Consumption 94-95 Collected Paper by Ayhan 95 Şahenk Foundation There was no leakage caused by activities of Total number of and size of EN23 / Full 6.5 Doğuş Holding. The company’s operations have important leakage 6.5.3 no risk of dangerous leakage in significant quantities. Wastes carrying leakage risk (batteries, etc.) are classified according to their types and sent to the relevant companies for proper disposal, in compliance with laws and regulations. Names, sizes, protection states and EN25 / Full 6.5 Doğuş Group has no operations which bio-diversity value of water bodies and 6.5.3 significantly affects habitat because of the related living spaces significantly affected by 6.5.4 discharge of the water. the water discharges and leakages 6.5.6 of the corporation Attempts to reduce the environmental EN26 / Full 6.5 Principle Environmental Awareness 60-63 effects of products 6.5.4 7,8,9 Programs 6.6.6 6.7.5 Energy Efficiency 63-64 Waste Management 65-66 Discordances with environmental laws EN28 / Full 6.5 Doğuş Group companies were not fined in 2014 and regulations because of not complying with environmental laws and regulations except for the following: • Salıpazarı Liman İşletmeciliği ve Yatırımları A.Ş. A penalty of TL 7,035 was received for not complying with the 2. Addendum of Environmental Law No: 2872. • D-Hotel Maris – Several lawsuits of D-Hotel Maris authorized employees for not complying with the Construction Law, Protection of Cultural and Natural Heritage Law, Forestry Law and other regulations continue. 6.5 Effects caused by product transportation EN29 / Partially Principle Environmental 6.5.4 60-65 and employee logistics 7,8,9 Engagement 6.6.6 Total amount of environmental expenses Environmental EN30 / Full 6.5 89 and investments Investments CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 105 GRI G3.1 Profile Performance ISO26000 UNGC Information Reference Pages Indicators Labor PracticDoğuş Group Employees 32 Management Approach 6.4 Principle es and Decent and Decent Work 6.4.3 1,3,6 Work / Full Responsibility Policy Total number of employees according to LA1 / Partially 6.4 New Employment and 72-74 employment type, contract and district 6.4.3 Promotions Total Workforce 86-88 Total number of employees and their LA2 / Partially 6.4 Turnover Rates 83-85 circulation according to age groups, gender 6.4.3 and district Total Workforce 86-88 Benefits provided for the full time employees LA3 / Full 6.4 Principle 6 Training and Development 37 6.4.3 Programs More of information is available online in Doğuş 6.4.4 Group’s CSR Report 2011. http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/ faaliyetraporlari/Dogus_Group_Corporate_ Responsibility_Report_20111.pdf (Pages; 43) Number of employees covered by collective LA4 / Full 6.4 Principle Collective Bargaining Table 69 bargainings 6.4.3 1,3 6.4.4 6.4.5 6.3.10 Legal notice period is used in cases of dismissal. Period of notice due to operational changes LA5 / Full 6.4 There is no standard notice period in cases of 6.4.3 position change or transfer, which depends on 6.4.4 the process and type of duty. 6.4.5 Annual vacation periods are in compliance with the applicable labour law. Three days leave is permitted to employees in cases of marriage, fatherhood, and in decease of first level relatives. Percentage total labour represented LA6 / Full 6.4 Employee Health and 33-34 in the health and safety committees 6.4.6 Safety Employee Health and 78-79 Safety Committees Consultancy, precaution and risk control LA8 / Full 6.4 Principle 1 Employee Health and 33-34 regarding serious illnesses 6.4.6 Safety 6.8 6.8.3 6.8.4 6.8.8 Health and safety matters existing in the LA9 / Full 6.4 Health and safety issues are included in the agreements with unions 6.4.6 union agreements according to the law and regulations in which the Group Companies have collective bargaining agreements. Annual average training hours LA10 / Partially 6.4 Training and Development 37 per employee 6.4.7 Programs Training 75-76 6.4 Training and Development 37 6.4.7 Programs Employee training LA11 / Full 6.8.5 Training 75-76 GRI G3.1 Profile Performance ISO26000 UNGC Information Reference Pages Indicators Regular performance and development LA12 / Full 6.4 Performance Management 36 monitoring 6.4.7 Performance Management 70-71 Men-women wage rates according LA14 / Partially 6.3.7 Principle Wages 80-82 to employee category 6.3.10 1,6 6.4 6.4.3 6.4.4 Return to work and retention rates 6.4 LA15 / Partially Mother-Infant Policy 35-36 after parental leave, by gender 6.4.4 Management Approach Human Rights 6.2 Principle Doğuş Group Human 56-57 Performance 6.3 1,2,6 Rights Policy / Full Percentage and total number of significant HR1 / Partially 6.3 Principle CSR Management Approach 14-15 investment agreements comprising human 6.3.3 1,2,6 and Policies rights clauses and screened for human rights 6.3.5 6.6.6 Human Rights 56-57 Number of suppliers and contractors HR2 / Partially 6.3 Principle Doğuş Group companies either include or plan screened for human rights 6.3.3 1,2,6 to include the human rights statements within 6.3.5 their all supplier audits and agreements. 6.6.6 6.4.3 Doğuş Group is a large conglomorate which consists of approximately 200 companies from different sectors. So that it has thousands of suppliers and business partners which it needs a long and complex time and effort to be included in CSR Report scope of the Doğuş Group. A percentage calculation of all third parties is not possible in the current reporting period. Total number of hours for human HR3 / Partially 6.3 Principle Human Rights 56-57 rights training 6.3.5 1,2,6 Total number of incidents regarding HR4 / Full 6.3 Principle Equality at Work Platform 32 discrimination and precautions taken 6.3.6 1,2,6 6.3.7 Human Rights 56-57 6.3.10 Doğuş Group companies did not report any 6.4.3 incidents of discrimination during the reporting period. • Doğuş Perakende Giyim ve Aksesuar A.Ş. – A lawsuit for damages with mobbing claim started in 2014 and continues. Freedom of organization and collective HR5 / Full 6.3 Principle Doğuş Group Human 56-57 bargaining 6.3.3 1,3 Rights Policy 6.3.4 6.3.10 Human Rights 56-57 6.4.3 6.4.5 Collective Bargaining Table 69 Child employment and precautions taken HR6 / Full 6.3 Principle Doğuş Group Human 56-57 6.3.3 1,2,5 Rights Policy 6.3.4 6.3.5 Human Rights 56-57 6.3.7 6.3.10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 107 GRI G3.1 Profile Performance ISO26000 UNGC Information Reference Pages Indicators Operations having the risk of forced HR7 / Full 6.3 Principle Doğuş Group Human 56-57 labour and precautions taken 6.3.3 1,2,4 Rights Policy 6.3.4 6.3.5 Human Rights 56-57 6.3.7 6.3.10 6.3 Rate of security personnel trained on the HR8 / Full Principle 2 Human Rights 56-57 6.3.5 corporation’s policy and procedures 6.4.3 regarding human rights factors 6.6.6 6.3 Total number of incidents which resulted in 6.3.6 Doğuş Group companies did not report any the violation of the rights of the native public HR9 / Full 6.3.7 incidents of violations involving rights of and precautions taken 6.3.8 indigenous people during the reporting period. 6.6.7 Number of grievances related to human HR11 / Full 6.3 No grievances related to human rights reported rights filed, addressed and resolved through 6.3.6 by Doğuş Group companies through formal formal grievance mechanisms mechanisms during the reporting period. Management Approach Product 6.2 Principle 1 Doğuş Group Product and http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/dg_files/ responsibility 6.6 Service Responsibility faaliyetraporlari/dogus_kss_2012.pdf Performance 6.7 Policy (Page 25) / Full 6.3.9 Health and safety in the life cycle PR1 / Partially Principle Supply Chain Management 25-26 6.6.6 of products and services 1,2 6.7 Customers 26-27 6.4.7 6.7.5 6.3.9 No incidents are reported for non-compliance Number of incidents in discordance with the 6.6.6 with laws and regulations concerning health regulations and voluntary rules regarding PR2 / Full 6.7 and safety impacts of products and services of health and safety effects of products and 6.4.7 Doğuş Group of companies during the reporting services 6.7.5 period. 6.7 6.7.3 Doğuş Group and Group companies fully comply 6.7.4 Labelling PR3 / Full with the laws and regulations about the product 6.7.5 and service labelling. 6.7.6 6.7.9 6.7 Doğuş Group companies comply with 6.7.3 Total number of incidents displaying regulations and voluntary codes concerning 6.7.4 discordance with regulations and PR4 / Full its products and services. There have been no 6.7.5 voluntary rules regarding labelling incidents noncompliance with regulations and 6.7.6 voluntary codes regarding labeling. 6.7.9 Customer satisfaction PR5 / Full 6.7 Customers 26-27 6.7.4 Doğuş Group companies have a variety of 6.7.5 customers and do customer loyalty and 6.7.6 satisfaction surveys on their own every year. 6.7.8 The results and the assessment methodology 6.7.9 of the surveys vary according to the sectors. GRI G3.1 Profile Performance ISO26000 UNGC Information Reference Pages Indicators Doğuş Group companies fully comply with Adherence to laws and regulations PR6 / Full 6.7 the laws and regulations about the marketing regarding marketing communication 6.7.3 communications and they have policies and 6.7.6 principles on the subject. Penalties in 2014 6.7.9 included: • Media Group – In accordance with the Radio and Television Supreme Council (RTUK) Legislation and the Law on Consumer Protection, there were several warnings, administrative monetary penalties and broadcast restrictions for advertisements. Doğuş Group companies fully comply with Confirmed complaints regarding PR8 / Full 6.7 the laws and regulations about the customer customer confidentiality 6.7.7 information security and use international standards and systems to protect the customer information. There are no incidents recorded about confirmed complaints regarding customer confidentiality. There were no recorded significant incidents Non-compliance with laws and regulations PR9 / Full 6.7 about non-compliance with laws and regarding supplying and usage of product 6.7.6 regulations regarding supplying and usage of and services product and services, except for: • Garanti Bank Romania – In 2014, smaller amount of fines were paid, mainly related to the controls performed by the Consumer Protection Authority. A fine was received from the tax authority about incorrect tax declaration of resident and non-resident customers in 2011 and 2012. The decision was contested by the bank. Management Approach Social 6.2 Principle Doğuş Group Community 40 Performance 6.6 10 Engagement Policy / Full 6.8 The influence of our activities SO1 / Full 6.3.9 Materiality and Stakeholder 15 on local public 6.8 Engagement 6.8.3 6.8.9 Local Economic 22-25 Development Programs Local Communities 40 Social Impact Management 41-54 Risk analysis regarding corruption SO2 / Full 6.6 Principle Compliance and Risk 18-20 6.6.3 1,2,10 Management Business Ethics 54-55 Doğuş Group companies include corruption risks to their risk analyses and audits procedure for every stage of their operations. Corporation’s policies against corruption SO3 / Full 6.6 Principle Compliance and Risk 18-20 and trainings on the subject 6.6.3 10 Management Business Ethics 54-55 Doğuş Group Code of Conduct and detailed information about ethical principles can be found at http://www.dogusgrubu.com.tr/ en/investor-relations/corporate-governanceprinciples/code-of-ethics.aspx CORPORATE RESPONSIBILIT Y REPORT 2014 109 GRI G3.1 Profile Performance ISO26000 UNGC Information Reference Pages Indicators Precautions taken against incidents SO4 / Full 6.6 Principle Compliance and Risk 18-20 of corruption 6.6.3 10 Management Business Ethics 54-55 No incidents are reported in Doğuş Holding in which employees were dismissed or disciplined for corruption or with business partners cancelled contracts due to violations related to corruption during the reporting period. Attitude against public policy and SO5 / Full 6.6 Principle Compliance and Risk 18-20 assistance activities for public policy 6.6.4 1,10 Management 6.8.3 Responsible Investment 20-22 Public Policy Contributions 26 Business Ethics 54-55 Doğuş Group companies do not have actions Financial and real contributions to political SO6 / Full 6.6 regarding the financial or other kind of parties, politicians and related institutions 6.6.4 contributions to political parties, politicians 6.8.3 and related institutions. No incidents are reported for non-compliance Number of legal cases regarding behaviour SO7 / Full 6.6 with laws and regulations concerning outside outside competition and monopolism 6.6.5 competition and monopolism of Doğuş Group of 6.6.7 companies during the reporting period. Prevention and mitigation measures SO10 / Partially 6.3.9 Doğuş Construction 51-52 implemented in operations with significant 6.5.3 potantial or actual negative impacts on 6.5.6 local communities 6.8 Report Contacts Gülçİn Akdağ Savan Doğuş Holding Corporate Communications Assistant Manager Tel: +90 (212) 335 65 67 e-mail: gakdag@dogusgrubu.com.tr Location of the Group’s headquarters Doğuş Holding A.Ş. Maslak Ayazağa Cad. No:2 Sarıyer/ İstanbul Phone: +90 (212) 335 32 32 Fax: +90 (212) 335 30 90 Web: www.dogusgrubu.com.tr CSR Consultancy FCS Finansal İletişim Hizmetleri Ltd. Şti. Phone: +90 (212) 283 41 46 e-mail: info@finansaliletisim.com www.finansaliletisim.com Designed and Produced by FM Data İletişim Danışmanlığı Phone: +90 (212) 662 78 00 www.data-iletisim.com roundabout Phone: +90 (212) 292 07 13 www.roundabout.com.tr
