Sustainability Report 2015 Energy for a Better World Contents Overview About this Report POSCO ENERGY has been publishing Annual Sustainability Reports since CEO Message 04 2012 to ensure better communication with stakeholders. This report deLetter from the Board 06 Shareholders Customers Environment Executives Society Partners picts a comprehensive snapshot of POSCO ENERGY’s economic, social, and Investors Employees About POSCO ENERGY 08 environmental performances in 2015 for transparent disclosure of sustainability management activities. Performance Highlights 10 Sustainability Performance Data 11 Business Overview 12 Report This report is drawn up in accordance with the compreValue Chain 18 Guidelines hensive reporting guidelines of the GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4, Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures (EUSD), Material Issues for Sustainability Management ISO 26000 and principles of the UN Global Compact. It also contains financial information, applying Korea-InterStakeholder Engagement 21 national Financial Reporting Standards (K-IFRS). Materiality Analysis 22 Report This report covers the performances of POSCO ENERGY’s Aspect 1. Stable Generation of Electricity 25 Scope Seoul Headquarters, business sites in Incheon, Pohang Aspect 2. Reinforcement of Competitiveness 30 and Gwangyang as well as a subsidiary (POSPOWER) and Aspect 3. Response to Climate Change 37 overseas business sites to some extent. Aspect 4. Contribution to Local Communities 41 Report This report is prepared based on the data covering JanuManagement Report Period ary 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015. It may use data from the last 3 years to analyze a quantitative data, and some of this Governance 47 information includes data up to March 2016. Business Ethics 48 Sustainable Management 51 Report To ensure accuracy and credibility, this report was reviewed Verification by an independent, third party assurance organization, Innovation 52 Korea Productivity Center, based on AA1000AS Type I. Employees 53 Safety and Health 56 CommuniThis report is published in Korean and English. You can Suppliers 57 cation with download from the POSCO ENERGY’s website. POSCO Stakeholders ENERGY welcomes any feedback and comments from the Customers 58 stakeholders. Risk Management 60 Appendix Address 8F, POSCO Center, 440, Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Financial Statements 64 Seoul, Korea (06194) Tel +82-2-3457-2114 GRI G4 & ISO 26000 Index 69 For inquiries about this report Corporate Relations Cover Story Independent Assurance Report 74 Dept. (Tel: +82-2-3457-2295) Inspired by the symbol for POSCO ENERGY’s CSR slogan “Energy for a BetUN Global Compact 76 ter World”, it expresses clean and green energy. The heartwarming energy Website http://www.poscoenergy.com Memberships in Association 77 produced by POSCO ENERGY will make the world more sustainable and E-mail sustainability@poscoenergy.com beautiful. Participants 77 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix CEO Message Dear Stakeholders, In 2015, POSCO ENERGY adopted four management directives: Upgrade, Simplification, Harmony, and Ethics. POSCO ENERGY has striven to upgrade the level of technology, processes, and human resources. We simplified work by eliminating inefficiencies, and ensured harmony and synergy through communication and collaboration. And finally, we put top priority on realizing ethical management. This report shows the economic value creation, social contribution, and environmental achievements in line with these four directives. As the world is entering the “New Normal”era, the energy industry today faces a paradigm shift where power sources are shifting from large-scale and centralized to small-scale and decentralized, as well as from coal and nuclear to gas and new/renewable energies. We are witnessing the emergence of prosumers, and blurring borders among industries due to ICT-driven convergence and integration. Thenew energy business model is spread for responding to climate change after the COP 21 was held. Under these circumstances, POSCO ENERGY is fully committed to turn current challenges into opportunities for leaping forward through intensive innovation and competitive edge. In Incheon, POSCO ENERGY has improved profitability by replacing units 1 and 2 to the latest technology (unit 7, 8, 9) and plans to upgrade Power Plant under the Smart Grid Paradigm, getting ready to enter the heating energy supplying service as well. In Samcheok, POSCO ENERGY is constructing a 2,100MW capacity Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant adopting the USC technology. POSCO ENERGY started its commercial operation of Mong Duong II Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant (1,200MW) in Vietnam on April 2015. We secured business rights for power generation in Botswana, and signed an MOU with Iran for the construction of an Off-gas Combined Cycle Power Plant and desalination project. We will also begin construction of CHP-5 in Mongolia this year. Branching out from LNG and coal power plants, POSCO ENERGY is diversifying into new and renewable energy businesses including Solar Power, Wind Power, and Solid Refuse Fuel. Sustainability of an enterprise can be achieved only when its members are engaged in ceaseless “innovation and learning”. POSCO ENERGY has achieved financial performance amounting to KRW 25.4 billion, and accomplished 20 cases of site improvements trough the PWS in 2015. With the operation the CoP (Community of Practice), our executives and employees share key knowledge within the company. While the concern about climate change is growing throughout the globe, POSCO ENERGY established a greenhouse gas (GHG) inventory system to systematically manage GHG emission, listing their amounts by source. We consistently improve our facilities and R&D activities to decrease CO2 emissions. In 2015, POSCO ENERGY won the First Prize from the Ministry of Environment as an “Excellent Case Presentation of an Air Pollutant Emission-cap Management System” for the outstanding performance in cutting down NOx emission by 27% or more compared to the previous year. POSCO ENERGY shares energy and comfort with the underprivileged people throughout all the business sites. In Incheon, executives, employees, their families, university student volunteer corps, and local residents have worked together to paint murals to brighten villages, carried out insulation work to create warmer and safer homes, and replaced aged electrical facilities. We also prepared winter kits and enacted voluntary work to provide drought relief in Samcheok while donating solar power generators in Gwangyang. POSCO ENERGY will strive to achieve mutual growth with all stakeholders as we grow into number one power and gas company in Asia leading new era of smart energy. I look forward to your continued support. Thank you. Dong-jun Yoon, President & CEO 4 5 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Letter from the Board POSCO ENERGY has set the overseas business strategy in Financial stability is the essential factor for a company’s consideration of the sluggish domestic electricity market and sustainable management. This year, POSCO ENERGY will limited resources. Now countries in Asia and South Africa are need to make cautious decisions to bring systematic very attractive, however changes in the market can quickly improvements for sales, reduce fuel costs, and raise efficiency. cause fluctuations. That is why we must review and scrutinize if It is time to review the business portfolio in line with global profitability can be guaranteed before we enter a new market. trends, including the Paris Climate Change Agreement how If we want to succeed in overseas business development, we they will affect our management environment, particularly LNG must recognize the gap between a region's formal institutions combined cycle power plant and coal-fired thermal power and market reality, and solve related problems. Through plant businesses. POSCO ENERGY will secure a sustainable cooperation with experienced global Independent Power financial structure by fulfilling its capability Producers, we will lead sustainable growth for POSCO ENERGY as a leader in the Korean IPP business. by expanding overseas business with minimized risk. Chang-dong Shin, Senior Executive Vice President / Tong-wook Shim, Executive Vice President / Head of Business Development Division Head of Planning & Supporting Division I take great pride in POSCO ENERGY as the company In 2015, we suffered a setback from the lower operating made Korea, which used to be a poor market for the new and ratio of LNG power plants which is our key business domain. renewable energy, becomes the center of the Cell industry. This was caused by various factors, such as the high reserve Year 2015 marks a monumental stride towards the complete margin and low oil prices. Since POSCO ENERGY is globally localization of the Fuel Cell business, which started in 2007. competitive in terms of both operation and technologies, we This year, we will put top priority on the stable operation of are confident that our LNG plants will resume their role as a key Cell manufacturing facility and focus on securing operation engine of growth once the market conditions improve. We also quality and product performances. We will pursue substantial foresee that LNG plants will bring in more future businesses development by further reinforcing our strategic partnership since they have been reevaluated as a power source with with FCE in the U. S. which holds the original fuel cell technology. low GHG emissions. As the world places higher priority on We will dedicate our utmost efforts to make sure that Fuel Cells environmental protection, we will make extra efforts to accelerate POSCO ENERGY to create a sustainable future. identify opportunities for new growth. Sung-gyu Han, Executive Vice President / Jin-won Park, Senior Vice President / Head of Fuel Cell Business Division Head of Power Plant Development Division 6 7 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix About POSCO ENERGY POSCO ENERGY has been supplying electric power to metropolitan areas since 1969. POSCO ENERGY has grown into the Korea’s largest Financial Performance IPP, operating a LNG combined cycle power plant, the off-gas combined cycle power plants and establishing a coal-fired thermal power Assets Liabilities (to equity ratio) plant. Starting from the off-gas combined cycle power plant in Indonesia and coal-fired thermal power plant in Vietnam, POSCO ENERGY is (KRW billion) 4,991 5,086 (%, KRW billion) 219 222 continuing to expand abroad. As widening its business scope to new and renewable businesses such as fuel cell, solar power, wind power 167 and resource recycling projects, POSCO ENERGY will become a global energy company. 4,184 3,425 3,507 2,619 Vision and Core Values 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Mission • Ownership • Trust We make a brighter world by providing cleaner energy • Challenge • Consideration Profit and Loss • Professionalism • Cooperation Sales Operating Profit (Operating margin) (KRW billion) (%, KRW billion) Vision Passion Communication 7.8 7.1 Beyond Energy, Better Life 2,901 2,599 1,955 4.6 Core 227 139 119 Values 2013 2014 2015 2013 2014 2015 Agenda for realizing the vision Green Co-Success Innovation Name POSCO ENERGY Co., Ltd. Capacity Total 4,025 MW (domestically operating) Overcoming Securing Pursuing Expanding LNG combined cycle power plant: SRF power plant: Date of Establishment Nov. 1969 limits by top-level unlimited global • Eco friendly growth • Prosperous ecosystem 3,412 MW 24.8 MW challenges expertise growth business • Creativity and Innovation • Social responsibility Off-gas combined cycle power plant: Solar power complex: Headquarters 440 Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul 574 MW 14.5 MW No. of Employees 1,099 Credit Rating Corporate bond AA, Commercial paper A1 As of Dec. 31, 2015 History Nov.  Established Kyung-In Sep.  Renamed POSCO Sep. Completed a fuel cell Sep. Completed units 5 and 6 Nov. Completed the construction of Busan SRF Apr. Completed units 7, Oct.  Completed Mong Energy Development POWER co., ltd. BOP manufacturing at Incheon LNG combined (Solid Refuse fuel) power plant 8 and 9 of Incheon Duong ll coal-fired co., ltd. facility cycle power plant Began the construction of the cell LNG combined cycle thermal power plant manufacturing plant for fuel cell power plant in Vietnam 1969 1972 2005 2007 2008 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 Feb.  Started commercial Feb.  Launched the fuel Dec.  Completed Gwangyang off-gas Feb.  Renamed POSCO Jan.  Completed off-gas power plant Aug.  Completed the entire Shinan solar power operation of Incheon cell business combined cycle power plant ENERGY co., ltd. in Indonesia complex LNG power plant Jun.  Secured rights for the CHP5 Sep.  Advanced into Samcheok coal-fired thermal plant project in Mongolia power generation business Jul.  Completed Pohang off-gas Dec. Completed Tancheon sewage heat energy combined cycle power plant utilization facility 8 9 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Sustainability Performance Data Performance Highlights Category Power generation & Generation Unit MWh 2013 16,032,516 2014 15,442,298 2015 15,810,302 transmission Transmission MWh 15,628,532 15,399,328 15,560,261 Economy Government subsidy1 KRW billion 5.0 1.1 2.1 Manpower 2 person 65 126 98 R&D Ordinary R&D expenses3 KRW billion 11.4 16.2 17.8 LNG Nm3 2,603,784,684 2,111,669,633 1,903,143,871 1 2 3 BFG Nm3 5,091,653,614 7,269,361,117 7,369,677,830 Fuel consumption COG Nm3 58,652,766 76,044,310 63,126,908 Completed Incheon LNG Power Completed Mong Duong II Power Selected as a Preferred Bidder for FOG Nm3 110,983,038 1,101,234,885 1,646,061,081 Energy consumption TJ 131,819 122,918 116,385 Plant Units 7, 8, 9 Plant in Vietnam Morupule B Project in Botswana Total tCO₂ 9,836,025 11,973,006 12,439,923 POSCO ENERGY held a completion cereOn October 26, 2015, POSCO ENERGY POSCO ENERGY has been selected as a GHG emission4 Scope 1 tCO₂ 9,823,620 11,934,181 12,397,510 EnvironScope 2 tCO₂ 12,405 38,825 42,413 mony for Incheon LNG Combined Cycle completed the construction of Mong preferred bidder for Morupule B Phase II ment Water consumption ton 2,079,558 2,906,563 2,680,227 Power Plant Units 7, 8, 9 on April 30, 2015. Duong II Plant, the first IPP project of coalUnits 5 and 6 in the Republic of Botswana Effluent water discharged ton 1,223,459 2,205,956 2,295,379 The new power plant units have a total fired thermal power plant in Vietnam. Loon November 29, 2015. The project, which Total ton 1,202.1 1,597.1 2,271.1 capacity of 1,260 MW, providing electricicated in Quang Ninh province, this power is jointly cooperated with Marubeni (JaGeneral waste ton 1,172.7 1,422.5 1,185.9 Waste ty to metropolitan areas with 6%p higher plant with a 1,200 MW (600 MW X 2 units) pan), has a capacity of 300 MW (150 MW X Specified waste ton 29.4 174.6 1,085.2 Waste recycling rate % 44.8 36.4 61.5 efficiency than average domestic LNG capacity will be jointly operated with AES 2 units) and will commence in the second Environmental investment KRW billion 48.7 9.7 20.1 Combined Cycle Power Plants. (the U.S.) for the next 25 years. half of 2016. Total number of employees person 1,010 1,079 1,099 Seoul person 206 267 259 4 5 6 Incheon person 320 336 318 By region Pohang person 361 409 466 Concluded an MOU for Quynh Lap Concluded MOUs for Off-gas PowWon the Award for Excellent Air Gwangyang person 107 61 45 Overseas person 16 6 11 II Project in Vietnam er Plant and Desalination Project Pollution Management Male person 909 961 981 in Iran By gender Female person 101 118 118 On February 21, 2016, POSCO ENERGY POSCO ENERGY won the top prize, in General (total) person 636 768 803 has concluded a memorandum of underOn February 29, 2016, in collaboration 2015 Excellent Case Presentation of Air General (male) person 556 658 694 standing (MOU) with the Nghê An local with KEPCO, POSCO E&C and PKP (Iran), Pollutant Emission-cap Management General (female) person 80 110 109 government in Vietnam for implementPOSCO ENERGY signed a MOU to conheld by the Ministry of Environment on By job category Specialist (total) person 312 279 266 ing Quynh Lap II Coal-fired Thermal Powstruct an Off-gas Combined Cycle Power November 10, 2015. The award was given Specialist (male) person 310 277 265 Society er Plant with a capacity of 1,200 MW (600 Plant with a capacity of 500 MW. They will in recognition of the company's efforts Specialist (female) person 2 2 1 MW X 2 units). also establish and operate a desalination to reduce NOx emission by 27% from the By employment Permanent person 948 1,047 1,069 type Temporary person 62 32 30 facility with daily capacity of 60,000 tons. year before and to establish a real-time Turnover rate % 2.3 2.1 2.6 emission monitoring system. Rate of job return after maternity leave % 100 100 80 7 8 9 Total education & training hours hr 82,648 67,342 88,253 Total education & training cost KRW 100 M 8.9 9.4 14.1 (Indicate the sum of each division’s training cost from 2015) Held a Seminar on Major Foreign Won POSCO Quality Management Donated Solar Power Generators to Usage rate of flexible working system % 25 23.6 18.3 Anti-corruption Laws Leap Award Gwangyang Senior Welfare Center GWP(Great Work Place) Index point 81.4 77 65 Average volunteer hours hr/person 28.9 24.9 24.9 POSCO ENERGY, together with exterPOSCO ENERGY won the Quality ManPOSCO ENERGY donated solar power genContribution to mutual growth fund5 KRW 100 M 1.9 2.1 10.1 nal legal experts, and in an attempt to agement Leap Award presented by erators with a capacity of 12 kW to a neighLabor union membership rate % 57.7 65.9 69.2 equip its officers and employees with POSCO on January 27, 2015. The award boring senior welfare center in Gwangyang Based on government subsidies for national projects. In 2013, the subsidy shows the total of new and renewable energy feed-in tariffs and costs for national projects. 1  knowledges needed to comply with was given in recognition of the estabon January 19, 2016. Since 2013, POSCO 2 Manpower based on the R&D institutions. In 2014, the number of researchers changed due to a temporary expansion in the scope of duties (quality control/product development). major Anti-Corruption Laws of the World, lishment of a customer-oriented work ENERGY has been donating solar power 3 Ordinary R&D expenses calculated by excluding investment costs (accumulated) from R&D expenses. The data for year 2013 and 2014 have changed according to the government’s revised method to calculate GHG emissions from off-gas combined cycle power plants 4  held a Anti-Corruptions Laws seminar, on process and standardized management generators to welfare centers in local com5 Contribution to mutual growth fund: Total cost for benefit sharing system, private and public joint investment, and the Industry Innovation Movement 3.0) October 6, 2015, focusing on the current system. munities where the company operates. trend of enforcement and the strategies. Category Unit Within 5 years Within 6~10 years General person 9 35 Employees scheduled to retire by job type Specialist person 13 18 The data was collected from POSCO ENERGY’s headquarters and the domestic business sites. 10 11 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Business Overview LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant Off-gas Combined Cycle Power Plant Established in 1969 as the first independent power producer in Korea, Incheon LNG Combined Situated in Gwangyang and Pohang, POSCO ENERGY produces electricity not from fossil fuels Cycle Power Plant boasts the largest facility capacity of 3,412 MW (total 7 units) in Korea. but from off-gas (surplus boil-off gas). Instead of burning and wasting off-gas which is unavoidable The plant is a reliable source of electricity, accounting for 11.3% of the total electricity supplied to during steel manufacturing, off-gas combined cycle power generation is an eco-friendly metropolitan areas. technology which can substitute the use of imported crude oil, thus reducing GHG emission. Classification Capacity Started commercial operation Classification Capacity Started commercial operation Units 3 & 4 900MW 1999 (Unit 3), 2001 (Unit 4) Gwangyang Units 1 & 2 284MW Aug. 2010 (Unit 1), Dec. 2010 (Unit 2) Pohang Units 1 & 2 290MW Sep. 2013 (Unit 1), Mar. 2014 (Unit 2) Units 5 & 6 1,252MW Feb. 2011 (Unit 5), Jun. 2011 (Unit 6) Units 7 to 9 1,260MW Jul. 2014 (Unit 7), Oct. 2014 (Unit 8), Jan. 2015 (Unit 9) 12 13 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report New and Renewable Energy Waste to Energy POSCO ENERGY is fully committed to pioneering low carbon green growth with solar power and POSCO ENERGY runs a Solid Refuse Fuel (SRF) power plant in Busan and Tancheon district heat wind power generation projects and actively implementing the Renewable Portfolio Standard supply business utilizing sewage heat as a resource. These facilities enable us to recycle waste, (RPS). The company runs a solar power plant complex with a capacity of 14.5 MW in Shinan and converting it into useful resources. In solving the problem that waste presents, we are also takes the initiative in establishing onshore and offshore wind power plants with a capacity of replacing the use of fossil fuels in producing electricity, which also reduces GHG emissions. 100 MW and 300 MW, respectively. Classification Capacity Started commercial operation Classification Location Expected outcomes Solar Power 14.5MW 2012 (Primary, 2MW), 2013 (Secondary, 5MW), SRF power plant Busan LNG replacement: 75,000,000 Nm3/year, 2014 (Tertiary, 7.5MW) CO2 reduction: 160,000 tons/year Onshore Wind Power 100MW In progress Used Water Heat Energy Seoul LNG replacement: 17,000,000 Nm3/year, Utilization Business CO2 reduction: 47,000 tons/year Offshore Wind Power 300MW In progress 14 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Overseas Business Fuel Cell Manufacturing In pursuit of becoming a global total energy corporation, POSCO ENERGY took the first step by Generating electricity through the electrochemical reactions between hydrogen and oxygen, constructing an off-gas combined cycle power plant in Indonesia in 2014. We started building fuel cells are an eco-friendly distributed power source. Since fuel cells do not emit air pollutand operating Mong Duong II Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant in Vietnam in 2015. ants such as NOx and SOx emissions, they can also be installed in small spaces. We will attain We also successfully secured business licenses for the Coal-fired CHP5 Plant in Mongolia and complete localization of fuel cells by 2016 through the establishment of the cell manufacturing concluded the MOU for Quynh Lap II Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant Project in Vietnam. facility, which will be the first in Asia and the largest in the world. Classification Capacity Started commercial operation Classification Details Off-gas Combined Cycle Power Plant in 200MW Mar. 2014 (Unit 1), Apr. 2014 (Unit 2) Installation More than 20 sites, 154.2 MW in total Indonesia Key Products 300kW Electricity Output: Covers 380 households (4 persons/household) Mong Duong II Coal-fired Thermal 1,200MW Mar. 2015 (Unit 1), Apr. 2015 (Unit 2) Installation Area: 95 m2 Power Plant in Vietnam Applications: small-sized production facilities, middle-and-large buildings Coal-fired CHP5 Plant in Mongolia 450MW Started in 2016 and scheduled to be 2.5MW Electricity Output: Covers 3,200 households (4 persons/household) completed in 2020. Installation Area: 500 m2 Quynh Lap II Coal-fired Thermal Power 1,200MW Concluded MOU Applications: power plants, large buildings, waste landfill sites Plant in Vietnam Off-gas Combined Cycle Power Plant 500 MW/ Concluded MOU and Desalination Project in Iran 60,000 tons 16 17 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Value Chain LNG Power Plant Fuel Cell Manufacturing 1 Procurement 2  ower generation P 3 Sales 4 Maintenance 1 R&D 2 Manufacturing  3 Installation  4 M  aintenance Secure economic fuel Minimize the impact Carry out external Stable facility operation by Localize core technologies Completely localize by Expand the applications Support stable operation purchase. on the environment communications actively minimizing forced outage for fuel cells. constructing a cell for fuel cells. of fuel cell power plants. with eco-friendly power to improve the settlement rate and preventing human manufacturing facility. generation. Ensure high process of electricity error by enhancing operation efficiency power selling prices. workforce competencies. production facilities. Upstream Gas field (Natural gas production) Midstream Downstream Advantages of Fuel Cell 24hr Liquefaction plant LNG carrier LNG terminal LNG power plant Efficiency Always Convenience Distributed (LNG production/ (Transportation) (LNG uploading, Highest level of efficiency in the Produce electricity for 24 hours a Easy to install with high A distributed generation solution to be export regasification & distribution) existing power generation facilities day, 365 days a year spatial efficiency directly installed wherever it is needed 1 POSCO ENERGY plans to secure 2 The construction of Units 7, 8 3 In December 2015, the Minis4 To increase the stability of LNG 1 As a distributed power source 2 Starting with installation and 3 POSCO ENERGY is an active par4 To ensure the maximum perforLNG at competitive prices in the and 9 of the LNG Combined Cycle try of Trade, Industry, and Energy Combined Cycle Power Plants, POSfor cities, fuel cells are one of the maintenance service technologies ticipant in national flagship projects mance of a fuel cell power plant, international market firsthand and Power Plant was completed in April announced its policies on electricCO ENERGY conducts regular checkthree new and renewable energy in 2007, POSCO ENERGY has receifocused on “block-based independPOSCO ENERGY offers a full package achieve higher cost competitive2015, and we achieved the top level ity market system improvement to ups, following the inspection checksources, along with solar power and ved Balance of Plant and stack manent fuel cells”, “urban-based indepen of services, including materials and ness and greater profitability using of generation efficiency, 55% In Koreduce GHG emission and to prolist every maintenance cycle as well wind power that have been selectufacturing technologies from FCE, dent fuel cells”, and “multi-purpose manpower, to ensure stable operGwangyang LNG terminal owned rea, In addition, it is an eco-friendly mote distributed type resources. as the regular preventive mainteed and developed by the Korean the U.S. that owns the original fuel fuel cells”. We are continuing to conation and recover a system in case by POSCO group. At the same time, power plant designed to realize coThe policies includes the restrucnance plan. POSCO ENERGY also Government since 2009. Fuel cells cell technologies. In 2012, POSCO duct researches on broadening fuel of breakdown through our Long we contribute to the development prosperity with the local communituring of capacity payment that carry out systematic training prowere selected for the future growth ENERGY made a contract with FCE cell applicability to vessels and air Term Service Agreement (LTSA). We of the Korean natural gas industry ty, adopting a low NOx burner, Dehas not been changed since its grams by running maintenance engine flagship project by Korean regarding Cell technology transfer planes to leverage our advantages also hold regular sessions with cusand the stabilization of natural gas NOx system, Yellow Plume Eliminainception in 2001 and the revision workshops to improve the compeGovernment in 2015. In line with and launched a cell plant in 2013, in special utilization. tomers to listen to their opinions. We supply by participating in organization System among other facilities. of relevant regulations to ensure tencies of operation workforce. The the support, POSCO ENERGY strives which is the first case of vertical have established a real-time data tional activities in and out of Korea. sufficient compensation for genertraining programs help increase our to improve fuel cell performance integration of all processes of the sharing system to better commuation costs. The Ministry planned employees' ability to effectively reas it develops the next-generation fuel cell business in Korea. This is a nicate with our customers, providing to introduce a system to impose spond to emergency situations. fuel cells. significant accomplishment since various plant-related information invarying transmission fees as well. completely localizing whole fuel cell cluding the operation data and mainPOSCO ENERGY is fully ready to presystems would definitely create new tenance history. emptively respond to the new chjobs and contribute to the national anges in power policies. economy. 18 19 Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Material Issues for Stakeholder Engagement POSCO ENERGY has established a variety of channels to maintain smooth communication with stakeholders. The company has defined its Sustainability key stakeholders into six groups―employees, partners, customers, shareholders and investors, environment, and society―and each channel is customized according to each group's characteristics. When selecting key issues to be addressed in the sustainability report, we carry out an online survey to effectively reflect the voices of stakeholders from various fields. Management Key Stakeholders and Communication Channels Commitments Key Issues Communication Channels M  aximize synergies through sharing  rovide stable electric P KEPCO’s Workshop S ecure financial stability and growth power and improve Domestic and foreign enhance profitability Stakeholder Engagement customer satisfaction exhibitions  uild the infrastructure for partners B Identify core growth engines Consulting for new Materiality Analysis Share mid to long-term business plans S upply stable electric Uplift corporate competitiveness customers Ensure fair evaluation and selection power Manage risk and take Customers’ seminars and Reinforce price and countermeasures Aspect 1. Stable Generation of Electricity  utual growth support team with M new year’s party quality competitiveness executives The real-time fuel cell Board of directors Develop new products Exchange technology information information sharing service Investment council Aspect 2. Reinforcement of Competitiveness system and training Corporate disclosure Meetings with suppliers Aspect 3. Response to Climate Change • KEPCO/KPX Aspect 4. Contribution to Local Communities •Renewable energy power generation companies such as power subsidiaries and independent Customers power generation companies • Power generation compa• POSCO nies at home and abroad •SkyLake Investment Partners Shareholders • Power generation facilities, •STIC Investment and investors fuel, EPC, maintenance materials, services, component suppliers Stakeholders •Relevant government agencies (Ministry of Trade, •Executives and employees Industry, and Energy, Minisof POSCO ENERGY try of Environment, etc.) Executives Environment and employees •Municipalities and residents Society of HQ and business premises Provide support for competency  arry out social contribuC Blue Sky committee E xpand eco-friendly power development and create smart tion activities customized Residents association generation business working environment to local communities briefing session Establish green management Working committee for four Keep balance between work and life  repare social P Strengthen workplace safety Incheon power plants Develop professional competency contribution activities Respond to climate change Development fund review Minimize environmental Company-wide management committee Policy meetings impact briefing session Support the development Satisfaction survey of local communities Grievance processing Labor-management council Occupational Safety & Health Committee 21 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Materiality Analysis POSCO ENERGY annually conducts materiality analysis to determine the issues and contents for the sustainability report in order to follow the GRI guidelines. The company carried out surveys and interviews with internal and external stakeholders to identify “relevance” and “impact”, and pinpoint material issues. The materiality analysis of this report was conducted on February 2016. 4 Selecting Issues to Report The company divided the top 15 material issues derived from the materiality analysis into 4 aspects to be included in the report. Due to the rapid market changes in the power generation Materiality Analysis Process 3 Creating the Materiality Matrix To identify material issues, the company made a matrix based on each issue's relevance and impact on POSCO ENindustry, the ranking of importance of financial performance such as “measures against industrial regulations”, “R&D investment and competitiveness”, and “Financial Soundness” were ERGY as evaluated by our stakeholders. raised compared to the previous year. “Global market expan2 Measuring the Impact of Issues The company examined the impact of 31 issues relevant to POSsion” and “biodiversity in operation sites” were newly added to the 2015 issues for reporting. 1 Identifying Internal and External Issues POSCO ENERGY examined internal and external sustainability management standards such as GRI G4 and ISO 26000. The CO ENERGY by investigating stakeholders’ opinions and ideas. We prepared the questionnaires to study how much relevance and impact each issue had on POSCO ENERGY. Then, we carried Relevance Material Issues Aspect Stable Issue Measures against regulations Page 26-27 Issues for 2014 company also reviewed the issues published by competitive out in-depth interviews (including surveys) with sustainability Generation of Electricity companies in the same industry in their 2014 Sustainabilifacilitators and an online-survey of the company’s executives, Highly efficient power generation 28-29  ty Report, and conducted a media analysis of news articles employees, and external stakeholders. New growth engines 33-36  about POSCO ENERGY throughout 2015. In addition, the company identified 31 issue pools by reflectReinforceGlobal market expansion 31 (%) ment of ing important matters of management derived from BOD Customers CompetitiveR&D investment and competitiveness 32-33 agendas, key strategic initiatives by divisions, business reNGO Government ness Impact ports, and web magazines. New and renewable energy biz. 35-36  Local communities Global initiatives and municipalities Response to climate change 38  GRI G4 guidelines, EUSD (Electric Utilities Sector Disclosures), 3.7 3.7 2.74.3 ISO 26000, UNGC, DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index) New growth engines Measures against Response Emissions minimization 39-40  Social contribution industrial to Climate Total based on Response to regulations Change Issues in the industry 24.5 climate change Effective resource utilization 40 Partners 188 Executives strengths Biodiversity in Issues in sustainability reports by domestic and overseas power Financial generation companies and IPPs and employees 46.3 Soundness operation sites persons Biodiversity in operation sites 40 R&D investment and competitiveness Global market expansion Emissions Media keywords 9.6 minimization Contribution Efforts to revitalize local economy 44 10,852 news articles featured online/offline from January to 2.1 Governance (recycling) Academia and to Local December 2015 Communities Contribution based on strengths 44-45  1.5 1.6 experts Effective resource Local economy Highly utilization revitalization efficient power Business issues Community Governance 47  etc. child centers generation BOD agendas, business reports, CEO’s message, key strategic initiaNew and renewable energy business Sound Management tives (KPI) by divisions, articles on web magazines Certificate Report Sound labor-management culture 53 labor-management authorities culture Financial soundness 60 22 23 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report aspect Interviews with Stakeholders Stable Generation of Electricity Please tell us about your experience with POSCO ENERGY as a partner company of Mong Materiality for Business Duong II Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant and your thoughts on what POSCO ENERGY needs The independent power generation business inherently requires a tremendous to become a global IPP. amount of initial investment, and the market is also highly uncertain. To ensure reliable power supply, it is essential for power generation businesses to establish The AES Corporation (NYSE: AES) is a Fortune 200 global power generation company. We provide afoptimum facilities, secure additional facilities including power reserves and operate fordable, sustainable energy to 17 countries through our diverse portfolio of distribution businesses as them efficiently. They have been facing severe competition ever since the nationwell as thermal and renewable generation facilities. AES has had a very positive and great partnership al restructuring of the domestic power generation industry in 2001. The competiwith the POSCO Group primarily POSCO E&C who successfully provided the EPC services on several tion became worse by Korea's oversupply of electricity, which is attributed to the President of AES-VCM large coal fired power plant projects in Chile (Ventanas, Campiche, Angamos). As AES sought a minority construction of a large scale power plant after the 2011 rolling blackout. In order to David Stone partner for Mong Duong II project, POSCO Energy emerged as an ideal partner to support the project achieve sustainable growth, power generation businesses need to be equipped with and bring along the Korean ECA financing. Our Mong Duong II Project was successfully completed stable supply capability, realize zero outages of power plants and maintain the high nearly six months earlier than our commitment to the Government of Vietnam. In addition to early completion, the project was efficiency in facilities. completed under budget and with a stellar safety record. Materiality for Environment and Society The power generation industry is crucial to nation’s economic growth. A stable We would appreciate if you could tell us about how POSCO ENERGY can make specific power supply needs to be available for the cutting-edge industries such as semiimprovements to ensure the continued economic value as an IPP while fulfilling the conductors, shipping, steel, and automobile. As the economy enters the digital era, environmental responsibility. the importance of electric power grows even more. A blackout of any length of time Korea Energy Agency is in charge of implementing the government’s energy and GHG related policies. may have enormous economic and social costs to society, affecting data centers, We’ve been striving to raise energy efficiency through close cooperation with the industry. So far, Kohospitals, online commerce, and so on. Since the society needs electric power to rea’s power generation industry has made admirable strides in lowering energy consumption and GHG function and thrive, power generation companies have a social obligation to secure emissions. This was achieved by improving facility efficiency and adopting advanced technologies. sufficient capacity for stable power supply. Korea Energy Agency However, there is now an even stronger demand for reducing global GHG gas emissions. Today, the Policy Committee industry including POSCO ENERGY is on the verge of adopting agendas of energy efficiency and vastly Key Issues Dae-gyun Oh decreased GHG emission to manage sustainability. POSCO ENERGY needs to conduct a painstaking To identify what is most important to our stakeholders, POSCO ENERGY carried out a review on the impact of the financial and non-financial risks of the emission trade scheme on the company and to prepare for new materiality analysis and selected the issues below for its first aspect: Stable Generameasures such as new and renewable energy generation business. It would be best for POSCO ENERGY to capitalize on making tion and Supply of Electric Power. energy policies and regulations designed to protect the environment, recognizing eco-friendly efforts as a new growth engine that • Measures against industrial regulations • Highly efficient power generation presents new opportunities. Stakeholders Opinions We shall set up plans with short, mid and long term perspectives and make Please share any advice you may have on how POSCO ENERGY can achieve a win-win Executives and an unwavering commitment for implementation. relationship with local communities and realize sustained development. Employees Any business participating in the power generation industryshall strike the Samcheok Meister High School, the only Meister High School for power generation industry in Korea, right balance between profit seeking (private realm) and energy supply External produced its first graduates on February 2016. I take pride in the school as a place of learning and (public realm) in its business objectives. Stakeholders training where talented people who are interested in the power generation industry can realize their Samcheok Meister dreams. The beginning of POSPOWER's construction in 2016 presented us with great opportunities. Key Performances and Objectives High School Principal Students could observe the process of power plant construction and engineers from POSPOWER would • Supply power to metropolitan by completion of Incheon LNG Power Plant’s units 7 to 9 with Moon-ok Jeong offer vocational training for students as industry-academic teachers. The completion of the power plant the highest efficiency construction would lead to opportunities for school field trips and employment after graduation. Sam• Strive to achieve the zero outage rate with the establishment of a smart power plant cheok Meister High School will endeavor to serve as a successful role model in this industry-academic relationship with POSPOWER. connected to IoT system 24 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Measures against Industrial Regulations Securing Stable Facility Operation Understanding the Power Generation Industry plan for long-term power demand/supply released in 2015 adby arranging a more diverse energy portfolio to meet their specifStable Supplies of Basic Raw Materials dressed forecasting of power demand and demand control, power ic requirements and conditions. In the U.S., the proportion of gas Structure of the Power Generation Industry generation facility plans, plans to expand dispersed power source. power and shale gas production is increasing, but Asia and some As the costs of raw materials account for most of the power genIn Korea, power producers own their power generators and genThe Act on the Promotion of the Development, Use and Diffusion European countries, which have a higher dependency on energy eration costs, a stable supply of raw materials is essential for facility erate electric power. KEPCO then transmits the power via its elecof New and Renewable Energy specifies the Renewable Portfolio imports, are adopting as an alternative to coal. operation and profitability. Through a long-term supply agreement tricity transmission system to end users. At present, Korea's power Standard (RPS) and emission allocation and trading scheme. Other The recent increase in volatility seen in the global energy industry, with KOGAS, POSCO ENERGY secured stable supply for the raw maproducers are comprised of the six subsidiaries of KEPCO and indelaws that are relevant to POSCO ENERGY include the Energy Use such as highly precarious oil prices and the advancements in new terials for the Incheon LNG Power Plant. We are also continuing to pendent power producers. KEPCO purchases electricity from Korea Rationalization Act, which promotes effective energy use, and the and renewable energy technology, is prompting energy companies review possibilities for the end user-direct import to increase profit. Power Exchange or IPPs. Urban Gas Business Act, which is related to LNG supply. to establish long-term strategies. The coal-fired thermal power plant in Samcheok will procure economical and stable raw materials through various means, including System Marginal Price (SMP) Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) New and Renewable Energy Capacity Growth the global network of the affiliates, POSCO DAEWOO. SMP refers to a real-time electricity price in the power generation RPS makes it compulsory for power producers whose facilities gen(MW) 32,890 market. The standard price is determined according to the elecerate more than 500MW to provide a certain proportion of their Zero Outage tric power generator that has the highest variable costs among all total energy output as new and renewable energy. As seen in the 27,845 power generators at the time. As fuel costs mainly account for the table below, the annual percentages for the new and renewable 22,141 To prevent the occurrence of breakdowns and maintain optimum variable costs, the LNG Power Plants generally have higher material energy supply requirement are fixed. For this year, the company is 17,273 conditions in facilities, POSCO ENERGY manages the forced outcosts. to produce 3.5% of its total energy output in 2015 as new and reage rates with facility monitoring and close checkups through 10,462 newable energy. As POSCO ENERGY owns and operates solar enerQSS+(Quick Six Sigma Plus, innovative movement to reduce quality Vesting Contract (VC) gy and fuel cell facilities, it effectively meets the Renewable Portfodefects, obstacles to work, and safety problems) and My Machine VC is a contract between a power producer and KEPCO to trade lio Standard(RPS). In 2015, the company successfully accomplished (functional recovery of facility) activities. In addition, the regular electric power at predetermined prices for a specific period of time. its target of 3% of obligatory supply percentage, contributing to the 2017 2020 2023 2026 2029 preventive maintenance plan, Vibration Monitoring System (VMS) First of all, both parties make a deal at market prices. If there is the further expansion of new and renewable energy in Korea. and online diagnose system for high pressure electric motors help T he 7th basic plan for long-term power demand/supply in 2015 difference between actual market price and the contracted price, in reducing power generation costs by eliminating redundancy then the party that profited will compensate for the party who sufand preventing abrupt shutdowns. In the future, POSCO ENERGY Annual Obligatory Supply Target of RPS fered a loss. POSCO ENERGY's off-gas combined cycle power plants will continue to realize 0% forced outage, beyond the top level in in Gwangyang and Pohang are subject to VC. Year ‘16 ‘17 ‘18 ‘19 ‘20 ‘21 ‘22 ‘23 ‘24 New Energy Industry Korea by utilizing smart power plants connected to IoT systems. Obligatory This year, the Korean Government proclaimed that it will concen3.5% 4.0% 4.5% 5.0% 6.0% 7.0% 8.0% 9.0% 10.0% Power Generation Industry Policies percentage trate on fostering new business in the energy sector. The new enForced Outage Rate ergy industry is a new form of business group that converges new (%) 1~4 Units 3, 4 Units Industry’s Laws and Policy Framework technologies such as ICTs with the energy industry for commercial5, 6 Units 2.25 5, 6 Units The laws that are relevant to Korean power producers include acts Energy & Industry Outlook ization. The leading businesses in the power generation industry 7~9 Units for energy, power generation business, the promotion of the deinclude the generation and sales of new and renewable energy, 1.37 1.64 velopment, use, and diffusion of new and renewable energy. EvProspects by Energy Source Energy Storage System (ESS) business, and energy prosumers. If this ery five years, the Korean Government announces the master plan According to the government’s 7th basic plan for long-term power new industry does emerge, the power generation market will trans0.21 for national energy for the next twenty years in accordance with demand/supply announced in 2015, it is expected that the power form from a one-way market into two-way market. Customers will 0.09 0.13 0.04 the Energy Act. The plan is a blueprint for the national energy incapacity by energy source will be broken down to: 23% for nuclear, be able to produce and sell electric power from their own batteries, 2013 2014 2015 dustry, encompassing demand/supply control and forecasting, 27% for coal, 21% for LNG, and 20% for new and renewable energy. and new/renewable energy generators. In addition, more and more the composition of energy sources, the measures to improve enNuclear power and coal would occupy stable portions due to their producers such as large ESS and electric vehicles, and small-scale The operation of the Units 1 and 2 ended in 2015 (replaced with Units 7~9) ergy utilization efficiency, and new/renewable energy policy. The characteristics as base load sources that require lower power gendispersed power generation businesses will become engaged in Electricity Business Act specifies the basic provisions for the poweration costs. The proportion of new and renewable energy would this new energy market. er generation industry, from power generation to sales. The Korea grow even larger due to the increased GHG reduction target. LNG Power Exchange and Electricity Regulatory Commission have been power will become more attractive because of the GHG reduction Reinforcement of Operation Competencies established to manage the electric power generation market in actarget and construction costs for building transmission networks. cordance with the Electricity Business Act. Based on this Act, the The world's efforts to tackle the climate change issue will likely lead Since the purpose of the LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant is to Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy announces the basic plan the decreased use of coal-fired power, which spews vast amounts promptly deal with the sudden increase in power demand, a high for long-term power demand/supply for the next fifteen years; the of carbon dioxide, and an increase in new and renewable energy. It level of operational skills are necessary to frequently stop and susMinistry makes this announcement every two years. The 7thbasic is still possible that some countries may not follow this global trend pend operation. Without skilled engineers, we cannot promptly 26 27 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Highly Efficient Power Generation respond to the abrupt surges in the power demand. Based on 46 Efforts to Improve Generation Efficiency from the air inflow, recycling the heat from HRSG(Heat Recovery years of experience in power plant operation, POSCO ENERGY seSteam Generator), and maximizing the power of steam that drives cures the best manpower and accumulated knowledge in the area To find ways to improve efficiency through systematic performance turbines from the pressure difference by raising the vacuum rates of of operation and maintenance, and improves the soundness of the management, POSCO ENERGY employs big data in the operation the condensers installed in steam turbines. facilities through seamless cooperation among the power-generof power plants. Our performance management tools capitalize POSCO ENERGY’s performance management tool enables us to ation operation, technology, and maintenance divisions. We have on 65,000 data items per second collected through the Plant Infordetermine and carry out economically optimum cleaning at regorganized training programs to achieve our mid to long term obmation System. We provide all engineers with data mining training ular intervals by checking the real-time contamination rates of gas jectives of nurturing skillful engineers at the global leader level. We sessions, so that all divisions related to plant operation can use the turbine compressors and considering the overall situation of the also offer technical training and sessions for short service employmost of big data in their actual jobs. This enables us to detect and power generation market. ees to help them build up their capabilities early in tailor-made take action against any incidents leading to shutdown. Previously, maintenance workshops. taking preventive measures was possible by the high level skillful Optimize Gas Turbine Cleaning Intervals engineers only. Thanks to the management tools, all the engineers are able to participate in developing preventive measures for their operation. We also hold regular consultation meetings with generator facility manufacturers and other IPPs to exchange information and technologies that help us run facilities more effectively. Obtain the operation Analyze and forecast Determine optimal Engineers Technical Experts Education data for gas turbine the duration cleaning intervals for Performance Management Tool performance. of cleaning effect. compressors. Foster performanceRun a training system Infrastructure oriented engineers to nurture field Offer systematic O&M experts technical training Provide customized information Fuel consumption · operation hours · load hours etc. Competency Training Status Off-gas Combined Cycle Power Plant Classification 2014 2015 Data process platform Completion rate 22.7% 33.5% Located in Gwangyang and Pohang, our Off-gas Combined CyNo. of courses 32 34 cle Power Plants produce electric power with gas generated from neighboring iron works. Gwangyang Power Plant was completed No. of lectures 38 83 Gas Steam HRSG BOP in 2010 as the first off-gas combined cycle power plant in Korea turbine turbine Total trainees 287 896 and generates 284MW per hour, while Pohang Power Plant that was Average number of trainees 7.6 10.8 completed in 2014 and generates 290MW per hour. Improvement in Power Generation Efficiency POSCO ENERGY is committed to delivering the best possible performance and engages in efforts to improve existing facilities to ensure optimal operation. We have adopted big data to manage operational status and generation efficiency on a real-time basis. If a drop in efficiency is detected at a plant, our data management tools help us take immediate measures to maintain optimum generation efficiency. We can instantly respond to a variety of complicated external environmental factors that can affect operation efficiency including air and the temperature of seawater. We have also enhanced our generation facilities by: applying high efficiency Maintenance Workshop filters to gas turbines to minimize drops in efficiency due to dust 28 29 2 Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix aspect Global Market Expansion Reinforcement of Competitiveness POSCO ENERGY is expanding into overseas markets in pursuit of Implementation Status becoming a global total energy company. Based on 46 years of accumulated knowledge, the company conducts power generation The Second Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant in Vietnam Materiality for Business business, focusing on developing countries. Our participation in Following the construction of Mong Duong II Coal-fired Thermal Despite the global economic downturn, power demand continues to grow throughoverseas IPP business is also advantageous to the host countries: Power Plant in Vietnam, POSCO ENERGY is working to establish the out the world. Korea’s domestic power consumption is also expected to rise gradually. when we build power plants in energy-deprived countries, we imsecond coal-fired thermal power plant in Vietnam. We will carry out However, the growth of the Korean power generation industry remains sluggish due prove the lives of the local residents and create new job opportuQuynh Lap II Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant project that will conto oversupply caused by the increase in large-scale power plants. The situation is esnities. At present, POSCO ENERGY’s main targets include Indonesia, struct a coal-fired thermal power plant with a capacity of 1,200MW pecially severe for IPPs that only generate LNG power with high raw costs; they require Vietnam, and South Africa, and we are planning to review and sein the Southeast Special Economic Zone in Nghê An Province, siturelatively higher generation costs and suffer from poor profitability owing to low operlect target regions, ensuring profitability through timely responses ated 270km south from Hanoi. POSCO ENERGY has sealed the MOU ation rates. In order to overcome these market limitations, power generation compato the rapidly changing global management environment. We will to build Quynh Lap II Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant with the local nies need to penetrate overseas markets―especially those in developing countries―to maintain new and flexible approaches to select businesses and government in February 2016, consolidating our status in the marachieve sustainable growth. Further investments should be made on the R&D activiseek opportunities in traditional energy businesses as well as new ket in Vietnam. ties for new and renewable energy, and fuel cells to tackle the climate change issue. businesses that have been created from the convergence with other fields including information technology. Entered the Botswana IPP Market Materiality for Environment and Society POSCO ENERGY has been selected as the preferred bidder for MoruExploring new growth engines via R&D investments and proactively entering Implementation Strategies pule B Phase II Units 5 and 6 Project (300MW) in the Republic of into foreign markets will reinforce companies’ competitiveness as well as benefit Botswana, South Africa through a competitive international auclocal communities. During the process of developing and commercializing new To minimize risks, POSCO ENERGY divides its strategies for overseas tion in November 2015. The project is planned to be completed energy sources, it expected to enhance the competitiveness of the entire supply IPP business into two steps. In the first step, we will undertake joint by 2020 and will implement Pollutant Emissions Minimization inchain, heightening partners’ technological capabilities and developing specialprojects with market leaders, minimize risks that may arise from including NOx and SOx by applying eco-friendly Circuiting Fluidized ized expertise. The active exploration of overseas markets will certainly increase stitutional and cultural differences, and build a dependable track Bed Combustion (CFBC). Morupule B Project will serve as a foothold the company's profits, and contribute to the development of the host country record and acquire knowledge. In the second step, once the IPP in the South African power generation market for POSCO ENERGY. by raising the electrification rate and creating jobs. Investment on R&D activities business becomes stable and develops synergy with group partfor new and renewable energy is also critical: environmentally safe energy is not ners, we will develop businesses independently to grow into a Mong Duong II Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant in Vietnam only expected to bring profits, but it is also important for the future of mankind. top-tier IPP in Asia. POSCO ENERGY has built and operates a coal-fired thermal power plant with a 1,200MW capacity in Quang Ninh province, North Key Issues Leap into a global total energy company Vietnam. It is Vietnam’s first IPP in the coal-fired power plant field, To identify what is most important to our stakeholders, POSCO ENERGY carried Create a balanced portfolio among and the plant will be jointly operated by POSCO POWER and AES out a materiality analysis and selected the issues below for its second aspect: Build an optimum business (the U.S.) for 25 years before transferring its operation rights to the domestic and overseas IPPs, coal and portfolio Reinforcement of Future Competitiveness. LNG plants Vietnamese Government. The plant was completed in April 2015. Promote the future growth Build fuel cell businesses that are It is the first coal-fired thermal power plant that POSCO ENERGY • New growth engines • Global market expansion • R&D investment and competitiveness engine flagship project eco-friendly and highly efficient has built outside Korea, and it accounts for 4.2% of Vietnam's total • New and renewable energy business Prepare “New and renewable + ESS + electric power capacity. Stakeholders Opinions Set up new and renewable Smart Grid” convergence model and energy as growing business Now is the time for expanding our global business to offset the stagnant technology development Off-gas Combined Cycle Power Plant in Indonesia growth in the domestic power generation market. We need to explore new Executives and Concentrate POSCO group's POSCO ENERGY successfully completed the first overseas plant growth engines by developing foreign niche markets. Employees Reinforce group synergy capabilities on sharpening the project by establishing an off-gas combined cycle power plant with It appears that a strong R&D policy should be the starting point for competitiveness a capacity of 200MW (100MW X 2 units) in Cilegon, Indonesia in sustainable management. We hope that POSCO ENERGY would enact External innovative development in new and renewable energy through continued January 2014. As the first off-gas combined cycle power plant for an Stakeholders investment and close cooperation with government agencies. Overseas Business Target (Operation) integrated steel mill in Southeast Asia, it will use off-gas generated (GW) 6.0 from POSCO’s integrated steel mill as fuel to produce 200,000kW/h Gross Key Performances and Objectives (amount for approx. 600,000 households annually) of electricity. This project is a great example of “POSCO Family’s joint expansion 2.2 Net • Completed Mong Duong II Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant in Vietnam 2.2 to overseas markets”. 1.4 (based on • Concluded an MOU for Quynh Lap II Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant Project in Vietnam 0.8 equity) 0.6 • Started the construction work for Jeonnam Onshore Wind Farms, scheduled to be completed in 2018 • Promoted to build Jeonnam Offshore Wind Farms 2016 2021 2025 31 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix R&D Investment and Competitiveness New Growth Engines Increase in R&D Workforce and Investment Technologies for Upgrading Gas Generation Efficiency Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant • Internalize operation • Fuel assessment and technology to stabilize selection •Supported the plants currently in operation by developing process simuStarting from the establishment of the Fuel Cell Research Institute, coal-fired thermal lation models (Power plants in Incheon/Gwangyang/Pohang). POSCO ENERGY is building a portfolio with a balanced mix of do• Generation process POSCO ENERGY continues to increase R&D workforce and investpower plant in early mestic and overseas businesses including LNG plants, new and optimization • Developed the waste heat recovery technology to improve profitability stage. ments. We are highly committed to R&D activities and have estabof heat supply businesses. renewable energy, and coal-fired plants. As the recent challenges • Boiler operation optimiCoal-fired lished the Green Energy Technology Institute and the Technology zation from the oversupply of electricity caused a significant drop in the Strategy Center under the supervision of our Chief Technology Of• Enhance generation • Examination for new Overview for Solid Refuse Fuel Technology operation rate of LNG plants as peak load stations, the importance ficer (CTO). To commercialize the R&D outcomes, POSCO ENERGY is efficiency and profitand renewable power Eco-friendly Waste-to-gas Processing Unit Waste-to-gas generof coal-fired plants that are base load stations has been brought applying eco-friendly generation technologies to current businesses. ability by supporting complex ation refers to a method that supplies syngas produced from prointo the fore. In 2014, POSCO ENERGY launched POSPOWER to procurrent businesses with site upgrades. • Design and integrated cessing solid waste fuel such as sewage sludge, SRF, and biomass to ceed with the operation of the Samcheok Coal-fired Thermal Power operation of the VPP a gas engine/turbine to generate high value-added power. Plant. We submitted an environmental impact assessment report as R&D Workforce and Investment •Preemptively respond platform New and to future new and Waste-to-gas generation is more eco-friendly since it produces less well as a power source development plan in 2015. Scheduled to be Classification 2013 2014 2015 • New and renewable renewable · renewable generation pollutant emissions including GHG gas emission, while ensuring completed in 2021, the coal-fired thermal power plant will be built Distributed hybrid system R&D workforce (person) 65 126 98 technologies including generation high generation efficiency. POSCO ENERGY’s waste-to-gas processin Samcheok with an area of 2,300,000m2 and have a total capacity the development of Ordinary R&D the VPP platform. ing units have been further improved after adopting a dual internal of 2,100MW (1,050MW X 2 units). 11 16 18 expenses (KRW billion) circulating fluidized bed, which enables them to produce high heat Ratio to Sales (%) 0.39 0.62 0.89 capacity syngas without the supply of pure oxygen. Fuel Cell POSCO ENERGY plans to promote the waste-to-gas business in KoT he number of personnel changed as the works related to quality control and R&D tasks to ensure growth under the drastic environment product development were temporarily undertaken by the R&D division in 2014. rea, while pursuing waste-to-gas business with organizations using POSCO ENERGY sees fuel cells as the next generation energy source changes due to the expanding new energy industry agricultural residues and biomasses overseas. since they are eco-friendly as a distributed power source. In 2003, The Paris Agreement has brought about new GHG emission reducthe company selected fuel cells as the group’s future growth engine tion policies to tackle climate change. These changes will cause Development Directions for Key Technology a transformation in the business environment: we expect further World's First Disk-type Reaction Steam Turbine A reaction steam and committed concerted efforts for technology development and development of new and renewable energy and low carbon genturbine is a system that takes advantage of the repulsion force of facility localization. With the construction of the world's largest fuel As described in the following, POSCO ENERGY has set up key busieration, the emergence and growth of energy prosumers, more steam released from a heat exchanger to spin a turbine. When the cell power plant in Hwaseong, Gyeonggi-do in 2013, POSCO ENERelectric vehicles, and the opening of power generation market. To ness fields and the directions to which key technology shall be secure capability for sustained growth, POSCO ENERGY analyzes turbine spins, it expands the steam within the turbine, and then the GY installed and supplied fuel cells with a capacity of 154.2MW at developed, and we have plans and R&D objectives to secure the mega trends, identifies and conducts essential R&D tasks. system converts heat energy from the expanded steam into electric a total of 20 sites in Korea by the end of 2015. We now have 90% relevant technologies. energy. POSCO ENERGY has developed a steam turbine for waste or more of the market share in the domestic fuel cell power genheat generation with HK Turbine. eration market. Fuel cells are very attractive since they only require The turbine is designed to employ a disk method, the first time a relatively narrow area for installation and do not generate the air Business Development Core Technologies Key R&D Performances in the world, and equips with a steam spraying nozzle that allows pollutants emitted by conventional power plants. Their wide appliDirections steam within the turbine sprayed outside the turbine. Compared to cability means that they can be even installed in urban centers with • Secure generation • Power plant POSCO ENERGY has achieved the following key performances by existing systems, it costs less to produce and it is easy to repair. It higher land costs. Fuel cells can produce electricity 24 hours a day, efficiency boostsimulation commercializing the technologies, which are developed through can efficiently produce electricity at a small capacity of 1MW or at 365 days a year, regardless of external environmental changes. As ing technology to • High-grade heat the R&D process, within a short period of time. 160°C or lower. distributed power source, the applicable range of fuel cells is broadstrengthen the recovery technology ening and now includes residential areas, industrial complexes, and profitability. • Fault predictive Technologies for Solid Refuse Fuel Power corporations. •Obtain waste heat diagnostics energy-utilizing tech•Entered the waste heat market through the reaction steam turbine Gas technology nology for creating technology (sold and commercially operated products with a capacity new profit source. of 200/500 kW). •Developed and demonstrated waste-to-gas technology •R  einforce competi• Part compatibility (verified and demonstrated fuel diversification performances). tiveness and realize improvement technological • Independent independence by Technologies for Upgrading MCFC development of core improving and materials and parts • Demonstrated module type MCFC with a capacity of 100kW (Improved diversifying product lines. • High value-added generation efficiency by 3.4% compared to that of all-in-one type). Fuel cell convergence process •Developed a higher version, 2.5MW EBOP PCU (Improved cooling efficiency and greater control reliability). 32 33 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Power Generation Principles of Fuel Cell Investment for the Clean Future environmental impacts on the surrounding areas. Completed in Fuel cells produce electricity and heat energy by means of electrochemical reactions between hydrogen and oxygen. Electrons separate from hydroThe Korean Government established “a National Vision of the Hy2014 by POSCO ENERGY, Shinan Solar Power Plant now produces gen and then move to oxygen through electrolyte, generating electricity, water and heat. Unlike other power generators, fuel cells directly produce drogen Economy and Action Plan” in 2005 to promote a hydrogen 20,000MWh electricity a year, enough power for about 5,300 houseelectricity without requiring an energy conversion process. Fuel cells offer higher generation efficiency, and they are an eco-friendly energy source for the next generation. power economy in Korea. The Government selected and promoted holds, and effect of CO2 emissions reduction by about 9,000 tons a solar power, wind power, and fuel cells as new and renewable eneryear. The company will look into building another eco-friendly solar gy sources in 2009, and especially selected fuel cells as the “Future power plant to respond to the Renewable Portfolio Standard (RPS) Fuel Cell Supply in Korea Growth Engine Flagship Project” in 2015. Working together with the while continuing to secure stable profits. Government, POSCO ENERGY has continued to invest into R&D and Accumulated Capacity  (MW) workforce to improve product performance and upgrade services. We also established a supply chain that includes a number of small 200 154.2 and medium sized companies in Korea for mutual cooperation. 150 Total (20 Stations) Expected Outcome of a 2.5MW Fuel Cell 100 154.2MW 50 48.7 Equivalent to the planting of 450,000 trees 19.8 Fuel cell systems are already applied to a variety 0 of areas including industrial complexes and 2009 2012 2015 national infrastructure. They are expected to be adopted for a wider range of uses in the future. 450,000 trees Shinan Solar Power Complex Equivalent to cutting down the NOx emission Wind Power Complete Localization for the First Time in Korea World's Largest Fuel Cell Manufacturing Factory in Pohang from1,500 vehicles POSCO ENERGY plans to construct large-scale onshore and offshore The construction of the world’s largest fuel cell manufacturing fawind farms in Shinan-gun, Jeollanam-do. The onshore wind farm cility in Pohang enabled POSCO ENERGY to retain the exceptional will be completed in three stages. The construction started with a competitive position. Starting with construction and maintenance capacity of 100MW in Jaeun-island, Shinan-gun, Jeollanam-do from technologies in 2007, POSCO ENERGY has received technologies of 1,500 vehicles February 2015 and is expected to be completed in 2016. For the Balance of Plant (BOP, a device providing fuel for fuel cells plus anoffshore wind farm, POSCO ENERGY selected the site and will comother device converting electricity from the fuel cells) and stacking mission feasibility study before the fully-fledged launch of the busi(piling up the “Cell” unit, a core component for fuel cells) from FCE, ness. We will continue to contribute to the growth of the domestic the U.S. company that owns the original fuel cell technologies in wind power generation business and take the lead in reducing 2008. We then laid the foundation for localization by building our New and Renewable Energy Business GHG emissions in Korea. BOP facility as well as a Stack manufacturing facility. POSCO ENERGY proved that we will realize technology independence by making a POSCO ENERGY is diversifying the business portfolio which used contract with FCE for Cell technology transfer in 2012. With the comYeongil-man, Honghae-eup, Buk-gu, Pohang-si, to rely on LNG power to encompass eco-friendly energy business. Location Gyeongbuk pletion of the Pohang Fuel Cell hub in Pohang in 2016, we achieved As we establish a Total Value Chain for new energy business, we are the vertical integration of all areas of fuel cell business including deProduction enacting changes and taking on challenges. New and renewable 100MW/year capacity sign, manufacturing, installation, and maintenance. The completion energy is our sub-core business, and we plan to develop off-gas, of this cell manufacturing facility will enable POSCO ENERGY to cut Site area 210,000m 2 solar energy, wind power, and resource recycling. down the unit costs of fuel cell production. We are now the first fuel cell manufacturing company in Asia to be equipped to handle the Complex Research institute, service center, experiment Solar Power details building, manufacturing factory entire fuel cell production process. POSCO ENERGY utilized deserted salt farms to build solar power plants that now generate electric power with a total capacity of 14.5MW in Shinan-gun. After the construction of the plants, transforming this abandoned area, with abundant sunlight, it produces highly efficient, eco-friendly energy while minimizing the adverse Jeonnam Offshore Wind Farm 34 35 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report aspect Solid Refuse Fuel (SRF) Power Plant heating energy to nearby local district heating corporations. Response to Climate Change Since 2013, POSCO ENERGY has been operating a Solid Refuse Fuel This facility produces 200,000 Gcal of heat energy, enough to cover (SRF) Power Plant in Busan to generate energy as well as dispose 20,000 households a year. This also replaces the use of 17 million waste, which is inevitably produced from our daily activities. As the Nm3 of LNG on an annual basis, reducing GHG emissions by 47,000 Materiality for Business first and largest Korean SRF Power Plant, it turns 900 tons of waste tons. The world is striving to reduce GHG emissions significantly as we can see in the outfrom Busan city per day into 25MW of electricity, which is enough comes of the 21st Conference of the Parties held in Paris in 2015. To meet this global to cover 50,000 households. It would take 75 million Nm3 of LNG for Process of Sewage Heat Energy Utilization trend, Korea introduced the Emissions Trading Scheme in 2015. Beginning this year, a year to produce the same amount of electricity, which means the the Korean Government imposes fines on a company if its emissions exceed the perSRF Power Plant reduces 160,000 tons of GHG emissions every year. Sewage flow mitted allowance. Since the fine is three times higher than the market prices, it can Municipal solid waste has been treated by incineration or landfill be a burden for business management, especially for power generation companies disposal causing various environmental pollutions. The SRF Powthat generate a large proportion of GHG emissions. However, POSCO ENERGY takes er Plant selects combustible waste, and then utilizes it as a fuel to this as an opportunity to sharpen our competitiveness and we are operating a sysSewage produce electricity. The heat from the energy generation process tem to continually monitor environmental management activities and preemptively treatment River can be applied to various demands, such as district heating systems plant respond to laws and regulations. and industrial facilities. POSCO ENERGY also takes stringent meaSewage effluent Sewage effluent sures to treat key air pollutants(including dioxin, NOx, SOx, HCl and (12°C) Heat (7°C) Materiality for Environment and Society absorpdust) under the level of legal standards. tion According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC), if GHG emissions continue as they are, the average temperature of the earth is expected to inHeat exchanger crease by approximately 4℃ and the sea level will rise by 60cm in the late 21st cenSRF Power Generation Flow Heat flow within the heat pump (Evaporatury. There is a global movement to minimize GHG emissions in generating electric tor) power, and the Korean Government also implemented various policies to prevent 1. Wastes 2. Sorting wastes 3. CHP future climate change and engage in the international carbon market. POSCO ENERFood Iron SRF Refrigerants Refrigerants GY thoroughly plans various corporate activities that can influence society and the /PVC and steel (12°C) (7°C) environment limiting negative environmental impacts from the construction and Compressor Expansion operation of new power plants. valve Refrigerants Refrigerants Landfill Sales Fuel Exclusive boiler + (80°C) (70°C) Key Issues (Comsteam turbine Heat To identify what is most important to our stakeholders, POSCO ENERGY carried out bustion) (Large scale generation exchanger a materiality analysis and selected the issues below for its third aspect: Response to /Collective heat supply) (Condenser) Climate Change. Flow of district Heat • Response to climate change • Emissions minimization • Effective resource utilization heating water dissipa• Biodiversity in operation sites tion 4. Outcomes Stakeholders Opinions (70°C) (55°C) We need to reevaluate the contribution of LNG power plant to keep up District District with the changing business environment to reduce CO2 emissions as • Reduce waste disposal costs heating heating Executives and seen in the possible legislation of a carbon tax imposed on the power • Substitute for fossil fuel facility user Employees generation industry. (110°C) POSCO ENERGY should become a market leader. To do that, it would be External required to make proactive investments in the related areas and also make Stakeholders decisions promptly. Sewage Heat Energy Utilization Tancheon Sewage Treatment Center located in Seoul processes Key Performances and Objectives and discharges 1.1million tons of sewage into the Han River every • Established the pollutant management process for the plants in Incheon, Pohang and day, which maintains a temperature of 12°C, even in the winter Gwangyang time. POSCO ENERGY collects and recovers the heat energy gen• Minimized the ecological damage on the construction sites in Samcheock Plant erated from sewage water through heat pumps, and then supplies 36 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Response to Climate Change Environmental Impact Minimization Policies and Regulations (116,386 TJ), GHG emission (12,439,921 tCO2), GHG emission intensiEnvironmental Management System ty (0.79 tCO2/MWh), and direct emission by fuel combustion (99.7%). Environmental Management Policy In accordance with the Framework Act on Low Carbon, Green POSCO ENERGY designs environmental management strategies As a world-renowned energy company, POSCO ENERGY understands the environment as the key element for management strategy. We Growth and the Act on the Allocation and Trading of Greenhouse Improvement of Energy Efficiency consistent with corporate visions and missions. We are pushing will secure sound environment management based on the developGas Emissions, power generation businesses are subject to GHG POSCO ENERGY is undertaking various activities to improve facility forward with the implementation of our Green System, Green Opment of technologies and communications. We will also practice the allowances and shall release GHG emissions within their allowancperformance for conserving energy. In the Incheon LNG Combined eration, Green Business, and Green Communication. Each business following commitments to lead low carbon green growth. es. If there is any allowance left over, they can sell their emission Cycle Power Plant, we replaced aging Units 1 and 2 that suffered from site including Incheon, Gwangyang, and Pohang has an organiza• Secure global leadership by setting up an environmental management permits. They may also buy emission allowances from other comlower efficiency with Units 7 to 9 that are highly efficient in 2015. Uption dedicated to environmental issues, and our headquarters run system based on ISO14001 and pursue sustainability management. panies if they need more GHG allowances. Compared to other endating our technology at the plant has increased energy efficiency the Power & Environment Policy Group that presides over compa•Comply with environmental laws and regulations and improve the environment continually throughout the entire production process. ergy sources, LNG combined cycle power plants are relatively more by approx. 15%, thereby improving the GHG emission intensity. ny-wide environmental management. This group takes measures • Strive to reduce environmental pollutants by applying clean procompetitive as they yield less greenhouse gas per unit of power against the legislation and revisions of the relevant laws, revises and duction processes and optimum prevention technologies. than coal-fired or oil plants. Enhancement of the GHG Management System adopts the implementation plans of each business site. It is also in • Run a monitoring system to regularly evaluate environmental perPOSCO ENERGY has established a systematic air environment charge of disclosing the relevant information to respond to the informance. GHG Emission Factors by Energy Source management system to monitor and manage our air pollutant ternal/external environment examinations and communicate with • Reduce GHG emissions by using clean energy and employing (tCO2e/MWh) green technologies to lead low carbon green growth. emissions. With the GHG Inventory System that we established, stakeholders. POSCO ENERGY won the first prize in “2015 Excellent we estimate and report the amounts of GHG emissions from our Case Presentation of Air Pollutant Emission-Cap Management Sys• Ensure management transparency by disclosing the environmental 1 0.9143 management performance and fulfill social responsibilities. 0.823 headquarters and business premises based on the “Guidelines on tem” for our efforts to reduce environment pollution and to keep 0.8 0.7018 GHG/Energy Target Management Operation and Others.” We also consistent communication with stakeholders. 0.6 0.4 0.3625 run an Enterprise Resource Planning(ERP) system to manage the 0.2 implementation status of our GHG emissions and the Renewable Environmental Management Strategies 0 Portfolio Standards(RPS). The management can access major inAnthracite coal Bituminous coal Heavy oil LNG Combined formation through the Enterprise Information System(EIS) to make Mission We make a brighter world by providing cleaner energy S tudy on the implementation cost transfer of Emission Trading Scheme decisions regarding GHG issues. in the power sector and countermeasures (2014, IPPA) Beyond Energy, Better Life Vision Classification Energy Reduction (MWh) GHG Reduction (tCO2) Improved Implementation Strategies seawater pump 5,413 2,524 operation ImplementaGreen System Green Operation Green Business Green Communication Improved gas tion According to the allowances by business type announced by the cooling water 265 124 Strategies •E stablish a performance •C  omply with the relevant •O  perate highly efficient •P  ublish sustainability reports. Ministry of Environment this year, the allowance for the energy pump operation review process. laws by reinforcing internal generation facilities. • Improve internal awareness sector including POSCO ENERGY is 24,528KAU. We need highly •B  uild an emergency remanagement standards. •Increase resource efficiency regarding environment strategic management to restrict our GHG emissions. We are takIntroduction of GHG Reduction Technologies sponse system. •M ake improvements to via off-gas combined cycle (training and seminars). • Operate an environmental minimize environmentally power generation. •C  onduct eco-friendly social ing various measures to respond to climate change: improve the POSCO ENERGY endeavors to acquire technologies to lower GHG management system. harmful substances(Invest •D evelop fuel cells and contribution activities. efficiency of power generation facilities, establish the greenhouse emissions to help achieve the National GHG Reduction Target and on the emission pollutant expand their supply. gas inventory that lists emission amounts by source, and continue respond to the Emission Trading Scheme. The company intends to control system). •R einforce new and renewexpanding new and renewable energy. carry out a GHG reduction business and introduce GHG mitigation •E nhance energy efficiency able energy business. and intensify efforts to technologies in the long run. We are currently reviewing a number reduce GHG emissions. Activities Responding to Climate Change of GHG mitigation technologies including the Carbon Capture and Storage (CCS) technology. CCS technology extracts CO2 generated The LNG combined cycle power plants operated by POSCO ENERfrom fossil fuels before it is released into the air, and then converts it GY are highly efficient generation facilities that retrieve heat from to a liquid state for storage. Maintenance of the Environmental Management System partners’ business premises to manage group-wide risks. As part of gas turbines to run steam turbines. Our off-gas combined cycle To ensure systematic environmental management, POSCO ENERGY these efforts, we carry out an environmental impact assessment by power plants in Pohang and Gwangyang utilize off-gas generated Expansion of New and Renewable Energy Supply established an Environmental Management System based on the business characteristics, and a theme-based inspection based on from steel works to generate electric power. Since these plants do POSCO ENERGY are developing a variety of new and renewable international standard, ISO14001 in 2011. We continually improve key issues with high risks. The results are reported to the POSCO not require fossil fuel during in the generation process, they do not energy sources including solar power, onshore and offshore wind our environmental performance by identifying areas to be imEnvironmental Management Committee and reflected in the fields produce CO2, and reduce GHG emissions. A snapshot of POSCO ENpower, and fuel cells. We strictly comply with the Renewable Portfoproved through internal assessment and external experts’ post-asimmediately if any resolution measures are required. ERGY’s emission status in 2015 is as follows: energy consumption lio Standard (RPS) and strive to minimize GHG emissions. sessment. We also participate in the environmental examination for 38 39 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report aspect Air Quality Control Waste Control Contribution to Local Communities POSCO ENERGY has established a Tele-Monitoring System (TMS) There are several types of waste generated in power plants: gento automatically measure air pollutant emissions, and manage eral waste such as sludge from wastewater, waste synthetic resins, Materiality for Business the emission of air pollutants including nitrogen oxide (NOx) and and waste adsorbents, as well as designated wastes including liquid Technological standardization and the era of information technology have brought sulfur oxides (SOx) under our standards that are stricter than the waste oil and solid waste oil. POSCO ENERGY introduced the “Allbaabout drastic change in today’s management, accelerating the harsh competition Legal Standard. To minimize air pollution, we installed various air ro System” operated by Korea Environment Corporation to transparamong companies. Nowadays consumers pay attention to a product’s quality as well pollution control equipment including low NOx burners, Selective ently manage the entire waste treatment process from generation, as the reliability and ethical management of the manufacturer. More and more comCatalytic Reduction (SCR), and electric precipitators. We also strive storage, transfer to final disposal of waste. We strictly limit our waste panies are therefore establishing teams for social contribution activities. They are also to maintain good air quality around our business sites: the compageneration by saving resources and promoting recycling activities. promoting volunteering activities as the part of their routine work and increasing their ny uses an air quality monitoring system (CleanSYS) to monitor air donations. Conducting social contribution activities based on a company's expertise pollutants in the air 24 hours a day, and delivers the relevant data to Amount of Waste Generation is growing more important in corporate management: companies can improve their the Korea Environment Corporation on a real-time basis. Classification (ton) 2013 2014 2015 public image, increase sales and attract talents while helping the local communities. Amount of Waste Generation 1,202 1,597 2,271 Total NOx Emission Materiality for Environment and Society (ton) Companies’ business activities definitely influence the local communities. Since the 2,045 1,957 Chemical Substance Control power generation industry needs large-scale power plants, it is inevitable to exert 1,690 huge impact on local communities. That is why power generation companies must POSCO ENERGY is fully aware that chemical substances may harm forge and maintain an amicable relationship with local residents. External stakethe environment and local communities, and maintain thorough holders are also interested in how the company gets along with the public, show2013 2014 2015 control over chemicals and associated risks with safety departing greater support to solve social problems in addition to creating economic value. ments at each business site. At our power plants, we use chemiPOSCO ENERGY understands the environmental burden such as GHG emissions of cal substances to produce purified water for our facilities and to business activities and enacts efforts to mitigate any negative environmental influWater Quality Control control air and water pollutants. The company manages chemicals ence. POSCO ENERGY also commits to help the local communities in various ways: in compliance with all relevant laws and regulations including the revitalize local economies by creating jobs and purchasing local specialty goods, dePOSCO ENERGY fully recognizes the global concern over water scarChemicals Control Act, and Occupational Safety and Health Act. velop local talents, and run mutual-growth programs. city, and we strive to reduce the risk of water shortage by reusing POSCO ENERGY also strives to prevent any chemical incidents from water. The company uses water in the steam production and facility occurring. We also regularly conduct training sessions for occupaKey Issues operation: POSCO ENERGY consistently engages in the reuse and tional safety and the prevention of environmental pollution, makTo identify what is most important to our stakeholders, POSCO ENERGY carried out recycling of water to reduce water consumption. We have adopted ing sure that our workers are fully capable of handling toxic chema materiality analysis and selected the issues below for its forth aspect: Contribution a water control standard stricter than the legal mandatory for water ical leaks in a safe way. to Local Communities. pollutants discharged from business site. We also carry out regular • Local economy revitalization • Social contribution based on strengths check-up to measure the amount of pollutants and find any abnorBiodiversity Conservation malities in discharge/pollutant prevention systems on a real-time Stakeholders Opinions basis. At our off-gas combined cycle power plant, discharged water POSCO ENERGY’s ethical standards dictate our biodiversity policy. We should keep helping local communities with volunteering activities is transferred to the wastewater treatment facility of a local steel To limit detrimental effects on the environment in neighboring and make contributions. We also need to publicize our activities to external Executives and mill and then collectively treated with wastewater from the steel areas, we rigorously conduct environmental impact assessments Employees stakeholders in order to improve our public image. mill. The fuel cell plant in Pohang does not produce any wastewater. before and after construction to preserve the ecosystem in the It is desirable for POSCO ENERGY to conduct social contribution activities vicinity and improve the surrounding environment. The company with its own expertise. It is important to continue various programs to External Water Consumption completed an environmental impact assessment before starting Stakeholders improve the welfare of the underprivileged. construction of the coal-fired thermal power plant in Samcheok Classification (ton) 2013 2014 2015 and took necessary measures to restrict the impact on nearby land Incheon LNG Power Plant 1,357,955 1,179,050 831,193 and marine ecosystem. For small animals living around the plant Key Performances and Objectives Gwangyang Off-gas Power Plant 689,913 753,686 742,159 site, we plan to make an ecological path through which they can Pohang Off-gas Power Plant 936,178 1,042,641 •Outcomes of Energy Dream Project: migrate to less disturbed areas. To protect marine ecosystem, we Pohang Fuel Cell Plant 31,690 37,649 64,234 Economic Outcomes: Reduced energy costs by KRW 23,434,000 per year will adjust the intensity of construction work. POSCO ENERGY will Environmental Outcomes: Lowered CO2 emissions by 89,512kg per year (equivalent to Total 2,079,558 2,906,563 2,680,227 planting 15,983 trees) continue assessing environmental impact for future construction works and plant operations to protect the ecosystem. 40 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Implementation Strategies Key Performances Capitalizing on our expertise, we decided on “Energy for a Better World” as our social contribution motto. This expresses our drive to Energy Dream Energy Cost Saving CO2 Reduction and Effect of Tree Planting bring light and energy to places in the world that need energy. Our on-going social contribution activities are set along on two axes: Support by Project Household Improved energy KRW Improved energy Facility/Town 75,414kg (13,466 trees) representative programs for neighbors that need energy and the efficiency 20,205,000 efficiency volunteer work carried out by executives and employees. Improved energy Installed a solar Installed a solar 22 households 3 sites KRW 1,717,000 7,410kg (1,323 trees) efficiency power generator power generator. Installed a solar Conducted electric Conducted electric 1 sites inspections KRW 1,512,000 inspections. 6,688kg (1,194 trees) Social Contribution Motto power generator Conducted electric 90 households Total KRW 23,434,000 The effect of tree planting is calculated total 89,512kg inspections based on the average amount of CO2 (15,983 trees) absorbed by a 20 year-old conifer. Drew murals 5 sites 610 Community Child Center that Brightens the World Provided winter kits households Outcomes Applied Centers No. of Children “Energy of Hope” Volunteers Completion Rate Service Hours Support by Region 5th 10 Community Child Center 254 persons 50 persons 88% 2,583 hours Seo-gu Incheon Samcheok • Improved energy • Provided winter kits efficiency: 10 house: 610 households Project Schedule 2015 Implementation Strategies holds, 2 facilities •Conducted electric inMotto spections: 30 households Selection Meeting Disbanding •Drew murals: 2 sites Feb. 17 Mar. 18 (Hope Charging ceremony Energy for a Better World 5th Station) (Finale) Gwangyang Pohang Welcome ceremony Jul. 14 Child center Nov. 18 POSCO group Representative Programs • Improved energy • Improved energy Apr. 9 support activities efficiency: 2 households efficiency Sep. 12 Oct. 31 Nov. 27 28 Energy Dream Community Child Center that : 10 households, • Installed a solar power Brightens the World 1 facility generator: 1 site • Conducted electric Implementation process • Improve energy efficiency for •D  ispatching university student • Conducted electric aged houses and install solar volunteer corps. for study inspections: 30 houseinspections power generators. mentoring holds : 30 households Signing Meetings with Announcement Document Interview Welcome cereActivities Disbanding • Provide electric safety inspec• Improving the environment of • Drew murals: 1 site • Drew murals: 2 sites ceremony community for volunteers screening mony (for 8 months) ceremony tions and draw energy murals. community child centers child centers Volunteer Work by Executives and Employees Volunteer Participation (Accumulated number of volunteers) Executives and Employees BEST Activities Volunteer Work by Executives & Employees 1% Sharing Fund Stakeholders Basic Entertaining Strategic Together Improved energy Volunteering hours Social contribution 192 persons efficiency Sharing Saturday Family Energy POSCO Group Volunteer Work Volunteer Work Volunteer Work Conducted electric 57 persons 26,644 hours KRW 2,510M Volunteer work United volunteer inspections 47 persons Volunteer work Volunteer work (24.9 hours/person) Company donation KRW 1,612 M on Sharing Saturwith family related to the work by POSCO 263 persons Drew murals day by division energy industry group 212 persons Neighboring area support fund KRW 757 M 62 persons 1% Sharing fund KRW 141 M Provided winter kits 1% Sharing 98 persons Total KRW 2,510 M Raise social contribution fund through donation of 1% of salary, and the company’s matching grants Total 931persons 42 43 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Efforts to Revitalize Local Economy Social Contribution Activities POSCO ENERGY believes that a company’s growth should bring Energy Dream Community Child Center 1% Sharing better quality of life to local residents and activate their economy. Throughout our business sites in Incheon, Gwangyang, Pohang, Since 2012, POSCO ENERGY has been conducting the “Energy Since 2013, POSCO ENERGY has been continually offering support The 1% Sharing Fund is raised by the 1% Sharing Campaign, first iniSamcheok, and overseas, we offer new job opportunities and conDream” project. With our expertise, we implement energy welfare for ten community children centers with various activities. tiated by POSCO ENERGY executives in 2011, and is further expandvenient facilities, and foster local talents through scholarships and for the households whose energy purchase cost is more than 10 ing due to the growing participation of POSCO ENERGY employindustry-academic cooperation. percent of their income in Korea, estimated to be about 1,500,000 Key activities ees. The company also donates a matching grant equivalent to the households. The name of “Energy Dream” shows our commitment Classification Details employees’ subscriptions to the 1% Sharing Fund at the end of the Cheongna Culture Center in Incheon to improve the welfare of local communities: we ultimately emyear, and it has created a corporate culture of sharing. In the hope Mentoring of “Energy of Provide regular lecture and extracurricular power our neighbors to pursue their “Dreams” by giving them “Enactivities once a week. of creating a healthier, brighter, and unified world, the fund will be Hope”, University StuIn January 2016, the company built a cultural complex where local ergy” associated with light, warmth, and safety. dent’s Volunteer Corp. used to help pay for the medical fees for children suffering from inresidents can relish cultural, art, and physical activities around the curable diseases, mural paintings in business premises, and partner Key Programs Vocation experience Prepare vocation experience to encourage Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant. With one underground institutions joining the Sharing Saturday program. All projects that children to dream about their future. level and two above ground floors, Cheongna Culture Center house Classification Details Project Areas use funds from the 1% Sharing shall be reviewed and transparently physical activity facilities including a swimming pool, fitness centers, Warmer Improve Replace double pane windows Incheon, Safety awareness Organize fire safety training and excursion to spent by the Workers’ Council. and aerobic rooms. It also has cultural spaces such as a theater, exhienergy and aged boilers, provide Pohang, education disaster experience center for safety awareness. efficiency insulation work and floor work Gwangyang bition halls, and classrooms. Since the rapidly expanding Cheongna Energy camp Provide one-day Energy Camp and Campus International City is experiencing a sudden influx of population, it Cleaner Install solar Install solar power generators Gwangyang Tours with Yonsei University International power requires places for cultural, artistic and physical activities. POSCO Campus located at Song-do, Incheon. generators ENERGY donated Cheongna Culture Center to communicate with Safer Conduct Replace LED lights and aged Incheon, Improved the Support heating and cooling costs, education the local community. electric electrical facilities, inspect Pohang, environment of child materials and equipment, furniture made by inspections electric safety Gwangyang centers the executives and employees. Youth Table Tennis Club Brighter Draw murals Create murals with the theme Incheon, of “Light” in schools and towns Pohang, Gwangyang In addition to the management of its female table tennis team, POSKey Performances in 2015 More Provide winter Prepare useful items and Samcheok CO ENERGY established the first youth table tennis club in Korea in hopeful kits provide winter kits • Extend the period of university student volunteer corp May 2015 to discover promising players in Incheon. The youth table We extended the period of the students’ volunteer corp. from five tennis club will nurture future talents to lead table tennis in Korea, to eight months since 2015. It helped to boost the effects of mentoring since mentors developed better rapport with the children and elementary school students living near Incheon are eligible to Key Performances in 2015 (completion rate: 88%). join. We also offer free table tennis classes to the local residents and • Strengthened participation of executives and employees thsupporters by its female table tennis team. rough Energy Dream Week: Executives and employees particiHealthier World: Medical expense support for a child suffering from incurable disease pated in voluntary work of representative projects to understand Hiring Graduates from Samcheok High School local communities and practice genuine sharing. Volunteer Activities • Increased stakeholders’ participation: Employees’ families, loOn September 2014, POSCO ENERGY concluded industry-academcal residents, and executives and employees from relevant organiPOSCO ENERGY contributes to local communities in four different zations participated in volunteer works in representative projects. ic cooperation MOU with Samcheok Meister High School, which Approx. 38% was stakeholders out of all participants. types. Our year-long volunteer service, which we call “BEST Volunwas designated as a specialized technical high school in 2013, and teer Activities” are composed of: Sharing Saturday (Basic), compa• Published outcome report: The company has published and disrecruited the first graduates from the school for POSCO ENERGY in tributed an outcome report featuring the performance of the Enny-wide monthly volunteer activities conducted by small-groups 2016. Newly hired employees will be assigned jobs after completergy Dream project, and shares the opinions of participating orin conjunction with volunteer organizations. Themed volunteer ganizations and volunteers. This report can also be found on the ing their military service. POSCO ENERGY also carried out a range activities (Entertaining) where employees’ families and university POSCO ENERGY homepage. of activities to support the areas where the company operates in students participate. Energy volunteer activities (Strategic) realize 2015; executives and employees of POSCO ENERGY purchased energy welfare and family volunteer activities (Together) carried local specialties in Samcheok, engaged in volunteer works to proout with POSCO Family. Through these programs, POSCO ENERGY’s vide drought relief, donated winter clothes for the underprivileged executives and employees engaged in an average of 24.9 hours of teenagers, and gave scholarships and textbooks to middle and high volunteer activities in 2015. schools near the coal-fired thermal power plant in Samcheok. Unified World: Donation made to a partner institution on Sharing Saturday Drew murals Provided winter kits 44 45 Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Management Governance POSCO ENERGY practices responsible and substantial managestrike an appropriate balance among various opinions from stakeReport ment to meet stakeholders’ expectations. Based on this principle, holders. the Board of Directors (BOD) determines key issues while supervising the performance of the management. It is also fully committed Activities of the BOD to increasing the values and benefits for stakeholders. Meetings held 11 times Composition of the BOD Agendas approved 20 cases As the highest decision-making authority, the Board of Directors Attendance 94% (BOD) consists of three internal directors, three non-executive diGovernance rectors, and one auditor. Internal directors and non-executive diMajor Agendas of the BOD rectors who have the expertise in overall business management are Business Ethics appointed at the BOD meeting while a financial expert is appointed Date Agenda Sustainable Management as the auditor through a BOD resolution. The appointed directors Approve the 16th financial report Jan. 30 are in charge of making major decisions regarding company manContribute welfare fund Innovation agement, and the auditor supervises the performance the directors. The members of the BOD shall be evaluated and remunerated Feb. 26 Call for the shareholders’ annual meeting and approve issues Employee presented according to the internal policy and merit-based compensation system. Mar. 16 Grant positions to internal director Safety and Health Issue the 21st public offering of unguaranteed bonds Composition of the BOD Suppliers Contribute charitable donations in 2015 Classification Name Position Customers Approve capital increase for PSC Energy Global Internal Director Dong-jun Yoon CEO Approve Morupule B Phase II Units 5 and 6, Coal-fired Thermal Risk Management Chang-dong Shin Head of Business Development Power Plant project in Botswana Division May. 22 Appoint the Fair Trade Compliance Officer Tong-wook Shim Head of Planning & Supporting Division Jun. 9 Approve Sumsel-10 Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant project in Indonesia Non-executive Jin-il Kim President of POSCO directors Invest equity in POSCO Vietnam Holdings Gi-seop Jeong Head of Domestic Business Management Division of Issue the 22nd public offering of unguaranteed bonds (for POSCO conversion) Gyung-chul Gu Vice President of STIC InvestJul. 16 Call for the extraordinary shareholders’ meeting and approve ment issues presented Standing Auditor Seung-hwan Cho Head of Corporate Audit Jul. 20 Appoint CEO Division Jul. 28 Increase the investment for the fuel cell plant Extend the construction period for Sub-MW conditioning Operation of the BOD facility The BOD is operated through general and extraordinary meetings, Sep. 30 Open the Mongolian Office of POSCO ENERGY and the CEO appointed by the BOD is responsible as the chairperDec.11 Conclude the stock purchase agreement for Tamra Offshore son for the meetings. BOD meetings can be called by the chairWind Farm person, and the resolution can be made by having more than half Dec. 24 Approve 2016 management plans of the BOD members in attendance and a majority vote. Any BOD Contribute charitable donations in 2016 members who have a special stake in the company cannot exercise their voting rights at the relevant meetings. Key issues for the BOD in 2015 include the market expansion of the generation business in and out of Korea, the company’s social responsibilities, and risk management. The BOD of POSCO ENERGY will fully reflect and 47 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Business Ethics Shareholder Status POSCO ENERGY regards business ethics as the obligation that must Clean POSCO System 7 Factors be fulfilled at any cost. The company provides executives and emThe Clean POSCO system builds a corporate culture free from the The management’s declaration of the commitment ployees with various activities on ethics and fair trade so as to interpractice of solicitation. It records and manages all requests includ1 to compliance KoFC STIC Growth nalize the ethical management that places the ultimate importance ing special favors made, as well as all executives and employees Champ No. 2010-2 SkyLake Global on the principles. The Audit Division is under the immediate control associated with the request. This includes those who received rec2 Designation of CP officers Private Equity Fund Incuvest No. 5 of the CEO, while the Ethical Management Team handles duties reommendation or requests and who delivered such requests. The Private Equity Fund KoFC SkyLake lated to ethical management and fair trade. All executives and emperson in charge shall register the details of the issue to the Clean 3 Publication and distribution of CP manuals Growth Champ ployees fully comply with the “One Strike Out” system, group-level POSCO system within 24 hours. Anyone who fails to register will be No. 2010-5 initiatives to eradicate four unethical behaviors; bribery, embezzlesubject to personal disadvantages within the company including 4 Operation of training programs Private Equity Fund ment, sexual harassment, and information fabrication. Furthermore, disciplinary actions. 12.9% 7.5% we have selected “Top 10 Ethical Risks” to fundamentally improve 5 Implementation of the monitoring system daily processes and systems that are more vulnerable to ethical Sexual Harassment Prevention Committee POSCO Co., Ltd. 1.4% risks. In an effort to implement the ethical management in the orgaPOSCO ENERGY held two meetings for the Sexual Harassment Pre6 Disciplinary actions on offenders of fair trade laws 77.6% nization, the executives also run a company-wide “Ethical Conduct vention Committee on March and September 2015, the executives 0.6% Practice Program” throughout the year. and representatives of employees attended the committee meet7 Establishment of the document management system ings. The company promotes and expands an organizational culture STIC Korea New Implementation Status that promotes good workplace etiquette with various programs Growth Engine Adincluding quarterly committee meetings, training sessions by busivanced Convergence 2007 ~ Introduce • Declare the principle of ethical managePrivate Equity Fund ness sites, and relevant activities by committees. We also appointed 2015 Fair Trade Training Status 2009 ethical manment agement • Establish the code of ethics applicable officers in each business site to improve the counselling • Adopt a program on corporate ethics process so that victims can report and receive advice more efficientcompliance Transparent Disclosure • Introduce the holiday gift return system ly. POSCO Energy provided each executive and employee with 2.5 Training Sessions hours of online/offline training on sexual harassment prevention. In accordance with the Act on External Audit of Stock Companies, 2010 ~ Raise aware• Operate a group-wide ethical conduct 2012 ness on ethical practice program Capital Markets Act, and Fair Trade Act, POSCO ENERGY made a total management • Establish and operate FCPA guidelines Fair Trade Internal External Others of 29 disclosures in 2015 through the Data Analysis, Retrieval, and • Offer on-site ethics training by standing Transfer System (DART) of the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS). auditor POSCO ENERGY runs internal policies and programs to build a By earnestly fulfilling the disclosure obligation on key issues, POSCO culture to voluntarily uphold fair trade. We promote fair and free 12 10 23 2013 ~ Internalize • Revise the code of ethics including social Times Times Times ENERGY has expanded communication with the stakeholders. There present ethical manresponsibility competition to achieve sound economic growth and improve the have been no warnings or issues related to insincere disclosures for agement • Establish the sexual harassment prevention market’s functions. committee the last three years from 2013 to 2015. • Improve the ethical conduct practice program Fair Trade Compliance Program (CP) 243 23 767 Persons Persons Persons • Operate the Clean POSCO system POSCO ENERGY has implemented the Fair Trade Compliance Program since 2009 and executed the seven factors recommended by the Fair Trade Commission. The company has stipulated operating Ethical Practice Program guidelines in writing and been providing executives and employOperated since 2009, the Ethical Conduct Practice Program is a parees with a variety of training sessions to improve their awareness ticipatory program offered to all employees to identify ethical risks about fair trade. We also assist the relevant divisions with various within the company and propose ideas to tackle risks. For more efinternal and external training sessions. POSCO ENERGY publishes ficient execution, the initiative of the program was taken by the exa series titled “Quick and Easy Fair Trade” on the company’s bulleecutives since 2015. The program is accompanied by ethics training tin board for all employees, and distributes Compliance Program in which all executives and employees participate. It covers a wide manuals for reference, while appointing the Standing Auditor of the range of ethics education sessions according to their positions and BOD as CP Manager. We also hold company-wide fair trade compliduties, peripatetic ethics session for each division, and other sesance meetings on a quarterly basis to share important internal and sions customized for various position candidates.The commitment external issues on fair trade. Thanks to the efforts and activities, we to ethical business practices expands further into the partners as have been rewarded with “A” for CP grade evaluation from the Fair we offer ethics training in connection with mutual growth activities. Trade Commission in 2013 and 2015. 48 49 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Sustainable Management Sustainability Management Strategies plans in 2011. The company has founded a division to exclusively deal with internalizing sustainable management and engages in a In line with the CEO’s strong commitment to sustainable managerange of activities. Through continuous communication and interment, POSCO ENERGY set the goal to “become a beloved company changes with stakeholders, POSCO ENERGY will continue to grow that balances economic, social, and environmental performance”, as a sustainable company. and established sustainability management strategies and action 1 3 Become a beloved company that balances economic, social, and environmental performance. Strategic Goal 2 4 Economic values Environmental values Social values • Stabilize power supply. • Minimize environmental impact. • Create happy and safe workplace. • Expand into the global market. • Respond to climate change. • Contribute to the development of Direction • Establish a future growth base. local communities. • Become a company pursuing co-prosperity. Strengthen the infrastructure for Internalize sustainable Promote communication for sustainable management. management. stakeholders. 1, 2_Fair Trade Compliance Committee, 3_ Employee Training on Fair Trade 4_Excellent Employee Award on Fair Trade • Systemize the task force to execute •Establish company-wide business •Identify issues for stakeholders and plans. strategies based on sustainability develop the response process. Action Plans management. •Implement sustainable management • Promote stakeholder engagement. Performance and Plan strategies. • Run programs that increase values • Publish sustainability reports. improve implementation. for each group of stakeholders. Classification Performance and Plan • Link the goal for sustainable • Strengthen training and aware• Proclaim CEO’s commitment in company-wide meetings. management with KPI. ness-raising activities. Support from top management • Report the CP operation plan to the BOD meetings. • Complete the company-wide commitment on fair trade compliance. Introduction of CP and operational • Post on EP about duties and roles of CP officers. principles • Organize CP officers and operate the CP Committee. Sustainability Management Organization experts to provide facilitators with quarterly training so that they can develop their capabilities and improve operation. CP manuals • Update the CP manual and distribute it to divisions with high risks of legal violation. Sustainability Management Committee • Identify risk factors with CP checklists. POSCO ENERGY runs the Sustainability Management ComPrior-monitoring system • Hold briefing sessions about online/offline reporting system and continue monitoring activities. Chief / CEO • Prepare internal audit policies for protecting whistleblowers and improve the reporting system. mittee, the highest decision-making body in sustainable management, under the direct control of the CEO. The company • Carry out training sessions for executives including POSCO group-level meetings. defines key stakeholders as investors, customers, environment, Vice-chief / CFO • Offer online training for all employees. • Invite a guest lecturer to give training to divisions with high risk of legal violation. partners, employees, and society and formed the Committee PR & CSR Group/Secretary Training program •Offer external training for employees whose duties are related to fair trade (Corporate Disclosure System, with pertinent executives. It holds meetings for regular reportFair Subcontract Transactions Act, Fair Trade Act, etc.). ing and supervises sustainable management issues. Sustainability Management Committee • Participate in CP seminars and fair trade compliance forums. • Run professional training programs in cooperation with lawyers specialized in the Fair Trade Act. Sustainability Management Facilitators • Offer prizes for model employees who practice excellent activities. Incentive and discipline system The company has implemented facilitators consisting of se• Adopt regular monitoring on legal violations and discipline any violators accordingly. nior employees in charge of key sustainability management Shareholders Executives Environ• Assess employees’ satisfaction and understanding of offline training. and Customers Partners and Society issues. Facilitators assume the role of gathering the stakeholdment employees Evaluation and improvement of CP’s • Analyze problems and causes through surveys designed to evaluate all employees’ understanding of CP. Investors effectiveness • Prepare a CP practice examination report. ers’ opinions, and conducting tasks. Thanks to facilitators’ ac• Report CP results to executives’ meetings or to the BOD. tivities, POSCO ENERGY is able to improve the work efficiency related to sustainability management, ensure great execution, Sustainability Management Facilitator and raise awareness internally. The company invites external 50 51 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Innovation Employee Performance-creating and Innovative Culture 2015 Innovation Activities C&C Activities thanks sharing. The company also designates “Thanks Sharing LeadFinancial outcomes Domestic business trip hours ers” by division to encourage employees’ thanks sharing facilitators. (KRW billion) (hr) In response to the falling System Marginal Price (SMP), POSCO To realize the vision, it is essential to create a working environment The monthly Thanks Newsletter is also published to strengthen muENERGY enforced the vigorous POSTIM (POSCO Total Innovation where all executives and employees are able to enjoy their work. tual understanding and trust. Methodology) to realize company-wide innovation. POSTIM is 300 25 150,000 140,000 Open communication and proactive cooperation are the keys to POSCO group’s own innovation model and is composed of PSS+ 200 19 100,000 90,000 transform a company into a Great Work Place (GWP) with its long(POSCO Six Sigma Plus), QSS+ (Quality Safety Stability Plus), and 100 50,000 term competitiveness. POSCO ENERGY opts for C&C (CommunicaSWP (Smart Work Place). POSCO ENERGY also carried out Work Diet tion& Collaboration) activities as a core strategy to embed smooth 0 0 activities to help employees focus on the work. communication and cooperation into the organizational culture Goal Performance 2014 2015 and accordingly runs a range of programs. QSS+ Activities to Improve Performance and Safety Increase work execution with POSTIM, QSS+ activities refer to the maintenance and improvement of faOpen a practical means of realizing goals! cilities and equipment. POSCO ENERGY trained 36 leaders in 2015 Communication and improved around 20 operation sites. We have reinforced the Change company-wide QSS+ activities, while the management visits the and PSS+ frontline employees for the project to build maintenance workLeap Thanks Newsletter shops with recycled waste facility. SWP Proactive Make excellent Cooperation 3 Factors QSS+ performance Enhancement of Focus through Work Diet Good Labor-Management Relationship Focus in a positive POSCO ENERGY introduced the Work Diet initiative that helps emReinforce atmosphere. ployees to focus on valuable tasks by discarding unnecessary work. POSCO ENERGY periodically conducts collective bargaining with manufacturing sites The company saved 8,000 hours for a year by abolishing or simpliTalk Concert with CEO the labor union to reflect their opinions in decision-making over fying official events, and decreased unnecessary business trips by The company provides all employees with an opportunity to comimportant business decisions or issues that may directly affect 31%. By using video conferences instead of meetings in person, it municate with the CEO. Once a year, POSCO ENERGY holds “Talk employees’ working conditions. The company also holds separate also helped to cut down CO2 emissions. Progress was achieved in Concert with CEO” where the CEO meets employees in all business monthly meetings to review grievances and concerns to ensure various fronts including inefficient directions, reporting, and gathpremises to share the corporate visions and management situasmooth communication. The Labor-Management Council and the PerforBuild an ering. Formore promising results The company improve the process tions. This talk is then followed by Q&A sessions. Grievance Resolution Committee allow to discuss all issues requirIntegrate Foster 4 Princimanceatmowork and and value of directions, reporting and gathering and establishes and practices ing labor-management cooperation including employee grievples based sphere to innovation talents rewards focus on Work Diet 10. Satisfaction Enhancement ances, and the improvement of salary system and working enviSince 2011, POSCO ENERGY has measured the GWP index for all ronments. The Grievance Resolution Committee makes sure that IP Festival for Innovation executives and employees. We conduct surveys and interviews any grievance reports, complaints, and suggestions are kept strictly We held the IP (Innovation POSCO) Festival and rewarded best for all employees to gauge their GWP(Great Work Place) Index in confidential. KRW 25.4 billion generated by PSS+ practices in order to emphasize the commitment to innovation. accordance with a variety of criteria. The results will serve to imBased on Six Sigma, PSS+ was developed with an eclectic integraWe will proactively cope with external changes through innovation prove systems, make a pleasant workplace and set the direction for tion of innovation methodologies such as VE (Value Engineering), and grow to become a global integrated energy company. management based on happiness. POSCO ENERGY believes that TESAL (Target, Explore, Spark, Accelerate, Launch) and Big Data. the happiness and job satisfaction of employees are the pillars of POSCO ENERGY preemptively introduced PSS+ to take the lead the competitiveness. Therefore, we are committed to “solidifying among companies in work process innovations. In 2015, the comtrust in organization and management”, “instilling pride in the job pany explored 21 projects from the perspective of realized gains, and company” and “mutual respect and understanding among emdifferentiated method, and cross-functional approach. POSCO ENployees.” ERGY mobilized 22 project leaders and 130 team members, which accounted for 10% of the total employees, to achieve these goals. Thanks Sharing Campaign The company mastered methodologies to effectively conduct projDesigned to “share the Warmth, Be thankful, and Love together”, ects and engaged in discussion, idea search, committee sessions, the “Happy Energy, Thanks Sharing Campaign” has been organized and a final briefing session, thereby resulting in financial outcomes to spread a positive mindset throughout the company. Since 2013, worth KRW 25.4 billion. we have participated in producing a daily broadcasting service on Workshop for Labor-Management Council 52 53 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Welfare of Executives and Employees activities. We aim to achieve an organizational culture free from any Training Programs discrimination. To ensure human rights compliance, the company Training (POSCO Family University) Commissioned training program Internal training program The company has received the “Best Family-Friendly Management relys on the grievance resolution system to promptly respond to Overseas trainBasic training (leadership/positions) Job training Language/global learning ing / mentoring Certificate” by the Ministry of Gender Equality and Family on Deany risk factors, while documenting human rights protection cases Management IMI External training 1:1 language learning cember 2015. POSCO ENERGY is the only company among IPPs related to the business activities in local communities. POSCO EN(chief executives) for executives Saturday/Monthly Training/Cultivation Executives breakin Korea that has been recognized for its excellent family-friendly ERGY educates employees through the e-learning courses on the fast Strategies practice through this certification, and this is the second certifiprevention of sexual harassment while making the “Always Respect training Intensive lan(new position) Position Leader cate it earned since 2012. The company runs a flexible working Others” campaign to emphasize on mutual respect among employholders (Group workguage learning Off-duty global Online language learning in e-Campus e-Campus online learning (Legal/Family mandatory) chief/leader) shop MBA/ Over-the-phone language course time scheme to support employees’ self-development, child-care ees and executives. We also operate the SINMUNGO (Reporting) leader training Technical Mentoring (mentor: P5+/mentee: P1~P3) degree Sojourning employee training course and education. The company also designated as “Family Day”, the system to solve any grievance issues over ethical management, Company-wide IP concert W courses P4 Online job training in e-Campus Introductory training (experienced) Innovation (GB/BB/MBB/Triz/PSS+) External job training by division Extracurricular language course leaderTraining (Korea Power Learning Institute) day all employees leave the office one hour earlier than usual so mutual growth, and purchase-related issues. (Sr.Manager) ship Job expertise training Training (promoted) that they can spend time with families. The company also supports Overseas training employees with various policies including maternity and childcare Recruitment and Improvement of Competence P3 (Manager) (P4/P3/P2) leave, paid paternity leave, and in-house child-care center. POSCO ENERGY support the employees to find the right balance between POSCO ENERGY implements a nondiscriminatory open recruitment Training (Korea Power P2 Field skill work and family by offering a “psychotherapy center” and “family to ensure equal opportunity based on competency. The company (Manager) Exchange) training counseling program”. Aside from these programs, POSCO ENERGY runs various programs to cultivate “world-best experts”, “trusted tal(InnoTraining and OJT Junior leadervation also provide employees with a variety of benefits such as holiday ent”, and” “ethical talents” such as basic training programs custom(newcomer ~ 1 year) ship camp Support P1 accommodation, school expenses, medical expenses, and partner’s ized to different positions and leadership training to understand the (J.Manager) Introductory Center) Internship training (newcomer) (newcomer) health check-up support. common values of the POSCO Family, job competency programs to learn problem solving skills, and language learning and overseas Employee Benefits study programs. The company also started the one-on-one mentoring program to foster experts, develop career, and help newcomOverseas Training Program Fair Evaluation and Compensation ers adapt to the company. It has been expanded to accommodate POSCO ENERGY selects 40 excellent employees for overseas traiLoans Medical Education employees with short length of service employees and offered a ning twice a yearin countries where the company already has We offer fair evaluations and compensation to help employees atMortgage loan, liveHealth check-up, School expenses, platformto develop their career and share distress. branches like Vietnam. tain their full potential. Regardless of their gender, employees will lihood settlement medical expanse phone language be treated equally through independent and objective evaluations loan education, language study club Company-wide Learning CoP and fair compensation. We annually select excellent employees Talented Employees POSCO ENERGY runs the company-wide learning CoP, a group who contributed to the company’s development in line with the activity to share the management strategies and core knowledge vision and core values, and present the POSCO ENERGY Award for World’s Best World‘s Best Experts with global competency and necessary to achieve goals. The objectives of Learning CoP are to Model Employee. Leisure Selective benefits Other programs Energy Leader leadership increase work efficiency through hierarchical learning teams, and Condominium and Welfare card system expenditures for establish a system in which all employees motivate themselves to summer holiday congratulations/ Trusted Talent accommodation condolence, comwho understand their differences improve technical capability and problem solving ability. pany housing, club and communicate with others Performance activities, etc. Feed Direction for Self-motivated Job Competency back Ethical Talent 1st Evaluation Pursuing who prepare for the future with Competency Increase competency the values of creativity and passion and take the through the organic Business and Human Rights challenge and trust lead in green innovation cycle of Work, Self-motivated Employee Performance Learn and Improve. Learn learning Improve Feed back 2nd Evaluation In accordance with POSCO Family’s Code of Ethics, POSCO ENERCompetency GY respects and advocates the globally recognized international Cultivate Improve standards on human rights including the Universal Declaration of professional work efficienHuman Rights, United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and skill and cy, problem knowledge solving ability Personnel Human Rights, the 10 Principles of the United Nations Global ComManagement pact, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. We Work also prescribe that no human rights shall be violated in the business 54 55 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Safety and Health Suppliers POSCO ENERGY carried out preventive activities against industrial exercise and stretch once a day, and invites experts to prevent musShared Growth Model based on Trust 4 Guidelines for Fair Trade accidents and built a safety and health system in order to create culoskeletal disorders. The company also applies the Material Safety a safe working environment. We made a mid and long term plan Data Sheet (MSDS) for managing chemical substances and strives Fair Trade and Mutual Growth Agreement to acquire KOSHA18001 certification for all business premises and to ensure employment safety and health through various activities Although POSCO ENERGY is not subject to the win-win index, we gain higher PSM levels. In 2015, we reinforced safety measures on including mandatory use of personal protection equipment and take the lead in promoting shared growth. We voluntarily signed Guidelines on the concluding Guidelines on the selecting facilities by the ILS* and realized the zero-accident rate compatraining. the “Executing Fair Trade and shared Growth Agreement between contracts and management of ny-widely. At the plant in Pohang, the management and the labor large cooperation and SMEs” with more than 270 primary partners partners discovered potential danger and took preventive actions, and the Pre-emptive Risk Management and expanded it to secondary partners. plant was selected as an excellent business premise for safety by No. of Partners Concluded the Agreement Korea Occupational Safety & Health Agency. Thanks to the excelSafety and Health Audit and Training Programs (company) lent activities, we are granted 3 years of grace period for safety and We newly founded the Occupational Safety Team in July 2014. We Guidelines on the Guidlines on the isuue of health supervision by the Korean Government. have carried out safety and health inspections at the business sites 270 Management of Subcontracting documentation and filing since 2015. In addition to compliance with the relevant laws and supervision committee * ILS (Isolation Locking System): this prevents equipment or machinery from 150 regulations, the team is in charge of various actions: uncovering and malfunctioning or shutting down due to negligence. correcting any latent vulnerability in a facility or equipment, managing safe process operations, and improving the KOSHA 18001 2014 2015 Sustainability of Partners Safety and Health System system. The team carries out systematic and customized training for relevant business sites including mandatory training, internal trainTransparent Transaction Safety and Health Committees ing, fire drills, as well as special safety training and workshops. POSPOSCO ENERGY adopts a transparent procedure from selecting, To raise the level of awareness on safety and health in all workplacCO ENERGY also endeavors to prevent potential accidents during contracting and paying on purchase, to assessing partners to create es, POSCO ENERGY operates a quarterly Occupational Safety and commercial operation of new business sites. We also conduct safety Support for Financial, Education and Human Resources a fair and transparent transaction culture. Health Committee to deal with the related issues and progress. checkups and special safety training during the major maintenance POSCO ENERGY helps partners to borrow loans at a lower interest The Autonomous Safety Committee is also held each month and period for power plants to achieve the zero-accident rate. rate than the market rate by utilizing the POSCO group shared 100% Cash Payment on Purchase attended by the heads of business sites and position holders to put Growth Fund. We also offer the partners opportunities to build To facilitate smooth financial flows for SMEs, POSCO ENERGY pays safety and health measures into practice on a daily basis. competence for their employees including patent training, manfor the purchases from SMEs in cash, and these payments are made agement doctor system, etc. twice a week. The payment is completed no later than five days Process Safety Management (PSM) after the products are received. We operate the Process Safety Management (PSM) system in acTechnology Support and Protection cordance with the Occupational Safety and Health Act in order to We actively promote the Technology Escrow System and Trade SeFair Selection and Evaluation of Partners prevent serious industrial accidents. To strengthen process safety cret Certification System, support relevant costs to protect partners’ POSCO ENERGY abides by the selection and evaluation standards in management, we carry out special training for 12 major tasks from technology, and encourage them to file a joint-patent application accordance with the work standards. We secure fairness in evaluathe process safety management for all employees and solidified the with POSCO ENERGY. tion and assessments through POSCO Family Supplier Relationship internal safety audits by adopting the cross-audit program for safety Management (SRM). The company expanded its SRM to partners managers. The Incheon plant earned the P level, the top level in the Support for the Secondary Partners by encouraging them to fulfill their social responsibilities on enarea of safety, for the second consecutive year in 2015. POSCO ENERGY’s engagement in shared growth is not limited to vironment, safety, etc., during the registration and assessment of the primary partners: the executives responsible for procurement partners. Any partners that voluntarily comply with the SRM are reSafety Management of Partners directly visit secondary partners to find what is required in the field warded with incentives. POSCO ENERGY has been selected as an excellent business premise and jointly seek an appropriate means of support with the primary for the Win-Win Occupational Safety and Health Cooperation Propartners. Transparent Contracting gram, which is organized by the Ministry of Employment and Labor. POSCO ENERGY ensures transparency in our agreement procedure We ensure that the partners maintain the same level of safety as Fair Trade Compliance through the e-Procurement system. The company strives to ensure that of POSCO ENERGY for works carried out in the business sties. To fulfill fair trade obligation related to subcontract transaction, the that every agreement is sealed in a transparent and fair manner As for other works performed separately, the company assists them company introduced a subcontract agreement and adopted four by holding the Subcontracting Evaluation Committee. This comwith risk assessment and technology support. guidelines for fair subcontract transactions that cover contract conmittee allows prior review on whether the Subcontractor Act was clusion, the selection and application of partners, etc. In this way, observed at least once a month under the supervision of a procureHealth Management for Employees we can prevent possible unfair practices and protect partner firms. ment executive. POSCO ENERGY runs a program that encourages all employees to 56 57 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Customers Synergy in Win-Win Cooperation Greater Response at Customer Contact Points Growing Importance of Service Organization ogy support, the company founded an Operation Skill Center by integrating the existing Technical Assistance Center and commisVarious Support Programs for Partners Fuel Cell Real-time Information Sharing System (RIS) Real-time Technical Support for Customers sioning operation engineers. The operation skill center will advance As a member of the POSCO family, POSCO ENERGY runs win-win POSCO ENERGY has established the Fuel cell Real-time Information POSCO ENERGY has founded the 24/7 Korea Technical Assistance the company’s endeavors to sustain optimal fuel cell operation and growth programs in a variety of areas, contributing to the POSCO Sharing System (RIS), a communication channel that enhances Center (KTAC) within the Pohang Fuel Cell Manufacturing Plant and maximize customer satisfaction by sharing facility operation and Family’s mutual growth ecosystem. service reliability, customer satisfaction, and convenience. RIS entrained technical experts specializing in operation skills in coopersupporting technologies. ables customers to check the real-time operation status by facility, ation with the program developer. To enhance customer technolBenefit Sharing System operation data, and various reports, as well as the status of accepIn cooperation with SMEs, POSCO ENERGY operates the Benefit tance and process of customer requests. The system helped POSObjectives and Roles of Operation Skill Center Sharing system, which allows the company to cooperate with SMEs CO ENERGY to obtain a high score of 94 points in the customer Operation & Provide instruction for to conduct joint projects and to share the financial benefits we’ve satisfaction survey for 2015. POSCO ENERGY is always carrying out · S upport 24-hour operation, Link an Monitoring work & remote support repair and maintenance skills created. In conjunction with the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Enefforts to respond to customers’ requests and further improve their immediate ·M  aintain optimal operation Fuel cell Plant ergy, we donate the investment funds for mutual growth, which satisfaction. The company also operates the RIS system, which inresponse and status Plant DATA & Alarm Operation Share counterEngineer abrupt main·P  revent breakage in advance reception Skill Center measures will be paid in the form of compensation for the test products or corporates a data protection function that keeps customers’ facility tenance ·M  anage an integrated history cash rewards. data confidential. Real-time Request for of operation status response to Tech Support ·C  onduct prompt response to Technology Improve customers Improve emergency support & Win-Win Support Team usage rate service · S upport real-time technology Improved POSCO ENERGY leverages the abundant experience and the knowquality service for customers design Technical Customers how of its executives by organizing a Win-Win Growth Support ·O  rganize service implemenEngineer tation Team to help partners complete the projects in which they are engaged. Under the leadership of the responsible executive in charge, we offer substantial and practical support for partners to achieve ofReal-time Information sharing system fice productivity innovation, field improvement and ethical training. Customer Service Centers for Fuel Cell Operation Status of Fuel Cells in Korea To increase customer satisfaction, POSCO ENERGY operates cusIlsan Nowon Support for Industry Innovation Campaign 3.0 Technology Seminars Customized to Customers tomer service centers in three districts; Gyeongin, Jungbu, and For power generation Korea East-West POSCO (Direct operation) Power ENERGY POSCO ENERGY donates KRW 100 million to the funds for “Industry In line with customers’ demand for a greater variety of training, Nambu regions, to respond to customers quickly. This district-based For power generation Innovation Campaign 3.0” organized by the Ministry of Trade, InPOSCO ENERGY has been expanding the customized technology service system allows us to focus on stable fuel cell operation and For building dustry and Energy each year by 2017. As the funds will be used in seminars for our customers. These seminars enable us to provide improvement on operation rate, while promptly answering cusSeoul Children's supporting the secondary or lower partners for management concustomers with much-needed technical knowledge, such as the tomers’ requests. We will continue to reinforce the quality of the Gwangmyeong Sangam Grand Park S-Power POSCO sulting and equipment purchases, it would contribute to improving operation and control of fuel cell systems, fuel cell market for power customer service in order to earn customers’ trust. ENERGY their competiveness and industrial ecosystem. generation, policies and R&D trends, etc. Incheon Goduk POSCO Samcheok Green Energy The company has offered a total of 16 training sessions to the cusENERGY Bundang KOGAS tomers in 2015 and plan to further improve education quality by Korea SouthEast Power developing more training programs. Customer Service Organization Hwaseong Incheon Gyeonggi Green Energy Korean WestCustomer Service Division ern Power Daegu TCS1 Dangjin GS EPS Boryeong Korea Midland Pohang Gyeongin Jungbu Nambu Power POSCO ENERGY Service Operation Service Service Service Tech Dept. Skill Center Gunsan Ulsan Center Center Center VirtualTek Korea East-West Power Busan Busan BFC Byucksan 24/7 Gyeongin Jungbu Nambu Yeosu MPC Engineering General Operation, Contact Contact Contact Management Tehnical Person Person Person Support Fuel cell technology seminar 58 59 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Risk Management Established in 1969 as the first IPP in Korea, POSCO ENERGY has risk management manuals according to different types, based on the acInvestment Risk Management nesia. The company regularly communicates with taxation authoricumulated operation techniques and expertise. If any accident occurs, the division in charge promptly handles the accident according to To discover new growth engines, POSCO ENERGY is investing in ties in the places of operation, and provides fact-based documents the applicable procedures. domestic and overseas power business, new and renewable enerof proof upon request. To pay taxes sincerely and protect the stockgy business, as well as other businesses. The company establishes holders’ interests, POSCO ENERGY has established internal regulaFinancial Status Financial Risk Management and implements an investment deliberation process to thoroughly tions on taxation guidelines, rules and manuals on tax payment, and The year 2015 witnessed slowdown in economic activities and POSCO ENERGY operates a risk management system covering acdiagnose and analyze any associated risks in advance and evaluate set out the principles to prevent any possible risks. We also strengthgrowing uncertainty over the global economy including the end of counting, tax, and treasury to ensure effective risk management. In investment feasibility. To determine the impact of the investment ened training programs on taxation for the employees and partners. quantitative easing in the United States, a stronger volatility of interregard to foreign currency borrowings, we minimize volatilities assoover the entire POSCO group’s financial soundness, synergy and national financial markets, falling oil prices, and China’s sluggish ecociated with exchange rates and interest rates by using hedge transstrategic consistency, POSCO ENERGY conducts discussions and Non-financial Risk Management nomic growth. The domestic economy was no exception: Korea’s actions through derivatives agreements such as Swap and Forwards. consultations with the mother company, POSCO. The division in To uphold ethical management, POSCO ENERGY provides a cyber growth rate for the year was as low as the two percent level because charge of the investment proposal shares information about the reporting system (SINMUNGO) in its homepage through which emslower global economic growth and the lack of new growth enHedge by Currency proposal with relevant divisions through a business presentation ployees and stakeholders can raise complaints and opinions congines, which resulted in dwindling exports and facility investment, session to modify and complement the business plan. At each fidentially. Then, the Corporate Audit Division informs the sender Currency Amount Hedge Percentage and an increased unemployment rate. deliberation stage, top in-house experts in technology, laws and about the progress or result. The power generation market maintained a high electric powUSD (1,000) 168,986 168,986 100% regulations, accounting, finance, etc. identify and assess any poThrough the Corporate Audit Division’s initiative, POSCO ENERGY er reserve rate of 20% or more with the continued supply of new EUR (1,000) 186,403 106,672 57% tential risk elements before reaching a conclusion on the decision has identified non-financial risks that might occur in the process of generators and lethargic power demand. The unit power cost has to invest. Even if a proposal is authorized by the deliberations, the ordinary work in different divisions. Implemented by the relevant JPY (1 M) 21,222 6,747 32% plunged in line with falling prices for all energy sources, driven by department must establish a counter-measurement plan against division’s executives, the “Ethical Practice Program” encourages all Conversion to plummeting oil prices. Due to the poor power generation market 548,657 336,893 62% newly identified risks and report the results. The Investment Manemployees to identify potential risks and the best ways to eliminate USD, Total conditions, POSCO ENERGY’s sales was declined to KRW 1,954.8 bil1 6% in variable rates, 84% in fixed rates in total foreign currency borrowings agement Division conducts regular monitoring of all these prothem since 2015. lion down compared to the previous year. However, the operating (After hedging foreign currency borrowing, the variable rate converted to ceedings to minimize investment risks. fixed rate has been reflected as fixed rate.) profits increased by KRW 20.3 billion to KRW 139.0 billion compared In 2015, POSCO ENERGY completed most of our major investment Operation Process to the previous year, thanks to the stable power supply and efforts projects, including Units 7 to 9 for Incheon LNG Combined Cycle for improvement. Credit Ratings Power Plant and Mong Duong II Coal-fired Thermal Power Plant. We Based on the consolidated financial statement, the total assets and In late 2015, the domestic rating agencies downgraded POSCO ENintend to mobilize our capabilities to realize business profitability Select Executives encourage all employees to Issues identify risks liabilities edged up to KRW 5,086.2 billion and KRW 3,507.1 billion ERGY’s credit rating to AA (Stable) in consideration of the following improvement based on optimal facility operation and continued respectively. The debt to equity ratio has increased by 3%p to 222% reasons: expected profitability drop in LNG generation for a certain, cost reduction. The company also plans to reform debt service and by the end of 2015. The company maintained a similar level of asprolonged period of time and increase in financial burden by debt financial structure through more rigorous investment deliberation Set Executives set an action plan based on the sets and debts as the previous year. service for expanded investment. The rating agencies, however, still procedures. an Action ideas from employees. gave higher appraisal for the company than its competitors by acPlan Major Financial Index counting for POSCO ENERGY’s prestige in the Korean power generInvestment Deliberation Process ation market and its stable earning structure. Current Ratio Executives help employees to undertake Business Carry Out (%) 105.1 continued activities voluntarily. Presentation Activities 103.5 Classification 2013 2014 2015 100.3 Korea Corporate bond AA+(Stable) AA+(Stable) AA(Stable) Preliminary Investment Board of Executives hold the Ethics Weeks, share the Approve Review Investors Deliberation Deliberation Directors results and offer training programs. Commercial Activities Service Inc A1 A1 A1 paper 2013 2014 2015 Corporate NO NO Korea AA+(Stable) AA+(Stable) AA(Stable) Total Borrowings and Bonds Payable to Total Assets bond Ratings Drop (%) 56.18 58.0 Corporation Commercial paper A1 A1 A1 Risk Top 10 System 48.80 Corporate We introduced the Risk Top 10 System and selected ten tasks by NICE AA+(Stable) AA+(Stable) AA(Stable) Information bond assessing potential risks in facilities. Thanks to this system, we can Service Co., Commercial Tax Risk Minimization eliminate hazards in advance to prevent accidents. Best practices Ltd. A1 A1 A1 paper POSCO ENERGY is an earnest taxpayer that observes the tax policies are spread throughout the company as they are presented by the 2013 2014 2015 As of December 31, 2015 of countries where we operate including Korea, Vietnam and Indomonthly-held safety committee. 60 61 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Appendix Mandatory Guidelines for Data Projection Hazards Debate Register to Take identification divisions improvement actions 5 Dos and 5 Don’ts Individual Manager General All Employees 1. Observe the laws, policies, and provisions concerning Manager Do data protection. 2. Install essential security solutions in PCs. 3. Inform all visitors to follow the entrance security Emergency Response System procedures. POSCO ENERGY has implemented an emergency response system 4. Use complicated and difficult passwords (8 digits + by premise and periodically carries out emergency drills by scenara mix of Korean & English/special characters). io. All employees carry a card that describes individual duties during 5. Complete the data and privacy protection training an emergency situation. The operation of the Visual Planning Board programs. helps employees to respond to any emergency situation. In 2015, we newly introduced a company-wide emergency reporting and 1. Keep printouts to a minimum and do not bring or Don’t carry them outside. response system to further enhance the capability. 2. Do not open an e-mail from unknown source. 3. Do not access websites (harmful websites) ISMS Certification irrelevant to work. The Information Security Management System (ISMS) certified by 4. Do not use personal IT devices (laptop, USB, the Ministry of Science, ICT, and Future Planning helps to monitor storage device). the compatibility of the systems to protect core intellectual prop5. Do not download private information on a PC in the workplace. erties from threats and hacking attempts. Although this certification is mandatory for ICT service providers and financial companies only, POSCO ENERGY voluntarily acquired ISMS in 2015. We believe that the data regarding power plants and fuel cell industry is critical Mandatory Guidelines for Personal Information Protection since they are fundamental to the nation. 1. For tasks dealing with personal data, refer to the Privacy To obtain the certification, the company organized a task force team Policy and consult with the Infra Innovation Group. for five months from January 2015 to conduct self-checkups for 104 items and assessment criteria, and improved vulnerable areas. The 2. Transfer personal data stored in a PC to ECM. company also revised the internal data protection guidelines 3. If impossible to transfer personal data to according to the relevant laws ECM, completely delete it after use. and regulations. Owing to the ISMS certification, we were able 4. Do not view personal data in ECM unless necessary. to reinforce security awareness of POSCO ENERGY and partners ISMS Certificate 5. Do not store customer data or important business Financial Statements on security issues, and take the measures to protect intellectual data in your personal cloud or similar storage. properties. GRI G4 & ISO26000 Index Information Protection Campaign 6. Always keep important business documents and To raise the employees’ awareness on data protection, the company agreements in a cabinet and check if it is locked. Independent Assurance Report set the 25th day of the month as Data Protection Day, keeps em7. Install all essential programs including anti-virus ployees updated with key issues in the newsletters. POSCO ENERGY UN Global Compact software and do not use P2P or downloading sites. promptly shares any cases or precedents regarding data protection 8. Do not install illegal software. If necessary, Memberships in Association with employees to avoid any incidents. consult with the Infra Innovation Group. Participants 9. Do not transmit or expose important business data (personal data) via FTP or SNS. 62 63 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Financial Statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position (KRW) 17th (current) For the period that ended on December 31, 2015 POSCO ENERGY Co., Ltd., and its subsidiaries 16th (previous) For the period that ended on December 31, 2014 Classification 17th (current) 16th (previous) Classification 17th (current) 16th (previous) I. Current assets 771,726,815,088 627,161,833,115 6. Retained earnings 484,007,213,926 457,630,921,476 1. Cash and cash equivalents 161,514,293,975 223,201,451,559 Equities II. Non-controlling interests 27,130,283,592 39,845,806,722 2. Trade and notes receivable, net 163,514,156,561 173,770,175,542 Total equities 1,579,146,948,215 1,566,301,439,644 3. Other financial assets, net 32,345,779,774 57,019,956,608 Total liabilities and equity 5,086,211,665,038 4,990,913,970,603 4. Inventories 244,178,256,696 117,646,452,086 5. Other current assets 79,222,755,537 53,922,738,720 Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (KRW) 17th (current) From January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 POSCO ENERGY Co., Ltd., and its subsidiaries 16th (previous) From January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 6. Current income tax assets 141,453,350 1,601,058,600 7. Assets held for sale 90,810,119,195 Classification 17th (current) 16th (previous) Assets II. Non-current assets 4,314,484,849,950 4,363,752,137,488 I. Revenue 1,954,753,354,983 2,598,558,396,867 1. Long-term trade receivables 305,213,733,365 318,960,575,673 II. Cost of sales 1,707,059,630,581 2,364,099,705,256 2. Other financial assets 46,743,619,629 69,103,586,645 III. Gross profit 247,693,724,402 234,458,691,611 3. Investments in associates 170,849,448,882 95,361,220,509 IV. Selling, general, and administrative expenses 108,719,059,316 115,806,767,302 4. Property, plant and equipment, net 3,032,439,857,165 3,125,812,500,143 V. Operating profit 138,974,665,086 118,651,924,309 5. Intangible assets 616,338,095,925 597,666,158,618 VI. Gain (loss) from equity method in associates 26,083,954,167 (4,983,108,810) 6. Other non-curent assets 41,500,076,180 73,720,528,976 1. Gain from equity method in associates 26,614,061,101 4,241,004 7. Deferred tax assets 101,400,018,804 83,127,566,924 2. Loss from equity method in associates 530,106,934 4,987,349,814 Total assets 5,086,211,665,038 4,990,913,970,603 VII. Financial income (expense) (128,922,920,582) (63,475,618,745) I. Current liabilities 769,199,471,836 605,695,430,205 1. Financial income 43,592,754,700 62,341,345,610 1. Accounts and notes payable 134,324,289,555 215,777,321,931 2. Financial costs 172,515,675,282 125,816,964,355 2. Current portion of long-term bonds and long-term borrowing 427,067,704,771 210,958,108,843 VIII. Other non-operating income (expense) 8,266,619,176 (42,663,109,597) 3. Convertible bonds 1,167,972,607 1. Other non-operating income 28,020,046,332 16,778,188,521 4. Current portion of other liability 111,034,908,413 156,059,734,157 2. Other non-operating expenses 19,753,427,156 59,441,298,118 5. Current income tax liability 1,820,746,182 5,116,323,369 IX. Profit before income taxes 44,402,317,847 7,530,087,157 6. Current portion of provisions 21,923,332,652 8,988,975,611 X. Income tax benefit (4,665,424,049) (14,766,133,601) 7. Other current liabilities 7,765,066,182 8,794,966,294 XI. Profit for the period 49,067,741,896 22,296,220,758 8. Liabilities of disposal group held for sale 64,095,451,474 XII. Other comprehensive income (loss) (3,209,970,303) (16,599,812,953) Liabilities II. Non-current liabilities 2,737,865,244,987 2,818,917,100,754 1. Item that will not be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (142,499,408) (2,702,442,007) 1. Long-term borrowings 1,032,959,560,017 1,126,693,232,060 Remeasurement of net defined benefit liabilities (142,499,408) (2,702,442,007) 2. Convertible bond 1,056,169,431 2. Item that may be reclassified subsequently to profit or loss (3,067,470,895) (13,897,370,946) 3. Bonds 1,486,531,578,382 1,466,117,576,090 Net changes in fair value of available-for-sale financial assets (16,575,871,981) 4,782,146,560 4. Non-current portion of other liabilities 6,221,708,894 3,240,298,815 Share of other comprehensive income(loss of associate) 6,803,896,709 (22,984,269,341) 5. Other financial liabilities 31,226,430,076 51,810,967,543 Foreign currency translation differences 6,704,504,377 4,304,751,835 6. Net defined benefit liabilities 4,432,755,947 4,600,230,598 XIII. Total comprehensive income for the period 45,857,771,593 5,696,407,805 7. Long-term provisions 41,638,477,824 33,177,021,418 XIV. Profit for the period 49,067,741,896 22,296,220,758 8. Deferred tax liabilities 134,854,733,847 132,221,604,799 1. Owners of the controlling company 49,259,412,248 21,234,358,133 Total liabilities 3,507,064,716,823 3,424,612,530,959 2. Non-controlling interests (191,670,352) 1,061,862,625 I. E quity attributable to owners of the controlling company 1,552,016,664,623 1,526,455,632,922 XV. Total comprehensive income attributable 45,857,771,593 5,696,407,805 1. Share capital 225,974,030,000 225,974,030,000 1. Owners of the controlling company 45,325,440,754 4,216,819,848 2. Hybrid bonds 498,468,200,000 498,468,200,000 2. Non-controlling interests 532,330,839 1,479,587,957 Equities 3. Capital surplus 368,039,198,437 364,942,405,688 XVI. Earnings per share 4. Capital adjustments (5,322,133,824) (5,198,776,050) 1. Basic earnings per share 684 64 5. Accumulated other comprehensive loss (19,149,843,916) (15,361,148,192) 2. Diluted earnings per share 684 64 64 65 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity (KRW) 17th (current) From January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 Consolidated Cash Flow Statement (KRW) 17th (current) From January 1, 2015 to December 31, 2015 POSCO ENERGY Co., Ltd., and its subsidiaries 16th (previous) From January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 POSCO ENERGY Co., Ltd., and its subsidiaries 16th (previous) From January 1, 2014 to December 31, 2014 Equity Attributable to Owners of the Parent Classification 17th (current) 16th (previous) NonClassificaiton contolling Total Accumulated equity I. Cash flows from operating activities 58,307,248,654 351,635,876,168 Capital Capital adRetained interests Share capital Hybrid bonds other compreTotal surplus justments earnings 1. Cash flows from operating activities hensive loss 154,207,016,461 449,601,961,685 (beginning, A. Profit for the period 49,067,741,896 22,296,220,758 225,974,030,000 498,468,200,000 364,458,516,956 (4,436,356,138) (1,040,797,628) 462,528,162,225 1,545,951,755,415 18,217,485,870 1,564,169,241,285 previous period) Comprehensive income B. Adjustment for: 307,942,052,967 290,257,513,472 Profit for the Depreciation 168,056,813,781 135,780,669,283 21,234,358,133 21,234,358,133 1,061,862,625 22,296,220,758 period Remeasurement Intangible asset amortization 7,670,572,681 4,954,993,785 of net defined (2,697,187,721) (2,697,187,721) (5,254,286) (2,702,442,007) Provisions related profit and loss 18,804,091,379 25,160,729,094 benefit liabilities Net changes Bad debt expense 2,494,082,190 18,817,376,294 in fair value of 4,782,146,560 4,782,146,560 4,782,146,560 Loss from valuation of inventories 3,688,076,665 3,084,382,668 available-for-sale financial assets Loss from disposition of inventories 15,269,141,815 Share of other comprehensive (22,984,269,341) (22,984,269,341) (22,984,269,341) Retirement allowance 9,597,807,708 6,434,020,642 loss of associates Interest expense 95,502,912,518 84,538,713,691 Foreign currency translation 3,881,772,217 3,881,772,217 422,979,618 4,304,751,835 Financial charge 6,774,976,937 difference Total Loss on foreign currency translation 24,791,938,786 11,224,069,909 Comprehensive (14,320,350,564) 18,537,170,412 4,216,819,848 1,479,587,957 5,696,407,805 Loss on derivative valuation 10,025,888,512 24,779,736,162 income Transactions with shareholders: Loss on derivative transactions 7,580,175,112 602,121,601 Hybrid bond Loss on disposition of stocks subject to equity method (24,186,999,992) (24,186,999,992) (24,186,999,992) 123,878,531 dividends Consolidated Impairment loss on available-for-sale securities 16,657,232,731 new/change of 298,009,608 (626,445,283) 752,588,831 424,153,156 15,162,374,576 15,586,527,732 scope Loss on disposition of tangible assets 2,045,553,969 2,008,538,438 Others 185,879,124 (135,974,629) 49,904,495 4,986,358,319 5,036,262,814 Impairment loss on tangible assets 18,917,139,278 Dec. 31, 2014 Loss on disposition of intangible assets 1,842,194 1,000 (end, previous 225,974,030,000 498,468,200,000 364,942,405,688 (5,198,776,050) (15,361,148,192) 457,630,921,476 1,526,455,632,922 39,845,806,722 1,566,301,439,644 period) Impairment loss on intangible assets 7,339,985,009 7,402,436,424 Jan. 1, 2015 (beginning, 225,974,030,000 498,468,200,000 364,942,405,688 (5,198,776,050) (15,361,148,192) 457,630,921,476 1,526,455,632,922 39,845,806,722 1,566,301,439,644 Income tax expenses (benefit) (4,665,424,049) (14,766,133,601) current period) Interest income (3,818,609,704) (4,148,600,310) Total comprehensive income (expense): Dividend income (24,414,790) (21,132,578) Net profit 49,259,412,248 49,259,412,248 (191,670,352) 49,067,741,896 Remeasurement Gains on foreign currency translation (11,228,823,369) (45,281,545,466) of defined (145,275,770) (145,275,770) 2,776,362 (142,499,408) benefit plans Gains on derivative valuations (16,854,938,772) (9,599,147,926) Gain (loss) on Gains on derivative transactions (4,187,345,329) (252,965,397) valuation of (16,575,871,981) (16,575,871,981) (16,575,871,981) available-for-sale Gain on disposition of tangible assets (4,268,125,771) (2,164,772) securities Gain on disposition of intangible assets (2,136,363) (7,675,174) Unrealized gain on equity Gain on disposition of investment in associates (2,643,295,000) 6,803,896,709 6,803,896,709 6,803,896,709 securities under equity method Loss on disposition of receivables 163,534,323 362,786,519 Gain (loss) on overseas opera5,983,279,548 5,983,279,548 721,224,829 Other amortization expenses 399,757,255 5,854,420 6,704,504,377 tions translation Loss from equity method in associates 530,106,934 4,987,349,814 Total comprehensive (3,788,695,724) 49,114,136,478 45,325,440,754 532,330,839 45,857,771,593 Gains from equity method in associates (26,614,061,101) (4,241,004) income (expense) Others 11,058,863 Transactions with shareholders: Hybrid bond C. Changes in assets and liabilities resulting from operations (202,802,778,402) 137,048,227,455 (24,186,999,992) (24,186,999,992) (24,186,999,992) dividends 2. Interest received 3,940,553,174 4,040,883,534 Consolidated new/change of 1,452,387,865 1,452,387,865 (13,247,853,969) (11,795,466,104) 3. Dividend received 24,414,790 21,132,578 scope 4. Interest paid (95,967,147,988) (83,904,160,411) Others 3,096,792,749 (123,357,774) (3,231,901) 2,970,203,074 2,970,203,074 Dec. 31, 2015 5. Income taxes paid (3,897,587,783) (18,123,941,218) (end, current 225,974,030,000 498,468,200,000 368,039,198,437 (5,322,133,824) (19,149,843,916) 484,007,213,926 1,552,016,664,623 27,130,283,592 1,579,146,948,215 period) II. Cash flows from investing activities (177,178,108,196) (1,072,879,411,115) 66 67 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix GRI 4.0 & ISO 26000 Index Reported Partially reported Not reported N/A Not applicable Classification 17th (current) 16th (previous) ISO Report GRI G4 Page/Remarks 26000 Level 1. Disposition of short-term financial instruments 58,356,079,236 55,046,791,904 1. General Index 2. Decrease in long-term financial instruments 2,000,000 Statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or a. G4-1 equivalent senior position) about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the  51 3. Decrease in deposits for rent 590,799,508 406,088,989 organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability 4.7, 6.2, Strategy 7.4.2 & Analysis 18-19, 22-23, 25, 30, 4. Disposition of land 24,863,800 G4-2 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities  37, 41 5. Disposition of buildings 72,459,910 G4-3 Name of the organization  9 G4-4 Primary brand, products, and services  12-17 6. Disposition of structures 13,165,250 G4-5 Location of the organization’s headquarters  9, 58 7. Disposition of machinery and equipment 5,024,816,378 7,460,000 Number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the 8. Disposition of vehicles G4-6 organization has significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics  12-17 22,899,092 772,000 covered in the report 9. Disposition of office equipment 1,743,932 G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form  9 10. Disposition of other intangible assets Markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and 63,636,363 243,959,328 G4-8  12-17 beneficiaries) 11. Net cash outflows from the acquisition of subsidiaries (3,292,809,432) (437,549,799,032) G4-9 Scale of the organization 6.3.10,  9, 11, 64-68 6.4.1-6.4.5, 12. Increase in short term financial instruments G4-10 Size of the manpower 6.8.5, 7.8  9, 11 (45,652,049,788) (67,919,427,617) G4-11 Percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements  All employees 13. Increase in long-term financial instruments (9,177,947,686) (5,358,787,102) b. G4-12 Supply chain  57-58 Organization 14. Increase in available-for-sale financial assets (21,362,500) Profile Any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, G4-13  47-48, 64-68 ownership, or its supply chain 15. Increase in investment in associates (27,229,987,841) (39,174,179,156) G4-14 Whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization  37-40, 56, 60-62 16. Increase in guarantee deposits (874,930,960) (5,017,578,525) List of externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other G4-15  77 initiatives to which the organization subscribes or which it endorses 17. Acquisition of land (91,547,432) (5,382,997,950) Memberships of associations (industry associations), and national or international advocacy G4-16  77 18. Acquisition of buildings organizations (37,914,520) EU1 Installed capacity, broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime  9, 12-17 19. Acquisition of structures (4,800,000) (42,252,450) EU2 Net energy output broken down by primary energy source and by regulatory regime  9, 12-17 20. Acquisition of machinery and equipment (12,635,197,960) (21,647,322,939) No direct sales to end EU3 Number of residential, industrial, institutional and commercial customer accounts N/A users 21. Acquisition of vehicles (303,194,191) (306,487,878) EU4 Length of above and underground transmission and distribution lines by regulatory regime  11 22. Acquisition of office equipment (807,874,596) (3,047,666,085) EU5 Allocation of CO2 emissions allowances or equivalent, broken down by carbon trading framework  38 All entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents 23. Acquisition of tools and devices (1,439,924,219) (524,480,735) G4-17 Any entity included in the consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents that is not  11 24. Increase in construction in-progress (139,186,355,332) (508,944,611,746) covered by the report The process for defining report content and aspect boundaries. 25. Acquisition of software (260,632,449) (800,000) G4-18  22-23 How the organization has implemented the reporting principles for defining report content c. G4-19 List of all the material aspects identified in the process for defining report content  22-23 26. Acquisition of other intangible assets (389,575,847) (33,612,559,033) Material 5.2, 7.3.2Aspects and Aspect boundary within the organization by material aspect 7.3.4 III. Cash flows from financing activities 56,088,558,153 748,578,377,305 G4-20  About This Report Boundaries Any limitation regarding the aspect boundary within the organization 1. Increase in short-term borrowings 150,000,000,000 270,699,217,057 Aspect boundary outside the organization by material aspect G4-21  About This Report Any limitation regarding the aspect boundary outside of the organization 2. Increase in bond payable 299,062,342,621 548,448,378,684 Effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such G4-22  11 restatements 3. Increase in long-term borrowings 2,989,404,421 422,159,211,877 G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope and aspect boundaries  11 4. Paid-in capital increase of subsidiaries 7,883,351,880 G4-24 List of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization  21-24 5. Increase in current portion of long-term liabilities 15,300,000,000 G4-25 Basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage  21-24 d. Approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by 6. Repayment of short-term borrowings (150,000,000,000) (270,699,217,057) Stakeholders 5.3 G4-26 stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken  21-24 Engagement specifically as part of the report preparation process 7. Repayment of current portion of long-term liabilities (195,361,225,373) (182,774,884,547) Key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, including the 8. Payment of hybrid bond dividends (24,124,613,690) (24,124,613,691) G4-27  21-24 publication of the report, and how the organization has responded (key issues by stakeholders) 9. Repayment of long-term borrowings (18,289,693,788) (12,000,000,000) G4-28 Reporting period (fiscal or calendar year) for information provided  About This Report G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any)  About This Report 10. Repayment of capital lease liabilities (3,080,000,000) e. G4-30 Reporting cycle (annual, biennial, etc.)  About This Report 11. Acquisition and settlement of derivatives Report 7.5.3, 7.6.2 (23,487,656,038) (7,933,066,898) G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents  About This Report Profile IV. Effect of exchange rate changes on cash hold 1,095,143,805 372,627,719 G4-32 GRI Index and the “in accordance” option the organization has chosen  69-73 G4-33 External assurance for the report  74-75 V. Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (61,687,157,584) 27,707,470,077 Governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body G4-34  47-48 VI. Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of year 223,201,451,559 195,493,981,482 f. Any committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental, and social impacts 6.2, 7.4.3 Governance Process for delegating authority for economic, environmental, and social topics from the highest VII. Cash and cash equivalents at the end of year 161,514,293,975 223,201,451,559 G4-35  47-48, 51 governance body to senior executives and other employees 68 69 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Reported Partially reported Not reported N/A Not applicable ISO Report ISO Report GRI G4 Page/Remarks GRI G4 Page/Remarks 26000 Level 26000 Level Whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach)  32 G4-36 responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics, and whether post holders report  47-48, 51 R&D Aspect 2 Research and development activity and expenditure aimed at providing reliable power and directly to the highest governance body EU8  32-33 promoting sustainable development Process for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, Power Plant G4-37  47-48, 51 environmental, and social topics DecommisDMA (Disclosures on Management Approach) ◐ 38 G4-38 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees  47-48 sioning G4-39 Whether the chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer  47-48 DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach)  27-29 System Nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and Efficiency EU11 Average generation efficiency of thermal plants by energy source and by regulatory regime  18-19, 27-29 G4-40  the selection criteria Aspect 1 EU12 Transmission and distribution losses as a percentage of total energy  11 G4-41 Process for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed  Environmental Highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and G4-42 updating of the organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and  47-48, 51 G4-EN1 Materials used by weight or volume 6.5.4  38 Materials goals related to economic, environmental and social impacts G4-EN2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials 6.5.4  11, 40 Measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach)  38 G4-43  47-48, 51 economic, environmental, and social topics G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 6.5.4  11 Processes and actions taken for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with G4-44 47-48, 51 Energy G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside the organization 6.5.4  11 respect to governance of economic, environmental, and social topics f. Highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental Aspect 3 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 6.5.4  38 6.2, 7.4.3 Governance and social impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-45  47-48, 51 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption  38 Whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification 6.5.4-5 G4-EN7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services  38 and management of economic, environmental, and social impacts, risks, and opportunities Highest governance body’s role and influence in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach)  39-40 G4-46  47-48, 51 risk management processes for economic, environmental, and social topics Water G4-EN8 Total water withdrawal by source 6.5.4  40 Frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental, and social Aspect 3 G4-EN9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water 6.5.4  40 G4-47  47-48, 51 impacts, risks, and opportunities G4-EN10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused 6.5.4  40 Highest position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report and G4-48  51 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas of high ensures that all material aspects are covered G4-EN11 6.5.6  40 biodiversity value outside protected areas G4-49 Process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body  47-48, 51 Significant impact of activities, products, and services on biodiversity in protected areas and areas Nature, total number, and frequency of concerns that were communicated to the highest G4-EN12 6.5.6  40 G4-50 47-48, 51 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas governance body and the grievance mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them Biodiversity G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 6.5.6  40 a. Remuneration policies for the highest governance body, senior managers and senior executives Total number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in G4-51 b. Performance criteria in the remuneration policy related to the highest governance body‘s and  47-48 G4-EN14 6.5.6  areas affected by operations by regions, and by level of extinction risk senior executives‘ economic, environmental, and social objectives EU13 Biodiversity of offset habitats compared to the biodiversity of the affected areas  G4-52 Process for determining remuneration  47-48 DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach)  37 How stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including G4-53  47-48 G4-EN15 Direct GHG emissions 6.5.5  38 the results of votes on remuneration policies and proposals Values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct G4-EN16 Indirect GHG emissions 6.5.5  38 G4-56  48-50 and codes of ethics G4-EN17 Other Indirect GHG emissions 6.5.5  g. Emissions Internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters 7.7.5, 4.4, Ethics and G4-57  48-50 Aspect 3 G4-EN18 GHG emissions intensity 6.5.5  38 related to organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines 6.6.3 Integrity Internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, G4-EN19 Reduction of GHG emissions 6.5.5  38 G4-58  48-50 and matters related to organizational integrity G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances 6.5.3, 6.5.5  2. Specific Index G4-EN21 NOx, Sox and other significant air emissions 6.5.3  39-40 Economic DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach)  37 DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach)  25 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 6.5.3-4  39-40 6.8.1-6.8.3, G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed  67 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method 6.5.3  39-40 6. 8.7, 6.8.9 Effluents Economic and Waste G4-EN24 Total number and volumes of significant spills 6.5.3 N/A Financial implications, and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to performance G4-EC2 6.5.5  37-38 Aspect 3 climate change Weight of transported, imported, exported, or treated waste deemed hazardous under the terms Not relevant to the Aspect 2 G4-EN25 6.5.3 N/A DB plan subscription of the Basel Convention Annex and percentage of transported waste shipped internationally leak or transport of any G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 6.8.7  rate: 99.8% Identity, size, protected status, and biodiversity value of water bodies and related habitats significant hazardous G4-EN26 6.5.3 N/A substances G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government  11 significantly affected by the organization’s discharge of wastewater Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage at significant 6.3.7, 6.3.10, DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach)  30 G4-EC5  Product and locations of operation 6.4.3-6.4.4 6.5.3-6.5.5, Market Service G4-EN27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services  32-36 6.4.3, 6.7.5 Presence Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant locations of Aspect 3 G4-EC6 6.8.1-6. 8.2,  6.5.3-6.5.4, operation (overseas: Indonesia corporation) G4-EN28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are reclaimed N/A 6.8.5, 6.8.7 6.7.5 6.3.9, Monetary values of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for No case of fines for Compliance G4-EN29 4.6  G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investment and service supported 6.8.1-6. 8.2,  41-45 non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations non-compliance 6.8.7, 6.8.9 Significant environmental impacts of transporting products and other goods and materials for Indirect Transport G4-EN30 6.5.4, 6.6.6  6.3.9, 6.6.6the organization’s operations, and transporting members of the workforce Economic 6. 6.7, 6.7.8, Effects Overall G4-EN31 Total environment protection expenditures and investments by type 6.5.1-6.5.2  11 G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 6.8.1-6.8.2,  31, 33-36 6.8.5, 6.8.7, Reflected 6.8.9 environmental perfor6.4.3, 6.6.6, 6.3.5, 6.6.6, mance in screening Procurement Supplier G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria  G4-EC9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers at significant locations of operation 6. 8.1-6.8.2,  7.3.1 and evaluation process Practices Environmental for the existing or new 6.8.7 Assessment suppliers Availability DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach)  26-27 and Reliability Planned capacity against projected electricity demand over the long term, broken down by Percentage of suppliers identified as having actual and potential negative environmental impacts 6.3.5, 6.6.6, Aspect 1 EU10  26-27 G4-EN33  energy source and regulatory regime and actions taken 7.3.1 Demand-side Environmental Management DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach)  26-27 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed and resolved through No case of official Grievance G4-EN34 6.3.6  Aspect 1 formal grievance mechanisms complaints/measures Mechanism 70 71 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Reported Partially reported Not reported N/A Not applicable ISO Report ISO Report GRI G4 Page/Remarks GRI G4 Page/Remarks 26000 Level 26000 Level Social Society Percentage of employees eligible to retire in the next 5 and 10 years broken down by job categoDMA (Disclosures on Management Approach)  41 EU15  11 ry and by region 6.3.9, Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, impact assessment, G4-LA1 Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover 6.4.3  11 G4-SO1 6.5.1-6.5.3,  41-45 Local and development programs 6.8 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees only 6.4.4, 6.8.7  54 Communities 6.3.9, 6.5.3, Workforce G4-LA3 Return to work rates after parental leave by gender 6.4.4  11 Aspect 4 G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities  41-45 6.8 Days worked by contractor and subcontractor employees involved in construction, operation Number of people physically or economically displaced and compensation broken down by type EU17  EU22  41-45 and maintenance activities of project Percentage of contractor and subcontractor employees that have undergone relevant health and Completed the review EU18  56 safety training Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and the on anti-corruption risks G4-SO3 6.6.1-6.6.3  Labor significant risks identified in the headquarters and G4-LA4 Minimum notice periods regarding operational change 6.4.3, 6.4.5  53-55 Antiall domestic operations Management corruption Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management-worker health and safety 6.6.1-6.6.3, G4-LA5 6.4.6  53 G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures  48-50 Occupational committees that help monitor and advise on occupational health and safety programs 6.6.6 Health and No injuries, G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 6.6.1-6.6.3  48-50 Safety Rates of injury, occupational diseases, and absenteeism, and total number of work-related fataliG4-LA6 6.4.6, 6.8.8  occupational diseases, Added a policy ties, by region and by gender and fatalities 6.6.1-6.6.2, preventing employees Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary  Human Rights 6.6.4 from involving in politics to the service regulation Occupational G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation 6.4.6, 6.8.8  56 Health and AntiG4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreement with trade unions 6.4.6  56 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 6.6.1-6.6.2, Safety competitive G4-SO7  No legal actions taken and their outcomes 6.6.5, 6.6.7 G4-LA9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee category 6.4.7  54-55 Behavior Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued employability Monetary value of significant fines and total number of non-monetary sanctions for No fines and nonTraining and G4-LA10 6.4.7, 6.8.5  54-55 Compliance G4-SO8 4.6  of employees and assist them in managing career endings non-compliance with laws and regulations monetary sanctions Education Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews, by 6.3.5, G4-LA11 6.4.7  54-55 6.6.1-6.6.2, gender, and by employee category) G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society  57-58 Supplier 6.6.6, 6.8.1Diversity and 6.8.2, 7.3.1 Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category 6.2.3, 6.3.7, Assessment NonG4-LA12  11 according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other indicators of diversity 6.3.10, 6.4.3 for Impacts on 6.3.5, 6.6.1discrimination Society 6.6.2, 6.6.6, Equal 6.3.7, 6.3.10, No discrimination by G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and actions taken  G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men by employee category  6.8.1-6.8.2, Remuneration 6.4.3, 6.4.4 gender 7.3.1 Supplier 6.3.5, 6.4.3, G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria  57 (100%) Grievance Assessment 6.6.6, 7.3.1 6.3.6, Mechanism Number of grievances about impacts on society field, addressed, and resolved through formal for Labor Percentage of suppliers identified as having significant actual and potential negative impacts for 6.3.5, 6.4.3, G4-SO11 6.6.1-6.6.2,  G4-LA15  for Impacts on grievance mechanisms Practice labor practices and actions taken 6.6.6, 7.3.1 6.8.1-6.8.2 Society Labor Practice Number of grievances about labor practices filed, addressed, and resolved through formal Product Responsibility Grievance G4-LA16 6.3.6  grievance mechanisms 6.7.1-6.7.2, Mechanism Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and safety impacts are G4-PR1 6.7.4-6.7.5,  56 Percentage of significant investment agreements that include human rights clauses or that 6.3.3, 6.3.5, assessed for improvement G4-HR1  57 (100%) 6.8.8 underwent human rights screening 6.6.6 Investment Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes 4.6, 6.7.1Total hours of employee training on human rights polices or procedures concerning aspects of Customer No incidents of G4-HR2 6.3.5  49 G4-PR2 concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during their life cycle, by type 6.7.2-6.7.4 human rights that are relevant to operation including the percentage of employees trained Health Safety non-compliance of outcomes 6.7.5, 6.8.8 No issues raised on Non6.3.6, 6.3.7, No injuries and fatalities G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken  discrimination and Number of injuries and fatalities to the public involving company, assets, including legal discrimination 6.3.10, 6.4.3 EU25  of a financial investing actions taken judgements, settlements and pending legal cases of diseases company Freedom of Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise freedom of association and 6.3.3-6.3.5, Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures for product Association 6.7.1-6.7.5, G4-HR4 collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these 6.3.8, 6.3.10,  53 G4-PR3 and service information and labelling, and percentage of significant product and service  9 and Collective 6.7.9 rights 6.4.5, 6.6.6 Product categories subject to such information requirements Bargaining and Service Total number of incidents or non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 4.6, 6.7.1No incidents of 6.3.3-6.3.5, G4-PR4  Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of child labor, and Labelling product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes 6.7.5, 6.7.9 non-compliance Child Labor G4-HR5 6.3.7, 6.3.10,  53 measures taken to contribute to the effective abolition of child labor 3.7.1-6.7.2, 6.6.6, 6.8.4 G4-PR5 Results of survey measuring customer satisfaction  58-59 6.7.6 Forced or Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for incidents of forced labor, and 6.3.3-6.3.5, G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products N/A Conducted energy Compulsory G4-HR6  53 Marketing measures taken to contribute to the elimination of all forms 6.3.10, 6.6.6 business in accordance Labor CommunicaTotal number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning 4.6, 6.7.1with government’s Security Percentage of security personnel trained in the organizations human rights policies or proce6.3.4, 6.3.5, tions G4-PR7 N/A G4-HR7  marketing communications, including advertising, promotion and sponsorship, by type of outcomes 6.7.3 ‘Energy Master Plan’ Practice dures that are relevant to operations 6.6.6 6.3.4, No complaints raised Indigenous Customer Total number of substantiated complaints regarding beaches of customer privacy and losses of 6.7.1-6.7.2, G4-HR8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people and actions taken 6.3.6-6.3.8, ◐ 40, 44 G4-PR8  regarding customer Rights Privacy customer data 6.7.7 6.6.7, 6.8.3 privacy Completed human Monetary values of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning 4.6, 6.7.1No fines imposed for Compliance G4-PR9  Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or right reviews in the the provision and use of products and services 6.7.2, 6.7.6 non-compliance Assessment G4-HR9 6.3.3-6.3.5  impact assessments headquarters and all DMA (Disclosures on Management Approach)  25 domestic operations EU26 Percentage of population unserved in licensed distribution or service areas N/A Supplier G4-HR10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights criteria  57 (100%) No direct power sale to number of residential disconnections for non-payment, broken down by duration of end users Human Rights 6.3.3-6.3.6 Access EU27 N/A G4-HR11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken  disconnection and by regulatory regime Assessment Aspect 11 EU28 Power outage frequency  27-29 Human Rights Number of grievances about human rights impacts, filed, addressed and resolved through formal EU29 Average power outage duration  27-29 Grievance G4-HR12 6.3.6  grievance mechanisms Mechanism EU30 average plant availability factor by energy source and by regulatory regime  27-29 72 73 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix Independent Assurance Report Material Issues DMA & Indicators Material Issues DMA & Indicators To the Stakeholders of POSCO ENERGY The Korea Productivity Center (“KPC” or “the Assurance Provider” hereafter) has been engaged by POSCO ENERGY to perform a third-party DMA Energy, EN3~EN7 DMA Demand-side Management aspect 1. aspect 3. DMA Water, EN8~EN10 assurance of its 2015 Sustainability Report (“the Report” hereafter), and therefore presents the findings as follows. DMA Availability and Reliability, EU10 Stable Generation of Response to Climate DMA Emissions, EN15~EN21 DMA System Efficiency, EU11~EU12 Electricity Change DMA Effluents and Waste, EN22~EN26 DMA Access, EU26~EU30 DMA Products and Services, EN27~EN29 Responsibility and Independence The responsibility for the information and statements included in the Report lies solely with POSCO ENERGY. The Assurance Provider is aspect 2. aspect 4. DMA Economic Performance, EC1~EC4 responsible for the assurance findings generated in the Report. As an independent assurance provider, the Assurance Provider was not Reinforcement of Contribution to Local DMA Local Communities, SO1~SO2, EU22 DMA Research and Development Competitiveness Communities engaged in the preparation of the Report in any other way and does not have any interest in POSCO ENERGY in a way that may hamper its independence. Inclusivity: Stakeholder Engagement POSCO ENERGY categorizes its stakeholders into six groups: partners, customers, shareholders Assurance Standards and investors, employees, local communities, and Relevant goverment agencies and NGO, in compliance with the Principles of Inclusivity. The Assurance Provider performed a Type 1 moderate level assurance in accordance with AA1000AS (2008)1. Following these assurance The Assurance Provider verified that POSCO ENERGY gathers the opinions of key stakeholders through opinion collection activities such as standards, the Assurance Provider verified the Report against such principles as inclusivity, materiality, and responsiveness in accordance surveys and interviews. with AA1000APS (2008)2. In addition, the Assurance Provider verified that the Report complied with the GRI G4 Guidelines. Materiality: Selection and Reporting of Key Issues Based on the issues of the previous report, POSCO ENERGY has settled on 31 Limitations sustainable management issues by investigating the domestic and foreign energy industry issues, media analyses, and international This assurance covers POSCO ENERGY’s 2015 performance in accordance with the assurance standards stated above. The Assurance Prostandards in sustainable management such as the GRI G4 Guidelines, GRI electric industry supplementary indicators, ISO26000, and UNGC. vider verified the financial data through financial statements and publicly announced materials. The Assurance Provider also verified the It was also confirmed that POSCO ENERGY drew 15 key issues through the materiality test that was carried out based on the “Correlation” and environmental and social performance data by performing a Type 1 and sample-based moderate level assurance. On-site inspections were “Influence” on the internal and external stakeholders, and their responses were reflected in a balanced manner in each page of the Report. limited to POSCO ENERGY’s corporate headquarters in Seoul, Korea, and it should be noted that the results may change if additional verifi cation processes are carried out in the future. Responsiveness: Organizational Response to Issues The Assurance Provider verified that the Report properly demonstrates POSCO ENERGY’s awareness of the key issues that would impact stakeholder judgment of its performance and that it undertook measures to Methodology resolve such issues. Through the Report, POSCO ENERGY is faithfully disclosing the actions and performance of their responses to key issues The Assurance Provider adopted the following methods in assuring this Report. in sustainable management. • Verify that the Report met the requirements of the Comprehensive Option of the GRI G4 Guidelines. • Verify that the Report abided by the principles that concern the content and quality of the Report in accordance with the GRI G4 GuideRecommendations lines and Electric Untilities Sector Disclosures. The Assurance Provider highly values the range of endeavors and achievements made by POSCO ENERGY to advance its sustainability and • Review that major issues were selected and described appropriately in the Report through media research and benchmarking analysis. presents the following recommendations. • Verify the appropriateness of the report content, and any errors regarding the representation of such content, through comparative anal• The needs to complement the disclosed sustainability strategy system have been raised due to the changes in the global management yses made with other sources. environment and invigorated participation of stakeholders. We recommend that POSCO ENERGY shall reconfirm its internal structure • Conduct on-site inspections of the Seoul headquarters to verify the evidence of major data and information as well as internal process against new sustainability environment, while implementing new tasks for improvement and Key Performance Indicators (KPI), excluding and systems. the already obtained performances, so as to link them with actual management activities. • As some reporting scopes have been broadened to incorporate the domestic subsidiaries and overseas corporations, it becomes more Conclusion and more important to appropriately manage data. We recommend that POSCO ENERGY enact fundamental improvement in terms of The Assurance Provider believes that the Report is a sincere and fair representation of POSCO ENERGY’s sustainability management inidata reliability: by demarcating—especially for key issues—areas of responsibilities and rights over data aggregation, management and tiatives and achievements. We verified that the Report satisfies the requirements of the Comprehensive Option of the GRI G4 Guidelines. preparation, and by adopting a data management cycle from a quarterly or a half-yearly basis. We also verified that the Comprehensive Option’s requirements were met in the case of General Standard Disclosures. As for Specific Standard Disclosures, we examined the DMA (Disclosure on Management Approach) and Indicators regarding the Material Issues that were derived from the following report item decision process. Dong-soo Kim Yang-ho Lee Seung-tae Cheong, April 2016 Director of KPC Team Leader Researcher Hong Soon-jick, Chairman and CEO of KPC 1  A1000 Assurance Standard (2008): A global assurance standard developed by Accountability that provides methods for reporting on an organization’s manageA ment of sustainability issues beyond financial indicators, including its adherence to the Accountability Principles Standard and the reliability of its sustainability The Sustainability Management Center of the Korea Productivity Center is a fully qualified independent assurance agency. It is officially certified by AccountAbility performance information that established AA1000, the international standard for stakeholder engagement and assurance . It has the Assurance Committee with experienced experts who are 2 AA1000  AccountAbility Principles Standard (2008): A global assurance principles developed by Accountability that provides a framework for the AA1000 standards qualified for the consultation and assurance of sustainability practice. 74 75 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Overview Material Issues for Sustainability Management Management Report Appendix UN Global Compact Membership Participants Future Strategy Forum on Energy & Resource Development Fuel Cell Customer Service Group, Service Classification Principles GRI Page Kyoung-rok Kwon Korea Employers Federation Technology & Management Section Businesses should support and respect National Science & Technology Commission 1 the protection of internationally G4-HR2, G4-HR7,G4-HR8, G4-HR9, G4-HR12, G4-SO1, G4-SO2 54 Gwangyang Power Plant Operation Division Byoung-dong Lim Korea Valuation Association proclaimed human rights; and rights; Human Rights Korean Industrial Safety Association Technology Planning Group Chul-hong Shin make sure that they are not complicit 2 G4-HR1, G4-HR10, G4-HR11 48, 54 Korea Electric Association in human rights abuses. Planning & Supporting Division Dong-chan Choi Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry Businesses should uphold the freedom Marketing Group Chang-wook Park Korean Hydrogen & New Energy Society of association and the effective 3 G4-11, G4-HR4, G4-LA4 53 Association of the Electricity Supply Industry of East Asia Ju-young Gong recognition of the right to collective bargaining; and Western Pacific Future Strategic Technology Group Chul-woo Kim Association of Energy Future Forum the elimination of all forms of forced 4 G4-HR6 53, 54 Incheon National Security Facility Committee Business Development Department 1 Sang-il Roh and compulsory labour; Rule of Labor International Management Institute Myeong-jin Na the effective abolition of child labour; 5 G4-HR5 53, 54 EconoBusiness Development Department 2 and Federation of Korean Industries my Hye-sook Yun Jeonnam Wind Power Industry Association the elimination of discrimination G4-10, G4-EC5, G4-EC6, G4-LA1, G4-LA3, G4-LA9, G4-LA11, Electric Power Council Plant Technical Team Jin-seon Kim 6 in respect of employment and 54, 55 G4-LA12, G4-LA13, G4-HR3 occupation. Steel Convergence Technology Research Association (SCRA) Safety & Health Team Sok-gyu Yun Businesses should support a Korea Construction Engineers Association G4-E2, G4-EN1, G4-EN3, G4-EN8, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, Ethical Management Team Jin-ho Kim 7 precautionary approach to 39 Korea Industrial Technology Association G4-EN17, G4-EN20, G4-EN21, G4-EN27, G4-EN31 environmental challenges; Won-sang Yoo Korean Society for New and Renewable Energy Infra Innovation Group G4-EN1, G4-EN2, G4-EN3, G4-EN4, G4-EN5, G4-EN6, G4-EN7, Korea New and Renewable Energy Association Han-jin Lee undertake initiatives to promote G4-EN8, G4-EN9, G4-EN10, G4-EN11, G4-EN12, G4-EN13, Korea Engineering & Consulting Association Environment 8 greater environmental responsibility; G4-EN14, G4-EN15, G4-EN16, G4-EN17, G4-EN18, G4-EN19, 39 Finance & Investment team Hai-won Kim and G4-EN20, G4-EN21, G4-EN22, G4-EN23, G4-EN24, G4-EN24, Korea Electrical Contractors Association G4-EN25, G4-EN26, G4-EN27, G4-EN28 Myeong-jun Gwon Korea Electric Engineers Association encourage the development and Korea Electric Power Engineers Association Dong-gun Kim G4-EN29, G4-EN30, G4-EN31, G4-EN32, G4-EN33, 9 diffusion of environmentally friendly 32, 39 Korea Battery Industry Association G4-EN34 Yun-won Jeong technologies. Korea Photovoltaic Industry Association Power & Environment Policy Group Businesses should work against Seong-cheol Hong AntiKorea Wind Energy Industry Association 10 corruption in all its forms, including G4-EN6, G4-EN7, G4-EN19, G4-EN27, G4-EN31 48 Corruption KRX Global Premier Exchange Ho-soo Hong extortion and bribery Kyungbug Dongbu Environmental Engineers Conference Eun-gyeong Hwang National Assembly Forum on Climate Change Dae-ho Kim Daegu Gyeongbuk Korea Environmental Protection Association General Affairs & Procurement Group Seo-gu Autonomous Environmental Purification Council So-young Lee EnvironKorea Carbon Capture and Sequestration R&D Center Pohang Power Plant Department Jae-yeob Jung ment Korean Federation for Environmental Movement Incheon Jee-eun Kang Korea Society of Energy & Climate Change Mi-young Kim Korea Association of Energy, Climate Change and Environment Public Relation & CSR Group Korea Chemicals Management Association Eui-cheol Shin Korea Environmental Engineers Association Ji-young An UN GLOBAL COMPACT Young-ji Kang Creating Shared Value Forum Accounting & Budget Group Best SM Forum Seung-yong Choi Society Korea Personnel Improvement Association HR Group Keun-suk Yoo Incheon Safety Management Conference POSPOWER Seok-hee Yoon Korea CSR Society Korea Fire Safety Association AES-VCM Sang-geun Yang 76 77 2015 POSCO ENERGY Sustainability Report Headquarters 16F, POSCO Center West Wing, 440 Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul Future Energy Campus 363 Jungbong-daero, 405 Beon-gil, Seo-gu, Incheon Incheon LNG Combined Cycle Power Plant 314 Jungbong-daero, 405 Beon-gil, Seo-gu, Incheon Gwangyang Off-gas Combined Cycle Power Plant Within Gwangyang Steelworks, 1800 Jecheol-ro, Gwangyang, Jeollanam-do Pohang Off-gas Combined Cycle Power Plant Within Pohang Steelworks, 6262 Donghaean-ro, Nam-gu, Pohang, Gyeongsangbuk-do Pohang Fuel Cell Manufacturing Facility / Fuel Cell Technology Institute 153-154, Yeongilmansandan-ro, 88 Beon-gil, Heunghae-eup, Buk-gu, Pohang, Gyeongsangbuk-do 78 Designed by_intoGraphic 02-583-7688 This report is printed on FSCTM (Forest Stewardship Council) C111531 Certified Paper with soy ink.
