Middle East Africa KOTRA Report 15-022 Central & South CIS America KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 South West Asia South East Asia & Oceania Japan Europe China North America Global Global Business Platform 13 Heolleungno, Seocho-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea Business Platform T. +82-2-3460-7074 www.kotra.or.kr KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 This report is printed on eco-friendly paper with soybean ink. Global Business Platform KOTRA A Global Business Platform for the Future of Korea KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Organization About this Report Contents Promoting Advanced Business Management (DMA*) 050 Building a Customer and Field-oriented Organization Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA) acts as Korea’s global business platform opening up 052 Operating a Reasonable Evaluation System the future of the nation. KOTRA has published this fourth sustainability report for the purpose of promoting 054 Promoting Stable Financial Management shared growth and development with all of our stakeholders. We at KOTRA hope that the publication of this 056 Fostering Global Talents sustainability report will serve as a significant opportunity to disclose our sustainability management activities 058 Establishing a Creative Organizational Culture to our stakeholders and to boost stakeholder's engagement. Introduction Business 061 Human Rights Management Faithfully Fulfilling KOTRA’s Establishment 062 Information Security 002 CEO Message Purposes through Business Innovation (DMA*) Characteristics 004 KOTRA at a Glance: Fulfilling Mission in a KOTRA has published this “KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014” combining our strategies with it. Changing World 024 S  trengthening Export Competencies of SMEs In order to facilitate communication with our stakeholders, this report provides comprehensive information 006 About KOTRA Fostering Domestically-oriented SMEs into on KOTRA’s efforts and activities to realize its values. In particular, this report contains KOTRA’s business Exporters 007 KOTRA’s Global Network activities capitalizing on its global network and its sustainability performance by 10 regions around the globe. Nurturing Global Specialized Enterprises 008 KOTRA’s Strategies and Core Values 028 Creating New Export Growth Engines 010 Corporate Governance Criteria Supporting Domestic Companies’ Overseas 013 Enterprise-wide Risk Management System Expansion This report has been prepared in accordance with comprehensive option of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) G4 014 Ethical Management Discovering New Industries Guidelines and IIRC ‹IR› Framework. Specific reporting boundaries have been set and specified by material 016 Interviews with Stakeholders Responding to New Trading Systems and aspects. 018 Stakeholder Communication Methods Global 019 Materiality Assessment Process 031 Supporting Utilization of Wider Territory of Assurance Sharing Accumulated Global Knowledge and 020 Material Issues and Reporting Boundaries Economic Cooperation Experience (DMA*) This report is independently assured in accordance with assurance requirements of GRI G4 and AA1000AS (2008). 021 KOTRA’s Key Competencies Helping SMEs capitalize on FTAs To ensure credibility of the report’s contents, this report received third party assurance from Korea Management Making the Most of Economic Diplomacy 066 North America Association Registration Inc. (KMAR), which verifies that all the information in the report is true and that this 033 Enhancing Efforts to Attract Foreign 068 China report satisfies all the requirements of the GRI G4 Guidelines at the Comprehensive level. Investment Beneficial to the Korean 070 Europe Economy 072 Japan Attraction of Foreign Investment and Reporting Period, Scope and Boundaries 074 South East Asia and Oceania Aftercare This report contains KOTRA's business and sustainable business performances from January 1 to December 076 South West Asia 31, 2014. For major quantitative performances, the latest three-year data are included. For any uncollectible 078 Central and South America data, the reasons are mentioned. The scope of this report includes KOTRA’s head office in Korea and all 080 CIS overseas branch offices. For environmental achievements, data of the head office are used. Our most recent 082 Africa previous report was published in April 2014 and we publish our sustainability report annually. 084 Middle East Additional Information This report is published in Korean and English. Most of the contents are also available at the KOTRA website Appendix (http://www.kotra.or.kr). KOTRA welcomes your input. For any opinions and inquiries, please contact us through 087 Facts & Figures_ Business the following channels: Social Contribution 088 Facts & Figures_ Finance 090 Facts & Figures_ Economy, Society and Achieving Sustainable Growth by Creating Social Environment Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (KOTRA) Values (DMA*) Planning & Coordination Dept. / Management & Assessment Team 092 ISO 26000 Compliance Diagnosis Report 13 Heolleungno, Seocho-gu, Seoul, Republic of Korea 038 Government 3.0 094 GRI G4 Contents Index Tel +82-2-3460-7074 Fax +82-2-3460-7908 e-mail sustainability@kotra.or.kr 040 Creating Jobs Overseas 098 Third-party Independence Assurance Report 042 Shared Growth 100 Awards and Memberships 044 Global CSR Initiatives 102 KOTRA Previous Reports / Publications *DMA : Disclosure of Management Approach 047 Countering Climate Change 103 Questionnaire for Readers’ Opinions 02 03 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA CEO Message _G4-1 Social Contribution Organization KOTRA’s first core project is to “strengthen small and medium-sized enterprises Global (SMEs)’ export capabilities,” which has remained the agency’s foremost mission Appendix over the past 53 years, with the goal of nurturing 100,000 SMEs as exporters. Out of the nation’s 3.2 million SMEs, the number of exporters stands at mere 90,000 or 3%. KOTRA plans to increase the number to 100,000 by 2017 by fostering 10,000 more SMEs into exporting companies. In addition, the agency will strive to foster 400 specialized global companies by providing full support for small and medium-sized exporters. Through such endeavors, KOTRA will address problems associated with the nation’s large enterprise-centered export structure and help SMEs play a pivotal role in exports. By doing so, the agency will make sure that the entire citizens of Korea will become beneficiaries of exports through the fountain effect. KOTRA’s other core projects are to “create new export growth engines” and to “utilize wider territories of economic cooperation.” With the goal of identifying new export areas following the manufacturing sector, the agency will provide intensive support for overseas market expansion of Korean enterprises possessing advanced technology in the fields of renewable energy, information and communication technology (ICT), health/medical service, and financial industry. In addition, in an effort to maximize the effect of economic cooperation, KOTRA plans to operate an FTA utilization support center and a non-tariff barrier taskforce team to help make the best use of FTAs signed by Korea with other countries including USA and China. At the same time, KOTRA will strengthen its support for economic diplomacy to diversify economic cooperation through dissemination of successful models such as the President’s recent Middle East tour. The last core project is to “attract foreign invested companies which are beneficial to the Korean economy.” To this end, KOTRA will actively encourage global companies to locate their headquarters in Korea by capitalizing on FTAs, thereby laying the groundwork for developing Korea into a business hub in Northeast Asia. At the same time, the agency will induce increased investment of the existing foreign invested companies by offering support for their recruitment, export and procurement procedures, bringing mutually beneficial effect to both foreign-invested companies and the Korean economy. In order to effectively carry out the aforementioned four core projects, KOTRA will push ahead with business innovation simultaneously. The agency will adopt forward-looking, customer and site-oriented business attitude and offer customized and package-style support, thereby further substantiating its projects and delivering tangible results. It will also take the lead in promoting open collaboration with relevant organizations, thereby solidifying its function as a global business platform and building an organizational culture emphasizing faithful adherence to basics and principles to lay the foundation for sustainable growth. This report covers KOTRA’s four core projects, its corporate social responsibility activities, outcomes of the organization’s outcomes, Greetings to our valued stakeholders! and future strategies. Through the report, KOTRA intends to share our global knowledge and experience accumulated over the It gives me great pleasure to introduce the 2014 KOTRA Sustainability Report in my first year as CEO of years. In particular, this report covers business outcomes of KOTRA’s overseas network, which is the agency’s greatest asset, and KOTRA. CSR implementation results based on ISO 26000 by 10 regions. In addition, as an organization that upholds the Ten Principles of U.N. Global Compact, we have also included “human rights management” implementation status in this report upon the In 2014, Korea achieved the so-called “triple crown” –a record high in annual trade volume, exports, and trade surplusfor two recommendation of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea. consecutive years. I believe that this feat was made possible through the combined efforts of the Korean people, businesses and the government. In my trip to Middle East in March this year, I heard a Middle Eastern saying that “Things ahead are better than things behind.” This means that hope lies in the unknown future rather than in the glorious past. Korea achieved US$ 1 trillion in trade for four However, the trade environment surrounding Korea in 2015 still remains challenging. The nation’s export growth rate has slowed consecutive years. Not being complacent about the past, KOTRA will turn the unknown future into an opportunity to help the nation down over the past three years and uncertainties of the global economy still persist. Developed markets such as the United States maintain its outstanding export performance in the future. KOTRA will make ceaseless efforts to deliver more satisfying service and and Europe are showing signs of delayed economic recovery despite their efforts to revitalize the economy. China is currently help Korean companies produce greater outcomes. pushing ahead with reforms to improve its economic fundamentals through the “new normal” policy, which means that it will be difficult for China to achieve rapid economic growth of the past. It is expected that Japan will continue its weak-yen policy, posing a Thank you. big stumbling block to Korean businesses. Nevertheless, I am confident that the solution to Korea’s economic revitalization ultimately lies in global markets. In a bid to support the Korean government’s effort to achieve its trade policy vision of becoming “global top 5 trading nation and reach US$2 trillion in Jaehong Kim trade,” KOTRA is committed to its role as the spearhead of Korean export drive. To this end, KOTRA has come up with four core President & CEO KOTRA projects and four innovation directions for 2015 and all employees at KOTRA are committed to putting themselves into action. 04 05 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA KOTRA’s Business Directions for Fulfilling Its Mission in a Changing World Social Contribution Organization Global Appendix •Using Korea-China FTA as an opportunity to revitalize the • Transforming domestically-oriented SMEs into exporters Develop 100,000 export economy • Expanding customized support services (using overseas KBCs as SMEs and 400 branch offices of SMEs, World Champ project, etc.) by competence •Increase SMEs’ utilization of FTAs Strategically utilize specialized global through global competence diagnosis • Making a pre-emptive response to FTAs with emerging FTA network companies • Strengthening Mobile KOTRA service markets, such as TPP and FTAs with countries in Middle East and Latin America •Disseminating achievements of economic diplomacy and facilitating a portal dedicated to utilize summit diplomacy Promote SMEs’ • Providing assistance from the early start-up phase targeting •Diversifying ways of overseas advancement (joint overseas overseas market entry Assist venture global markets in connection with 17 Creative Economy advancement to third countries, joint overseas advancement of by capitalizing on firms to globalize Innovation Centers across the nation large and small enterprises, youth overseas employment, etc.) summit diplomacy •Transferring Korea’s economic development experience overseas (global CSR initiatives) Strengthen Export Competencies of SMEs Playing a Leading Role Provide support for utilization of wider areas for economic cooperation in the “Second Nation-Building Increase efforts to attract foreign-invested companies Continuously create new export growth engines through Trade” beneficial to the Korean economy •Preparing a foundation for becoming a business hub in Pioneer new • Providing full support for new export sectors such as Northeast Asia by capitalizing on FTAs Actively attract R&D export sectors cultural contents, services, medical care, renewable •Attracting more investment in non-Seoul metropolitan areas centers and global other than the energy, agricultural and fisheries products, and defense to promote balanced regional development headquarters of global manufacturing sector industries •Creating an investment environment conducive to doing companies business and enhancing PR activities Proactively resolve •Supporting improvement of business environment for foreigngrievances of the Making a pre-emptive invested companies encompassing recruitment, export and • Responding to new trade methods including transit/processing procurement existing foreignresponse to new trade trade, electronic transactions and G2G invested companies methods •Induce increase in investment amount by supporting legal and institutional improvements and support regulatory reforms 06 07 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA About KOTRA KOTRA’s Global Network Social Contribution Organization Global Appendix Corporate Summary (As of Nov. 31, 2014) KOTRA was established for the purposes of promoting international trade of the Republic of Korea and providing support for Korea Trade-Investment cross-border investments by domestic and foreign companies, industrial and technological cooperation, inducement of KOTRA is operating 123 Korea Business Centers (KBCs) in 83 countries and 10 regions across the world (as of March 31, 2015). Company Name Promotion Agency (KOTRA) overseas experts, and export contracts between governments pursuant to the Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency Act. In 2014, with increased economic size in Asia, KOTRA divided the Asian region, which had been regarded as a single region 13 Heolleungno, Seocho-gu, Headquarters Seoul, Republic of Korea Capitalizing on its global knowledge and experience accumulated based on its extensive global network featuring 123 Korea previously, into the South East Asia and Oceania region and the South West Asian region, thereby operating KBCs in a total of Business Centers (KBCs) in 83 countries around the world, KOTRA promotes trade by Korean companies and attracts foreign 10 regions. Current status and market entry strategies by region are specified in this report’s section IV. <Global> Sharing President Jaehong Kim investments by overseas companies, while actively supporting government policies such as support for free trade agreements Accumulated Global Knowledge and Experience. Meanwhile, KOTRA operates 5 domestic regional support departments Date of June 21, 1962 (FTAs) and job creation. (Southeast, Daegyeong, Honam, Chungcheong, Gangwon) in Korea. establishment 100% owned by the Korean Ownership government Affiliated Organizational Chart KINTEX(33.14%), BEXCO(26%) CIS (9) companies President Europe (21) No. of employees 685 China (18) Gangwon Advisory Councils Board of Directors Comptroller Auditor’ Office Head Office Support North America Japan (4) Sales KRW 342.3 billion (10) Department ·Policy Advisory Council Office of the Foreign Investment Ombudsman Total equity KRW 120.5 billion ·Management Advisory Middle East Council South West Office of the President KOTRA Defense Industry Trade Support Center (15) Asia(7) Net profit KRW 16.9 billion ·Customer Service Advisory Council Africa (10) Chungcheong Public Relations Division G-to-G Trade Support Center Support Daegyeong South East Asia Department Support & Oceania(14) Department Global M&A Support Center Central & South Economic Diplomacy Support Center America (14) Southeast Honam Support Support Department China Head Office Department Senior Executive VP for Executive VP for Executive VP for Executive VP for Business lnvest KOREA Foreign Investor Management Support SME Support Strategic Marketing Information & Trade Support Center Europe Head Office ·Planning & ·Export Support Department ·Global Business Cooperation ·Business Information Strategy ·Investment Planning ·Inbound Investment Coordination Department Department Department Consulting Division North America Head Office ·Business Competence Building Department Department ·Industry & Resources ·Trade Support Department ·Investment Promotion ·Investment Aftercare ·General Services Cooperation Department Department Division Middle East Head Office Global Network (10 Regional Head Offices, 123 KBCs in 83 Countries) ·Exhibition Convention Department ·China Business Division Department ·Service Industry Department ·Overseas Market Research Africa Head Office ·Human Resources ·IT Business Department Department Development & China (19) 1) Beijing (China), Shanghai (China), Guangzhou (China), Dalian (China), Japan (4) Tokyo (Japan), Osaka (Japan), Nagoya (Japan), Fukuoka (Japan) ·SME Globalization Support Center Management ·Global Jobs Creation ·Overseas Investment Support Japan Head Office Tianjin (China), Chengdu (China), Qingdao (China), Wuhan (China), Xian (China), Department ·Southeast Support Department Department Department Shenyang (China), Nanjing (China), Chongqing (China), Changsha (China), ·Customer Policy ·Daegyeong Support Department ·Global CSR Department ·Overseas Investment South East Asia & Oceania Head Office Department Cooperation Center Zhengzhou (China), Hangzhou (China), Xiamen (China), Shenzhen (China), South East Asia and Singapore (Singapore), Manila (Philippines), Bangkok (Thailand), Kuala ·Honam Support Department ·KOTRA Global Academy South West Asia Head Office Hong Kong (Hong Kong), Taipei (Taiwan) Oceania (14) Lumpur (Malaysia), Yangon (Myanmar), Jakarta (Indonesia), Surabaya ·Emergency Planning ·Chungcheong Support Department Division (Indonesia), Ho Chi Minh (Vietnam), Hanoi (Vietnam), Phnom Penh (Cambodia), ·Gangwon Support Department Vientiane (Laos), Sydney (Australia), Melbourne (Australia), Auckland (New Central & South America Head Office Frankfurt (Germany), Hamburg (Germany), Munich (Germany), Paris (France), ·KOTRA Global Buyer Support Office Europe (21) Zealand) (Incheon International Airport) CIS Head Office London (UK), Stockholm (Sweden), Copenhagen (Denmark), Amsterdam (Netherlands), Brussels (Belgium), Milano (Italy), Zurich (Switzerland), Madrid (Spain), Vienna (Austria), Athens (Greece), Helsinki (Finland), Budapest (Hungary), South West Asia (7) New Delhi (India), Mumbai (India), Chennai (India), Bangalore (India), Karachi Distribution of Economic Value to Stakeholders The KOTRA Timeline Warsaw (Poland), Prague (Czech Republic), Bucharest (Romania), Zagreb (Pakistan), Dhaka (Bangladesh), Colombo (Sri Lanka) June 1962 1970s~1980s Late 1990s 2000s _G4-EC1 (Croatia), Sofia (Bulgaria) (Unit : KRW 1 million) Central and South Mexico City (Mexico), Panama (Panama), Guatemala (Guatemala), Havana Distributed New York (USA), Los Angeles (USA), Chicago (USA), Dallas (USA), Washington DC Category 2012 2013 2014 North America(10) America (14) (Cuba), Santo Domingo (Dominican Republic), Sao Paulo (Brazil), Rio de through KOTRA was founded Export markets were diversified ‘Attraction of foreign direct investment’ was ‘Support for overseas outbound investment’ was (USA), Silicon Valley (USA), ) Miami (USA), Detroit (USA), Vancouver (Canada), through market expansion in the Soviet added to KOTRA’s main functions; KOTRA added to KOTRA’s main functions to promote Janeiro (Brazil), Lima (Peru), Bogota (Colombia), Buenos Aires (Argentina), Toronto (Canada) Government Taxes and charges 1,407 1,470 1,585 Union and Eastern Europe. contributed to the nation’s rising over financial globalization of SMEs. Santiago (Chile), Caracas (Venezuela), Asuncion (Paraguay), Quito (Ecuador) *The first KBC opened in East Europe crisis under IMF stewardship. *Legislating KOTRA’s support for overseas expansion: (May 1985, Budapest, Hungary) *Renamed as Korea Trade-Investment Revision of Foreign Trade Act (Apr. 2009) and Shareholders Dividends 2,844 5,115 establishment of a support center for overseas expansion. Middle East (15) Dubai (UAE), Cairo (Egypt), Tehran (Iran), Tel Aviv (Israel), Riyadh (Saudi Arabia), Promotion Agency in 1995. Amman (Jordan), Tripoli (Libya), Casa Blanca (Morocco), Kuwait (Kuwait), Muscat CIS(10) Moscow (Russia), Vladivostok (Russia), Novosibirsk (Russia), St. Petersburg 2008 2011 2013 2014 Creditors Interest costs 0.6 (Russia), Kiev (Ukraine), Almaty (Kazakhstan), Baku (Azerbaijan), Tashkent (Oman), Baghdad (Iraq), Alger (Algeria), Damascus (Syria), Istanbul (Turkey), Doha Wages, benefits, (Qatar) (Uzbekistan),Minsk (Belarus), Ulan Bator (Mongolia) allowances Employees 97,523 103,252 100,511 ‘Inducement of overseas experts’ was added to ‘Support for defense industry trade’, ‘Support for global M&As’ and ‘support ‘Support for overseas startup and employment’ and severance payments KOTRA’s main functions. ‘international development cooperation’, and for U-turn firms’ were added to and ‘support for government-to-government Johannesburg (South Africa), Lagos (Nigeria), Nairobi (Kenya), Khartoum (Sudan), Africa (9) 2) * Relevant KOTRA law was amended (2008). ‘boosting national brand’ were added to KOTRA’s main functions. (G2G) transactions’ were added to KOTRA’s main Community Donations 21 KOTRA’s main functions. *‘Support for U-turn firms,’ etc. was legislated in functions. Addis Ababa (Ethiopia), Accra (Ghana), Dares Salaam (Tanzania), Kinshasa *Revised KOTRA law specifying the addition of new June 2013. * Revised KOTRA law specifying the addition of new (Congo), Maputo (Mozambique)* 1) The Ulan Bator Office was incorporated into the CIS region. New KBCs opened in Tianjin and Shenzhen. functions was proclaimed in Mar. 2011. functions was proclaimed in Jan. 2014. 2) The Douala Office in Cameroon was closed. Source: All Public Information System in One (ALIO) www.alio.go.kr 08 09 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA KOTRA’s Strategies and Core Values Social Contribution Organization Global Appendix Based on its establishment purpose, KOTRA has formulated its mission statement as being contributing to promoting In 2014, in an effort to disseminate and internalize value-based management, KOTRA collected opinions of its employees happiness of the public and prosperity of the global community through support for global business and has also developed its through workshops and surveys. Based on the results, KOTRA decided on its criteria of conduct as being Trustworthy by four vision to become a global business platform opening up the future of Korea. On the basis of the company's direction, KOTRA core values of customers, contribution, challenge and global and established desirable employee image based on the criteria has come up with four strategies and 13 strategic tasks by analyzing external environment surrounding the corporation and of conduct. identifying its internal competences. _G4-2 Vision Global business platform opening up the future of Korea Mission Contributing to promoting happiness of the public and prosperity of the global community through support for global business Customer Contribution Mid-term • F oster domestically-oriented SMEs into export businesses: • Increase the number of contracted buyers : Business goals 12,000 companies 10,000 companies •H  elp SMEs successfully sign export contracts through customized services: US$ 1.5 million •A  ttract investments worth US$ 1 million or more : 1,200 cases CORE VALUES Sense of duty Top priority = Customer We are contributing to the nation. We are enhancing customers' global value. Transparency •Global network with 123 offices in 83 countries Responsiveness Internal Competence TRUST We are pursuing zero defect in ethics. •Forward-looking work attitude prioritizing the needs of SME customers and field We are responding to customers' demands. Worldwide CSR S operation •Management strategy system with management goals based on missions and vision Utmost satisfaction We are taking full social responsibility. Strengths and the ability to execute •Talented human resources with global perspectives We are realizing customer surprise. WORTHY S W •Exposed to various risks due to extensive global network Behaviorable standard deemed most important W •Inadequate industrial expertise amid increasingly complicated customer needs and external environment emergence of new functions among KOTRA people •Frequent personnel relocation due to the overseas personnel rotation system Weakness •Limitations to significant business expansion due to budget and personnel restraints Challenge O SO WO •The “Government 3.0” plan promoting opening and cooperation •Demand for intensifying support for globalization of SMEs Global O Opportunities •Meeting expectations as a key player in implementing government policies as evidenced by achieving US$2 trillion in trade •Talented human resources with global mindset Out-of-the-box thinking We are overflowing with creativity. Relentless enthusiasm T ST WT •Uncertainties of the global economy •Declining public confidence in public institutions We are overcoming all the difficulties. Highly qualified experts T We are developing into local experts. •The export environment led by large enterprises and intensifying competition due to Trend-setter Threats other agencies’ expansion of service areas We are shaping future trends. Youthful & open mindset •Cyber terrorism and risk of personal information leakage We are treating others with respect. Strategic tasks Strategic goals Expand export base and build a ‘ladder for global growth’ SO Adopt differentiation strategy to tap into new markets Lead the nation’s effort to Facilitate global employment and startup achieve US$2 trillion in trade Strategies (Expanding competencies) Promote shared growth with emerging economies ‘Trustworthy’ KOTRA people are ‘Leaders.’ ST Explore new export growth engine industries Enhance a ‘neo-trade and Strategically attract investment and enhance support for trade and Strategies (Capitalizing on strengths) investment in conjunction with each other investment function’ Improve performance of projects related to national policy projects L E A D WO Vigorously push ahead with the Government 3.0 initiative to provide customized information Enhance the customer Enhance the customer service system Spread and internalize value-oriented management support system Leading Partner Enthusiastic Contirbutor Active Challenger Dynamic Globalist Strategies (Capturing opportunities) A partner proactively A enthusiasitc contributor promoting the An active challenger changing A dynamic globalist deal flexibly with WT Establish a neo-HR and compensation system based on performance and competences leading customers development of the country, humanity, the world and leading the future various global circumstance Build a collaborative labor-management culture Establish an advanced business management system the global community and the future Strategies (Countering threats) Maintain an exemplary financial stability 10 11 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Corporate Governance Social Contribution Organization Enhancing and Facilitating the Roles of the BOD _G4-42~44, 48~50 Global Appendix The BOD deliberates and decides on such matters as management objectives, budget, funding and operation plans as specified in Article 23(matters for decision) of the Statutes of KOTRA. The BOD formulates policies, purposes, and a value system associated with economic and social impacts, places related topics as major agenda items and review them on a regular basis. The BOD agenda item discussion procedure is as follows: First, the comptroller or the president proposes Corporate Governance and Board of Directors _G4-38~40 agenda items 12 days before BOD meetings and the head of Planning and Coordination Department collects them and Non-standing directors’ management consulting submits them to the BOD after receiving approval from the president. The head of Planning and Coordination and the head of services (unit : session) KOTRA’s Board of Directors (BOD) consists of six standing directors including the CEO and seven non-standing directors who 4 4 2 Business Management Team review and approve whether to include certain material aspects in this report. In 2014, BOD's role are experts in their respective fields such as business management and law. Accounting for the majority of the BOD, nonin deliberating was further strengthened by increasing the ratios of non-standing directors’ remarks and modified decisions. standing directors efficiently provide consultation for and check against internal management. In addition, a comptroller and a 2 sessions ↓ commissioner from Invest Korea participate in board meetings as observers. Pursuant to Article 18-4 of the Act on the Category 2012 2013 2014 Year-on-year Management of Public Institutions and Article 3 of KOTRA’s BOD regulations, the CEO serves as chairperson of the BOD. Number of BOD meetings (meeting) 17 14 13 1↓ Pursuant to the Act on the Management of Public Institutions, KOTRA selects candidates for the president and non-standing Number of agenda items (case) 32 25 23 2↓ directors through open invitation and recommends them to the government through the Executive Nomination Committee. In Directors’ pre-review ratio (%) 100% 100% 100% 2012 2013 2014 accordance with Article 8 of the Statute of the Korea Trade-Investment Promotion Agency (Appointment of Directors and Ratio of modified decisions (case, %) 2(6%) 2(8%) 2(9%) 1%p ↑ Officers), KOTRA’s president is appointed by the President of the Republic of Korea on a proposal of the Minister of Commerce, Reported items (case) 13 11 12 1↑ Non-standing directors’ management proposals Industry and Energy according to the recommendation of the Executive Nomination Committee, while the standing comptroller Attendance ratio (%) 92.2% 95.1% 90.3% 4.8%p ↓ (unit : case) is appointed by the President of the Republic of Korea on a proposal of the Minister of Planning and Budget via a resolution of Attendance ratio of non-standing directors (%) 90.9% 93.8% 90% 3.8%p ↓ 7 18 20 Ratio of remarks made by non-standing directors (%) 83.1% 91.3% 94.1% 2.8%p ↓ the Management Committee. 2 (11%)↑ Category Name Gender Current position Appointment procedure Jaehong Kim Male President and Chairman of the Board Appointed by the President of Korea* Jeong-Oh Ham Male Senior Executive Vice President Enhanced Roles of Non-standing Directors and Advisory Committee _G4-34, 43 Standing Hwan-Sup Shin Male Executive Vice President for SME Support 2012 2013 2014 directors Seong-Soo Kim Male Executive Vice President for Strategic Marketing Appointed by the institution head Reflecting changes in markets and business management environment, KOTRA has secured a pool of expert candidates for nonWon-Suk Yoon Male Executive Vice President for Information & Trade Support standing directors. Reflecting rising demand following conclusion of FTAs, KOTRA has increased the number of international trade Number of their proposals reflected on KOTRA’s Hyo-Chun Yoon Male Executive Vice President for China experts to 38 (an increase of 3 compared to the previous year), sub-classified the pool into manufacturing and service sectors, and management (unit : case) Kapseok Yoon Male Director General for Trade at the Ministry of Trade, Position of the ex-officio increased the number of experts in the service sector to 22 (an increase of 8 compared to the previous year). KOTRA provides 11 19 18 Industry & Energy phased support for non-standing directors by dividing their activities into three phases of the initial stage, active stage, and stage of Eun Jung Lee Female CEO of Korea Mcnulty Co., Ltd. Former non-standing director of Korea Trade Insurance Recommended by the Executive term expiration, while offering updated management information comparable to that offered to standing directors via BOD 1 case Jae Kook Lee Male ↓ Corp (K-Sure), director of Hopedoremi corporation Nomination Committee newsletters (published twice a month) and SNS. KOTRA has also improved a process in which the importance of each Non-standing Former CEO of Songdo Global University, representative → Appointed by the Minister of directors Jin-Dae Chung Male patent attorney of licensing corporation Friends Planning and Budget management proposal made by the BOD is rated and follow-up measures are taken in a phased manner in order of importance. Kwang-Keun Lee Male Chairman of Pojico Marketing Co., Ltd. In 2014, KOTRA formed an advisory committee comprising experts in the areas of trade, industry and finance which fit the agency’s Chan Kyu Park Male Chairman of SJ Co., Ltd. Recommended by the Executive purpose of promoting trade and investment, as well as female business leaders. It capitalized on the advisory committee’s 2012 2013 2014 Nomination Committee expertise and expanded its roles by linking the committee with KOTRA’s internal committees dealing with similar topics. → Appointed by the Minister of Yung Pil Kang Male Director of Jeju Journalists Club Commerce, Industry and Energy Advisory Roles Activities in 2014 Internal committees at KOTRA Comptroller Jin Eok Kim Male Auditor Appointed by the President of Korea* committee Head of Fostering small and mediumRepresentative committee of the Service Ki-Won Han Male Head of Invest KOREA Assessment of business plans and Invest KOREA SMEs standing companies and promoting Advisory Group shared growth index3 sessions held shared growth (half-yearly) * For details, please refer to the ALIO (All Public Information in One) system. Media relations activities and the Risk management, Government 3.0 Clean KOTRA committee (quarterly) Public relations Government 3.0 initiative –twice Government 3.0 advisory committee (yearly) Utilization of FTAs and trade Assessment of outstanding planning and Exchange risk management/ finance and Trade issues policies research reports –twice operations committee (yearly) Operation of the BOD _G4-41 Government policies and Improvement of management goals and Policies Proposal deliberation committee (quarterly) expansion of new markets patent certification project-twice The BOD deliberates and decides on matters that are important for the management of KOTRA. BOD meetings are held once a month (third Thursday of every month) on a regular basis. Pursuant to Article 12-2 of the BOD Regulations, the BOD operates subcommittees and advisory committees. Results of BOD meetings and the Executive Nomination Committee are disclosed Operation of the Executive Nomination Committee _G4-40 on KOTRA’s website and thus major management decisions are disclosed immediately to shareholders and stakeholders. Pursuant to Article 2-2 of the Public Service Ethics Act and Article 17 of the Statutes of KOTRA, KOTRA employees are not KOTRA has formed a neutral Executive Nomination Committee representing various fields by appointing non-standing directors and allowed to concurrently hold any other employment to prevent conflicts of interest. In addition, according to Article 27-2 of the KOTRA spokespersons (outside members) including female members to reflect diversity. The agency boosted attendance rate and cut Statutes of KOTRA, directors with conflicts of interest with respect to any of the agenda items at a meeting cannot attend the back on budget by linking the BOD with the Executive Nomination Committee (attendance rate increased by 6.6% and planned budget related board meeting. decreased by 33.1% over the previous year). KOTRA thoroughly verifies candidates in compliance with relevant regulations and procedures and discloses meeting results, thereby securing transparency of the executive nomination process. 12 13 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Enterprise-wide Risk Management System _G4-2, 14, 45~47 Social Contribution Organization Assessment of BOD Performance _G4-40 Global Appendix KOTRA has worked out three monitoring indicatorsBOD composition, BOD activeness, and BOD expertise –along with 10 detailed indicators to measure the activeness of the BOD. Monitoring indicator Detailed indicator Weight (%) ·Measuring the proportion of non-standing directors, proportion of neutral BOD composition Is the BOD running independently? directors, and diversification of non-standing directors’ expertise 30 Amid continued external demand for the reform of public institutions, new functions have been added to KOTRA and its ·Measuring the independence of the BOD as the top decision-making body. organizational network is undergoing steady expansion. In order to become a sustainable organization, KOTRA has established ·Measuring quantitative performance records such as the number of BOD activeness Is the BOD active? Are non-standing meetings, attendance of non-standing directors, ratio of agenda items 60 an enterprise-wide risk management system that overcomes the limitations of the existing risk management system. directors actively participating? processed, and number of remarks per item ·Measuring non-standing directors’participation rate Is the non-standing directors’ expertise ·Proportion of advisory committee meetings per business area BOD expertise 10 being used sufficiently? ·Appropriateness of the BOD’s work assignment system In addition, improvements were made to reinforce responsibility management of the top decision-making system by including Risk Management System business management assessment results in assessment of standing directors. KOTRA has prioritized seven risk types including policy, business, operation, finance, disaster, security and public relations Risk Management System Direction and Strategy based on probability and impact. Basic direction Strategy Proactive risk Promote efficient management Roles of the Highest Governance Body with Respect to Sustainability Risk type Risk factor Management method Organization in charge Remark management through selection and concentration Management Issues _G4-34, 36, 37, 44~47 1. Disaster Riots, abduction, human casualties, earthquake, fire General Services Processoriented risk Establish a prompt response system through situation-oriented Department, etc. response Dedicated management, management real-time management Customer Policy Value system The top management of KOTRA takes charge of its economic, environmental and social issues through the Ethical 2. Security Personal information leakage, cyber terrorism by dedicated departments Department Eliminate risk factors through integration prevention Management Committee and Clean KOTRA Committee, with the head of the Global CSR Department responsible for social 3. Finance Foreign exchange losses, reduced government subsidies Budget Team structure issues, the leader of the Climate Change Business Team taking care of environmental issues, and the leaders of the FTA Immediately Strengthen internal liaison and Poor customer management and poor business Department concerned operable action external collaboration for Business Team, Overseas Exhibition Team, etc. taking charge of various economic issues. 4. Business management at the head office plan coordinated response Human Resources 5. Operation Conflict management, service management Integrated management, Department, etc. enterprise-wide, regular Establishing Risk Management Process Five factors including inauguration of a new government Planning and Coordination CSR Advisory Group 6. Policy and absence of the CEO management Department Schedule Description Deal with other risks Formation & launch of a dedicated 7. PR Negative media reports Public Relations Division taskforce team ▶ Briefing sessions and simultaneously KOTRA CSR Advisory Group As CSR gains attention and grows in importance, KOTRA implements its CSR activities at the enterprise level through the May workshops ▶ Identification of risk factors Global CSR Department which is exclusively dedicated to CSR activities. It receives advice from the CSR Advisory Group ▶ Establishment of a comprehensive plan In addition, KOTRA has classified risk levels into five grades and established a risk management organization led by the composed of experts. Overseas, Korean companies’ CSR activities are supported by KBCs. More details on KOTRA’s global August Disaster response drills were held at the Companies president and vice presidents and a risk response process. head office and eight KBCs. CSR activities are available in this report’s IV. (Global) Sharing Accumulated Global Knowledge and Experience section. Consulting on business Opinions of employees with experience by management Risk level Operation organization Process Response details September risk were collected and disaster inspections were conducted at KBCs. Policy PR · Draw up KRIs (Key Risk Indicator) by risk. Risk management coordinating department, General results and action plans were consulting KOTRA Consulting Public/ relevant (CSR Media Remuneration and Incentives _G4-51~55 Ordinary times CRO (Chief Risk Officer, vice president), RM (Risk Manager, middle managers) Prevention · Produce and training response manuals by risk. · On-going monitoring of internal and external VOC (Once per November reported. institutions activities) week) A meeting with experts on disaster and December Risk management headquarters (Headed by the · Establish a detailed response plan on the golden time (initial 24 security risks was held. Business When changing its remuneration system, KOTRA draws up improvement plans based on its employees’ demand for Yellow vice president) hours) consulting improvement and consulting service offered by external specialized consulting organizations. It also collects opinions of various · Implement the manuals and flexibly modify them depending on Orange Response Academia stakeholders including labor unions and the government concerning remuneration to finalize its remuneration policy. Executive Emergency committee (Headed by the president), change in the situation compensation is composed of basic pay and performance-related bonus and the basic pay of top executives is adjusted at the Field response team Red · Formulate risk recovery strategy. Composed of 12 domestic experts in CSR from business, beginning of each year according to government guidelines. Management performance remuneration for top executives academia, media, government and other relevant entities. Risk management headquarters (Headed by the · Identify damage, establish recurrence prevention plans, and should reflect annual performance evaluation results. The president’s management performance remuneration is determined Resolution vice president) Recovery make improvements on activities through the president’s employment contract, whereas the performance pay for the auditor is decided by his/her auditing performance evaluation results. The management performance pay for standing directors is determined by the president In order to internalize the newly-established risk management system, KOTRA established partnerships with overseas local according to the relevant rules. Non-standing directors are not entitled to receive the management performance pay. In 2014, relevant organizations and distributed a brochure “A Guide to Personal Safety” to its customers, contributing to enhancing average compensation for top executives stood at KRW 156,842,000, while average compensation for an average employee was SMEs’ capabilities to respond to disasters. KRW 74,358,000, indicating that annual pay for top executives is 2.1-fold higher than that of average workers. The average In the case of actual emergency situations, KOTRA responds to them by complying with its manual. When a chief of Tripoli compensation for general employees, which is determined by annual labor-management wage conferences, decreased by Office in Libya was kidnapped in January 2014, KOTRA successfully rescued him through collaboration with local authorities KRW 1,084,000 compared to 2013, while that of top executives decreased by KRW 10,979,000 from a year ago due to exemption and came up with comprehensive safety measures for high-risk areas as follow-up steps. In August 2014 when the Ebola of management performance evaluation pay from their average compensation. In 2014, annual salary for a new employee was disease broke out, KOTRA applied its disaster and crisis preparedness manual, upgrading its crisis management response. approximately 2.32-fold higher than the minimum wage. Details on remuneration for top executives and average employees A Guide to Personal Safety are available at the ALIO (All Public Information in One) system. 14 15 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Ethical Management _G4-56~58, SO3~5 Social Contribution Organization ethical-dilemma situations. The casebook will be utilized for competency workshops held by rank. In addition, KOTRA Global introduced an ethics award system (KOTRA Ddalggakbari meaning “a traditional upright scholar of integrity”) to increase the number of KOTRA personnel who challenge to achieve zero-defects in ethics by giving prizes and extra points at the time of Appendix individual evaluation, thereby accelerating ethical management. The first prize-winner of the ethics award, which was launched for the first time in 2014, was the head of KOTRA Bangkok Office. With the expansion of KOTRA’s overseas networks, the need for management of ethics risk has also increased. Amid growing demand for transparent management and ethical management such as normalization of lax management, KOTRA has established an organization with zero ethical breaches through internalization of its core values, while revamping its ethical Anti-Corruption and Integrity Activities _G4-SO4 management system. In 2014, as part of activities to promote anti-corruption and integrity, KOTRA held three Clean KOTRA Committee meetings, Ethics Vision Achieve sustainable growth by realizing an organization with zero ethical breaches while setting up the integrity ombudsman and modifying its operation guidelines. In addition, KOTRA appointed integrity Strategic Goal Revamp the ethical Reinforce preventive Introduce and disseminate ambassadors and produced and distributed posters promoting integrity ambassadors and all KOTRA employees signed management system ethics-related activities global trends integrity pledges on the day of integrity. It also featured ‘Ethical Culture and Action’ in the form of a webtoon in its monthly Strategic Tasks ·Establish standards of conduct by ·Disseminate integrity-related case studies on ·Enhance KOTEX core values a company-wide level ·Provide support for customers’ newsletter, recording 1,049 views on average. ·Revamp ethics-related regulations ·Revamp ethics-related systems ethical and human rights and organization ·Offer customized education and internalize it. management Ethics Regulations Code of ethics* ▶ Rules for the practice of ethical management ▶Employee code of conduct ▶ Employees’ pledges for integrity Anti-corruption Reporting Channels _G4-57, 58 Organization [Management] Ethical [Audit]Clean KOTRA Committee [Implementation] Ethical Management Committee Management Secretariat KOTRA operates internal and external channels through which employees’ violations of ethics regulations are reported. As for *For details on Code of Ethics, please refer to KOTRA’s Ethical Management homepage. internal reporting, KOTRA operates the Clean Report Center which receives reports by phone, fax, e-mail, intranet (WINK) and mail. Externally, reports on irregularities and acts of corruption (code of conduct) can be reported to the Anti-Corruption and Civil Rights Commission (www.acrc.go.kr). Ethical Management Organization Promotional poster for integrity ambassadors Standards of Conduct for “Contribution” KOTRA operates the Ethical Management Committee chaired by the president as a top decision-making body concerning ethical management issues. The Planning and Coordination Department acts as its secretariat, taking charge of Reflecting Global Trends: Ethical Management Evaluation _G4-SO5 · We contribute to the nation’s industrial implementation of the ethical management system. In order to ensure smooth operation of the committee, KOTRA has development by expanding exchanges of In order to reflect global trends, KOTRA monitors and evaluate ethical management and provides feedback. Internally, KOTRA appointed ethical management officers in respective departments who are tasked with the implementation of respective commodities, services, capital and conducts regular ethical management diagnosis called ‘KOTEX (KOTRA Ethics Index)’. In 2014, it additionally applied the departments’ ethical management activities and are responsible for the results. In addition, KOTRA operates the Clean KOTRA human resources. human rights management checklist of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea, further enhancing ethical chaired by the auditor to support the implementation of ethical management activities such as anti-corruption initiatives, to · We challenge to achieve “zero defects” check and monitor decision-making activities of the Ethical Management Committee. management. According to the evaluation results, the overall score rose from the previous year, recording higher scores in in ethics based on strict most categories, including management philosophy, ethical management systemization, and fair transactions, compared to professionalism. · We fulfill our social responsibility the previous year. towards our organization, country, Revamping the Ethical Management System Category 2012 2013 2014 humanity and future. Overall integrity Good Good Good ACRC’s evaluation KOTRA has chosen ‘Trustworthy’ as an action keyword for all KOTRA people, while establishing standards of conduct in External integrity Good Average Average of KOTRA’s integrity connection with its four core values (Customers, Contribution, Challenge, Global) and selecting ‘achieving zero ethical Internal integrity Average Good Good Overall result Grade 3 Grade 3 Grade 3 breaches’ as its standard of conduct for ‘Contribution.’ Also, to internalize standards of conduct by core value within the Establishment of anti-corruption infrastructure Grade 3 Grade 2 Grade 4 organization, KOTRA has set 'efforts to implement core values and achievements' as an evaluation indicator for individuals and Enhancement of policy transparency & credibility Grade 3 Grade 3 Grade 4 departments and has institutionalized it through half-yearly evaluations. In October, the day of integrity, it was emphasized ACRC’s evaluation Elimination/improvement of causes of corruption Grade 3 Grade 3 Grade 3 through the CEO message that internalization of core values and enhancement of integrity mindset are essential elements for of KOTRA’s anticorruption policies Improvement of integrity mindset and culture of the public service sphere Grade 2 Grade 3 Grade 3 sustainable growth. Proactive anti-corruption & reporting activities Grade 4 Grade 2 Grade 1 Improvement in the degree of integrity Grade 3 Grade 1 Grade 1 Incidences of corrupt public officials Grade 1 Grade 1 Ethics Education Programs and Ethics Award System _G4-SO4 KOTRA’s internal integrity survey result (KOTEX) 89.40 91.33 92.34 In an effort to achieve zero ethical breaches and disseminate the culture of ethics and integrity, KOTRA operates ethics and In 2015, KOTRA plans to introduce a ‘one-strike out’ system depending on monitoring results under the principle of ‘punishing integrity education programs customized to suit employees’ life cycles for its entire employees at home and abroad. In 2014, evil deeds and rewarding good deeds’ and dispensing ‘exemplary punishment.’ KOTRA Integrity Guide KOTRA published and distributed a casebook in which key provisions selected from the employee code of conduct through an internal survey are explained in an easy-to-understand manner in the form of cartoons, presenting standards of conduct in 16 17 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Interviews with KOTRA Stakeholders _G4-27 Social Contribution Organization Overseas relevant entity Maeng Cheong-sin, chief consultant of HKTDC Korea Representative Global “Korea is an export-led economy and its goal is to become the world’s top five trading partners by 2020. In order to achieve the goal, the Appendix role of KOTRA, an organization dedicated to promote international trade, is of great importance. KOTRA is the nation’s sole organization dedicated to trade promotion equipped with capacities necessary for global business networking such as overseas branch offices, regional trade information and personnel. When KOTRA’s personnel operating around the globe are directly involved in expanding export markets and maximize their power of execution and competencies, KOTRA will not only achieve its business goals and mission, but also In a bid to identify sustainability issues which are important to KOTRA in the course of publishing this report, KOTRA has become an organization that will create economic and social values.” selected eight core stakeholder groups and has conducted qualitative research (in-depth interviews) with stakeholders representing respective groups. Media Kwon Young-Hoon, Reporter, News Reporting Team, Korea Business News “As Korea has concluded increasingly number of bilateral and multilateral FTAs, it presents both new opportunities and risk factors. KOTRA should enhance its services Government Oh Jonghee, Deputy Director, International Trade Promotion Division, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy tailored to different needs of customers such as locally customized services and providing necessary support in line with changing trade environment. This should be supported by KOTRA’s information database. It is important for KOTRA to do its utmost to increase export by providing information required by companies through expansion “KOTRA is a public organization dedicated to promote trade and attract investment. It is of foremost importance for KOTRA to faithfully carry out its core businesses in and enhancement of country information and by paying attention to and responding to opinions of participating companies and presenting KOTRA’s solutions to their line with its establishment purposes to ensure sustainability management. Export plays a vital part in Korea to the extent that the nation’s economy is heavily influenced opinions or grievances. In addition, KOTRA needs to ensure that its work knowledge, knowhow and experience, which have been accumulated locally, should be left by export, and thus KOTRA’s activities to promote trade and export and attract investment have a significant impact on the nation’s economic performance. Helping under-utilized due to retirement or rotation policy of its personnel. Rather, it should consolidate a system that can systematically accumulate and disseminate them. KOTRA domestically-oriented companies become exporters is one of the government’s state tasks and enhancing competencies of SMEs can directly lead to trade promotion. will be able to reinforce its expertise as a trade and investment promotion agency by sharing competencies of individual employees at the company level.” KOTRA is able to provide valid local information and it needs to provide information necessary for export facilitation of Korean businesses in a prompt and accurate manner. It will also need to enhance customized support in consideration of differences by companies. Depending on agenda on overseas expansion, the types and numbers of KOTRA’s businesses may increase. I hope that KOTRA will faithfully carry out its core businesses through selection and concentration, doing its utmost to promote trade.” KOTRA-invested company Sejun Lee, Director , Management & Planning Department, Busan Exhibition & Convention Center “National borders are becoming increasingly blurred in the global market from production to sale. Against this backdrop, KOTRA’s functions and roles of providing support National Assembly Peter Yoon, Policy Research, Policy Committee, Democratic Party for export and investment as an intermediary will gain more importance. KOTRA needs to collect, process and provide regional characteristics, latest trends, and political and economic information by KBCs in a prompt manner to help value-consuming customers use it immediately. It also needs to disclose how its information has been “KOTRA has played a pivotal role in the areas of export support and investment attraction in the nation’s effort to enter the era of US$2 trillion in trade from the era of US$1 used, which will help the agency make improvements on information collection. Besides, KOTRA will need to proactively push ahead with businesses that promote national trillion. KOTRA advanced into countries with no diplomatic ties with Korea and laid groundwork for diplomatic relations, promoting people-to-people diplomacy and interest in the long term such as learning knowhow of leading companies and advancing into emerging markets through overseas employment/startup referral service. I boosting international standing of Korea. The Korean economy is highly dependent on trade. KOTRA’s role of formulating the framework for the Korean economy in a hope that, based on its mission as an agency representing the Korean people, KOTRA will concentrate on its original function of promoting export and trade/ changing global trade environment is becoming more important than ever. In order for Korea to successfully enter the era of US$2 trillion in trade from the stage of US$ 1 investment, thereby becoming a leader in global trends. trillion in trade, trade and investment need to be more substantiated, while more attention should be paid to assist domestically-oriented Korean SMEs to become exporters by offering customized information on overseas expansion needed by the SMEs.” Customer Customer of Global Partnering project Academia Kim Ki-Chan, professor of Business Administration Department, Catholic University of Korea “Becoming a business partner of leading global companies is a golden opportunity for SMEs to achieve sustainable growth and to take a new leap forward. Korean SMEs have always pursued such partnerships. However, there were many obstacles to finding companies that need our technology and forming business partnerships with “Amid growing complexity and convergence of products and services, a shift is taking place from individual competition to competition among different business them. The path to signing contracts looked so bleak at first, but it has become clearer through KOTRA’s Global Partnering project, helping us to find the right direction. ecosystems. In addition, collaboration and synergy are gaining more importance rather than relying on stand-alone competitiveness. KOTRA has presented its vision of KOTRA has offered customized service by exploring specific demands of global companies and linking them with Korean SMEs, thereby accurately presenting a path to becoming a ‘global business platform.’ In order to faithfully fulfill its role as a platformer, it is necessary for KOTRA to efficiently utilize external resources by GP Customer overseas markets. The agency not only provides useful local information, but also provides support for the entire process ranging from product development to product encouraging 7 million Koreans residing overseas to participate in its businesses and to act as an organizer that organizes a business ecosystem involving various delivery. In particular, KOTRA operates competitiveness enhancement programs to help SMEs meet requirements of global companies. They contribute not only to boosting stakeholders within a value chain, networks and market information. I hope that KOTRA will successfully fulfill its role as an open platformer that plays a vital role in our export performance, but also to enhancing our competitiveness and thus we are actively partaking in the programs. I hope that more SMEs will take advantage of globalization of Korean SMEs.” KOTRA’s various support projects in a more efficient manner.” Employees Jang Jin, Union Leader, KOTRA Customer Customer of global CSR initiatives “In order for Korean companies to secure competitiveness and expertise by realizing the economy of scale, it is imperative to expand overseas markets through KOTRA. KOTRA is “Foreign client companies that have signed contracts with us increasingly require us to abide by CSR standards, while CSR-related laws are enacted country by country such as an organization where human resources are its key asset to the extent that the half of its budget is allocated for labor cost. As such, KOTRA employees’ competencies may have a Europe and Indonesia. Given this, it is considered that undertaking CSR activities by Korean companies doing business overseas is not longer a matter of choice, but a must. direct impact on its business performance and the Korean economy. Therefore, it is extremely important to foster its employees into competent workers and reach their potentials. KOTRA’s global CSR program identifies local needs and encompasses a wide variety of areas ranging from healthcare, medical care, environmental improvement to human To this end, it is necessary to create a corporate culture and environment where employees find their work worthwhile and balance between work and family is achieved. Only resource cultivation, having effects which are not possible for a single company to attain. This is helpful to build an image of “responsible Korean companies” and to reinforce when there is an environment where KOTRA employees can work with a sense of mission and share their experience, knowledge and knowhow, the establishment purpose of Global CSR Customer connection with local people. It also boosts perceptions of Korean companies and strengthens networks with clients, contributing to our business performance. I hope that KOTRA, namely, “contributing to the development of the national economy through trade promotion and investment attraction, can be achieved successfully.” KOTRA will continue to increase CSR items and categories in collaboration with various enterprises and organizations to help us benefit from such positive effects. I also hope that KOTRA’s global CSR initiatives will be implemented in the long term by encouraging greater number of companies to participate in them.” Domestic relevant entity Shim In-soo, team manager of Association of High Potential Enterprises of Korea “In order to achieve national goals of attaining US$ 2 trillion in trade and becoming one of the world’s top five economic powers by 2020, it is necessary to promote the Customer Foreign-invested enterprise Customer growth of Korean SMEs and to enhance their export competencies. To this end, the role of KOTRA, a specialized global business support organization, is extremely “With youth unemployment rate getting higher, there is an increasing demand for providing support for overseas employment and startup for young people, getting out of important. In order to fulfill its mission and vision and achieve its goals, KOTRA should establish a system from a mid-to-long term perspective in which SMEs can make the boundary of Korea, and attracting foreign capital more actively. KOTRA’s Global Alliance Project Series (GAPS) is a program designed to link business ideas of startup inroads into overseas markets, rather than focusing on creating short-term results, and should spare no effort to provide support to help SMEs to produce tangible results. companies with capital and marketing abilities of global companies. I think that it is a smart program that contributes to resolving even social problems by capitalizing on Businesses undertaken by KOTRA not only promote the development of specific industries and companies, but also have big economic impact such as investment KOTRA’s unique characteristics. The program could be further expanded by identifying businesses featuring local characteristics and specialties by region in Korea, which Foreign-Invested attraction and job creation. I ask that KOTRA faithfully fulfill its original duties with a sense of mission. I also hope that KOTRA will become an institution trusted by will contribute to balanced regional development. I hope that KOTRA will make greater contribution to national development and stabilization of the people’s lives by Enterprise stakeholders, as well as fulfilling its corporate social responsibility.” identifying more practical businesses and concentrating their competencies.” 18 19 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Stakeholder Communication _G4-24~27 Materiality Assessment Process _G4-18 Social Contribution Organization Global Appendix KOTRA is actively engaged in a wide range of communication activities aimed to share the agency’s vision, core values and KOTRA implements sustainability management by extensively reflecting economic, social and environmental issues in its strategies with its internal and external stakeholders. In particular, open collaboration with relevant organizations is of overall areas of business management activities. KOTRA has performed materiality assessment to select material issues, paramount importance for KOTRA to achieve its vision of serving as a ‘global business platform’ and its core values. which are more important to the agency and its stakeholders, among its various sustainability management activities and to intensively manage and report them. KOTRA has classified its stakeholders based on creation, consumption, impact and sharing of values and strives to identify key areas of their interest by utilizing a wide range of communication channels. Category Key areas of interest Communication activities (frequency) Materiality Assessment Proces _G4-25 ·[Management] 13 Board of Directors meetings, 17 management committee meetings, executive strategy meetings/ meetings on KOTRA has identified its material sustainability issues based on the materiality evaluation criteria set forth in the scheduling-related matters (weekly) ·[Led by managers] Division/ department-level meetings (weekly), internationally-recognized GRI G4 Guidelines and the methods presented by the IR Framework of IIRC (International Integrated extended manager meetings (quarterly), video conferences between the Reporting Council). In order to boost credibility of the issue selection process and its results, KOTRA has performed analysis of Head Office and overseas branch offices (held whenever the need arises) Official channels internal and external environments and materiality assessment based on the principles of stakeholder inclusiveness, ·[Led by staff] Planning and budget council meetings (held whenever the need arises) sustainability context, materiality and completeness. ·[Management’s on-site visits] Meetings between the CEO and heads of overseas regional head offices by region (8 times), regular council Labor union for employees ·Motivation, organizational/ personal development, sharing of performance meetings between executive director and heads of regional support centers (21 times) Step 1. Identification Step 2. Prioritization Step 3. Validation (Value creation) ·Representing interests of ·Cheongwoojeongdam (dialogue with returning KOTRA employees from Sustainability context Materiality Completeness union members overseas, held 3 times by division), Cheongwoojidam (monthly Webzine) • Basic survey among employees • Analysis of materiality assessment • Review of material issues & ·Ongoing operation of the Open Gallery • Media analysis results selection of issues to be reported Non-official • Diagnosis of ISO 26000 ·CEO messages, management’s involvement in club activities, expansion of • Prioritization of issues • Report planning and configuration channels implementation level • Confirmation of reporting scope, EAP (Employee Assistance Programs) • Analysis of other management ·Spontaneous meetings on the spot (lunch or dinner with management, boundary and period environment etc.) Online channels ·A wide range of online surveys, online bulletin board Stakeholder engagement Qualitative research on stakeholders (interviews) Quantitative analysis (surveys) Review of stakeholder issues ·Various official/unofficial strategy meetings, taskforces (T/F), workshops Offline channels ·Team Spirit Day CEO ·Meetings with heads of regional service advisory groups across the nation Enhanced Stakeholder Engagement _G4-24,26 Executives designated for ·Meetings with heads of regional service advisory groups across the nation ·Export expansion SMEs ·Reflection of opinions, respective regions Given its characteristic as an agency dedicated to promote trade and attract investment, KOTRA conducted surveys not only (Value consumption) receiving customized KOTRA service ·13 service advisory groups under operation nationwide among domestic stakeholders, but also among overseas stakeholders. Participation rate among its customers, including support advisory groups overseas investors and buyers, turned out to be high. The agency also collected opinions of overseas relevant entities Mobile KOTRA ·Assisting provincial-based SMEs in their overseas market expansion separately, striving to reflect opinions of a wide spectrum of stakeholders. Trade Doctor ·Online/offline integrated consulting service ·A council on fostering SME World Champs Survey response ·Support for SMEs’ overseas ·A council on Korean brands and Hallyu product expo Response frequency Response ratio Relevant Category organizations market expansion (person) (%) ·A council on disseminating outcomes of economic diplomacy (Value creation/ consumption) ·Performance sharing, reflection of opinions ·A steering committee on investment attraction PM Employees 438 98% Russia/CIS 3 Internal stakeholders Overseas locally-hired employees 11 2% Central and South America 3 Seoul 34 ·Art marketing and CSR council Subtotal 447 100% Government, ·Policy implementation, serving public interest ·Human exchanges with government ministries and agencies (Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, Presidential Committee on Young Generation, Prime Minister’s Office, etc.) Government 11 85% Southwest Asia 2 National Assembly ·Policy delivery, information ·Participation in trade and investment promotion meetings and various policy councils Domestic 16 12% (Value impact sharing, reflection of Southeast Asia (including ·A meeting on ‘global market entry strategies’ Customers Residence areas of opinions Overseas 59 45% Australia & New Zealand) 4 respondents Gyeonggi13 ·Advisory service, PR ·SME global management committee, financial operation committee, and Clean KOTRA Committee Domestic 18 14% Academia, media External Relevant ·Information sharing, ·Involvement of external experts for special lectures and various workshops (Value impact) reflection of opinions ·Disseminating KOTRA’s vision and core values through media coverage stakeholders entities Overseas 6 5% Africa 1 4 Japan Chungcheong region 1 Middle China Yeongnam region1 Citizens, local Partner companies 5 4% East communities ·Development of national economy, social contribution ·Open Gallery : Transforming the lobby of KOTRA’s head office building into a cultural space ·CSR activities at home and abroad, media reports, lectures and advertising Others** 4 North America Europe 8 (Value sharing) Subtotal 12 131 12% 100% 8 9 Honam region 1 Total 578 20 21 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Material Issues and Reporting Boundaries KOTRA’s Key Internal Capabilities Social Contribution Organization Global Appendix In order to identify KOTRA’s material internal capabilities, the agency has performed materiality assessment on the six Trend Issue(9) Identification of Material Issues _G4-19 categories of capital based on IIRC’s ‹IR› Framework. According to the assessment result, four categories of capital, namely, · Increasing demand for strengthening the export competency of SMEs social and relationship capital, human capital, intellectual capital and financial capital were identified as KOTRA’s material KOTRA has identified its material sustainability issues and has prioritized them through materiality assessment. And then, it · Diversifying and intensifying customer demand internal capabilities. · Globalization of markets, competition, and supply has identified a total of 39 material issues (9 Trend issues, 21 Impact issues, and 9 Resource and Capability issues) based on chains the review of their validity and appropriateness. The contents of the material issues selected have been tailored to meet · Intensifying demand for shared growth Capital Category for KOTRA · Increasing demand for employee welfare and rights KOTRA’s strategies in terms of connectivity and appropriateness as well as the agency’s efforts toward sustainability. Rank Capital category Description Rank Capital category Description · Increasing the importance of securing talents · Increasing demand for corporate transparency Social & relationship 5 Intellectual capital Brand and reputation developed by the organization 1 Relationships and trust with key stakeholders* · Increasing worldwide connectivity capital The organization’s assets 6 Intellectual capital (eg. Tacit knowledge, procedures, etc.) · Increasing demand for safety of products and services Material Issues and Reporting Boundaries _G4-20,21 2 Human capital Competence to understand, establish, and implement the organization’s strategies Social & 7 Information-sharing capability for public interest relationship capital Social & relationship Securing support for the organization’s Impact Issue(21) 3 Competitiveness, experience and commitment to The material issues, aspects and boundaries identified through KOTRA’s materiality assessment are as follows. In order to capital business performance 8 Human capital innovation of the organization’s members enhance reporting on core businesses identified as material issues, the agency has added the contents on 10 major KBCs. 4 Human capital Devotion to the company and motivation for The organization’s available resources for improvement of processes and services 9 Financial capital 3 2 1 production and services Year-on-year ranking Boundaries Relevant * Key stakeholders : Customers, domestic and overseas collaborating entities, local communities, legislature, regulators, and policy-making entities Materiality to stakeholders Material Impact issues Relevant GRI G4 aspects 4 2013 2014 Internal External page 8 6 9 5 Support for domestic companies’ advance into 13 11 7 1 1 Indirect Economic Impacts ● 24~27, 30 10 overseas markets KOTRA's Material Capitals 15 12 17 Support for overseas expansion in 14 2 2 Indirect Economic Impacts ● 28 18 investments 22 20 16 21 19 Support for the attraction of foreign 23 3 3 Indirect Economic Impacts ● 33~35 companies’ investments in Korea Marketing communication 9 4 Marketing Communication ● 38,39 Relationships and trust with key stakeholders Social & relationship capital Materiality in KOTRA impacts Securing support for KOTRA’s business performance Support for overseas employment and 7 5 Indirect Economic Impacts ● 40,41 Creating new export Promoting overseas market startups Information-sharing capability for public interest growth engines expansion capitalizing on R&C Issue(9) Economic performance (profits, government 6 Economic ● 6 summit diplomacy subsidies, etc.) Competence to understand, establish, and Human capital · Relationships and trust with key stakeholders Support for green companies’ overseas implement KOTRA’s strategies 13 7 Indirect Economic Impacts ● 47 Competitiveness, experience and commitment to · Competence to understand, establish, and expansion and contract awarding implement the organization’s strategies innovation of KOTRA’s members Anti-corruption measures (enhanced internal · Securing support for the organization’s business 16 8 Anti-corruption ● 15 control and protection of whistleblowers) performance · Devotion to the company and motivation for Indirect economic impacts (infrastructure investment, etc.) 9 Economic ● 44~46 Achieving improvement of processes and services · Brand and reputation developed by the organization Compliance with relevant laws 10 Product Responsibility ● 11 US$2 trillion in · The organization’s assets (eg. Tacit knowledge, procedures, etc.) Employee education and training 18 11 Training and Education ● 56,57 trade by 2020 Participation in formulating public policies 10 12 Public Policy ● 38 · Information-sharing capability for public interest · Competitiveness, experience and commitment to Market position (wages, procurement, 13 Economic ● 12,93 innovation of the organization’s members recruitment, etc.) Intellectual capital Brand and reputation developed by KOTRA · The organization’s available resources for Efforts toward cyber security and information KOTRA’s assets (eg. Tacit knowledge, Enhancing 8 14 Customer Privacy ● 62,63 production and services security procedures, etc.) effort to attract Customer health and safety 15 Product Responsibility ● 13 Increasing SME’s foreign invested companies ※The matrix is composed of 21 material Impact issues. Impact on local communities (social 17 16 Local Communities ● ● 44~46 export competencies to Korean economies Financial capital contribution, etc.) KOTRA’s available resources for production and services Diversity and equal opportunities 11 17 Diversity and Equal Opportunity ● 57 Anti-discrimination (regular & non-regular external environment 18 Human Rights ● 61 workers) Occupational health and safety (including Value Creation Process 14 19 Occupational Health and Safety ● 59 stress management) Employment (guarantee of fair employment 15 20 Employment ● 57 and employment relationship) As a result of injecting these capital resources, in 2014 KOTRA achieved various outcomes in the business, social and Labor-management relations 21 Labor Practice and Decent Work ● 58~60 organization areas (Business: p.22 , Social: p.36 Organization: p.48). In an effort to further reinforce the outcomes in 2015, the ※ This materiality assessment has been planned through careful considerations of the Trends, Impacts, and internal capabilities (R&C). Material issues are agency places the greatest importance on building trust by forming relationships with its key stakeholders in the social and elaborated on in terms of Impacts. relationship aspect and will endeavor to secure social support for its businesses. In addition, KOTRA will proactively share its accumulated information to promote public interest. In terms of human capital, KOTRA will foster internal capabilities to understand, formulate and implement its strategies, while enhancing its employees’ devotion to the company, thereby making improvements on KOTRA’s services. It will also make concerted efforts to secure budget necessary for providing services. 22 23 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction T  he reason why faithful fulfillment of its establishment purposes through Global Business Platform business innovation is a material issue for KOTRA Business KOTRA Korea is striving to achieve US$2 trillion in trade by 2020 to bolster the nation’s economic growth and to create Social Contribution quality jobs. However, it is difficult to achieve the goal through the existing methods and a new trade paradigm is Organization called for. To this end, it is of utmost importance for KOTRA to faithfully fulfill its establishment purposes of Global promoting trade and attracting investment through business innovation. Appendix Policies for Business Innovation In an effort to promote a new trade paradigm, KOTRA is endeavoring to secure a healthy and solid platform for export growth, to strategically expand Korea’s new trade territories, and to establish a performance-driven trade infrastructure. KOTRA is increasing the number of exporting companies by fostering domestic SMEs into export businesses and supporting the globalization of local exporters, while expanding export amount by cultivating strong SMEs into global hidden champions. In addition, the agency is exploring new export growth engines such as electronic commerce on an ongoing basis. Performance Indicators concerning KOTRA’s Business Activities Business Performance indicator Performance in Goal for Performance in Goal 2013 2014 2014 achievement rate Number of export contracts in new markets worth US$1,000 or more 1,491 1,882 1,923 102.2% Number of companies participating in export gateway services 581 700 716 102.3% Number of domestic companies evolving into exporters 71 280 336 120.0% Strengthening export Number of domestic companies participating in the GCL test New 2,264 100% competencies of SMEs Number of companies participating in joint overseas expansion of big 317 350 379 108.3% businesses and SMEs Number of customers served by “Mobile KOTRA” services 2,048 2,200 2,303 104.7% Number of problems resolved through “Trade Doctor” services 4,739 18,000 19,584 108.8% Number of information produced 7,726 9,657 9,352 96.8% Number of exemplary cases of information utilization New 124 230 185.5% Number of projects newly explored 270 346 360 104.1% Number of support services for companies’ participation in bidding 17 22 20 90.9% Creating new export growth Number of business establishment 75 108 113 104.6% engines / Number of successful M&A deals 6 8 9 112.5% Providing support for utilization of Number of companies participating in Export SMEs’ Branch Office 2,205 2,400 2,400 100% expanded areas Project for economic Export amount of SMEs utilizing customized temporary services US$ 3,449 million US$4,466million US$4,408 million 98.7% cooperation Number of newly identified GP project cases 70 100 102 102.0% Number of buyers importing from Korean companies 3,036 3,527 3,557 100.9% 01 Number of companies leading new industries 141 147 147 101.4% Number of successful contracts signed by new industry leaders 76 109 109 109.0% Attracting foreign Number of cases of investment attraction worth US$ 1 million or more 210 262 264 100.7% investment which Amount of investment attracted by KOTRA US$ 11.86billion US$14 billion US$15.11 billion 107.9% is beneficial to the Korean Number of cases on management of investment attraction projects 1,783 1,872 1,891 101.0% economy Number of jobs newly created by KOTRA 11,788 14,843 12,077 81.4% Key Issues Contents Business Increasing demand for strengthening export Strengthening Export Competencies of SMEs competencies of SMEs Creating New Export Growth Engines Expanding FTA execution Supporting Utilization of Wider Territory of Economic Faithfully Fulfilling KOTRA’s Establishment Increasing worldwide connectivity Cooperation Purposes through Business Innovation Support for the attraction of foreign companies’ Enhancing Efforts to Attract Foreign Investment investments in Korea Beneficial to the Korean Economy 24 25 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Strengthening Export Competencies of SMEs Social Contribution Organization through a combined financing scheme jointly supported by the Korea Technology Guarantee Fund, the Korea Technology Global Guarantee Fund, the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund, Industrial Bank of Korea and Korea Exchange Bank. According to survey Appendix results on export difficulties, 35% of companies which have suspended export, 39% of local exporters and 55% of domestic salesoriented companies called for reducing export-related risks such as financing export-oriented goods purchases, fluctuations in exchange rates and trade insurance. In response, KOTRA has formed an export financing support council for companies with little or no previous export experience, which is composed of the Korea Trade Insurance Corporation, the Korea Technology Guarantee Export financing support council Fostering Domestically-oriented SMEs into Exporters Fund, Industrial Bank of Korea and Foreign Exchange Bank, thereby helping SMEs have easier access to export financing channels Member of Council Role and eliminating barriers among different financing entities. K-sure Export credit guarantee Context KIBO Export guarantee, preferential treatment Strategic Direction Support for companies with In order to achieve the goal of US$2 trillion in trade by 2020, KOTRA proposed cultivation of 100,000 SMEs into exports to the KODIT export potential government and jointly drew up measures aimed to promote domestic companies’ evolution into exporters. They were adopted Foreign exchange consulting In order to facilitate such collaboration, KOTRA plans to expand the recruitment of export specialists (PM) from 29 to 65 and to KEB at the 6th Trade and Investment Promotion Conference where cultivation of domestic companies into exports was selected as service, trade insurance build internal and external collaboration systems. Through such endeavors, the agency will push ahead with its project aimed a top priority action plan. IBK Customized financing services to assist domestically-oriented companies to evolve into exporters at the company level to increase the number of companies * K-sure: Korea Trade Insurance Corporation receiving the support from the current 716 to 1,400 and to increase the number of export SMEs to a total of 100,000. KIBO: Korea Technology Finance Corporation KODIT: Korea Credit Guarantee Fund: Progress and Achievements KEB: Korea Exchange Bank IBK: Industrial Bank of Korea G  CL Development GCL Test* KOTRA has developed the Global Competence Level Test (GCL Test) exclusively designed for domestic companies through which Old GCL Nurturing Global Specialized Enterprises export specialists provide customized one-on-one diagnosis services depending on respective competencies of individual 9 competencies, 45 questions 7-stage system (Domestic demand → Startup → companies, further enhancing weaknesses of the diagnosis. KOTRA has improved the test model by separating the existing seven Entry → Growth → Expansion → Leader → stages into four stages for exporters and three stages for domestic sales-oriented companies and reducing the number of Strong SMEs) questions and growth stages. The test results are available immediately upon the completion of the test. The GCL Test results are Context incorporated into KOTRA’s internal system (CRM: Customer Relationship Management), enabling the management of business Domestic GCL (for domestic companies) participation history and export performance for participating companies. 4 competencies, 30 questions * GCL(Global Competency Level) Test: A program designed to provide customized services by reviewing companies’ detailed competencies by export and In order to promote the growth of Korean SMEs, it is of great importance to provide export infrastructure and to offer a platform to help 3-stage system: Based on export preparedness overseas marketing categories. them evolve into promising export leaders. In addition, with requirements of global companies increasingly becoming diversified, it is competencies (Domestic startup → Domestic growing → Domestic promising) necessary to provide programs designed to support SMEs’ access to global value chains by enhancing their competencies in various GCL Test Participation Results fields encompassing delivery, product technology, quality control and export financing. There is also a need to enhance the Global Domestic companies (2,264) Export companies (4,181) Export GCL(for exporters) Category Total Partnering project in such fields as automobiles and machinery on a continual basis in response to expanding global sourcing by Domestic startup Domestic growing Domestic promising Global startup Global promising Global leading Global strong 8 competencies, 30 questions No. of companies based in developed countries and the emergence of companies based in emerging economies. companies (ratio) 1,371(21%) 787(12%) 106(2%) 854(13%) 2,315(36%) 744(12%) 268(4%) 6,445(100%) 4-stage system: Based on competencies and export value(Global startup → Promising → Leading → Strong) Export Gateway Project* Companies that have completed the GCL Test can evolve into exporters via the Export Gateway project. Depending on GCL test Progress and Achievements results and their export value, SMEs are classified into the following categories: domestic sales-oriented (SMEs with annual export O  verview of Export Gateway Project Global Growth Ladder support system for SMEs of less than US$1,000), export ready (SMEs with annual export of less than US$100,000), and export startup (SMEs with annual The ‘Global Growth Ladder’ support system is a project helping domestic sales-oriented SMEs and beginning export SMEs grow Category Head office Overseas KBCs export of US$500,000). KOTRA provides systematic support for these companies based on job specifications of the head office and into global hidden champions by offering customized one-on-one support services. Product concepts, Identification of overseas KBCs. As a result, in 2014, the number of SMEs participating in the Export Gateway project sharply rose and 336 Domestic selection of target markets, domestic-sales oriented SMEs successfully secured export contracts worth US$41.9 million and 270 export startup companies US$ 5 million in export salesoverseas target competition status, oriented markets, trade certifications, recorded exports worth US$55.5 million. practice marketability * The Export Gateway project: KOTRA matches Korean companies with domestics sales-oriented companies and beginning export companies with the intention of Strong SMEs becoming exporters with export specialists (retired trade professionals) as mentors and mentees, providing support for the entire process ranging from finding overseas Providing buyers, trade consultations, export contract signing to follow-up measures. One-on-one customized support Export overseas inquiries Search for promising US$ 500,000 in export ready and buyers buyers and inquiries Promising SMEs consulting service Category Number of SMEs Number of companies successfully Export valuea supported securing export contracts Close support, utilization of infrastructure Consulting service SMEs with no or little for export expansion Support for Domestic 408 155 US$ 20.8 million export experience during local Export experts, overseas staff negotiations with Domestic sales-oriented Export Increasing global World Champ project (120 companies) Export business trips, Overseas 1,000 181 US$ 21.1 million buyers and followcompanies competence of SMEs Pre-World Champ (10 companies ) startup contract-related Total 1,408 336 US$ 41.9 million Local employees at KBCs used as SMEs’ branch offices up management Global specialized companies (68 companies) follow-up Export SMEs’ branch office project (2,400 companies) services Export startup companie Total 308 270 US$ 55.5 million World-class companies (750 companies) management Joint logistics (42,560 companies) Export experts, overseas KBCs Incubator project (20,256 companies) Export Gateway project (716 companies) • SMEs and medium-standing companies with • SMEs with US$ 500,000~ US$5 million in export US$ 5 million ~US$ 100 million in export Export financing platform for domestic sales-oriented SMEs • SMEs with US$ 500,000 or less in export • Despite their export competencies, they still lack • They act as the backbone of the export industry, requiring differentied strategies by companies. infrastructure for global growth Companies, which have successfully gone through the GCL Test and the Export Gateway services, are entitled to financial support • Lack of basic competencies such as research, buyer search and marketing KOTRA will provide support for their export expansion by offering tailored assistance and infrastructure. Fostering Hidden Champions through oneon-one customized support 26 27 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Social Contribution Organization Stage 1) Enhancing global competencies of SMEs with little or no export experience Global Partnering expansion project (GP Project) Global KOTRA’s Global Partnering expansion project is designed to help SMEs enter the global value chain by assisting them to form long●Export Gateway Project Appendix term partnerships with global enterprises. Given growing demand for entry into the global value chain across all industrial sectors, KOTRA engages in the Export Gateway project aimed to increasing global competencies of SMEs with annual export of less than KOTRA has expanded a platform that offers comprehensive support encompassing buyer search, R&D, technology transfer, US$500,000 which have insufficient basic competencies in the areas of market research, search for buyers and marketing. The Success Story technology training and financing. This is designed to help SMEs successfully partner with global enterprises by eliminating the project is supported by KOTRA’s export specialists and overseas KBCs. SC. Min Innovation, a steel coil manufacturer, gap between their competences and the requirements of global companies. As a result, KOTRA succeeded in discovering overseas enters the Croatian market partners in 102 cases, seeing an increase of 32 cases over the previous year. The number of buyers signing import contracts with In 2014, efforts were made to find promising buyers with Stage 2) Providing detailed support for promising/leading SMEs and capitalizing on infrastructure for export expansion the support of KOTRA Zagreb office. However, Croatian Korean SMEs also increased to 3,557, marking an increase by 521 companies from a year ago. buyers refused to import products from countries other ●Export SMEs’ Branch Office Project than Europe due to their previous experience with Global enterprises (country) Key GP projects in 2014 Contract value (domestic companies) defective Chinese-made products. The Zagreb office KOTRA has expanded infrastructure designed to provide detailed support for SMEs by increasing the numbers of overseas KBCs and provided full support using references from buyers based (Construction machinery) Heavy equipment parts relevant personnel. KOTRA opened its overseas offices in Shenzhen and Tianjin, China, expanding Korean SMEs’ entry into new industrial Caterpillar (USA) US$156,905,000 (8 SMEs including Jinsung C&I) in Central and South America and offered assistance in (Delivered to factories in China) resolving claims on defects of test order products within special districts that serve as China’s strategic regions. The agency has also increased and redeployed personnel dedicated to the project Fluor (USA) (Plant) Machinery parts US$27,400,000 (6 SMEs including Dong-O Flange) 24 hours. As a result, the buyer was finally satisfied with in regions with steady demand for market expansion and regions with concentrated business demands such as Southeast Asia, China the quality test and signed a contract worth US$2 million (IT/electric/electronics) Semiconductor production and Central and South America. As a result, face-to-face communication with customers has been enhanced and communication Kyocera(Japan) US $1,878,000 (Hanmi Semiconductor) with SC.Min Innovation. equipment system channels have been unified, while expertise of personnel dedicated to the Branch Office project has been improved. Thanks to such (Automotive) Auto body automation assembly Volvo (Sweden) US$1,178,000 (4 SMEs including Woosin System) NUC Electronics, a juice extractor efforts, customer satisfaction for the Branch Office project scored 94.4 point, marking an increase from the previous year. equipment manufacturer, successfully makes market Hublot (Switzerland) (Precision machinery) Ceramic parts for watches US$1,500,000 (Supply of ECO watches) expansion in China NUC Electronics first made inroads into the Chinese ●Joint logistics centers market in 2011. The company moved in the Business In an effort to promote entry into emerging markets, KOTRA has expanded necessary infrastructure and has facilitated testbed In addition, KOTRA has expanded industrial areas for Global Partnering Project, which mainly include automobile and machinery Incubator complex in Shanghai in 2012 and recorded highest sales in the juice extractor market capitalizing on logistics programs aimed to expand joint logistics centers. The agency has secured logistics bases in preparation for urbanization industries, to include household consumer goods, offshore plant and aerospace industries. marketing through China’s TV home shopping channels and rapidly increasing consumption in China’s in-land areas such as Zhengzhou and Changsha and has operated testbed logistics in 2013. In 2014, NUC Electronics joined a joint logistics centers in seven locations deemed as candidates for future KBC locations. Partnering industry Activities Achievements center in Shanghai and expanded its sales network across China by utilizing cargo release agent services. As Search for partnerships between finished car makers and large a result, the company provisionally achieved sales of CNY 30 companies (No. of newly discovered companies in 2014: 12) ●Business Incubators primary vendors ¥ 1 billion in 2014. KOTRA has set up the Business Incubator (BI) space in the buildings where overseas KBCs are located to provide support for Auto parts 35 companies in 4 locations. 2 successful contracts between Korean auto parts vendors (sensor Turbo Mann, a compressor/blower businesses under one roof. Through the BI program, KOTRA has made inroads into local markets, while offering customer Opening of joint offices dedicated to auto parts in China products) and Chrysler (Starting from 2015, annual contract will be manufacturer, taps into the Vietnamese market conveniences. The Xian and Beijing BIs have collaborated with KOTRA Wuhan and Changsha offices to enter inland markets in worth US$12 million, respectively). In a bid to enter Vietnam’s waste treatment plant market, Turbo Mann moved in the Ho Chi Minh BI in 2014. KOTRA China, while the New York BI has joined hands together KOTRA Miami office to search buyers in Central and South America. The Focusing on technology-intensive areas with high added value by Supply contracts on auto body assembly lines and waste shredding Machinery Ho Chi Minh office prepared an official letter to introduce Mexico BI used the Habana International Expo to support Korean SMEs interested in advancing into the Cuban market. shifting from supplying simple parts to equipment systems. equipment system with Volvo and Zoomlion ( ) the Korean company to the CEO of a local company. The KOTRA office provided information on local plant Efforts to help Korean SMEs partner with PETRONAS* to export 9 SMEs registered as vendors; 10 SMEs signed agent contracts; an Offshore plant Consulting sessions for entering into Thailand’s Line Shop expansion plans and water treatment projects and Stage 3) Offering customized one-on-one support for strong SMEs offshore plant equipment MOU on joint venture establishment was concluded. chain accompanied Turbo Mann personnel during their visit to Advance into mobile new-media distribution networks; the local company, while providing assistance in New distribution 9 Korean SMEs selected to open business in Line Shop chain ●World Champ Project Business briefing sessions and business consulting sessions on Korean government administrative procedures and translation. platform (Contracts worth US$120,000) As a result, Turbo Mann’s products were used for textile SMEs’ entry into Thailand’s Line Shop chain (Seoul Korea, Sept.19) KOTRA provided support for expansion of exports in target markets of companies participating in the World Champ project aimed to companies in an industrial complex and Long An Support services for Korean companies’ opening business in Qoo10 Province’s waterworks project. foster global market leaders, while reinforcing support for joint marketing activities such as business information sessions and such as simplification of certification and customs clearance workshops. In addition, the agency enhanced on-site support by increasing the number of special counselors and expanding company Inbound online 1,000 products from 50 Korean companies are featured in Korean procedures and integrated product shipping through partnership with direct shopping Wave section of Qoo10 (sales: CNY¥3,350,000) Kona International, a smart card solution visits. It also temporarily increased matching funds, while offering support for World Champ Plaza buyer consultation sessions Qoo10 and utilization of ‘e-trade policy” of the bonded goods logistics provider, advances into the U.S. market center in Henan Province, China Kona International joined the World Champ project in 2013. KOTRA New York office supported the company’s ●Pre-World Champ Project Partnering opportunities with leading global retailers such as European home shopping companies, electronics product retailers The Global Retailers Week event was participated by 200 Korean business establishment in North America and KOTRA implements the Pre-World Champ project in which the agency provides support for overseas marketing for SMEs with the Global retailer from Middle East, retailers from Spain, Japan, Canada, department manufacturers and 729 cases of business consultations took place. accompanied the company’s personnel in their network participation in exhibitions held in North America and potential to become World Champions by creating matching funds equally funded by local governments and participating stores from Hunan Province China, No.1 retail chains were offered for (contract value: US$38 million) their business consultations with client companies. As a companies. In collaboration with the provincial government of Chungcheongnam-do, KOTRA attracted greater number of SMEs Korean SMEs during the Global Retailers Week event. result, Kona International recorded export of US$35 million through direct export to the U.S. market in 2014 based in the province and achieved export of US$9.1 million in target markets. In 2015, KOTRA plans to expand the program by Global Partnering project in the area of aerospace parts with high Discussions on holding business consulting sessions on offset trade and won the US$100 million Export Tower award. encouraging other local governments to participate in partnership with the Small and Medium Business Administration (SMBA) Aerospace with Lockheed Martin of USA (Aug. 2014); a business consultation added value session is scheduled for May 2015. and the Korea Institute for the Advancement of Technology (KIAT). Lutronic Corp., a laser skincare device *PETRONAS is a global oil company based in Malaysia. manufacturer, advances into the Thai market Lutronic Corp. formulated a plan to advance to Southeast ●Candidates for global specialized enterprises Asian markets with Thailand serving as a starting point In an effort to support candidates for global specialized enterprises, KOTRA offers them with support in the areas of brand and held a new product demonstration as a brand showcase event. The company invited 130 physicians showcase events, brand development and joint marketing. The agency provided support for Lutronic Corp. in its product from 11 countries, securing 15 export contracts worth US$430,000. presentations and forums, helping the company secure export contracts worth US$1.6 million. KOTRA also selected 11 companies Strategic Direction including Bluebird Inc. and provided support for their brand development, while conducting joint marketing activities through Daewoong Pharmaceutical, an anti-ulcer drug consultation sessions on market entry into China and Vietnam. manufacturer, taps into the Vietnamese market In a bid to foster SMEs into global specialized enterprises, KOTRA will come up with a growth ladder support system by With its ascension into WTO in 2007, Vietnam opened up ●World-class products comprehensively considering their export competencies, internal competencies, and target markets based on their respective its pharmaceutical market. In order to enter the Vietnamese market, Daewoong Pharmaceutical KOTRA has realigned its support system for world-class products designed for companies with market share of more than 5% in the needs. To this end, the agency will incorporate its support for 300 world-class enterprises and global specialized enterprises produced a website and PR materials in Vietnamese, global market or companies with the potential to achieve market share of more than 5% within the next five years. Under the system, into the World Champ Project. Moreover, through the Pre-World Champion Project, KOTRA will foster 400 provincial-based while supporting academic conferences, symposiums KOTRA offers support for diverse areas ranging from selection of promising products, overseas marketing to follow-up measures. and dealer networking events. As a result, the company SMEs into global specialized companies. The agency will also continue to strengthen its Global Partnering platform and drive recorded export of US$8.1 million in 2014. The agency deliberated on 33 companies’ internal business demands for overseas marketing and provided necessary assistance through such services as formulation of brand strategies, export of original brands, and PR schemes tailored to customers. performance by applying Global Partnering in all business sectors. 28 29 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Creating New Export Growth Engines Social Contribution Organization Discovering New Industries Global Appendix Context KOTRA found that it is difficult to achieve a trade goal of US$ 2 trillion with the nation’s existing manufacturing-oriented trade Supporting Domestic Companies’ Overseas Expansion structure, recognizing the need for fostering new export growth engine industries. Under the circumstances, the need for nurturing new export growth engines such as service, contents, medical care, Hallyu (Korean Wave), and ICT industries to Context support the nation’s exports was raised. The Korean government requested KOTRA to become a ‘specialized agency to support SMEs’ export and overseas expansion,’ while implementing five policy tasks related to overseas expansion including seven tasks in the promotion of overseas Progress and Achievements expansion category. Accordingly, the role of KOTRA has become more important. The ‘new export growth engine creation support project’ is aimed at nurturing services, contents, medical service and ICT industry sectors into new growth engine industries. In 2014, KOTRA expanded the sectors to be fostered as new growth engines, creating key success stories, while increasing marketing models capitalizing on Hallyu (Korean Wave). Progress and Achievements Sector Activities Achievements Offering information on overseas expansion ·Service industry globalization (Service Mundus Project) KOTRA offered guidance on key issues and trends, market entry strategies and overseas KBCs’ support programs for 10 regions, 83 ·Designation of key specialized service sectors by overseas KBCs (4 overseas Services, ·45 contracts successfully concluded (2014) KBCs: Shanghai-franchise, Tokyo: game, LA: animation, New York: design) countries via Trade Doctor and disseminated among customers through informational sessions on global market entry strategies, contents worth US$14.25 million ·Support for R&D on business services in collaboration with Small and Medium local informational sessions by region, KOTRA’s homepage, and seminar video clips. In addition, KOTRA published the 2015 KOTRA Business Administration-KRW 450 million for 3 companies World Economic Outlook by compiling global knowledge and experience accumulated by KOTRA’s overseas KBC network. This ·Full support for discovery of overseas hospital projects and the process of ·Successful advancement of Korean-style winning orders information is featured at NAVER, Korea’s leading portal site, improving the public’s accessibility to information and convenience. ·Support for overseas advancement of Korean-style hospital information system hospital information system into Saudi Arabia Medical ·Biggest deal in history ·Arranging a visit by high-ranking personnel from hospitals under the Ministry of care ·Laying the groundwork for expanding overseas National Guard of Saudi Arabia to Korea Information sessions on global market entry strategies Support for project search and participation ·Support for visits by a trade mission from the Seoul National University Bundang hospital projects to include other parts of Middle East In order to facilitate entry into public procurement markets in emerging economies, KOTRA expanded overseas public Hospital consortium to Saudi Arabia procurement support centers to include emerging economies including South America, Southeast Asia and Africa. The agency ·Spreading K-Tech project to emerging markets including China ·K-Tech conferences were held 5 times also created opportunities for Korean SMEs to tap into the government procurement market of the United States. In an effort to ICT ·Support for small IT firms to enter emerging economies (providing business featuring participation of 182 companies platforms, support infrastructure and consortium-based joint advancement) foster leading public procurement enterprises, KOTRA provided customized support for leading businesses wishing to enter global ·Korea Brand & Entertainment Expo (Brazil, Aug. 2014) procurement markets in collaboration with the Korea Trade Insurance Corporation, Export-Import Bank of Korea, and the Small Hallyu ·Joint overseas entry into the Hallyu market by Hallyu stars and SMEs (Korean (Korean ·66 Korean buyers and 211 buyers participated. and Medium Business Corporation. Wave) actress Ha Ji-Won designated as a CSR ambassador in Vietnam) Support for joint overseas marketing featuring both Korean SMEs and Hallyu stars Support for overseas investments KOTRA offered intensive support for leading exporters by sector including services, medical care and ICT and produced successful KOTRA provides customer and field-oriented information service on overseas investments through the Overseas investment case studies of overseas advancement, while seeking various methods for overseas advancement such as the formation of 2015 KOTRA World Economic Outlook at NAVER Cast Information System (OIS), overseas investment consulting centers, and forums on comparative study on promising countries in consortiums. As a result, KOTRA helped with winning an order for the nation’s largest hospital project (US$70 million) from Saudi terms of overseas investments. The agency also offers infrastructure to facilitate local settlement of Korean SMEs, thereby cutting Arabia. Besides, the agency successfully implemented projects aimed to realize export potential of Korean businesses by matching Support for Overseas Expansion back on initial market entry efforts and costs of Korean SMEs. Meanwhile, in a bid to provide support for labor-management Hallyu, the Korean cultural wave sweeping the globe, with Korean SMEs to facilitate their exports and engaging in projects issues related to sustainability management of Korean companies doing business overseas, KOTRA is engaged in a joint project designed to take advantage of FTAs targeting countries that have signed FTAs with Korea. Pieces of Information excellent case for aimed to implement human rights management by signing an MOU on partnership with the Korea Labor Foundation. The agency information utilization In 2014, KOTRA adopted a strategy to focus on creating success case studies by individual companies rather than significantly also organizes CSR prize-awarding ceremonies for joint CSR initiatives and Korean companies with overseas business presence in 9,352 230 collaboration with Korea Chamber of Commerce (KOCHAM), a local business network for Korean businesses operating overseas, increasing the number of leading SMEs. The agency secured 147 new industry leaders, achieving its goal, while recording 109 cases of successfully concluded deals, marking 109% in terms of a goal achievement rate. In 2015, KOTRA plans to disseminate Increased promoting joint CSR activities among Korean companies doing business overseas. by 1,526 success stories about new industry leaders and create new success stories via the Hallyu marketing. Newly discovered Project deals Support cases for Enhance support for global M&A deals project bidding participatioin KOTRA helps Korean SMEs pursue international M&A deals. KOTRA provides support for the entire process from discovery of 360 US$ 59 bil. 20 Korean SMEs with M&A intensions, discovery of target companies put up for sale through the assistance of overseas KBCs, support for due diligence process to integrated support after acquisition to address difficulties encountered by Korean businesses. Strategic Direction Increased by 90 Increased Increased by 400 mil. by 3 In 2015, KOTRA plans to expand its trade office as a base for franchise-related services in Shenyang, China as part of efforts to M&A Offering Successfully develop the service sector into an export industry. In addition, the agency will offer support for development of export products for Sale concluded M&A deals Strategic Direction through convergence matching between Hallyu management companies and Korean SMEs to attract leading Chinese buyers 436 9 US$ mil. in the wake of the conclusion of Korea-China FTA and to expand the participation of Korean companies. Increased by 3 In an effort to support Korean companies’ overseas expansion, KOTRA will search for new projects to create new growth engines and optimize the global value chain for SMEs through local support for Korean SMEs’ overseas market entry. 30 31 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Supporting Utilization of Wider Territory of Economic Cooperation Social Contribution Organization Supporting Discovery of New Markets and Responding to New Trading Systems and Methods Global Appendix Context In an effort to adapt to changing global business environment, KOTRA supports discovery of new markets to help Korean SMEs Helping SMEs capitalize on FTAs create new export growth engines and helps them respond to new trading methods. Context Progress and Achievements In 2014, Korea aggressively pushed ahead with concluding free trade agreements (FTA) with countries around the world. As a Domestic and overseas exhibitions result, the Korea-Canada FTA was successfully concluded in March 2014 and Korea and China signed provisional FTA in Seoul Food 2014 Exhibitions are optimal marketing tool to pioneer new overseas markets and special consideration should be given to them by November 2014. In December 2014, the Korea-Vietnam FTA was also successfully concluded. Through these FTAs, interKorean SMEs. KOTRA expanded participation in exhibitions on new industries such as renewable energy and LED application and connectivity has increased across the world and there has been rising demand for information on how to make the best use of exhibitions taking place in emerging economies such as Central and South America and Middle East, as well as countries that have signed FTAs with Korea including the United Sates and ASEAN member states. In 2014, KOTRA personnel accompanied FTA among Korean SMEs. Responding to the nation’s wider FTA economic territory and strategically utilizing it. Under the Korean SMEs in their participation in group pavilions of overseas exhibitions on 35 occasions, while accompanying Korean SMEs circumstances, the roles of KOTRA assisting SMEs have gained greater importance. jointly with private expert groups or in the form of commissioned participation on 66 occasions and 23 occasions, respectively. In addition to participating in overseas exhibitions, KOTRA attracted overseas buyers participating in exhibitions held in Korea to • Held on May 13~16, 2014 at KINTEX in Ilsan promote the globalization of the nation’s exhibition industry. The agency also hosted Seoul Food 2014, offering diversified business Progress and Achievements • Participated by 574 companies from 43 countries opportunities to food industry companies and contributed to globalization of K-food. Preemptive marketing: export counseling sessions and 762 domestic companies • Export consulting session at Seoul Food 2014 (93 Creating a boom for FTA utilization KOTRA’s Trade missions and support for overseas business trips FTA Achievements new export contracts) In an effort to create nationwide boom for utilization of FTAs, KOTRA’s FTA departments invited promising buyers and hosted export response • Participated by 140 companies; export In order to proactively respond to rapidly changing trends in the global market and import demands of buyers, KOTRA dispatches consultation sessions in Seoul and six locations across the nation (Changwon, Daegu, Gwangju, Suwon, Daejeon, Wonju). The export ·Participated by 26 Korean consultations worth US$4.26 million were Export trade missions and assists Korean companies’ overseas business trips. In an effort to aid Korean companies’ overseas business consultation sessions featured the participation of 448 overseas buyers from 63 countries and 3,240 Korean SMEs, marking an consultation companies and 50 retail conducted companies from Canada • 14 products were selected for the Seoul Food trips, Korea’s KBCs around the world arrange buyer search and business consulting services, while offering conveniences such as increase of 89.2% from a year ago. Through the export event, 5,134 export consultation sessions took place and export deals worth Koreasession designed ·245 consultation sessions Canada for Canada’s large Award and displayed at special exhibition. hotel, transportation and interpreter arrangements. In addition, as part of the Government 3.0 initiative, KOTRA discloses held, discussed export US$18.7 billion were discussed and export contracts worth US$2.36 billion were concluded. In addition, KOTRA offered education on FTA retail networks value worth US$18 million; approximately 250,000 pieces of database on overseas buyers and offers charged services such as buyer search and market (Sept. 2014, FTA utilization such as the approved exporter system and origin certification for 100 beginning SMEs in April 2014. Meanwhile, Two on-site contracts were Toronto) research. Thanks to these services, KOTRA was able to expand the export base for provincial-based SMEs. In 2014, trade missions signed worth US$100,000 KORTA hosted the Korea-ASEAN Business Plaza aimed to expand exports by capitalizing on FTAs on the sidelines of the Koreaproduced 288 new contracts worth US$24.6 million and KOTRA’s support for overseas business trips helped Korean SMEs to ASEAN special summit held in December 2014 in Busan, Korea. Also, KOTRA was engaged in a project to cultivate FTA leaders ·Participated by 49 Korean companies and 294 buyers secure 42 new contracts worth US$14.4 million. Korea-Vietnam among 66 SMEs to help them with marketing, consulting, professional education/training and formulation of market entry roadmap. Korea·563 consulting sessions Pre-FTA Show Vietnam worth US$13 million, An 2014 FTA on-site contract worth Online support for Korean SMEs’ overseas expansion (Dec. 2014, Hanoi) US$100,000 was Settling difficulties encountered in the course of FTA utilization concluded. KOTRA has revamped “buyKOREA (www.buykorea.org,)” an integrated marketing platform combining online marketing and offline In order to respond to non-tariff barriers such as overseas certification on top of tariffs, KOTRA identified cases of damages to projects, upgrading it to utilize the platform as a management system for online promotional activities for products manufactured Korea-China FTA ·To be participated by 300 Korean SMEs through KBCs located in regions with non-tariff barriers, while identifying cases showing good responses in KoreaBusiness Plaza buyers, 10 investment by SMEs and export marketing projects. KOTRA assisted Korean SMEs’ entry into new overseas markets through cyber business China collaboration with the Korea Institute for Economics and Trade, the Korea Institute for International Economic Policy, and the (Scheduled for firms, and 1,5000 Korean FTA consulting services. The agency also published the “Guide to Online Export Marketing for SMEs” and increased the number of April 2015) companies Korean Agency for Technology and Standards. Most notably, in collaboration with the Korea Institute for Industrial Economics and briefing sessions on utilization of online export marketing. Trade, KOTRA published a brochure on overseas certification systems by top 50 products manufactured by SMEs, offering detailed information on certification systems of top 15 exporting countries regarding 50 promising export items. In addition, KOTRA analyzed China trade reports published by leading seven countries with large trade volume with China and offered the analysis results as strategic data to negotiation delegations, while dispatching KOTRA employees with working experience to join Strategic Direction government negotiation teams to reflect difficulties encountered in the field. KOTRA plans to implement e-commerce projects in response to new trading methods. The agency will help Korean Guide to Online Export Marketing for SMEs independent online shopping malls’ direct overseas expansion, while building an online platform combined with the Hallyu marketing to assist overseas market entry and marketing of contents products. Also, it will assist online business Strategic Direction establishment of Korean SMEs in overseas online retail networks such as China’s TMall ( ), Qoo10, VIP Shop and Thailand’s Line Shop, while enhancing B2C (business-to-customer) logistics services. KOTRA plans to establish domestic and international collaborative systems led by the Korea-China FTA utilization taskforce to boost Korean SMEs’ utilization of the Korea-China FTA, which has a big impact on the Korean economy. The agency will also Top 50 Promising Export Items for SMEs operate a support system to accelerate FTA utilization in full-fledged manner. After establishing a FTA utilization support center Overseas Certification Systems in China, KOTRA plans to expand the scope of the support center to include five ASEAN member states. It will also operate a Korea-China non-tariff barrier response taskforce in seven overseas KBCs including Beijing office. 32 33 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Enhancing Efforts to Attract Foreign Investment Social Contribution Organization Making the Most of Economic Diplomacy Global Appendix Context Five leading economic organizations in Korea, including the Federation of Korean Industries and the Korea Chamber of Attraction of Foreign Investment and Aftercare Local government (on-site)-oriented Commerce proposed ‘continuous expansion of sales diplomacy’ to help Korean companies make entry into overseas markets. collaboration The government was asked to provide opportunities for market expansion to greater number of businesses by selecting trade Mobile IK (Invest Korea) missions on an ongoing basis. Context Personnel from Invest Korea, heads of grievance handling teams from foreign companies, and major project managers visit local governments (on-site) to share project information with officials in charge Attracting foreign investment is an important economic activity that affects the national economy and it is also one of KOTRA’s of attraction of investment in FEZs and identify Progress and Achievements main functions. KOTRA strategically attracts investment by building infrastructure to draw high-quality foreign investment and difficulties. *FEZ(Free Economic Zone) to make it contribute to the nation’s economy. In addition, the agency is engaged in aftercare activities aimed to create a good Establishment of a single-window business support system capitalizing on summit diplomacy environment for foreign-invested companies to do business in Korea. Summit diplomacy economic utilization forum KOTRA has established a customized business support system in which companies’ opinions are collected through summit Foreign investor-oriented collaboration diplomacy and necessary support is provided. More specifically, the agency has developed a system where ideas of enterprises are Foreign investor grievance council gathered through summit diplomacy economic utilization portal and achievements of economic diplomacy is disseminated after Integrated aftercare for foreign investors by unifying consultations with relevant organizations. Progress and Achievements channels for receiving grievances Provision of information Registration of companies’ ideas Developing ideas into business Achievements PR & feedback Planning for investment attraction • Providing customized • Ongoing proposal of ideas • Business development by the •Business outcomes such •Disseminating In an effort to attract high-quality investment, KOTRA studies policies and strategies that can be directly applied in the field through information by country government & relevant as securing export achievements across collaboration with organizations specialized in investment attraction such as the Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Energy, the Outcomes of summit organizations and business contracts and settling the industry meetings, businesses Application for trade information sessions difficulties experienced •Accumulating good Korea Institute for Industrial Economics and Trade, the Free Economic Zone Authority and local governments. KOTRA helped 10 ·Providing economic achievements and relevant and other information by companies practices missions Participation in trade information of summit diplomacy through a single missions → Refer to below. •Reflecting them in local governments located in regions outside the Seoul Metropolitan area including Chungcheongnam-do and Gangwon-do • Expanding the scope to future economic window-Information on summit meeting results, include SMEs and selecting formulate customized investment promotion strategies in consideration of industries and locations, which were reflected in their • Collaboration with relevant diplomacy activities follow-up projects, and relevant business-related trade mission members on organizations Business information is provided as a package by country an ongoing basis consultation sessions investment attraction support project plans. In addition, the agency drew up four key tasks needed to attract investments in non·When enterprises propose business ideas, metropolitan areas, which include cultivation of skilled manpower through expanded industry-academia collaboration in nonSummit diplomacy economic utilization portal Pan-ministerial council on single-window Council on disseminating outcomes of relevant organizations collaborate with each other business support economic diplomacy metropolitan areas, construction of new airports, and infrastructure facilitation such as utilization of port infrastructure, and made to provide customized support. http://president.global.window.org policy proposals about them. Besides, KOTRA established a collaborative platform geared towards local governments (on-site) Expansion of trade missions and foreign investors (customers) through collaboration between Invest Korea and local governments/ Free Economic Zone The scope of trade mission members accompanying presidential overseas tours has been expanded to include SMEs and Authorities. recruitment of trade mission members is made to takes place on an ongoing basis. In addition, functions of trade missions have been expanded from diplomatic events to KOTRA-led business consultation meetings to produce business outcomes. Investment attraction activities ▶FTA utilization Publication of a handbook on overseas market entry KOTRA strives to strategically attract investments to induce foreign investments to contribute to the national economy. In In order to spread overseas expansion outcomes, KOTRA published a handbook by compiling 109 overseas entry support projects particular, FTAs can be strategically utilized as a means of attracting investments. Reflecting these considerations, attraction of of 23 organizations. investments in high value-added industries by capitalizing on FTAs is included among foreign investment promotion policies announced by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy in 2014. In addition, if the effects of the Korea-China FTA, designation of Council on dissemination of economic diplomacy outcomes Korea as an offshore yuan hub, and dissemination of Hallyu (Korean Wave) are well utilized, it will raise expectations for attracting Trade missions Success story about a trade accompanied by mission to Central Asia in The council on dissemination of economic diplomacy outcomes with KOTRA serving as the permanent secretariat consists of three subinvestments by global companies intending to enter the Chinese market. This will place Korea in a position with comparative KOTRA connection with summit diplomacy divisions including preliminary planning, business outcomes and follow-up measures and dissemination. It implements the entire advantages compared to other leading nations in East Asia. Reflecting these trends, attracting investment from Greater China In connection 106 ·June 16~21, 2014 /Tashkent, process involving recruitment of trade mission members, implementation of projects and aftercare jointly with forum organizers. countries was valued at US$4.05 billion in 2014, showing an increase by more than 100% from the previous year. with local cases Almaty governments Utilization of the Korea-China FTA ·Participated by 22 companies In connection (250 business consulting with relevant 68 cases sessions/ recommended Strategic Direction S company, a Japanese specialty chemicals manufacturer, pushes for plant establishment (investment of US$50 million) entities contracts worth US$74 million, S company is set to establish a super absorbent polymer plant for sanitary products (diapers, etc.) in Yeosu, Jeollanam-do. It 3 MOUs signed/US$ 2 million, KOTRA 5 export contracts worth US$1.8 plans to use a strategy to procure raw materials from Korea and export its products to China. Industry 52 KOTRA will establish a business collaboration system which takes advantage of summit diplomacy on an ongoing basis, not as a onemillion) cases G company, a Chinese metal silicon (raw materials for semiconductors and solar cells) manufacturer (investment of Team time event, thereby spreading it as an economic diplomacy activity. To this end, KOTRA will establish internal and external collaborative US$30 million) systems to spread the outcomes of summit diplomacy by participating in the pan-government taskforce on support for economic G company plans to move in an industrial complex dedicated to materials and parts in Pohang, Gyeongsangbuk-do, creating diplomacy as a secretariat on the external front and internally forming a taskforce led by economic diplomacy support team. In addition, 138 jobs (projected). the agency will organize one-on-one business consultation sessions on a regular basis by making system improvement and developing relevant apps which enable the identification of demand for participating in trade missions at any given time. It will also discover and support overseas partners that can be trusted by SMEs by sharing buyer information with the Korea International Trade Association and the Small and Medium Business Corporation and securing buyers’ credit information via K-sure. 34 35 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Social Contribution Organization Utilization of the Korea-EU FTA and the Korea-China FTA Home Doctor one-stop service Global KOTRA offers a one-stop service in which its specialists make visits to provide one-on-one service in various areas ranging from Company P, a French specialty chemical manufacturer (joint venture investment of US$4.8 million) Appendix general grievances, issues related to institutional improvements requiring revision of legislations of government agencies, P company plans to establish a plant manufacturing high-end battery additives for automobiles in Yeongcheon, Gyeongsangbuk-do, creating 100 jobs (projected). administrative processing requiring administrative actions to consulting service on labor affairs and taxation. Thanks to such fieldThe company will use a strategy to tap into Korea’s domestic market and Asian markets including China through a joint venture with a Korean company A. oriented, mobile preemptive handling of grievances, the number of grievance settlement cases sharply increased from a year ago. ▶Attraction of headquarters/ R&D centers of leading global companies in high-tech manufacturing sector Category Institutional improvement Administrative processing Internal processing Total Revision of the Enforcement Decree and Enforcement Rule of the Foreign Investment Promotion Act has made attracting 2013 5 98 280 383 headquarters and R&D centers of foreign companies easier. This has opened up a path for Korea to attract headquarters and R&D 2014 9 112 316 437 centers of anchor companies in high-tech manufacturing sector such as IT and automotive industries, areas which Korea has Increase rate 80%↑ 14.3%↑ 12.9%↑ 14.1%↑ comparative advantages. Solvay to relocate its R&D Center for special chemicals unit to Korea Grievance settlement for foreign-invested companies (June 2014, Ewha Womans University Plans to utilize Korea as a hub for material development and sales of its products by utilizing the One of the most common difficulties encountered by foreign-invested companies operating in Korea was identified as ‘talent R&D Center (investment of KRW24 billion) recruitment.’ In response, KOTRA supported job creation by organizing career expos and job fairs. As a result, 17,910 job seekers, IK’s support : Signing of business-academia partnership between Solvay and Ewha Womans University, cash funding, site information the largest number to date, visited the Job Fair for Foreign-Invested Companies 2014 where as many as 241 job seekers, also the (June 2013) . Signing of an agreement on joint research collaboration to develop future materials (April 2014). largest number to date, were recruited. In addition, KOTRA provided support for creating a virtual cycle where foreign-invested companies not only engage in making investments in Korea, but also promote export overseas through the SMEs Branch Office BASF to set up its No.1 Electronic Materials R&D Center Asia Pacific program and the World Champ Project and increase the amount of their investments. Sept.2014, Sungkyunkwan University) Joint research on chemical products for semiconductors and OLED display materials IK’s support : Investment notification during the President’s Europe tour (Nov. 2013). Decision on tax relief on industryCSR activities by foreign-invested companies supporting service business (Mar. 2014). Signing of an MOU (BASF-KOTRA-Gyeonggi-do government-Suwon In an effort to improve public perceptions on foreign investment, Invest Korea, foreign chambers of commerce in Korea and City government-Sungkyunkwan University, Foreign Investment Committee’s decision on negotiated cash foreign-invested companies have jointly established a collaboration platform for CSR activities. Recognizing that individual funding agreement (June 2014) companies’ sporadic CSR activities had been ineffective to raise public awareness, KOTRA supported the creation of a platform for sustainable CSR activities which take place throughout the year, not in the form of one-time events. ▶Attraction of high value-added processing logistics centers in Northeast Asia Thanks to Korea’s strategic geographical location in Northeast Asia, its outstanding IT-based management of large-scale ports Joint CSR initiative “Grow Together” In partnership with IK, and airports and various logistics-related services, multinational corporations intending to make inroads into China choose Korea Activity European Chamber of Commerce in Korea, CSR awards for foreign-invested companies foreign-invested companies and university students as their investment designation for the cold chain system. Foreign-invested CompaniesReliable Partners for Canadian company B Set to establish a processing logistics hub for fresh food to be exported to China in the hinterland of Busan Port Slogan Grow Together the Korean Economy (Investment of US$13 million) Creation of 305 jobs; a success story on attracting foreign investment through collaboration ·A combined volunteer service corps consisting of IK, ECCK, ·Prizes were awarded to foreign-invested companies with among IK, the Ministry of Oceans and Fisheries, the Korea Maritime Institute. companies, and university students was launched and exemplary CSR activities. (Aug.~ Oct. 2014) carried out CSR activities (Aug.~ Dec. 2014) The first logistics hub for the cold chain system in Asia, raising expectations for expanded investment in the business Description MSD Korea (Customer), Sanopi Pasteur (Contribution), ECCK, Seongdong District Office, foreign-invested Mitsui & Co., Korea (Challenge), BASF (Global) companies such as Audi and Henkel and 50 university Japanese company N set to establish a temperature-controlled warehouse for dangerous goods at Busan New Port students from across the nation (investment of US$2.7 million) Expected to create 50 jobs, a case of investment by a large Japanese logistics company capitalizing on Korea’s logistical advantages Through the above-mentioned activities to attract foreign investment, in 2014, KOTRA attracted 264 cases of foreign investment Photo worth more than US$ 1 million (an increase by 25.7% from the previous year), attracted foreign investment worth US$15.11 billion (an increase by 27.4% from the previous year), induced a total of 1,891 cases of foreign investment (an increase by 6.1% from a year ago) worth, creating 12,077 new jobs (an increase by 2.5% from a year ago). Aftercare One-stop administrative service KOTRA provides an environment conducive to doing business for foreign investors by operating the foreign investment ombudsman system and a comprehensive administration support center. The agency operates an investment consulting center Strategic Direction where 20 staff members dispatched from 16 government agencies work together to provide one-stop administrative services that foreign investors need at the outset, particularly in the areas of investment consulting, foreign investment reporting, incorporation, KOTRA will proactively attract R&D centers and headquarters of global companies to Korea. The agency will consolidate a business registration, and visa issuance. foundation to become a business hub in Northeast Asia by capitalizing on FTAs, while expanding investment attraction in Foreign regions outside the Seoul Metropolitan area to promote balanced regional development. KOTRA will also assist with Visa Tariff National tax Business investment Legal affairs Taxes Employment Driver’s Daily life Local desk sites reporting license preemptive settlement of grievances of foreign-invested companies and support regulatory reforms, and enhance its efforts to Korea Korea Ministry of National attract investment from Chinese and global companies by taking advantage of FTAs. Ministry of Customs National Tax Industrial KOTRA KOTRA KOTRA Employment Police KOTRA 4 local Justice Service Service Complex Corp. and Labor Agency governments 36 37 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform The Reason Why Social Contribution Is a Material Issue for KOTRA Business KOTRA As people are becoming increasingly aware of social responsibility and sustainability management of Social Contribution businesses across the society, there is also a growing demand in global business for global CSR activities and Organization projects that create mutually-beneficial global values, regarding emerging economies as partners for shared Global growth. At this time, KOTRA’s CSR capabilities linking the global community with Korean SMEs have become Appendix more crucial than ever. Policies for Social Contribution KOTRA provides support for resolution of social problems and talent cultivation in emerging economies in collaboration with Korean companies and local governments, contributing to promoting shared growth of emerging economies and local communities to which KOTRA belong. The agency carries out its CSR initiatives based on the two pillars of private development assistance (PDA) and official development assistance (ODA). Its key CSR initiatives include donation of Korean companies’ own products and services, operation of overseas technology schools, overseas transfer of unused equipment to emerging economies and Hallyu-related CSR activities. Besides, KOTRA shares relevant knowledge through CSR forums, while continuously developing KOTRA-style CSR competencies. Performance Indicators concerning Social Contribution Quantitative Quantitative Project Performance indicator performance in 2013 performance in 2014 Government 3,0 Number of officers in charge of Trade Doctor export service 10 14 Number of overseas job openings discovered 1,111 2,07 Creation of overseas jobs Number of successful overseas employment cases 187 327 Number of jobs created by attracting foreign investment 11,788 12,077 Purchase of products manufactured by SMEs KRW 14,082 million KRW 16,996 million Purchase of products manufactured by the socially underprivileged KRW 1,685 million KRW 2,247 million (Enterprises run by women, social enterprises, enterprises Shared growth hiring persons with severe disabilities) Number of joint overseas expansion projects executed 15 23 Number of successful contracts secured through joint 67 110 overseas expansion projects Number of books donated to multicultural families 316 1,205 Frequencies of CSR activities participated by all employees 2 4 Frequencies of employees’ CSR activities for local 25 35 communities Global CSR initiatives Number of donations of companies’ own products and services 61 83 02 Number of overseas technology schools 16 46 Satisfaction of companies participating in global CSR initiatives 85.2 point 91.5 point Intention to participate in global CSR activities again 71.4% 93.8% Key Issues Contents Social Contribution Participation in formulation of public policies Government 3.0 Support for overseas employment and startups Global Job Creation Growing demand for shared growth Shared Growth Achieving Sustainable Growth by Creating Impacts on local communities (social contribution etc.) Global CSR Initiatives Social Values Indirect economic effects (infrastructure investment etc.) Countering Climate Change Increase in youth unemployment and non-regular workers Support for green companies’ overseas expansion and contract awarding 38 39 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Government 3.0 Social Contribution Organization Utilization of big data Global In an effort to obtain information on big data, which has emerged as one of leading trends of the current era, KOTRA formed a club Appendix on knowledge-sharing and organized lectures by inviting big data experts in morning meetings. In addition, the agency made efforts to utilize big data by commissioning a research project on the Government 3.0 initiative aimed to explore big data pilot project tasks. Context Establishment of an integrated portal for overseas business information (Single Window) _G4-PR3 Key functions of the Single Window portal In April 2014, KOTRA set up an integrated portal for overseas business information (Single Window) through which users can (http://tradedoctor.kotra.or.kr/) The ‘Government 3.0’ is a new paradigm for government operation to promote active sharing of public information and removal search trade and investment information, receive consulting services on obstacles to export, and access overseas market entry of barriers existing among government ministries for better collaboration, thereby providing personalized services to individual information. In July 2014, the agency upgraded its functions to enhance customer convenience such as mailing service designed to citizens, generating more jobs and supporting the creative economy. KOTRA has vigorously pushed ahead with the Government provide tailored information and use of linked information. In addition, KOTRA expanded databases with high customer demand 3.0 initiative by including it as one of its 13 strategic tasks, forming a Government 3.0 taskforce team, and formulating such as information on overseas companies, products, and certifications. The agency expanded internal databases on overseas implementation tasks. company information, which number as many as 400,000, while producing and disclosing in-depth product information in the form of a formal report. KOTRA also expanded disclosure of certification information mainly regarding promising export items manufactured by SMEs and plans to increase the number of items from 50 in 2014 to 300 items in 2017. Progress and Achievements ·Integration of information available in six websites including the Global Window, an exhibition Establishment and operation of online/offline ‘Trade Doctor (trade and investment consulting information portal, and KOTRA’s homepage Active disclosure of public sector information center)’ system _G4-PR3 * Information in 25 categories including country T he 3-stage strategies of the Government 3.0 and information, market information, tips on overseas KOTRA’s implementation tasks KOTRA actively opens up and shares public sector information that has a profound impact on citizens’ lives. For instance, in terms In September 2013, KOTRA launched an offline Trade Doctor (trade and investment consulting center) system in which consultants business trips, guide to participation in exhibitions of contracts, the agency has disclosed a list of SMEs for bidder selection, while steadily expanding new disclose areas of business by field handle requests from customers received via Mobile KOTRA, the Internet, mobile devices, on-site visits and phone, taking and overseas company information A government providing A communication & people-centered services transparent government closure such as the current status of employees at KOTRA’s overseas KBCs. In addition, KOTRA has made improvements on its care of the entire process from request reception to replies. As of 2014, there were 13 consultants specializing in export-related ·Search function in which users can search all related information via correlation tables regardless of Establishment of a single window Satisfying the public’s right to homepage to promote effective advance information disclosure by operating a bulletin board on information disclosure and matters, 4 consultants in charge of overseas market expansion, and 11 consultations taking care of matters related to investment product code types such as HS and MTI know through active disclosure portal service incorporating of public sector information categorizing the list of information disclosure by topics. attraction. They provide one-on-one consulting services. In addition, KOTRA incorporated channels for inquires and consulting ·The world’s leading export market evaluation data overseas business information Active use of public (Trade Map) is provided in real time through an Provision of one-on-one sector information services, which had been divided into individual websites of the headquarters and overseas KBCs, into a single website, allowing exclusive agreement with the International Trade tailored consulting by the public Active use of public data by the public customers to check their consulting status online in real time. The agency also came up with a mechanism to further substantiate Centre (ITC, the joint agency of World Trade services by integrating 3-stage Organization and UNCTAD) consulting channels strategies In an effort to motivate the private sector to use public data more actively, KOTRA has disclosed ‘useful information kept in drawers’ consulting content by introducing a customer evaluation system. with high demand from the private sector such as CEO reports, tips on overseas business trips, newsletters published by overseas KBCs, and articles contributed to the media by KOTRA employees. It has also opened up database, which is highly useful for the Operating system of the Trade Doctor program A competent, efficient government private sector and has a far-reaching dissemination effect, such as country information, directories of Korean companies doing Information expansion and enhancement of dissemination business overseas, and comparisons of consumer prices by region around the world. Meanwhile, KOTRA organized a business channels by capitalizing on strengths of the private sector idea competition aimed to promote effective utilization of public database. At the competition, an app service offering KOTRA’s Customers Promoting active collaboration with relevant entities and government ministries interpreter information to business customers during their overseas business trips and providing various services such as a contract brokerage service won a second-place prize. Internet Mobile Customers’ visits By phone Mobile KOTRA Collaboration with the private sector In order to capitalize on the strengths of the private sector, KOTRA has created a ‘database on overseas regional experts’ within its Consultants by field regional expert portal (http://glep.kotra.or.kr), offering career information on 1,780 experts in 12 fields of expertise, including lawyers, accountants and businessmen residing overseas who provide relevant information, tailored consulting service, export KOTRA Head Office Regional Support Centers agency service and interpretation/translation service. Meanwhile, in March 2014, KOTRA signed an MOU with NAVER, the largest 13 consultants–export; 4 consultants-overseas market 17 consultants search portal in Korea, to make information produced by KOTRA easily disseminated and accessible to the general public. Through expansion; 11 consultants–investment attraction the MOU, it was agreed that KOTRA’s country information database, its representative brand information will be included in NAVER’s regular menus (NAVER Library) and shortcuts to homepages of government agencies and contents research results will Teams at KOTRA Head Office Overseas KBCs Experts at home and abroad Relevant agencies be additionally offered for integrated search for KOTRA. Also, KOTRA’s information accessible via NAVER Library, Dictionary, Academics and commercial publications should be indicated with its source, along with links, helping the public have easier Lecture delivered by Cho Min-ki, department manager, access to the agency’s information. SAS Collaboration with government agencies Strategic Direction KOTRA is vigorously promoting collaboration with relevant entities and government ministries. The agency set up and upgraded the ‘portal for the utilization of summit diplomacy for economic interests (created in January 2014, upgraded in November 2014).’ As a result of such effort, KOTRA was selected as an exemplary public institution in the 2014 Government 3.0 Assessment The agency also opened the Middle East-Africa regional information portal (MEKA, http://meka.kotra.or.kr) in 2013 and added the administered by the Ministry of Public Administration and Home Affairs. Moving a step further from information collection and Eurasia regional portal (http://www.i-eurasia.org/)in 2014. Through these regional information portals, KOTRA integrated processing, KOTRA will disclose information to the public in a transparent manner and do its utmost to promote national information contents scattered across related entities and facilitated information exchanges with experts in different fields by interests by strongly pressing ahead with the Government 3.0 initiative. To this end, the agency will make continuous operating online regional communities. In addition, the agency actively opened up its overseas branch offices as Korea Business improvements on the information disclosure system and gradually expand the collaboration system, which is partially carried Plaza (KBP) and ‘open trade centers,’ helping Korean companies operating overseas conveniently receive services from relevant out at the present stage, providing full support for creating synergistic effects by combining strengths of relevant agencies and agencies and use them as a global business platform. the private sector with KOTRA’s infrastructure. 40 41 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Global Job Creation Social Contribution Organization In 2014, KOTRA elevated the government-private sector council in Tokyo, Japan into a taskforce (TF) on supporting young Korean’s Global advancement into Japan (proposed in February 2014 and operational in April 2014), while identifying ways for cooperation through Appendix government-private sector joint workshops at the K-Move Center. Furthermore, the agency developed new, customized projects for the K-Move Center utilizing the councils. As part of such efforts, in 2014, KOTRA organized a home coming day event for those who successfully secured jobs in Jakarta, Indonesia, hosted a seminar to promote Korean talents in Tokyo, Japan, while offering the barista training course in Beijing, China. Context Category 2013 2014 Collaboration case study Under the current economic conditions characterized by a protracted economic slump and weakened job-creating power, Employment-related events (job fairs, etc.) 6 42 Career fair for software developers in Japan (provincial tours, November) youth unemployment in Korea is becoming more serious. Under the circumstances, the role of KOTRA with extensive networks Education/ mentoring (Mentor Day) 19 49 ·K-Move Center : Having strengths in discovering employers on global markets and companies is becoming more important than ever to overcome the limitations of the nation’s domestic ·Korean domestic training institutions : Specializing in Startup events (competitions, etc.) 10 18 training labor market and promote globalization of employment. KOTRA has been actively assisting overseas employment and startups by young Koreans in various ways. Global Job Fair Customized internship program in connection with employment with SMEs KOTRA expanded customized internship programs which are specialized in different industries and in line with employment with SMEs. The agency provided internship applicants with training on job-related basic knowledge, which was basic qualification A case study on operation of a government-private sector council for K-Move Center in KOTRA Ho Chi Progress and Achievements requirement, and local languages for six to eight months and, after the training, dispatched approximately 100 interns overseas, Minh Office in Vietnam including 23 interns in marketing to Indonesia, 25 interns in offshore plant to Malaysia, 19 interns in IT sector to India, and 18 Enhancement of a support system for global job creation interns in marketing to Vietnam. KOTRA’s internship program recorded 40% in overseas employment rate, achieving the highest Idea In order to create legal grounds for global employment and startup programs, KOTRA enhanced relevant infrastructure by revising rate among the government’s 11 overseas internship programs. [Business proposal] the KOTRA Act in January 2014 and significantly expanding relevant personnel at home and abroad. The agency also analyzed its business projects conducted in the previous years and made improvements on weaknesses, further upgrading business models. Creation of a business ecosystem to support global startups Area of participation In an effort to facilitate young Koreans’ overseas startups, KOTRA provides differentiated support depending on target startup Discovery of ideas such as development of customized projects markets such as developed markets and developing markets. The agency set up Korea pavilions in leading startup conferences in 2012 2013 2014 Collaboration detail the United Kingdom, Finland and Taiwan, which are classified as developed markets, such as TechCrunch Disrupt Europe, SLUSH, Proposal on organizing career fairs by region and industrial complex and Asia Best, featuring the participation of 31 Korean startup firms. In developing markets, KOTRA operated the ‘Global Young Head Office : Global Talent Recruiting Head Office : Global Job Creation Department Head Office : Global Job Creation Department Center (1 PM for overseas employment) (Global Employment and Startup Team + K-Move Support (Global Employment Team + Global Startup Team ) Businessman (GYB)’ program jointly with Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA) as part of development cooperation Overseas : Team) Overseas : Newly established in Beijing, Hamburg, programs, strengthening its support for young Koreans’ overseas startup. As a result, a GYB supported by KOTRA successfully Characteristic : One staff member in Overseas : 3 locations (Tokyo, Jakarta, Silicon Valley) Ho Chi Minh, Dubai charge of overseas employment Characteristic : K-Move Center carried out state tasks Characteristic : Specialization of employment and launched a startup business in Vietnam. Planning startup functions Meanwhile, KOTRA realized youth global startups via a startup support function of the K-Move Centers. For example, ‘MEMEBOX’ [Plan review] successfully launched business in Beijing, China after going through startup seminars and competitions. Also, KOTRA assisted 11 Job Hub-Spoke strategy: A case study of professor recruitment project for universities in Middle East Korean startup firms participating in K-Tech China (IT exhibition/business consulting event), helping them attract investments. Area of participation Reflecting opinions prior to implementing KOTRA also strived to create synergistic effects through collaboration with relevant organizations including the Ministry of Science, the project • Strengthening capabilities of support organization through the collaboration system between Dubai (hub) with the K-Move Center with KBCs in Cairo, Kuwait and Riyadh (Spoke) ICT and Future Planning, the National IT Industry Promotion Agency, and the Electronics and Telecommunications Research Collaboration detail Review of job creation programs for Korean • Seven universities in Middle East visited Korea and 7 Korean professors were recruited. This case will be utilized as a success story in other regions. Institute (ETRI). As a result, a Korean startup, ‘Wow Ventures’ successfully secured a supply contract worth US$500,000 with a students studying overseas Chinese IT company. Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 4 As a result of KOTRA’s strenuous effort to create jobs, the number of overseas entities seeking to hire employees reached 2,079 in Planning, collaboration with Building a database on HR Inviting HR personnel to Korea Follow-up measures such as 2014, representing a two-fold increase from 1,111 cases in 2013 and the number of overseas job creation stood at 327 people, Execution nearby KBCs Formulation of plans on professor departments in Middle East universities through Korea job fairs KOTRA Global Career and Startup interviews Support for subsequent in-depth [Business participation] recruitment project for universities in Selection of prestigious universities by Vision (2 universities) global job fairs interviews Support for employment marking a 1.8-fold increase in comparison to 187 people in 2013. In recognition of its contribution to job creation, KOTRA received a Middle East/Participation by KBCs in country Building a database on qualifications (6 universities) visa issuance and local settlement Presidential award and a Prime Minister’s award. Cairo, Kuwait and Riyadh by major and HR staff in charge Area of participation Private sector directly involved in job creation projects Collaboration detail Volunteering as mentoring speakers and Government-private sector council on global job creation and the K-Move Center collaboration in visits to company tours In a bid to make the best use of creativity and dynamism of the private sector in the state-led global job creation policy, KOTRA has Strategic Direction set up a government-private sector council on global job creation with a focus placed on overseas business sites. The agency appointed representatives from Korean diplomatic missions overseas, overseas branch offices and CEOs of Korean companies KOTRA plans to take the lead in creating jobs globally by steadily strengthening its infrastructure and business functions. In Feedback operating overseas as members of the council by region. The K-Move Center* set up within KOTRA’s overseas branch offices addition, the agency will further enhance the establishment of a business ecosystem to support global startups by combining [Performance evaluation] served as a secretariat, collecting overseas employment and startup information, finding and matching jobs, offering aftercare the project with trade and investment projects and strengthen government-private sector cooperation, thereby becoming a services, and providing mentoring support. leading public institution in creating jobs globally and promoting the creative economy. Area of participation * K-Move Center: Short for Korean Movement Center. K-Move Centers were first established within overseas KBCs in 2013, carrying out such activities Feedback on the process and performance as collection of local employment and startup information, finding and matching jobs, follow-up measures, and providing mentoring support (currently Collaboration detail there are 7 K-Move Centers in operation) Meetings to report the recruitment results of job fairs were held 42 43 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Shared Growth Social Contribution Organization Business performance of the joint overseas market expansion between large enterprises and SMEs Global KOTRA’s CEO has taken continued interest in shared growth and fostered it as one of the agency’s core projects since 2013, while Appendix presenting a firm philosophy of Jultakdongsi ( ) that emphasizes collaboration and partnership. Moreover, KOTRA set annual joint overseas market expansion targets for the entire employees and encouraged them to achieve them by liking their performance with performance-related pay. As a result, the frequency of the project, the number of participating companies, and the number of successful contracts increased compared to the previous year and the agency acquired grade ‘Good’ in Korea Context Commission for Corporate Partnership’s shared growth evaluation among public institutions in 2014, showing improved Purchase consultation session performance from a year ago. for enterprises run by the As corporate competitions are shifting from competitions between individual companies to competitions between business socially underprivileged networks, mutually-beneficial partnerships and collaboration are gaining more importance. Against this backdrop, the Korean Institutional improvements aimed to establish fair transaction order government has selected realization of a collaborative business ecosystem such as shared growth as one of its national policy ▶ Fair transaction system and systemic improvements tasks, while Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership also chose ‘facilitation of joint overseas market expansion between KOTRA not only encourages shared growth among companies, but also strives to meet social demand for shared growth internally. large enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises’ as one of five key tasks. In 2014, KOTRA also pushed ahead with To this end, the agency is endeavoring to establish fair transaction order with SMEs. As part of such effort, KOTRA proactively made systemic improvements to maintain fair partnership with its suppliers as follows: expansion of advance payment, strengthening joint overseas market expansion between large enterprises and SMEs by presenting the phrase Jultakdongsi ( : supervision of fund settlement to secondary and tertiary suppliers, overhaul of joint venture system with prime contractor, literally meaning “ picking and pecking from both sides of the shell simultaneously”), which emphasizes the importance of expanded use of standard contract forms, and improvement of bidding-related systems. partnership in delivering success, as a keyword. As a result, partner companies’ funding difficulties eased through increased advance payment rate, payment monitoring on subcontractors quadrupled compared to the previous year, while standard contract forms were used in all contracts. In addition, administrative handling became simplified due to improvement of the bidding system, expanding opportunities for new partner Automobile Progress and Achievements companies. GM Korea, Renault Samsung Motors, Hyundai Motor Company Strategies for facilitating joint overseas market expansion between large enterprises and SMEs ▶ Restrictions on signing contracts with suppliers hiring KOTRA retirees KOTRA KOTRA established KOTRA-style shared growth models through a commissioned research to facilitate joint overseas market In an effort to block unfair competitive bidding at its source and exclude any possibility of preferential treatments that may occur ·Overseas market expansion acceleration project from negotiated contract, KOTRA came up with a regulation restricting contract signing with suppliers where KOTRA retirees are by capitalizing on overseas subsidiaries (5 times) expansion between large enterprises and SMEs and, based on the model, formulated its goal and specific tasks for joint overseas ·Time/Venue: December 22 (Mon.), 2014 / KOTRA ·Sales network diversification for companies market expansion. re-employed. The agency newly created a provision that prohibits signing negotiated contracts with companies that hire retired jointly operating overseas (1 time) ·Participating companies: 15 social enterprises KOTRA employees or companies established by KOTRA retirees (KOTRA Guidelines for Handling Contract-related Matters, Article ·Observers: KOTRA employees, Ministry of Labor, · All the projects implemented by KOTRA aim to promote shared growth through 11-8) and restricted qualifications of bidders by making it mandatory for bidding companies to submit “KOTRA retiree employment Korea District Heating Corporation, Korea Electric KOTRA-style Retail improvement of global competitiveness of SMEs Power Corporation, etc. Model for shared confirmation documents.” 4 home shopping companies growth · KOTRA-style shared growth model capitalizing on its peculiar functions facilitates joint ·Description: One-on-one consulting services on (GS, CJ, Lotte, Hyundai) overseas market expansion between large enterprises and SMEs ways to find customers, product exhibitions, and KOTRA/ Large and Small Business discovery of overseas markets Cooperation Foundation (Secretariat of Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership) ·The 4 home shopping companies invited Goal Act as a solid platform to support joint global market expansion between large enterprises and SMEs overseas MDs to have a business consultation meeting (1 time) and held an outbound Strategic Direction roadshow in a promising city (1 time) Legal purchase goal ratio for products of SMEs ·National Assembly policy discussion on joint Business system for joint overseas market expansion between large enterprises and SMEs overseas market expansion in the retail As part of effort to strengthen partnership in promoting joint overseas market expansion between large enterprises and SMEs, In an effort to further facilitate open collaboration with relevant organizations for shared growth, KOTRA plans to conduct industry was jointly held (Nov. 2014) 97.4 96.1 96.7 KOTRA clearly defined roles of participating entities, including Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership, large enterprises and collaboration quality evaluation aimed to practically improving open collaboration by designing categories that assess the Hallyu public institutions. Large enterprises and public institutions arrange consulting services with overseas companies, select SMEs quality of collaboration within its internal performance evaluation guidelines. Also, in order to expand the number of 4 CJ subsidiaries manufacturing promising projects, and transfer joint R&D and marketing knowhow. Korea Commission for Corporate Partnership participating companies and performance of the joint overseas market expansion project, the agency will steadily discover new 69.7 KOTRA/ Large and Small Business induces participation of large enterprises and public institutions and funds the projects. KOTRA encourages active participation by 67.7 Cooperation Foundation industrial demands of large enterprises and public institutions, facilitate consultation bodies by industry through their large enterprises and public institutions by presenting business models by types of collaboration, finds out local buyers and ·Export fairs on joint overseas market dissemination, and strive to produce tangible results. expansion were held in connection with Hallyu vendors, funds the project, provides follow-up measures and presses ahead with second-round business. Undecided concerts (2 times ) 2012 2013 2014 Electric Business model by types of Description A case in point power collaboration KOTRA’s ratio (%) Korea Electric Power Corp., Korea South East Power Overseas customers (vendors, etc.) of large enterprises are A partner company of Daesang Corp. received *Dotted line is Average ratio for public institutions. SMEs’ new export creation Purchase of products manufactured by SMEs and social enterprises (Unit: KRW 1 million) invited/visited and business meetings with Korean SMEs are a support to advance into China’s retail KOTRA support model arranged, thereby creating new export deals. industry ·Export roadshows in the electric power industry (5 times) Overseas sales network Expansion of overseas sales networks of SMEs through GM Korea’s partner company expanded its 14,082 16,996 886 1,234 506 671 293 342 expansion model overseas branch offices of large enterprises entry into global value chains. ·Operation of overseas trade offices to support exporting marketing throughout the year (8 Supply of SMEs’ products and equipment capitalizing on the Korea South-East Power and its partner locations) Joint project expansion model name values of large enterprises/ public institutions and their company jointly advanced into overseas 20.7% 39.3% overseas projects markets. ↑ ↑ 32.6% Model on expansion of local sales Business conditions improvement program ↑ 16.7% Support for diversification of local sales network of large network of Korean SMEs for Hyundai’s partner company operating in ↑ enterprises and SMEs jointly operating business overseas operating overseas India Facilitation of the large enterprise-SME joint overseas market expansion project 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 2013 2014 In order to facilitate joint overseas market expansion between large enterprises and SMEs, KOTRA has formed a council SMEs Female-owned enterprises Social enterprises Severely disabled persons’ enterprises comprising large enterprises, public institutions, export-related agencies, and SMEs. 44 45 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Global CSR Initiatives Social Contribution Organization ▶ Knowledge Sharing Program (KSP) Global KOTRA’s Knowledge Sharing Program (KSP) is a project aimed to contribute to economic growth of emerging nations by Appendix transferring KOTRA’s knowhow on economic development and trade/investment. Currently, eight projects are under way including formulation of a master plan for the establishment of Myanmar’s trade and investment promotion agency (MYANTRA). The project is expected to contribute to sustainable economic growth of an emerging nation and to lay the foundation for facilitating bilateral trade and investment. Success Story Context ▶ Operation of overseas technology schools Consumers around the world are gradually showing preference for products manufactured by ‘good companies,’ calling for KOTRA provides support for the overseas technology school project that aims to share expertise and experiences of Korean partnerships for global coexistence. It is imperative for Korean SMEs to carry out CSR activities which are directly linked to institutions and companies. Through the project, KOTRA helps cultivation of local professionals, while assisting Korean companies ETRI’s transfer of its unused equipment to Myanmar enhancing corporate competitiveness. However, they carry out their CSR activities in a very limited manner due to a shortage of to secure project contracts by consolidating their relationships with project clients. The agency also discovers, plans and executes funds and expertise in the area. Under the circumstances, it is necessary for KOTRA to push ahead with KOTRA-style CSR CSR projects and assists budget and PR-related activities at home and abroad. In 2014, KOTRA supported 46 school projects implemented by 76 companies in 27 countries in various areas such as water Demonstration of products donated to Dhaka initiatives on local to global scale in consideration of its establishment purpose and characteristics of its activities. South City Corporation, Bangladesh resources, electric power, railway, and mine reclamation in collaboration with K-Water, KEPCO, Korea Southern Power, Korea Rail Network Authority, and Korea Mine Reclamation Corporation. In 2015, the agency plans to add such areas as cadastral IZ-FOG surveying and agriculture and expand project scale, increasing the number of projects to 55. Progress and Achievements IZ-Fog, an epidemics prevention/disinfection equipment manufacturer, was seeking to tap into developing Donation of Korean companies’ own products and services markets with high product demands. However, the KOTRA-style CSR Implementation System company encountered obstacles to its market entry such ·Period and venue: Sept.22 (Mon.)~23 (Tue.), 2014, KOTRA arranges for Korean companies to donate their products and services local communities overseas to help them solve Ministry of Communications and Information Technology as local governments’ inability to purchase the equipment serious social issues, thereby helping Korean companies improve their perceptions abroad and strengthen networks with local due to a shortage of funds and dominance of American or ·Equipment transferred: 11 items including sonar Goal Contribute to enhancing marketing competitiveness of Korean companies and improving the national image by measuring equipment, wireless network analyzer, and playing a central role in Korean companies’ overseas activities in the global market and fulfill corporate social governments, promising project clients and buyers. More specifically, the agency identifies CSR demands of local governments, European products. In response, KOTRA arranged for frequency counter IZ-Fog to donate its products to epidemics-prevention responsibility through social contribution activities capitalizing on its unique competencies related entities and buyers and finds the relevant Korean SMEs wishing to donate their products or services (World Champ, etc.), ·Recipient organizations: Myanmar Posts and authorities in Oman and Myanmar and to hold seminars Telecommunications Department, Telecommunications Korean companies using overseas KBCs’ as their corporate office and applying companies. And then, KOTRA plans and finances on prevention of epidemics, facilitating the company’s and Postal Training Center (IT research institute) CSR projects in diverse areas including healthcare, medical care, environmental improvement and manpower training, and local CSR activities. Through such CSR activities, IZ-Fog ·Detail: Equipment transfer ceremony, training on how to was able to boost its product perceptions among local 3C strategy Korean companies’ partnership with local governments (Collaboration), support for emerging economies publicizes them at home and abroad. buyers in Oman and Myanmar and successfully advanced use the equipment, operation of a technology school on establishment of an e-government and cyber security for through economic development and manpower development (Cultivation), and win-win results with the In 2014, KOTRA arranged for 206 Korean companies to participate in 83 CSR projects such as donation of fogging machine for into Algeria and Bangladesh, which had previously posed CIO of Myanmar communities where KOTRA belongs at home and abroad (Co -existence ) obstacles for the company to make market entry. epidemics prevention by IZ-Fog. In 2015, the agency plans to expand its CSR projects and pursue joint CSR projects with 35 global companies in 25 overseas branch offices serving as Global Partnering (GP) centers. Development of global CSR programs beneficial to emerging nations _G4-EC8 CSR awards and forums at home and abroad ▶Transfer of unused equipment to emerging nations Hallyu star CSR project _G4-EC8 Success Story KOTRA’s unused equipment transfer project aims to assist emerging nations with economic development and to lay the The Hallyu star CSR project is a CSR initiative capitalizing on the ‘halo effect’ of Hallyu stars, who refer to globally popular Korean groundwork for Korean companies’ overseas market expansion by providing emerging economies with Korea’s operation pop stars, by arranging the stars to participate in CSR activities where Korean companies donate their products to emerging experiences and unused equipment in the areas of test certification, product manufacturing and public services. KOTRA provides markets. KOTRA arranged CSR events such as a CSR event in connection with the 55th anniversary of establishment of diplomatic financial assistance of up to KRW 150 million per project, which will promote industrial development and cultivation of professionals ties between Korea and Brazil, a charitable event marking the 25th anniversary of an international medical care NGO in Vietnam, in emerging nations and disseminate Korea’s industrial standards, conformity systems, and research outcomes abroad. In 2014, and Korea-Thailand friendship cultural festival where Korean stars including boy band VIXX, Korean actress Ha Ji-won who KOTRA provided a support for a project that transferred unused equipment of Electronics and Telecommunications Research donated Korean companies’ products. Through such CSR activities, KOTRA further disseminated Hallyu or the Korean Wave and Institute of Korea to Myanmar. The agency plans to expand the project’s scope to seven areas including Korea Testing and Research [Domestic] The 2014 Overseas CSR supported Korean companies’ local market expansion overseas. Commercialization Forum Moon Engineering Institute (mixed substance separating equipment) and Songam Syscom (Internet equipment). In connection with the commemorative event marking In Paraguay, the National Integrated Emergency In connection with a charitable event for an Transfer of unused equipment to emerging nations – 7 pilot projects Hallyu star CSR activities the Korea-Brazil 55th anniversary of establishment of Management System (NIEMS) project funded by Korea international medical care NGO event in Vietnam diplomatic ties Internet and Security Agency had been suspended due to change of government and uncooperative position of Category Entity Equipment to be transferred (residual value) Recipient organizations SENATICs, Paraguay’s ICT ministry, which had been in Korea Testing 5 pieces including a gas chromatograph Company 10 Korean companies including Ildong Pharmaceutical 5 Korean companies including Zaicro Dalat University, Vietnam charge of the project in the previous government. After Testing/ & Research Institute (KRW 180 million) the change of government, Ministry of Interior, which had certification R&D Korea Apparel Testing 12 pieces including an automated solid phase Development Center for Textile Technology, Myanmar no cooperative relations with Korea, took charge of the & Research Institute extractor (KRW 100 million) In commemoration of the 55th anniversary of Korea[Domestic] CSR Award for Foreign InvestedIn a charitable event marking the 25th anniversary of an project, making it imperative to build trust. In response, Brazil’s diplomatic ties, Hallyu stars, Korean SMEs and Sung Han Machine A set of loess block molding machine An NGO implementing a public housing project, Congo international medical care NGO held in Hanoi, Vietnam, Companies Operating in Korea KOTRA and Moon Engineering launched an Details companies participating in the 2014 Korea Brand and Product 3 embossing machine and 200 rolls Hallyu stars donated talent and Korean companies e-government school in 2013, introducing Korea’s case Saeil Embossing A state-run apparel manufacturer, Vietnam Entertainment Expo (KBEE) donated products, including manufacturing molded with patterns (KRW 150 million) donated their medicine. sports goods. study on the establishment of e-government and latest ICT technologies by field to policy makers of the Paraguay Daewon GSI A grain color sorter (KRW 30 million) Ukraine Agricultural Cooperative government an working-level staff related to the 35 pieces including broadband power line Institute of Posts and Telecommunications under Ministry Songam Syscom e-government project and discussed cooperation (KRW 120 million) of Postal Services and Telecommunications, Laos measures related to establishment of bilateral ICT Public service 10 pieces of multifunctional welding machine Vocational training institution under Ministry of Human infrastructure by theme. As a result of such effort, Moon Postech (KRW 55 million) Resources, Malaysia Engineering was able to secure a project contract on the establishment of Paraguay’s Internet security control In 2015, KOTRA plans to press ahead with 10 projects in partnership with Korea Association of Machinery Industry, Ministry of [Overseas] CSR Award·Forum _Vietnam system, while instilling positive image of Korean companies and technology in Paraguay, thereby building Public Safety and Security, Korea Basic Science Institute, and Korea Evaluation Institute of Industrial Technology. It will also the foundation for mutual cooperation. discover transfer projects in connection with export of Korean second-hand machinery, while expanding the project areas to include disaster prevention, security and environment. 46 47 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Countering Climate Change Social Contribution Organization CSR awards and forums at home and abroad Global KOTRA also hosts CSR-related awards and forums at home and abroad to create a venue for sharing CSR-related information. In Appendix 2014, on the domestic front, the agency held a forum on overseas CSR commercialization, as well as a CSR award ceremony for foreign-invested companies operating in Korea. On the global front, KOTRA organized CSR forums and CSR awards in partnership with local governments. Fostering multicultural global marketers _G4-EC8 Context Capitalizing on its characteristics as a trade and investment promotion agency, KOTRA promotes a project that fosters multicultural global marketers. Under the project, the agency selects talents with appropriate academic backgrounds and Climate change is a critical issue that requires joint global response. Korea responded to the issue at the government level by language skills among marriage migrants residing in Korea, foreign students in Korea, migrant workers, and children from hosting Green Climate Fund (GCF) in Songdo, Incheon in late 2013. In line with the government policy, KOTRA is responding to multicultural families and cultivates them into specialists in trader marketing. By 2014, KOTRA selected a total of 187 people and issues related to climate change in a preemptive manner through its Climate Change Project Team. provided education on trade business including tariffs, customs clearance procedures, transportation, and document preparation, as well as interpretation and translation (2 occasions, 125 people). The agency helped 25 of them get employed through career fairs with exporters, while assisting 85 people to successfully get a job or start business including 38 people who were selfemployed or set up their own startups. They are actively involved in a wide areas, including working as interpreters/translators and Progress and Achievements 2014 KOTRA Global CSR Satisfaction Survey guides for international events. Survey period: Jan.12~Jan. 14, 2015 Meanwhile, in 2014 KOTRA held multicultural global marketers career/startup forums on two occasions (January and November). Foundation-building projects for countering climate change _G4-EC2 Survey method: Online survey and telephone interviews Number of respondents: 80 responded out of 241. In recognition of such effort and outstanding performance, the agency’s project was chosen as one of implementation projects for In an effort to lay the foundation for countering climate change, KOTRA collaborates with international organizations such as GCF Ministry of Gender Equality and Family’s ‘multicultural family policies’ for 2014. and GGGI (Global Green Growth Institute), while pioneering new markets with high growth potential. It also carried out projects on Satisfaction: 91.5 point countering climate change in China, one of Korea’s neighboring countries. Q. How would your company rate the level of satisfaction CSR activities for local communities with regard to KOTRA’s global CSR projects? Project description Results Making the most of its characteristics as a trade and investment promotion agency, KOTRA is engaged in following CSR activities 85.2 91.5 for local communities: Youth Export Schools, Youth Dream Forums, and “Grow Together” initiative for foreign-invested companies ·Jointly hosting Global Green Hub Korea (GGHK) with GCF ·211 clients from 53 countries were invited (May 2014,Songdo Convensia) ·Jointly organizing ‘The Creative Economy and Green Growth’ session ·Companies participating in GGHK secured contracts for environment and Opening ceremony of Global Climate Change Forum in Korea. in partnership with GGGI renewable energy projects ·Hosting a climate change project strategy orientation with the ·Domestic participating companies signed MOUs (KOTRA assisted 6 companies CSR activities for local Number of CSR invitation of GCF to sign MOUs on the spot and 4 companies to sign MOUs later) Description Plan in 2015 communities activities in 2014 ·Consulting on overseas marketing for Korean-style floating offshore ·Korean-style floating offshore wind power generation system demonstration KOTRA’s employees deliver lectures on trade and global economy for wind power generation system demonstration project project implementation team was launched Youth Export Schools 5 locations 7 locations high school students in provincial regions. ·Hosting Korea-China eco-friendly forum and a project consulting ·A Korean company that participated in the Korea-China eco-friendly forum and 2013 2014 session following the “China climate change response project” project consultation session signed two MOUs Experts in fashion and automobile deliver lectures on their working Youth Dream Forum experience and offer career development consulting service for 2 occasions 4 occasions Intention to participate again: 93.8% vocational high school students. Fifty Korean university student volunteers, members of European Joint overseas green project implementation between large enterprises and SMEs Q. What is the likelihood of your company returning to participate in KOTRA’s global CSR projects in the future? Grow Together Chamber of Commerce in Korea, and employees of foreign-invested 3 occasions 2 occasions KOTRA assists joint overseas business operation by encouraging SMEs to participate in its green projects. The agency tries to identify companies in Korea carry out CSR activities for local communities. promising overseas green projects by dispatching expert research groups to overseas sites to conduct investigation into promising Key note Address, secretary-general of GCF 71.4 93.8 In addition, the agency offers foreign language education (4 occasions) and global culture education (1 occasion) to foster nextgreen projects discovered by overseas KBCs with respect to legal aspect, business feasibility, economicality and technology. generation trade talents, while engaging in various activities to contribute to local communities, including donation of multicultural books (1 occasion), export and market discovery project for social enterprises (3 occasions), charity activities participated by all Project description Results KOTRA employees (4 occasions), fundraising and sponsorship activities (12 occasions) to help the socially underprivileged. ·Expert research teams were dispatched to land reclamation sites in ·KOTRA dispatched a survey team for UAE land reclamation project and UAE and project sites in East Europe held a briefing session explaining the survey results UAE project : 8 Korean companies participated in the project ·KOTRA dispatched expert research teams to three East European Tangible and intangible economic effects of global CSR initiatives _G4-EC7,8 countries (Hungary, Romania, Bulgaria) through large-small business promotion group 2013 2014 East Europe waste landfill site project: 10 Korean companies Global CSR activities had a promotional effect on participating companies and also offered opportunities to better understand local joint overseas project promotion group participated in the project promotion group Effect of participation markets and boost perceptions of Korean companies among local people. In particular, KOTRA received letters of appreciation ·Green project feasibility study and consulting support projects from 27 local clients overseas including Ministry of Energy and Mines of Laos and Shanghai Municipal Water Authority of China. Feasibility study : Assistance for outsourcing of feasibility study for Q. What effects did your company experience after overseas environment and renewable energy projects and expert participating in KOTRA’s global CSR projects? Through these endeavors, KOTRA’s global CSR initiatives were established as a new marketing tool that helps Korean companies consultation fees ·12 feasibility study projects and 9 consulting projects were assisted secure export and project contracts. Consulting : Assistance for securing green project contracts, vendor 41.2 26.4 24.3 8.1 participation (supply of parts and materials) Strategic Direction Strategic Direction Expansion of Expansion of Better Helpful to secure company name networks with understanding of export/project KOTRA will actively press ahead with projects aimed to counter climate change through climate change-related activities in recognition buyers and clients local markets contracts KOTRA will proactively press ahead with follow-up CSR projects to locally instill a good image of Korea as a country that carries connection with international events such as world congress of ICLEI (International Council For Local Environmental out CSR activities in a wholehearted, faithful manner. In addition, the agency will continue to expand CSR project areas, while Initiatives), Eco-friendly Project Plaza and GGHK(Global Green Hub Korea). The agency also plans to expand the project scope striving to improve the image of Korean companies participating in KOTRA’s CSR initiatives through enhanced overseas of large-small business joint overseas project promotion group to include water treatment, photovoltaic energy, and prevention promotional activities. of air pollution and tap into promising global markets such as Southeast Asia and Central and South America. 48 49 The Reason Why Advanced Business Management Is a Material Issue for KOTRA KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Sustainability Report 2014Report 2014 KOTRA marked its 50th anniversary and is looking forward to another 50 years. Advanced business Introduction Open the Global Future Business Platform management is crucial for the agency to become a public institution representing Korea through sustainable Business KOTRA development. Social Contribution Organization Policies on Advanced Organizational Management Global To this end, KOTRA operates regional head offices to ensure customer and field-oriented organizational Appendix operations, while running strategic performance management system. The agency also formulated mid-tolong term financial plans to secure financial soundness not affected by external risk factors. It also established its new human resources vision and standards of conduct to foster global leaders who will lead the era of US$ 2 trillion in trade and came up with new competence models to systemize human resource development strategies. Meanwhile, KOTRA strived to improve organizational culture by implementing tasks for government normalization in a speedy manner, while establishing an in-house grievance handling mechanism and a risk management system to counter growing risk factors encountered by overseas KBCs. Moreover, the agency reflected human rights management guideline checklist issued by the National Human Rights Commission of Korea to respond to the growing demand for human rights management, while reinforcing information protection and obtaining ‘Good’ grade in the 2014 information security management status evaluation administrated by the National Intelligence Service. Performance Indicators on Advanced Business Management Performance in Performance in Performance goal Evaluation detail Performance indicator Goal in 2014 2013 2014 Organizational operations Organizational reshuffle, based on business delegation and authorization, Level of satisfaction with 3.74 point 3.79 point 3.80 point performance and number of employees per organizational operations customer demand department, etc. Realization of Reasonableness of indicator performance-oriented Establishment and operation 76.7 point 77.87 point 78.08 point design organization through of the performance strategic performance management system Fairness of the evaluation 72.98 point 74.33 point 70.11 point management system Establishment of mid-tolong term financial budget Sales KRW 326.6 billion KRW 340 billion KRW 342.3 billion Enhancement of KOTRA’s plans and feedback competitiveness General & administrative through efficient financial 39.9% 37.9% 38.3% Budget planning, execution expenses divided by sales budget management and post-evaluation Efficiency of business KRW 81.3 KRW 92.8 KRW 93.7 execution million/1 person million/1 person million/1 person Operation of reasonable Total labor cost increase Compensation system 1.858% 1.7% 1.524% compensation system ratio Normalization of lax Normalization of lax Employee benefit reduction 5.2% 17.7% management management ratio per person Stabilization of Socially equitable manpower employment of nonYouth intern recruitment 208 persons 219 persons 247 persons utilization regular workers and expansion of socially Improvement of organization Utilization of flexible working equitable manpower culture promoting balance 98 persons 103 persons 115 persons hour system utilization between work and family 03 Value system internalization 87.9 point 88.5 point 89.4 point Establishment of a system index to enhance core Competency development Satisfaction level with job competencies and 4.17 point 4.25 point 4.49 point training operation of a fair human resources system Fairness of human resources Satisfaction level with human 4.34 point 4.36 point 4.37 point management resources system operation Key Issues Contents Organization Economic performance Labor-management relations Building a Customer and Field-oriented Organization Growing importance in securing talents Freedom of association and collective bargaining Operating a Reasonable Evaluation System Employment (fair employment & Increased demand for employee welfare and rights (balance between work and life) Stable Financing Management guarantee of employment relations) Promoting Advanced Business Fostering Global Talents Employee education and training Anti-discrimination (regular vs. non-regular) Management Diversity and equal opportunities Increased demand for security of customer Establishing Creative Organization Culture information Workplace health and safety (stress Human Rights Management management, etc.) Cyber security and information security Information Security Labor practice grievance handling Public’s increased access to information mechanism (Internet, SNS, etc.) 50 51 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Building a Customer and Field-oriented Organization Social Contribution Organization Global Site-centered organizational operation Appendix KOTRA has transferred some of the head office’s authorities to local business site organization, enabling local business sites to locally make decisions on responses to local demands under the approval of their regional head offices without receiving approval from the head office. In addition, the head office transferred the authority to change areas of certain jurisdiction depending on the market environment when dividing geographical areas that fall under the jurisdiction of respective KBCs, as well as the authority Context to integrated operation of nearby KBCs and their jurisdiction areas. KOTRA is an organization with extensive global network of 123 Korea Business Centers (KBCs) in 83 countries around the Center/Hub KBCs world and respective KBCs have face-to-face contacts with their customers. Against this backdrop, it is necessary to review the As part of effort to promote customer and site-oriented organizational operation, KOTRA operates 26 types of hub/center KBCs as agency’s internal and external functions on an ongoing basis, select core business areas, and operate the organization in an of 2014. efficient manner. Center/ Hub KBCs Center/Hub KBCs Nagoya / Dallas / Dubai / Detroit / Madrid / New York / LA /Silicon Valley / Detroit / Dallas / Melbourne / Munich / Milano/Vancouver / Frankfurt / London / Tokyo / Osaka / Beijing / Progress and Achievements Investment center Beijing / Brussels / Vienna / Shanghai / Assistance for attracting Shanghai / New Delhi / Bangalore / Hanoi / Ho Chi Stockholm / Sydney / Amsterdam / overseas experts Minh / Jakarta / Bangkok / Singapore / Kuala Washington DC / Zurich / Qingdao / Lumpur / Dubai / Istanbul / Teheran / Moscow / Reorganization Copenhagen / Taipei / Hamburg / Fukuoka (23) Kiev / Sao Paolo / Buenos Aires (26) KOTRA conducted reorganization based on the results of internal function reviews on the basis of the government’s in-depth IP-DESK (Overseas Support center LA/Rio de Janeiro / Manila/ Beijing / Shanghai / financial evaluation of an overseas export assistance business group, Korea TradeInvestment Promotion Agency Act, and LA / Guangzhou / Beijing / Shanghai / intellectual property for green Dalian / London / Warsaw / Tokyo / Osaka / center) Qingdao / Ho Chi Minh (6) companies government policies, as well as the three principles of organizational operations (field, performance, and collaboration). As a result, Johannesburg (11) South West Asia Head Office was newly launched to strengthen assistance for Korean companies’ market expansion in Tokyo / Chicago / Silicon Valley / Support center for GP center Southwestern Asia, while new branch offices were opened in Shenzhen and Tianjin, China to tap into strategic regions in the nation. Plant construction Dubai / Moscow / Bogota / Sao Paulo (4) (Global Osaka / Zurich / Nagoya / projects Partnering) Beijing / Shanghai/ Kuala Lumpur (9) In addition, KOTRA set up Global Job Creation Department to take charge of operation of K-Move Centers in overseas locations and increased the number of experts to assist provincial-based, domestic market-oriented Korean SMEs to become export K-MOVE IT support center Tokyo / Beijing / Silicon Valley (3) Tokyo / Silicon Valley / Jakarta (3) companies. Center Meanwhile, in order to strengthen site organization, KOTRA’s head office in Korea relocated business and personnel to on-site London / Frankfurt / Amsterdam / Zurich / Warsaw locations. On the overseas front, the agency increased the number of dispatched employees by 4 for 4 KBCs with big difference in Guangzhou / New Delhi / New York / Tokyo / / Milano / Prague/ Brussels / Stockholm / New current personnel level and appropriate staffing level among KBCs tasked with new functions and increased local staff by 12 based Dubai / LA / Mexico City / Moscow / Beijing / York / Chicago / LA/ Silicon Valley / Detroit / Tokyo/ Global M&A Export incubator Sao Paulo / Shanghai / Chicago/ Singapore/ Osaka / Singapore / Bangkok / Kuala Lumpur / on manpower adjustment index. center Washington DC / Chengdu / Frankfurt / Jakarta / Ho Chi Minh / Hanoi / Sydney / Melbourne Ho Chi Minh (17) / Mumbai / Dubai / Istanbul / Tehran / Cairo / Tel Current personnel Current personnel Aviv / Beijing / Guangzhou / Taipei / Hong Kong (35) Areas Areas KBC compared to appropriate KBC compared to appropriate for new staff increase for new staff increase staffing level staffing level Beijing / Shanghai / Guangzhou / Dalian / Korea Auto parts China Desk Detroit / Frankfurt / Nagoya / Shanghai (4) Qingdao (5) Park Construction, plants Dubai 2.31 persons Service, export Madrid 2.76 persons Attraction of overseas Defense industry Frankfurt 3.67 persons Guatemala 0.95 person manpower support center Executives in charge of different regions of Korea In an effort to enhance communication with site organization in different regions of Korea, KOTRA operates a system in which Strategic Direction executives take charge of five regions across the country. Five standing executives at the Seoul head office are in charge of Daegyeong, Honam, Chungcheong, Dongnam, and Gangwon regions, respectively. They share mid-term management goals and As of 2014, the number of KOTRA’s employees working for local business sites exceeded twice that of the head office and thus sustainability management reports and hold extended executive meetings every other month. there are greater interactions with customers at local business sites (overseas/regional). Given this, KOTRA plans to steadily expand the transfer of authorities to local site organization to boost efficiency of organizational operation and implement KBC chief meetings by regional head office projects in a more timely and efficient fashion. On the overseas front, chiefs of KBCs by overseas regional head office hold meetings (8 sessions in 2014) to disseminate the CEO’s management philosophy and KOTRA’s pending issues, while local pending issues are shared among working-level meetings (6 sessions in 2014). In addition, video conferences with overseas regional head offices are held frequently to internalize the agency’s vision and expand collaboration. KOTRA’s pending issues are also shared through Cheongwoojidam, a webtoon-based monthly newsletter for overseas network. Key strategies identified by region in overseas business sites through KBC chief meetings by regional head office are reflected in business plans for the following year to be disseminated on the companywide level at home and abroad. Major strategies identified Meeting with 23 directors of overseas offices in the Middlein 2014 included the Eurasia Initiative strategy (CIS), creation of a Korean industrial complex in Rajasthan state, India (South West east and Africa Asia), development premium products to deal with the weaker yen (Japan), and assistance for securing projects to counter industrial diversification (Middle East/ Africa). 52 53 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Operating a Reasonable Evaluation System Social Contribution Organization KOTRA shared and disseminated its knowhow on operating the performance management system among various public Global institutions including the Seoul Metropolitan Government, Korea International Cooperation Agency (KOICA), and Gyeonggi Small Appendix and Medium Business Center. In recognition of its achievement, KOTRA won the 2014 Business Innovation Awards (Minister’s Award) sponsored by Korea Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, and JoongAng Ilbo Daily. Enhancing relevance of the indicator system Context KOTRA made reasonable adjustments to organizational and individual evaluation indicators. With respect to organizational evaluation indicators, CSFs (Critical Success Factor) and KPIs (Key Performance Indicator) by task were identified in connection In order for KOTRA to maintain sustainability as a strategy-oriented organization and achieve its goals on the corporation-wide with KOTRA’s establishment purpose, national trade vision and strategic tasks. Also, the number of evaluation indicators was level, it is necessary to systematically manage performances of the organization and individual employees. There is also a reduced, while quantifiable ratios were increased, thereby improving objectivity of evaluation. Meanwhile, KOTRA strengthened demand for strengthening direct connectivity between performance achieved by organization or individuals and the indicators to emphasize collaboration with relevant organizations, inducing open collaboration that organically links the agency’s remuneration system including personnel management and compensation. original functions such as information provision and marketing with financing, M&A, and talent cultivation. KOTRA operates an individual evaluation system built on the highest level of BSC (Balance Score Card) and MBO (Management by Objectives) among the nation’s public institutions. Individual evaluation indicators are used for senior positions including team leaders and overseas KBC chiefs, thereby establishing an individual evaluation system for all employees. In order to encourage Progress and Achievements employees to set challenging objectives when team members set individual objectives, KOTRA has come up with an institutional system that specifies performances of the previous year, obligates review of threshold value, and evaluates levels of difficulty. The Strategic performance management system agency also boosted the impartiality of evaluation by expanding the share of individual MBO evaluation. Since the introduction of BSC (Balanced Score Card) in 2001 for the first time as a public institution, KOTRA has further enhanced its performance management system based on its long operation experience and has reached a stage for dissemination. Enhanced management of high performers and low performers Business Innovation Awards 2013~2014 KOTRA rewards high-performing employees by appointing them in senior positions, sending them to outside training programs or Upgrading and dissemination of the giving awards. On the other hand, the agency has a separate management programs for low-performing departments or 2006~2012 performance management system employees. It has introduced a ‘challenge department’ management program in which departments with poor performance are Operation of a strategic performance 2001~2005 management system •The performance-remuneration connectivity was expanded to selected as challenge departments and they are obligated to submit performance improvement plans based on diagnostic matrix Laying the foundation for include overseas employees (local employees) (2013) performance evaluation •Introduction of KOTRA Money (2007) •KOTRA’s performance management system was disseminated at on types of low performance. Meetings and coaching sessions designed to check on the progress of tasks will ensue and the •Operation of the SEM-BSC system (2008) home and abroad •Introduction of BSC for the first time as a public Domestic:Presented as an exemplary case study at business departments concerned make improvements on final results. •Introduction of a new performance-based institution in the nation (2001)-establishment of annual pay system for senior positions, management evaluation workshops In addition, low performers are selected based on performance and competence evaluation results. In order to improve their individual evaluation system expanding connectivity between performance Offering performance management consulting service to •Establishment of online evaluation system and remuneration (2011) institutions with poor management evaluation performance performance, such programs as self-reflection training and competence enhancement job training are carried out. However, for (KOPES) (2002) Overseas : KOTRA’s performance management system was •KOTRA selected as a leading institution in employees who have shown low performance in competence evaluation, achievement evaluation, and performance rating for two •Integrated operation of BSC and MBO (2004)performance management among public transferred to overseas institutions (emerging countries such as Alignment of CSFs and KPIs institutions (2012) Saudi Arabia and Vietnam) consecutive years, they are subject to disciplinary actions such as waiting to be assigned at home, deliberation on eligibility for •Systemization of remuneration through connectivity with i-HR (2005) overseas assignment, early summon and removal from one’s position. •Awarded BSC Hall of Fame (2005) Connectivity between personnel and remuneration management and performance management Upgrading performance management functions and strengthening monitoring KOTRA reflects organizational or individual evaluation results in its remuneration system, establishing a competency and KOTRA plans performance objectives, business projects, budget and labor input based on ERP system, an internal intranet, while performance-based, reasonable remuneration system. The agency also differentiates performance-related pay for its employees collecting and monitoring customers participating in its projects and performances accumulated over the course of project by fully reflecting achievement evaluation results, thereby taking the lead in performance-based management of public execution. KOTRA has upgraded a function that can regular update and monitor quantitative performances of key performance institutions. As a result, KOTRA maintains the highest level of performance pay differentiation system among public institutions in indicators through SEM (Strategic Enterprise Management), a quantitative performance management system, thereby providing the nation. In a bid to disseminate performance-oriented organizational culture, the agency plans to increase the ratio of reflecting useful information to management and departments in charge of project planning/implementation. Moreover, KOTRA established achievement evaluation results in HR and remuneration management from 40% in 2014 to 60% in 2015. the KOTRA Money management system (KM management system) designed to assist and manage labor input by project and activity. Under the KM management system, 100KM (KOTRA Money) is defined as an activity performed by a person for eight hours a day and KM standard unit prices are determined in consideration of difficulty level by project and level of effort. KOTRA Money SEM(Strategic Enterprise Management) (KM) is supplied differentially depending on project environment, degree of performance delivery and level of effort. This has significantly reduced the performance management burden of both the head office and divisions, which pay KM, and overseas Strategic Direction KBCs which obtain KM, and has enhanced real-time monitoring. Through the system, KOTRA came to introduce ABC (Activity Based Costing), which is designed to analyze costs and performances by project/organization in connection with KM performance, KOTRA will continue to increase the share of individual evaluation for senior positions in public institutions and facilitate organic for the first time as a public institution. close connectivity between organizational and individual evaluations by assigning organizational performance indicators by Performance management KM management system individuals and adopting more sophisticated measurements of individual performance. Through such effort, the agency will KM(KOTRA Money) via KM management system analysis and statistics continue to maintain a fair and transparent evaluation system, taking the initiative in performance management of public institutions. •100KM is defined as an activity performed by a person for 8 hours a day. •KM standard unit prices are set in consideration of difficulty level by project and degree of effort. •KM is offered in a differentiated manner depending on project environment, degree of performance delivery and degree of effort. e.g.) Finding a new buyer-300KM (3 days required) 54 55 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Stable Financial Management _G4-EC1 Social Contribution Organization Global Preliminary (Budget Team) Implementation (Finance Team) Follow-up (Auditor’s Office) Appendix ·Revision of budget operation ·Increase in business categories to which use of ·Upon Anti-Corruption and Civil guidelines and reduction in corporate credit cards are restricted to beef up the Rights Commission’s New business operation clean card monitoring system (May 2014) recommendation, KOTRA set Current ratio (unit : %) improvements expenses, thereby inducing ·Inspection of irregularities related to budget execution up and operated “Integrity in 2014 transparent budget through monitoring of corporate card transaction Ombudsman” system. (Aug. Context execution (Feb. 2014) details through the ERP financial accounting system. 2014) 256.6 171.9 219.7 KOTRA launched a corporation-wide risk management taskforce team aimed to upgrade its financial risk response system. From Due to prolonged uncertainties in the global economy, exchange rate fluctuations and risks for operating budget in foreign May to December 2014, 59 members of the TF team from all departments revamped phased response measures that involve currencies are increasing. KOTRA is exposed to exchange rate fluctuation risks as it is involved in various overseas projects and prediction, monitoring, and follow-up measures regarding risk factors such as government subsidies, exchange rates and budget has a financial structure highly dependent on government subsidies. Due to the low ratio of internal profits compared to its total implementation. 2012 2013 2014 revenue, the agency is highly reliant on government budget. In addition, the Korean government’s general accounts budget related to trade and investment has been steadily on the decrease. In order for KOTRA to achieve sustainable development, it is crucial to Maintenance of optimal financial structure Debt ratio (unit : %) establish a solid financial structure, which withstands external variables, as well as reasonable budget operation system. With respect to financing, KOTRA secures its business funds from government subsidies, external partnership projects and interval revenue sources. Its capital is 100% invested by the government, and thus its cost of equity capital is very low and the 59.9 61.7 42.5 agency has not borrowed any external funds, having no financial liabilities. Also, the liabilities consist of essential items inevitably generated through normal operations such as performance-related pay payable, accounts payable, unearned revenue, and Mid-to-long term financial plan _G4-2 Progress and Achievements severance pay. In 2014, KOTRA’s liabilities decreased by KRW 15.2 billion from the previous year, which results mainly from excluding Reformulation of mid-to-long term financial strategies performance-related pay based on management evaluation from severance benefits through labor-management agreement. 2012 2013 2014 Growth Based on the mid-to-long term management plan reflecting such change in business environment, KOTRA formed TF teams KOTRA reduced liabilities for domestic severance benefits by KRW 11.4 billion (KRW 39.4 billion in 2013 → KRW 28 billion in 2014), participated by all members of the agency, while reformulating mid-to-long term financial strategies in collaboration with external responding to the government’s policy of liability reduction. In addition, KOTRA upgraded its liquidity management system by Total liabilities (unit : KRW 100 million) specialized institutes. The agency also came up with business, investment and human resources plans reflecting the newly (Detailed implementation plan) adopting a liquidity monitoring system, thereby expanding its financial stability. formulated financial plan. Based on the mid-to-long term financial plan, KOTRA estimated its sales, capital, debt ratio, and 583 664 512 Building the foundation for financial independence, and came up with modified financial budget strategies for normal management, independent sustainable growth Government subsidies • Enhance competencies of core businesses management, crisis management, and emergency management by assuming situation change by possible scenarios. Sales, cost • Expand projects by tapping into new industries and markets The Korean government grants subsidies to KOTRA for its consigned projects or KOTRA’s own projects. of sales, operating income, assets and liabilities were calculated by assuming government subsidy increase rate and internal (Key indicator) income increase rate as controllable factors and assuming foreign exchange rates as uncontrollable factors among change drivers Retirement pension Sales that have a crucial impact on the agency’s sales. Based on the results, KOTRA formulated response strategies by scenario. Article 52 of KOTRA’s Collective Agreement stipulates that retirement benefits pursuant to Guarantee of Workers’ Retirement 2012 2013 2014 Benefits Act are provided in the form of retirement pension and its details follow Retirement Pension Agreement. Establishment of financial risk response system In order to ensure stable financial management, it is important to respond to future financial risks in a preemptive manner. KOTRA Management of subsidiaries selected decrease in government subsidies and foreign exchange losses, which are key change drivers significantly impacting the In line with the government policy aimed to enhance competitiveness of the exhibition and convention industry and promote its Safety agency’s sales, as financial risks requiring core management and classified crisis warning stages into Yellow (elevated), Orange development, KOTRA owns 33.14% stake and 26% stake in its subsidiaries KINTEX (Korea International Exhibition Center) and (high), and Red (severe) to set the criteria for deciding on level of risk by stage. Government subsidies BEXCO (Busan Exhibition and Convention Center), respectively, as national exhibition infrastructure contributing to trade (unit : KRW 1 million) _G4-EC4 (Detailed implementation plan) promotion and development of the national economy. Government subsidies Exchange rates Securing sound financial structure As a shareholder, the agency monitors key management 229,621 262,950 275,413 • Stable maintenance/ management of debt ratio Increased risk for reduction in As foreign currency budget accounts for approximately 50% of the total budget, foreign • Systematic foreign exchange risk management agenda items of the two subsidiaries and manages their Context government subsidies due to the exchange rate fluctuations are important. • Reasonable liquidity management government’s balanced budget policy It is necessary to secure stable cash flow. management performances. In addition, KOTRA has (Key indicator) direct and indirect impacts on its subsidiaries’ revenue Monitoring of government policy Simulation data update and around-the-clock monitoring through the ‘exchange risk increase by collaborating in joint sponsorships of Capital, debt ratio trends; preemptive proposal for new management system’; weekly monitoring and corporation-wide sharing of forecasts on projects; restructuring and weekly and mid-term exchange rates through ‘foreign exchange trends weekly reports’; exhibitions at home and abroad and hosting exhibitions Effort to substantiation of projects with poor reducing remittance ratio in U.S. dollars and increasing remittance in local currencies other 2012 2013 2014 counter risks performance; and creating an than U.S. dollars; risk spreading; placing time deposit in local currency (Chinese Yuan) in at the exhibition centers. KINTEX BEXCO atmosphere to secure additional Chinese banks; partially eliminating foreign exchange risks; capitalizing on retained earnings; budget. Additionally accumulating reserves for foreign exchange rate loss. D  efined benefit retirement pension amount (unit : KRW 1 million)* _G4-EC3 Profitability Systematic exchange rate risk management based on response manuals by stages of Achievement/ Secured government subsidies sufficient for stable operation exchange rate fluctuations; Risk stages are classified into Blue (guarded), Yellow (elevated risk), Orange (high risk) and Strategic Direction 18,712 20,855 24,343 Response system (KRW 268.2 billion in 2015, an increase Red (severe risk) by comparing the scale of exchange rate risk with permissible limits of (Detailed implementation plan) by KRW 11.6 billion from a year ago) exchange rate risk under the exchange rate risk management system. Increasing profits & reducing costs In a bid to boost international credit standing and ensure stable financial management, KOTRA plans to increase its capital • Setting targets by reflecting commitment to In addition, KOTRA re-inspected vulnerable areas by stages of budget execution and upgraded the management system on base to KRW 100 billion by 2017 and continuously maintain its debt ratio below 100%. improving financial independence (Key indicator) internal control. In order to ensure customer-oriented budget evaluation, the agency reflected opinions of customers and external experts through the open business deliberation system. Financial independence 2012 2013 2014 *Source: The 2014 KOTRA Audit Report 56 57 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Fostering Global Talents Social Contribution Organization Competency Building Education Plan Pursuit of diversity and open recruitment Global KOTRA offers fair opportunities to diverse members of society including high school graduates, talents based in provincial regions Category Direction Training courses/results Appendix and women by applying socially equitable recruitment criteria. It also increases organizational vitality through open competitive ·Courses: Workshops by rank, Sharing and integrity ethics, customer hiring system and hiring of experts such as lawyers and accountants. The agency also improved its personnel system to adopt an Basic dissemination satisfaction, etc. competencies of value integrated approach to foster talents that include local employees and non-regular employees. system ·Results: 3,194 employees in 26 courses ·Courses: Leadership for senior Context Improvements made Improvement of recruitment system by reflecting KOTRA’s Competency evaluation for heads of overseas KBCs Customized positions, courses for those who are characteristics (2012~2014) Developing period : 2013.9~2014.4 (8month) Competencies competency to be promoted and relocated, new Improvements made by rank building by employees, etc. Details Target people : P eople who will be dispatched Enhancing connectivity among job, performance Adjustment of recruitment criteria based on establishment of growth stage ·Results: 395 employees in 13 In order to take the lead in the national bid to achieve US$ 2 trillion in trade, KOTRA needs to secure expertise to support and compensation overseas as heads of KBCs courses Recruitment new competency models Implementation : 3 times(2013.12~2014.9) globalization of Korean SMEs. Customer demand for the agency’s global business consulting capabilities is on the rise, thereby Details Improvement of evaluation tools in connection with external ·Courses: Academic research, basic Improving performance-based compensation specialized evaluation agencies Global Enhancing job skills, specialized job skills, raising the need for strengthening its new trade and investment promotion functions. There is also a growing demand for system Competency level increase global job foreign language education, etc. competencies enhancement of its service competencies that can provide direct support for customers in their effort to deliver results. This Improvements made expertise Compensation Promotion ·Results: 9,814 employees in 743 courses Improvement towards a fair promotion system 52.8 54.2 57.8 necessitates KOTRA to strategically strengthen human resources competencies. Improvements made based on performance and competence ·Courses: Sexual harassment Inducement of internal innovation by creating a healthy Details Improving prevention education, character competitive environment Shortening time required for becoming eligible for promotion for Basic organizational cultivation education, etc. a rank: (existing) 7 years → (changed) 4 years knowledge Details culture ·Results: 1,769 employees in 8 Improving overseas rotation system (introduction of Expanding the number of promotion candidates (increase by courses Progress and Achievements specialized position system) Deployment Evaluation 36.2% on average, up to 10 people) Introducing open competitive hiring system Enhancing essential training courses for promotion candidates and making improvements to the current completion-based Expanding position-based promotion system (competenceevaluation system Education courses / results (unit : %) based position) Mid-to-long term roadmap for improving human resources system Firmly establishing competency evaluation system for heads Mock test 1st test 2nd test of overseas KBCs Improvements made In an effort to foster global leaders who take the lead in the era of US$2 trillion, KOTRA established a roadmap for improving its Enhancement of objectivity and impartiality of evaluation 11.7 21.1 human resources system. Details The degree of increase by competencies Basic Improving competency evaluation: Expanding evaluation Basic knowledge competencies 2.6 Improvements made by immediate supervisor/next-rank supervisor 12.8 9.9 9.9 Vision for talent cultivation Foster global leaders taking the lead in the era of US$ 2 trillion in trade Improving manpower management system for Implementing evaluation interviews: Improvement Competencies overseas KBCs of personnel management system by rank Details Standards of behavior for “Trustworthy” KOTRA people are those who “LEAD.” 64.6 new KOTRA people Revising local employee operation guidelines for overseas Global labor risk management Local employees competencies Enthusiastic Introducing competency-based personnel management system Leading Partner Active Challenger Dynamic Globalist Strengthening regional head offices’ role of managing Contributor local employees Integrated operation of personnel management system Mock test 1st test 2nd test New competency models for local employees Specialized areas Training outcome Common job competencies (9) Improvements made Competencies by rank Improving manpower management system by Basic competencies (4) ·Talent cultivation in the areas (8 competencies by rank) Improvements made expanding incoming employees S  atisfaction with operation of personnel system Enhancing global Specialized job competencies (29) of economic and industrial Revamping personnel system to increase motivation Positions in Details (unit : regular positions) expertise by region trends by region Non-regular Details special service positions Newly establishing management guidelines on recruitment, service ·Talent cultivation in IT, plant Among the categories of the roadmap, the new competency models consist of basic competencies, competencies by rank and job Expanding incentives for high performers and increasing the management and retirement 4.34 4.37 Strengthening share of merit pay in compensation Expanding training on early adaptation construction and automotive 0.7%↑ industrial expertise industries competencies. Improvements were made to basic competencies by reflecting vision, core values, new values required for KORTA Upgrading career path management system: implementation of Offering HR education tailored to internal employees regular rotation system Cultivating ·Talent cultivation in the areas personnel and standard of behavior in addition to the existing competencies. Competencies by rank were made more systematic Expanding education on organizational culture for new employees with job experience capabilities to carry of trade, investment, by classifying its structure into three areas of thinking, work and relationship. Job competencies were made more sophisticated by Introducing differentiated compensation system for low performers out new functions financing, and ODA. reflecting management strategies. Based on the competency models, KOTRA developed competency building education plans reflecting competencies required by the agency and training needs. Programs utilizing retired employees _G4-LA10 2013 2014 Numbers of attendees KOTRA operates ‘Mobile KOTRA’ program leveraging the expertise of retired trade experts. Through the program, seven retired KOTRA College trade experts are deployed at the head office and on-site support vehicles by five regional support centers and they visit customers Organizational satisfaction (unit : local employees) 701 KOTRA runs KOTRA College that internally offers training programs for specialized areas whose training programs are readily even in areas without regional support centers to listen to their problems. Through the program, KOTRA helps regional SMEs solve 283 available externally. Through KOTRA College, the agency fosters experts by field and expands internal education and training 3.67 3.76 482 export-related problems and advance into overseas markets. Meanwhile, KOTRA dispatches its retired employees to strategic 276 focusing on working-level skills, thereby improving training performance. The numbers of KOTRA College courses and KOTRA markets with high potential for special new demands such as Laos and transfers trade and investment competencies, thereby 2.5%↑ employees taking the courses significantly increased in 2014, compared to the previous year. In 2014, KOTRA trained 2,103 making the most of their accumulated expertise and knowhow. 639 1119 employees in 61 courses (an increase of 56.4% in the number of courses offered, and an increase of 50.5% in the number of 2013 2014 employees taking courses; In 2013, 1,397 employees in 39 courses). 2013 2014 Numbers of courses Competency evaluation for heads of overseas KBCs Strategic Direction KOTRA implemented competency evaluation system for heads of overseas KBCs to select those who will be dispatched overseas Individual satisfaction (unit : local employees) as heads of KBCs through education and evaluation. The agency strived to enhance competencies of heads of overseas KBCs by 23 Taking a step further from establishing a system to enhance core competencies of talents for enhancement of organizational 4.05 4.09 offering re-training by level after competency evaluation. Through the competency evaluations which were conducted on three 10 12 competitiveness, KOTRA plans to introduce specialized job system and strengthen job competency of its own specialized areas. 1%↑ occasions, competency level of heads of KBCs significantly improved from 52.8% (mock test) to 57.8% (second test). By area, the 14 test scores increased in the order of communication, planning power and organizational management. With respect to operation of performance management system, the agency will systematically operate a management 15 26 program for low-performing employees, rather than focusing on rewarding high performers, thereby boosting the overall 2013 2014 organizational competency. By doing so, KOTRA will enable all of its members to share outcomes, enhancing core ▒ Cultivating capabilities to carry out new functions organizational competencies. 2013 2014 ▒ Strengthening industrial expertise ▒ Enhancing global expertise by region 58 59 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Establishing Creative Organizational Culture Social Contribution Organization Enhancement of grievance handling system _G4-50 KOTRA strives to resolve grievances of workers through various channels. The agency creates a stress-free work environment Global through labor-management joint grievance settlement body and employee assistance program (EAP). In 2014, the agency provided Appendix 153 counseling sessions during the year. Through the EAP counseling sessions, employees’ work engagement and stress management skills increased by 10%p and 22.5% p, respectively. Context Major channels Activities Results ·Countermeasures against customers’ harsh ·A total of 7 employee grievances such as excessive demands (6) In-house music broadcasting KBN Grievance reporting complaints against employees, sexual harassment, etc. and sexual harassment (1) were handled Social demands for improvement of organizational culture in public institutions have been growing in recent years, ranging center ·Formation and operation of special customer TF teams ·Measures by situation such as visits to customers, public hearings, by type and service limitation were taken from the government’s demand for normalization of public institutions, communication between labor and management to ·Specialized counseling service on personal (personality ·153 counseling sessions for 23 employees balance between work and family. In response, KOTRA made concerted efforts to improve its organizational culture by EAP counseling interpersonal relationships, family issues) and career ·Improved work engagement (10%) and stress management skills (work aptitude, stress) problems (22.5%p) implementing the government’s tasks for normalization of public institutions as early as possible, increasing communication Dialogue between CEO ·Representatives of union and management frequently ·Sharing of the need for implementing normalization tasks channels between labor and management, expanding risk management and grievance handling systems for overseas KBCs, and union chairman hold meetings on key management issues ·Discussing pending issues such as taxation on overseas allowances and increasing the number of female managers. ·Reflecting exemption of public officials who inadvertently fail to ·Dialogue between Auditor and employees (3 occasions) Dialogue between follow due process from disciplinary actions in audit regulations ·Regular meetings with employees to be dispatched In 2014, KBN, KOTRA’s in-house music broadcasting, auditor and employees ·Sharing problems among related teams and urging them to make overseas or returning employees was launched. It is voluntarily operated by an internal corrective measures Union and Corporate Declaration club and features interactive programs through Progress and Achievements Suggestion system ·Identifying employees’ grievances through employee suggestions (297 suggestions received) ·Inducing suggestions by giving prizes to employees submitting good suggestions employee involvement with different daily themes such as telephone interviews (KBCs’ 24 Hours) and invitation of employees (inviting employees to broadcasting Operation of labor-management communication channels programs). In addition, such programs as “This week’s In an effort to promote a creative organizational culture, KOTRA operates a total of 43 labor-management communication Grievance handling system for overseas KBCs News,” “Praise Relay,” and “Stories and Song KOTRA operates a grievance handling system for overseas KBCs led by overseas regional head offices. Smooth organizational Requests” are aired at home and abroad through channels by ranks and regions. in-house broadcasting and video sharing programs operation through regional head office-centered risk management, identification of problems encountered by KOTRA employees (YouTube, Tudou (土豆)). ① Management-management dispatched overseas by regional head offices and their efforts to solve the problems are reflected in evaluation guidelines. Domestic : Management committee, executive roundtable meeting ③ Management-staff ② Management-managers Common : Board of Directors Domestic : Cheongwoojeongdam, unscheduled meeting between CEO and employees, Dialogue between Domestic : Dialogue between CEO and relocated/returning employees, business meeting on review of key Expanding support for KBCs staffed by one person _G4-PR1, 2 CEO and relocated/returning employees business areas, management committee, Overseas : Overseas Cheongwoojeongdam, on-site meeting extended manager meeting Over the past three years, 21 KBCs staffed by one person were set up around the world, resulting in excessive workload for with CEO Overseas : KBC heads’ meeting, regional head office video conference employees working for the overseas offices. As the labor union raised problems, KOTRA identified their grievances (106 cases) and ④ Management-labor union Common : CEO message simplified administrative procudures for overseas KBCs and came up with ways to produce official documents in consideration of Domestic : Labor-management council, labor-management Management roundtable meeting, interview between CEO and union one-person KBCs, calling for corporation-wide cooperation. In addition, KOTRA made improvements on medical care benefits and leader, wage negotiations, collective negotiations ⑥ Managers-staff Domestic : Mentor-mentee program, team meeting education benefits for dependent children to boost morale of employees working for KBCs located in special areas. ⑧ Staff-staff Domestic : Mentor-mentee program Overseas : KBC business meeting  se of parental leave and return _G4-LA3 U (unit : person) Overseas : Working-level meeting ⑤ Managers-managers Risk management system of overseas KBCs Common : Various meetings Staff Managers Number of employees who Domestic : Extended manager meetings, strategy With risk factors increasing at home and abroad as evidenced by abduction of KOTRA’s Tripoli office chief, the Sewol ferry incident, started parental leave meetings on pending issues ⑪ Executives and staff Overseas : KBC heads’ meeting, regional head office and intensifying civil wars in Iraq and Libya, there was a corporation-wide consensus on the need for coming up with measures to Domestic : New year kick-off ceremony, end of year video conference ceremony, club activities, labor-management ensure safety of KOTRA personnel working for overseas KBCs. In response, KOTRA prepared and distributed ‘disaster risk 2013 2014 joint “High-Five,” open gallery, monthly meeting, 2012 management tips for overseas KBCs,’ while selecting key risk indexes by risk factors such as human casualties, kidnapping/going 18 team-building event, retirement ceremony Common : C heongwoojidam, newsletter, KBN (in-house music broadcasting) Labor union ⑦ Managers-labor union Domestic : Labor-management council, labor-management missing overseas, natural disasters, war/civil commotions and fire and internally researching ways to counter them. Based on 15 13 meeting, labor-management working-level ⑨ Staff-labor union council, internal employee welfare council research results, KOTRA came up with and implemented safety enhancement measures and inspected and strengthened risk Domestic : Taskforce on innovation of organizational culture, Number of employees who returned to labor-management working-level council management system within the organization. Overseas KBCs with high disaster risks conduct joint drills with the head office in work after parental leave Common : Closed Union bulletin board ⑩ Labor union-labor union Seoul. KOTRA strived to enhance its risk management capabilities by offering differentiated safety education by overseas dispatch Domestic : Labor union leaders’ meeting Common : Closed Union bulletin board, labor union general destinations and arranging lectures by risk management experts and KOTRA employees with previous experience of working 2013 2014 2012 assembly, representative system overseas. Details on corporation-wide risk management system are available at the “Establishment of Corporation-wide Risk Management System” section on page 13 in this report. 7 16 14 Realizing an exemplary labor-management culture _G4-LA4, 8 Number of employees who have worked more KOTRA has reached wage agreements without disputes for 26 consecutive years since the establishment of labor union, Establishment of a new organizational culture respecting balance between work and family _G4-LA2 than 1 year after parental leave (male) KOTRA Collective Agreement Chapter 9 UCSR (Union & Corporate Social Responsibility) continuing the tradition of stable labor-management relations. Article 1 (scope of application) of Collective Agreement, which has KOTRA protects female workers pursuant to Act on Equal Employment and Support for Work-Family Reconciliation and Labor 2014 been reached based on trust between labor and management, stipulates that provisions on working conditions and employee Standards Act. It made improvements to various personnel systems and programs to create a work environment that promotes 2012 2013 Article 76 (Union and Corporate Social Responsibility) benefits shall be applicable to all employees. Article 8 (notification obligation) of the agreement specifies that personnel balance between work and family and boost work efficiency and sustainability. Most notably, in an effort to create an exciting 1 0 1 appointments such as employee recruitment, promotion, relocation and retirement and prizes and disciplinary actions shall be workplace, KOTRA focused on GWP (Great Work Place) programs and set “Trust, Pride, and Fun,” which are criteria for selecting KOTRA and union actively discover and develop notified immediately. Article 39 concerns overseas assignment system and specifies that overseas assignment shall be notified at GWP awards recipients, as values to be shared among employees and facilitated communication based on trust. Number of employees who have worked more CSR programs related to its characteristics than 1 year after parental leave (female) least two months before the actual relocation to prevent confusion caused by sudden personnel relocation. In addition, Articles 60 Survey results on individual GWP programs conducted among KOTRA employees indicated employees’ high satisfaction with GWP through faithful cooperation between labor and and 61 of Chapter 2 of the Collective Agreement stipulates provisions on health and safety. KOTRA also specifies provisions on its programs showing 99% of satisfaction level on average, including satisfaction level of 97% for employee birthday celebrations, 99% 2014 management to fulfill its social responsibility as effort to improve safety management and health of employees in accordance with relevant laws including Occupational Safety and for gifts for sick employees in bed, 96% for welcome events for new employees, and 97% for family day events. KOTRA won grand 2012 2013 a public institution and secure its sustainability. Health Act (Article 60 Safety and Health Management). Provisions on regular annual health checkups for employees are also prize at Korea Top 100 Happy Companies Awards (June 2014, organized by DongA Ilbo daily) and also received grand prize at GWP 6 10 5 stipulated in Article 61 (Health checkup). Awards for three consecutive years. 60 61 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Human Rights Management Social Contribution Organization Global Shared value Goal Results Appendix ·KOTRA’s in-house music broadcasting Facilitate organizational TRUST ·Cheongwoojeongdam Season 2 communication based on mutual trust ·Team Spirit Day ·Gifts for sick employees in bed, childbirth gifts, welcome gifts for new employees Female managers out of total managers (357) PRIDE Instill pride as a member of KOTRA ·Selection of outstanding employees for praise, KOTRA year-end party Context ·Support for clubs based on selection and concentration depending on level of contribution 2016 Realize a united community and fun and activities FUN workplace ·Awarding prizes to departments with good holiday culture With social impact of enterprises steadily expanding and interest in human rights protection growing, the international 2015 40 (11.2%) ·Lectures by prominent figures, cultural courses, e-book community including international organizations such as the U.N. and the OECD is increasingly calling for global companies to 34 (9.5%) practice human rights management. In order to lead Korean companies’ management culture as a global business platform, 2017 Use of parental leave and return _G4-LA3 KOTRA recognizes human rights management as one of key management issues. 52 2014 KOTRA endeavors to create an organizational culture where employees, who experience difficulties balancing work and family due 26 (7.3%) (14.6%) to childbirth and child rearing, can make the best use of parental leave. In 2014, 18 employees used parental leave, and 14 employees returned to work after parental leave. Progress and Achievements  ducation on prevention of sexual harassment E Expanding the female manager pool (unit: person) KOTRA intends to increase the number of female managers to promote a creative organizational culture. To this end, in connection Human Rights Management Guidelines and Checklist With the international community calling for human rights management, the National Human Rights Commission of Korea Employees who completed sexual harassment with government policies, the agency conducted gender equality consulting implemented by Ministry of Employment and Labor prevention education Internal /External satisfaction (unit: point) published ‘Human Rights Management Guidelines and Checklist’ in January 2014 and distributed them to 300 locations, including aimed to increase the number of female managements and established a mid-to-long term roadmap for improve an environment conducive to gender equality . public enterprises, quasi-government agencies and listed companies, recommending their application. Upon recommendation by 2014 Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index (PCSI) 2012 2013 94.7 94.9 97.3 Category Laying the foundation Taking root (2017~2018) Becoming organizational the standing committee of the National Human Rights Commission, KOTRA took note of the human rights management guidelines and applied them to its management. The agency also diagnosed CSR implementation levels of the head office and 765 800 832 (2015~2016) culture (2019~2020) overseas KBCs centering on seven core themes of ISO 26000 including human rights. KOTRA’s overseas branch offices’ CSR ·Gender equality performance ·Development of jobs cut out ·Female manager mentoring diagnosis results are available in the IV. Global section on p.(64). The agency’s CSR diagnosis report is also available in Appendix. Personnel indicators for women Employees who completed ethical education ·Establishment of female career management ·Improvement on career ·Introduction of recruitment / development system development system promotion target system 2014 2013 Improving employment environment for non-regular employees 2012 806 ·Settlement of the flexible 2012 2013 2014 Support for work-family balance ·Facilitate flexible work hour system ·Facilitate part-time work system ·Introduction of childrearing support system working hour system ·Settlement of the part-time In accordance with a state policy task of ‘addressing discrimination against non-regular workers and creating a stable employment 683 714 work system environment’ and the government’s ‘guidelines on conversion of non-regular workers to regular workers in public institutions,’ ·Invigorate women committee ·Completion of institutional KOTRA formulated mid-to-long term operation plan to promote conversion of non-regular employees to indefinite-term KOTRA employees’ satisfaction with Organizational ·Develop specialized education ·Gender equality education improvements on gender organizational operation (full mark: 5) culture contractual positions to improve an employment environment for the agency’s non-regular employees. Based on the plan, KOTRA Protection of vulnerable group courses equality provisions made improvements to personnel system related to non-regular positions, created job series for indefinite contract positions and 3.74 3.8 selected job areas requiring expertise such as project/customer management and investment consulting in foreign languages Subcontracted employees In order to implement the plan to increase the number of female managers, KOTRA shortened the minimum period required for •Renewal of contracts on cleaning service reflecting legal minimum promotion for female managers, make improvements to personnel system, provided assistance for career development paths through corporation-wide job analysis. And then, the agency went through conversion recruitment procedures through wage tailored to female manpower, and enhanced educational support to foster female employees to core talents. deliberation of human resources committee. As a result, six employees were converted to indefinite contract positions on three occasions in 2014. KOTRA plans to hire additional 50 employees through such conversion from non-regular positions to indefinite Part-time workers •Recognition of career experience resulting from time-part Improving internal and external satisfaction levels contract positions. In addition, in order to create legal ground for employment stability and improvement of working conditions, the employment under employment conditions, deletion of Thanks to KOTRA’s effort to build a creative organizational culture, the agency recorded highest score of 97.3 in the Public-service agency created management provisions that apply the same treatment and benefits such as maintaining the existing discrimination provisions related to compensation/vacation 2013 2014 Customer Service Index (PCSI) in 2014, while receiving 3.8 in satisfaction with organizational operations evaluated by KOTRA compensation levels as regular employees without discrimination. Based on such institutional improvements, KOTRA plans to High school graduates employees, which was higher than the previous year’s record. The public’s satisfaction score stood at 52, which was higher than maintain the numbers of temporary workers within 5% of regular positions after 2016. •Support for their acquisition of degrees by utilizing flexible working The public’s satisfaction hours average score of 48.9 among industry promotion institutions by 3.1 point. 48.9 52 KOTRA plans to double the ratio of female managers from 7.3% (26 out of 357) in 2014 to 14.6% (52 out of 357) by 2017. Protection of vulnerable groups and education on prevention of sexual harassment •Support for internal education such as specialized foreign language education and intensive job competency training up to four years from In addition to non-regular workers, KOTRA established various systems to protect vulnerable groups who find it difficult to secure the time of joining the company guarantee of their rights within the company such as contingent workers, high school graduates and part-time workers. KOTRA •Granting same rank as first-year university graduate in the fifth year also provided on/offline education on ethical management and prevention of sexual harassment to all of its employees. since joining the company (hereafter the same rank and promotion system shall apply.) •Application of the same annual basic pay table as university Strategic Direction graduates, offering fair opportunities for promotion through Industry promotion KOTRA management of the same job groups. institutions KOTRA will continue to implement the government’s normalization tasks on an ongoing basis through joint efforts of labor and Strategic Direction Employees dispatched overseas •Implementation of flexible working hours to resolve childcare issue management. The agency will identify deep-rooted negative aspects within the organization and take corrective measures to resulting from dispatch of female employees overseas create an organizational culture for sustainable growth. It will also take the lead in mature labor-management culture by KOTRA will continue to work hard to internalize human rights management within the agency by becoming fully aware of •Expanding communication with domestic customers by addressing facilitating labor-management communication and strive to firmly establish an exemplary labor-management culture. time difference between Korea and other parts of the world by human rights-related issues such as treatment for non-regular workers and take proactive measures. Also the agency will let utilizing flexible working hour system human rights management disperse to customers and suppliers. 62 63 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Information Security Social Contribution Organization Information security management for overseas KBCs Global In order to strengthen information security at overseas KBCs, KOTRA produced and distributed information security manual to all KBCs around the globe to provide guidance on basic information security activities and deliver security software users’ guide, as Appendix well as things to remember when accessing internal system. Also, KOTRA took consideration of different environments by respective KBCs. For instance, for Tokyo office which requires technical security measures such as installation of integrated security equipment, automatic encryption system was used for communication with the internal network and invasion by worm Context viruses was blocked, while access by malicious code distributors was also blocked. Four KBCs including Budapest, Prague, Tokyo and New York inspected basic information security activities, as well as use of security software through personnel security In recent years, personal data leakage incidents at financial institutions and telecommunications service providers have been measures such as enhanced education. on the rise, while cyber terrorism is becoming more sophisticated and accelerated with the goal of information leakage from Protection of personal information specific organizations. Under the circumstances, customers’ demand for information security is increasing and cyber security With regard to protection of personal information, KOTRA revised personal information handling policy based on standard form of is gaining more importance. In line with the latest trends of beefing up information security, KOTRA implements national Ministry of Public Administration and Security and completed encryption of personal information contained in the agency’s system information security policies and is building an information security management system. as a pre-emptive protection measure against leakage of personal information. For instance, the agency monitors the status of personal information saved in PCs of all employees at home and abroad and requires employees, who have poor personal information management skills, to submit explanatory statements and conduct re-encryption, strongly responding to poor security Progress and Achievements status. It also suspended collection of resident registration numbers in accordance with the government’s policy to enhance management of resident registration numbers and discarded all resident registration numbers it had possessed. In 2014, in an Mid-to-long term master plan on information security effort to inform all employees of the importance of protection of personal information, KOTRA conducted obligatory personal Based on the government’s evaluation on information security, KOTRA formulated mid-to-long term master plan and annual information education tailored to organization and individuals on 13 occasions. As part of the campaign, the agency featured plans and established an implementation system that designates staff in charge of information security not only in the head office, cartoons on protection of personal information in internal newsletters and disseminated relevant messages through pop-up but also in overseas KBCs. windows that appear when logging into the internal portal and bulletin board notices. Status analysis • I nformation security evaluation results by National Intelligence Service/ Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy • Internal evaluation of information security management system certification (ISMS) categories by Ministry of Science, ICT Improving corporation-wide cyber crisis response capabilities _G4-PR8 and Future Planning In order to respond to cyber crisis at a corporation level, KOTRA drew up a corporation-wide manual, as well as crisis scenarios Task identification 3 core tasks and 26 action tasks identified including tips on how to respond to cyber crisis, while unifying the reporting system at the time of crisis. The agency boosted its employees’ response competences through repetitive training (three times in 2014), while using a PC scanning “My PC Inspector” Core tasks Enhance KOTRA’s information Improve NIS evaluation Enhance cyber risk security level results responsiveness for all employees (12 times a year) and diagnosing vulnerable areas of the homepage and take corrective measures (twice). It also monitored external invasion attempts around the clock in partnership with government agencies. Action tasks by year 2014 (Growth phase) 2015 (Maturity phase) 2016 (Completion phase) In addition, the agency blocked IPs attempting infiltration at their source, took preemptive measures for possible security ·Enhance education on information security ·Enhance information security ·Operate organization dedicated vulnerabilities, and conducted PC vaccine tests more than once daily. As a result of such activities, response competencies to cyber guidelines and internalization of information evaluation and feedback system to information security |security ·Expand visits to overseas KBCs ·Expand installation of integrated crisis at the corporation level improved and there was no single case of cyber intrusion. ·Establish security system tailored to overseas KBCs for information security guidance security equipment ·Make intensive improvements to poor areas in the ·Improve overall level by evaluation ·Acquire “Excellent” evaluation NIS evaluation category grade ·Establish corporation-side cyber risk response ·Establish security system again ·Improve responsiveness by KOTRA recording good results in the NIS information security evaluation system cyber attacks strengthening mock training ·Take preemptive encryption measure for personal ·Strengthen monitoring of possible ·Enhance security necessary for Thanks to KOTRA’s aforementioned activities to enhance information security, KOTRA acquired “Good” grade in the 2014 information personal information leakage introduction of new technology information security management status evaluation administered by National Intelligence Service for the first time. In particular, Implementation Establishment of an implementation system that designates staff in charge of information security not only at the head the agency received 91.86 point in the cyber crisis management category. organization office, but also at overseas KBCs President → Vice President (CISO) → Information System Team (information security officer) → Staff in charge of information 2014 security (Head office: 54, regional office: 7, overseas: 123) KOTRA Average of 32 quasi-government agencies 2013 2014 2013 An increase of A decrease of Strengthening information security system In a bid to enhance its information security level, KOTRA instituted guidelines on introduction and management of information 6.26 point from the previous year, receiving “Good” grade 0.16 point from the previous year assets, guidelines on information disclosure on its homepage, and software development security procedures. It also added guidelines on countermeasures for increasingly accelerated and sophisticated cyber terrorism to detailed operation guidelines on activities related to information security in accordance with modification of National Intelligence Service’s guidelines. Meanwhile, KOTRA expanded education and campaigns designed to internalize information security for all employees, while encouraging its 74.17 (Average) 80.43 (Good) 76.59 (Average) 76.43 (Average) employees to carry out information security activities in daily lives through the use of PC information security screen savers and inclusion of 10 information security rules to be observed in daily lives within the company diary. The agency also obligates information security by reflecting the information security category in individual evaluation of all employees. Strategic Direction Category No. of education Information security education content sessions Dissemination of latest cyber terrorism trends through lectures delivered by external specialists (cyber KOTRA will steadily strengthen its information security management system based on its mid-to-long term master plan on All employees 3 investigation team from National Police Agency, CEOs of security firms) information security for years 2015 and 2016. More specifically, with respect to information security education, the agency will Staff in charge of information security by department 2 Working-level education including initial response to cyber crisis strengthen evaluation and feedback system and operates organization dedicated to the function, while expanding visits to overseas New recruits 1 Introduction to KOTRA’s information security system, education on roles of general employees KBCs for information security guidance and increasing the installation of integrated security equipment. Moreover, KOTRA will Overseas KBCs 4 Cautions when accessing KOTRA’s internal network, education on independent information security activities improve overall levels of the NIS evaluation by evaluation category, upgrading the current ‘Good’ grade to ‘Excellent’ grade. Total 10 An increase by 4 compared to the previous year 64 65 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 The Reason Why Sharing Accumulated Global Knowledge and Experience Is a Material Issue Introduction Global Business Platform for KOTRA Business KOTRA Global knowledge and experience accumulated by KOTRA’s overseas KBC network is the agency’s core assets. Therefore, it is Social Contribution crucial for KOTRA to share its accumulated knowledge and experience to fulfill its role as a trade and investment promotion Organization agency representing Korea and as a global business platform. Global Appendix P  olicies to Share and Manage KOTRA’s Accumulated Global Knowledge and Experience and Injection of Resources In order to share global knowledge and experience accumulated within KOTRA, the agency summarized economic performance, trends and opportunities, market entry strategies and market entry tips by 10 regional head offices based on information accumulated by KOTRA’s overseas KBCs and the 2015 KOTRA Global Economy Outlook. In addition, KOTRA developed a checklist based on ISO 26000, international standards on social responsibility, to diagnose CSR implementation levels of its overseas branch offices. The agency distributed the checklist among 123 KBCs in 83 countries around the globe and collected survey results. [Core 7 Subjects of ISO 26000] 1. Organizational Governance: This is a system by which organizations make their decisions and implement actions to achieve their objectives. In the diagnosis by overseas KBCs, their education related to social responsibility, their ability to evaluate and manage risks, internal control that manages material aspects, etc. were evaluated. 2. Human Rights: Human rights issues include all the possible human rights infringements that could take place in overall business management activities. In the diagnosis of overseas KBCs, human rights education to raise awareness of the importance of human rights, human rights-related grievance handling system, discrimination cases and human rights infringements, various policies to ensure diversity in the workplace, and potential human rights risks, etc. were evaluated. 3. Labor Practices: Labor practices include all policies and issues related to the work done by the organization, including employment, conditions of work, health and safety in the workplace, and employee education and training. In the diagnosis of overseas KBCs, safety measures to create a healthy and safe working environment for employees, compensation on occupational accidents and injuries, education on work competence enhancement, etc. were evaluated. 4. The Environment: The environment refers to the impact on the environment caused by overall business activities including use of resources, location of activities, and the generation of pollution and waste. In the case of KOTRA’s overseas KBCs, their environmental impact was insignificant in terms of the scale of respective KBCs and content of their projects. Due to the low relevance, the subject was excluded from the diagnosis results. 5. Fair Operating Practices: Fair operating practices refer to the ethical conduct of organizations and their interactions with various stakeholders, including business partners, suppliers, customers, and competitors. In the diagnosis of overseas KBCs, guidance on domestic or local corruption-related laws, KBCs’ policies to prevent employees’ violation of corruption-related laws and their irregularities, corruption reporting procedure and disciplinary actions, etc. were evaluated. 6. Consumer Issues: Consumer issues include issues related to consumers who are provided with products and services. In the diagnosis of overseas KBCs, their support for local entry and settlement of Korean SMEs, KOTRA’s one of key customers, customer privacy protection policy, preferential policies for SMEs, achieves of major projects, information disclosure, etc. were evaluated. 7. Community Involvement and Development This refers to contribution activities to promote the development of local communities in which KOTRA offices are located. In the diagnosis of overseas KBCs, social contribution activities locally implemented by KBCs, disclosure of information on social contribution activities, etc. were evaluated. ▶Diagnosis methodology and results The diagnosis is rated on a 5-point scale (Needs significant improvement –Needs improvementAverage-Good-Very good) with score 5 given to the best performing category. The results of average score calculated based on survey responses, Fair Operating Practices scored the highest with 4.33 point followed by Consumer Issues (4.23), Local Community Involvement and Development (4.17), Organizational Governance (4.12), Labor Practices (3.94) and Human Rights (3.94). 4.12 3.94 3.94 4.33 4.23 4.17 Date : Mar.5~13, 2015 Respondents : 92 out of 123 overseas 04 KBCs (response rate: 74.7%) Organizational Human Rights Labor Practices Fair Operating Consumer Local Community Involvement Governance Practices Issues and Development Performance Indicators on Sharing of Accumulated Global Knowledge and Experience ※ Please refer to diagnosis results for overseas KBCs in this report. Key Issues Contents Global Market transfer to emerging economies North America Central and South America Market presence (wages, purchase, recruitment) China CIS Compliance in the social sector Europe Africa Sharing Accumulated Global Knowledge Japan Middle East and Experience South East Asia and Oceania South West Asia 66 67 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA KOTRA North America Head Office Social Contribution Organization CSR Activities and Achievements of KOTRA North America Head Office Global Appendix KOTRA North America Head Office is actively involved in CSR initiatives in the form of providing products and services of Korean companies. This will improve local image of Korean SMEs and serves as an opportunity to promote their technologies. The North America Head Office will expand the scope of its CSR activities related to social issues of the North American region Performance in North America Head Office in 2014 through CSR initiatives featuring K-Pop singers and actors and CSR awards and forums by taking advantage of Korea-U.S. Korea Business bilateral economic cooperation and the growing popularity of Hallyu or Korean Wave in the region. Centers in North Business Performance of North America Head Office Participating entities City Period CSR Initiatives America 226case 1,573mil. $ 497case 6case 2case 0case 79.17case 10 Korean BI (Business Incubator) resident companies New York Dec. 2014 Jointly provided support for local disability organizations (11.70%) (35.68%) (13.97%) (5.31%) (0.56%) (0.00%) (29.99%) WIPS Washington D.C. Dec. 2014 Offered education on patent search programs to local veterans New York, Los Angeles, Chicago, Eco Solatec and other Korean SMEs Dallas Dec. 2014 Donated pest control products to welfare institutions Toronto, Dallas, Miami, Silicon Valley, In joint effort with buyers, donated proceeds from product promotion activities to Detroit, washington, Vancouver QKC, Saongwon, etc. Vancouver Nov. 2014 refugee relief organizations Gallery AM Toronto Nov. 2014 Offered design education to local artists with mental disability Goodis New York Nov. 2014 Offered art and design education to persons with intellectual disabilities * KOTRA North America Head Office Homepage Sinjin Plastics, Songbo In joint effort with Ford Motor Company, provided financial assistance to build support Detroit Oct. 2014 http://www.kotra.or.kr/KBC/northamerica/ KTMIUI010M. Support for overseas marketing Foreign buyers that have Support for outbound Promising overseas Promising overseas Attraction of foreign Industries, etc. facilities for locally underprivileged people Customized services activities by domesticallysigned import contracts with investment projects (Exploration) projects (Participation) investment html oriented Korean SMEs Korean SMEs Orgdot LA Sept. 2014 Supported promotional activities for the social enterprise Orgdot at exhibitions PSM Chicago July. 2014 Donated plasma surface treatment equipment to Illinois State University * The percentages by each business indicate their respective shares within the 10 regional head offices. Success Stories of Korean SMEs in North America Company H, a Korean SME that manufactures aluminum casting products for auto engine housing, successfully struck a deal Diagnosis Result of CSR Implementation Level in North America Diagnosis result of North America with Ford Motor Company, a global finished car maker, winning orders worth US$50 million over the past five years. This was According to the diagnosis result of corporate social responsibility implementation level in KOTRA’s Korea Business Centers in Market Entry Tips! Organizational made possible through KOTRA’s Global Partnering (GP) project through which 33 Korean SMEs selected by Ford held 336 North America, the fair operating practices category scored the highest recording average 4.52 out of 5. Other categories of 4.34 governance It is recommended that Korean SMEs use powerful business consultations with the global automaker. In addition, in consideration of rising demand for genuine Korean auto marts organizational governance (4.34), consumer issues (4.32), and community involvement and development (4.14) showed relatively local vendors to facilitate their entry into the U.S. in the American market following the conclusion of Korea-U.S. Free Trade Agreement (FTA), Korean auto-part manufacturers high implementation level scoring above 4 point out of 5. The North America Head Office is stepping up efforts to comply with local 3.75 Human rights online market. Korean SMEs can lower entry barriers endeavored to explore buyers in the United States with the assistance of KOTRA. As a result of actively highlighting the benefits labor laws and KOTRA management guidelines to improve the implementation status of categories with relatively low scores by utilizing the existing distribution channels owned by of tariff reduction by 2.5%, they succeeded in striking deals worth US$37,000. including labor practices (3.77) and human rights (3.75). the vendors and can reduce business risks through 3.77 Labor practices consignment sale or final sale made to the vendors. Korean SMEs intending to make entry into the North Fair operating American market are advised to carefully make basic 4.52 practices preparations such as materials in English (websites, KOTRA’s Suggestions for North American Market Entry Strategies in 2015 Major Activities and Achievements brochures, packaging, labels, etc.) and to make Consumer market approach after carefully studying certification ■Fair operating practices (4.52) 4.32 issues systems and regulations in advance. To this end, ● Trends and Opportunities With respect to anti-corruption, the Los Angeles Office operates a system in which corruption cases are first reported to KOTRA formed an advisory group on online In 2014, the U.S. economy showed solid signs of recovery including GDP growth, improvement in the employment index, and respective team leaders and the general affairs department and then finally reported to the office head. In an effort to prevent Community distribution networks in North America in December increase in household income, personal consumption and investment. In addition, falling oil prices are resulting in increase in 4.14 involvement and corruption, anti-corruption education is offered on a regular or ad hoc basis throughout the year and local laws and development 2014, while operating the KORUS FTA Help Desk in disposable income, while the housing market is showing signs of slow recovery amid the bullish stock market. Meanwhile, online New York and Los Angeles to provide services on regulations are posted on the online integrity bulletin board offered by the headquarters markets in the U.S. are growing fast, while global manufacturers such as Apple and GM are bringing manufacturing back to the * The line graph indicates average scores of 92 KBC customs clearance. In addition, in an effort to diversify ■Organizational governance (4.34) offices around the world. its Global Partnering (GP) project, KOTRA plans to United States in a trend dubbed as “reshoring.” Although quantitative easing ended in October 2014, it is forecasted that the Concerning internal control, the Los Angeles Office controls budget and business processes based on manuals and strictly expand areas of collaboration to include aerospace, Federal Reserve will not raise interest rates excessively. Under the circumstances, it is forecasted that Koreans SMEs will have a energy and ICT sectors. enforces document confidentiality. The Detroit Office conducts ordinary internal control activities such as document and asset favorable position in advancing into the North American market such as the government procurement market thanks to the management and accounting operation under the supervision of management/accounting managers. Korea-U.S. FTA and the Korea-Canada FTA. ■Consumer issues (4.32) ● Market Entry Strategies With respect to support for Korean SMEs entering overseas markets, the Chicago, Toronto and Dallas offices provide them with local information in a timely manner, providing full support to help Korean SMEs easily adapt and settle down in foreign Against this backdrop, KOTRA suggests market entry strategies to facilitate Korean SMEs’ entry into the North American countries. market as follows. ■Community involvement and development (4.14) Be the first to enter new “growth engine” Concerning disclosure of CSR activities, the five offices in Los Angeles, Toronto, Dallas and Miami report their CSR activities Directions Utilize support platforms for local investments markets with great opportunities and achievements in local communities through internal reports and the media. · Target online distribution networks intensively · Korean SMEs advance into the U.S. government/ U.N. procurement sector ※ The result was calculated based on survey responses given by seven KBC offices out of 10 offices in North America. Details · Strengthen partnerships with global companies · Advance into new growth sectors including employment/startup, cultural contents industries · Make the most of opportunities offered by FTAs · Korean SMEs with market presence in the U.S. advance into Latin America 68 69 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA KOTRA China Head Office Social Contribution Organization CSR Activities and Achievements of KOTRA China Head Office Global Appendix KOTRA China Head Office takes the initiative in resolving social problems in China through CSR activities in the form of providing products and services of Korean SMEs, organizing overseas CSR awards and forums, and pushing ahead with CSR initiatives featuring Korean Hallyu stars. KOTRA identifies CSR issues in China and hosts CSR forums jointly with local Performance in China Head Office in 2014 governments. In addition, KOTRA grants awards to Korean SMEs operating in China with outstanding CSR activities and shares Korea Business their case studies, while exploring and implementing related projects. Centers in China Business Performance of China Head Office Participating entities City Period CSR initiatives Korea Bio Material Packaging Shared agricultural waste processing technology with government Nanjing Dec. 2014 Guangzhou, Beijing, Shenyang, Wuhan, 371case 1,051mil. $ 481case 34case 62case 3case 40.50case Association, etc. officials from Jiangsu Province Chengdu, Taipei, Hong Kong, Nanjing, (19.40%) (23.89%) (13.52%) (30.09%) (17.22%) (15.00%) (15.34%) Irae Chemical Chengdu Nov. 2014 Donated paint products to public facilities and also offered painting Shanghai, Shenzhen, Zhengzhou, service Chongqing, Tianjin, Dalian, Xiamen, Sina Color Zhengzhou Oct. 2014 Donated funds to underprivileged people jointly with fashion buyers Xian, Changsha, Qingdao, Hangzhou Osstem Implant Guangzhou Oct. 2014 Shared implant technology with local dentists * KOTRA China Head Office Homepage Shared water treatment technology with government officials from Yanji K-Water Dalian Oct. 2014 http://www.kotra.or.kr/KBC/chinese/KTMIUI010M.html Support for overseas marketing Foreign buyers that have Support for outbound Promising overseas Promising overseas Attraction of foreign City’s water department Customized services activities by domesticallysigned import contracts with investment projects (Exploration) projects (Participation) investment oriented Korean SMEs Korean SMEs Hohyejeong, Gyeongcheon Food, etc. Wuhan July 2014 Donated products to local underprivileged people jointly with buyers CSR program on fostering implant professionals * The percentages by each business indicate their respective shares within the 10 regional head offices. Shared the New Village Movement with government officials from Pixian, Korea Saemaulundong Center Chengdu June 2014 Chengdu Success Stories of Korean SMEs in China Company N, a Korean SME with eco-friendly technology, has successfully entered the Chinese market in a joint venture with a Chinese company, capitalizing on its desulfurization (DeSOx) and denitrification (DeNOx) technology. This was made possible Diagnosis Result of CSR Implementation Level in China Market Entry Tips! thanks to KOTRA Korean Business Center (KBC)’s internal surveys and meetings with a buyer and the KOTRA office continued Diagnosis result of China In order for Korean SMEs to tap into China, they to provide support to facilitate communication between two companies. On the other hand, Company W, a Korean home According to the diagnosis result of corporate social responsibility implementation level in KOTRA’s 19 Korea Business Centers in Organizational China, the community involvement and development category scored the highest recording 4.35 out of 5, followed by fair operating 4.23 governance should first understand the meaning of “Yi Gyeong appliance manufacturer, made inroads into China’s eco-friendly market in the form of OEM for a global company in the area of Chok Jeong ( ),” meaning “achieving political practices (4.33), labor practices (4.29), consumer issues (4.27), and organizational governance (4.23). The human rights category air purifier segment dominated by foreign leading brands. As a result, Company W ranked No.1 in the market share, purposes through economic approach.” This indicates the characteristic of the Chinese government’s consolidating its position in China’s eco market. scored 3.82, which is lower than the average score of the entire regional head offices by 0.11 point, requiring improvement. 3.82 Human rights external economic and trade policy and implies that China intends to secure political dominance by using 4.29 Labor practices the influence earned from its economic activities. In 2014, the Chinese government stressed food security KOTRA’s Suggestions for Chinese Market Entry Strategies in 2015 Major Activities and Achievements Fair operating as one of its key tasks for economic policy. It is 4.33 predicted that more attention will be paid to the quality ■Community involvement and development (4.35) practices and safety of foods, leading to the expansion of the ● Trends and Opportunities With respect to CSR activities, the Taipei Office is making ongoing efforts to build a CSR platform led by KOTRA and reports Recognizing the need for overall adjustment of the past growth paradigm amid global financial crisis, the Chinese government has Consumer wellbeing and LOHAS market and the rising demand outcomes of CSR activities through internal reports on a regular basis. 4.27 issues for Korea’s high value-added agricultural and fisheries adopted the “New Normal” policy that promotes domestic consumption-oriented development, while maintaining stable economic products. Meanwhile, the Chinese government is ■Fair operating practices (4.33) growth. It is forecasted that domestic consumption in China will be further expanded and the country’s industrial structure will * The line graph indicates average scores of 92 KBC adopting a policy of boosting its domestic Concerning anti-corruption, the Hong Kong Office has a report system in which any corruption scandals are reported first to become advanced following the government’s intensive cultivation of the seven strategic industries*. In addition, China is set to offices around the world. consumption through the new urbanization plan. As a KBC officers, and then to KBC head and finally to ethical management officers at the headquarters. When those scandals are result, wages are rising, and stricter regulations on emphasize distribution to ensure a balanced growth. This will lead companies to strengthen CSR activities and more focus will be deemed as corruption, those involved are subject to disciplinary actions based on the headquarters’ standards and guidelines. the environment, hygiene, and safety are enforced. placed on job creation. Meanwhile, the Korea-China FTA was effectively concluded in the Korea-China summit on November 10, 2014. Some companies operating in China are evening The Korea-China FTA will ease tariff and non-tariff barriers and advancement into new industries and new markets such as services ■Labor practices (4.29) thinking about moving out of China. However, there and projects will be further accelerated, bringing about great change in the trade and investment environment of the two countries. With respect to a pleasant working environment, the Xian Office offers a pleasant working environment for its employees by are barriers to withdraw business operations from operating air purifiers offered by the headquarters since late 2014. In addition, the office further enhanced safety for local China. If companies decide to withdraw from China, employees by educating them about case studies on local safety issues by inviting a police consul and producing an they have to pay back corporate income tax which has ● Market Entry Strategies been exempt in the past or they are obligated to pay emergency manual. In the “New Normal” era, KOTRA suggests market entry strategies aimed for Korean SMEs to enter the Chinese market first by economic subsidies as retirement pay to workers. ■Consumer issues (4.27) taking advantage of the Korea-China FTA. Therefore, Korean SMEs intending to tap into China Concerning adaptation of Korean SMEs entering the Chinese market, the Shenyang Office and the Chengdu Office provides should take a prudent and comprehensive approach. Make China the “second Enhance partnership with Establish a Chinese-style Strengthen mid-to-long term supports to help Korean SMEs entering the cities easily adapt and settle down by organizing one-on-one business Directions domestic market” utilizing the China’s component and business platform support to build a foundation for Korea-China FTA material manufacturers sustainable growth consultations and briefing sessions and offering support for organizing business meetings. * Energy-saving and environmental protection, nextgeneration information technology, bio-technology, Strengthen a bid to advance into Expand market entry through Establish a one-stop support system Spread “good image” of Korean ※The result was calculated based on survey responses given by 17 KBC offices out of 19 offices in China. high-tech equipment manufacturing, new energy, new new industries and enter relatively strengthened partnership with (installation of Korea Business Plaza companies by supporting CSR activities materials, new-energy vehicles untapped, new markets in China global parts and material (KBP)) through collaboration with by Korean SMEs operating in China and Details such as inland cities by taking manufacturers and value chains relevant organizations and set up a facilitating human exchanges advantage of FTA concessions and of large enterprises in China taskforce dedicated to the Korea-China Hallyu (Korean Wave) FTA, thereby promoting company-wide collaboration and support 70 71 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA KOTRA Europe Head Office Social Contribution Organization CSR Activities and Achievements of KOTRA Europe Head Office Global Appendix KOTRA Europe Head Office is engaged in CSR activities reflecting European characteristics such as veteran appreciation events and technology support. In June 2014, the Amsterdam Office supported the employment of descendants of veterans, adopted Koreans and Korean-speaking people in 14 Korean companies including Samsung Electronics and LG Electronics. Performance in Europe Head Office in 2014 The London Office provided support when three Korean food companies including Home Plus donated their products to Korea Business veterans at the TESCO Korean Food Expo in the United Kingdom in November 2014. Besides, KOTRA helped Korean SMEs Centers in Europe Business Performance of Europe Head Office deliver business results by linking CSR activities offering technology education with business opportunities. Participating entities City Period CSR initiatives United Kingdom, Spain, Germany, Italy, 249case 343mil. $ 647case 13case 36case 6case 54.43case Korean toy manufacturers Prague Dec. 2014 Donated toys manufactured by Korean SMEs to local mentally-retarded children Poland, Hungary, Romania, Belgium, (12.90%) (7.78%) (18.19%) (11.50%) (10.00%) (30.00%) (20.62%) SK C&C, LG CNS, Samsung Shared Internet network establishment and electronic government technology Austria, Bulgaria, Sweden, Greece, the Electronics Athens Nov. 2014 with ministries related to electronic government Netherlands, Croatia, the Switzerland, Three companies including Home Plus London Nov. 2014 Donated food products to veterans Denmark, France, the Czech Republic, Finland J Company, Design Skin, etc. Frankfurt Oct. 2014 Donated strollers to refugee facilities AT, Kimchi & Co. Copenhagen Oct. 2014 Jointly provided shelters for local homeless people * KOTRA Europe Head Office Homepage A lecture on software utilization for students and engineers http://www.kotra.or.kr/KBC/european/KTMIUI010M. Support for overseas marketing Foreign buyers that have Support for outbound Promising overseas Promising overseas Attraction of foreign YoungShin Food, Man Jeon Foods, etc. Zurich Sept. 2014 Donated food products to institutions for socially underprivileged people at Cracow University of Technology Customized services activities by domesticallysigned import contracts with investment projects (Exploration) projects (Participation) investment html oriented Korean SMEs Korean SMEs KOTRA Hamburg June 2014 Donated appliances, which are not in use, to local volunteer groups * The percentages by each business indicate their respective shares within the 10 regional head offices. Huvitz Milan June 2014 Donated its optometric equipment to local universities Donated architectural design software to a local engineering university and Midas IT Warsaw May 2014 Success Stories of Korean SMEs in Europe shared technology Provided support for promotional activities through a local exposition by Tree Planet Hamburg Mar. 2014 Company A, a Korean manufacturer of automotive HVAC parts, successfully clenched a new export deal with Mercedes Benz, a eco-friendly social venture firms premium finished car maker. This was a result of a combination of the company’s price competitiveness utilizing its production Market Entry Tips! base in China and its prompt local responsiveness opening its Europe office. In the process, KOTRA Frankfurt Office explored According to the result of KOTRA’s survey taken customers through its Branch Office Service program, while offering a physical space called “Korea Auto Parts Park (KAPP). Diagnosis Result of CSR Implementation Level in Europe among European buyers, it was found that the KoreaEU FTA improved national brand image by 3.3%, Diagnosis result of Europe According to the diagnosis result of corporate social responsibility implementation level in KOTRA’s 19 Korea Business Centers in creating national brand asset worth KRW 390 billion. By category, exports in automobile, auto parts, KOTRA’s Suggestions for European Market Entry Strategies in 2015 Europe, the community involvement and development category scored the highest recording 4.41 out of 5. The labor practices 4.32 Organizational governance synthetic resin, wireless semiconductors, steel plates category scored 3.90, which is lower than the average score of the entire regional head offices, requiring improvement. and prime mover/ pump industries have increased ● Trends and Opportunities thanks to benefits of the Korea-Europe FTA. In 4.03 Human rights addition, with the spread of Hallyu (Korean Wave), European consumers place importance on well-being and prefer health-friendly products. They tend to show judicious Korea’s influence has expanded across sectors spending patterns fully utilizing limited economic resources. In addition, smart automation technology such as smart home Major Activities and Achievements including food, cultural products and consumer and the Internet of Things are increasingly penetrating into people’s daily lives. The EU has strengthened its energy-saving 3.90 Labor practices goods. It is recommended that Korean SMEs actively ■Community involvement and development (4.41) policy (the EU 2020) and plans on a project which aims to support infrastructure improvement and to expand transportation participate in KOTRA expositions to enjoy the benefits As part of CSR activities, the Copenhagen Office has improved the pay system of local employees by adopting a pay raise Fair operating of the Korea-EU FTA and to take advantage of the networks linking different regions by using the EU funds. Meanwhile, since the Korea-EU FTA went into effect three years ago, 4.10 practices system reflecting inflation rates, resulting in reduction in turnover rates of local employees. trend of economic recovery in Europe. Expositions European people have come to increasingly recognize Korean brands, resulting in rise in demand for high-quality Koreanoffer opportunities to meet with multiple numbers of made products. Under the circumstances, Korea should strive to make the most of benefits of the Korea-E.U. FTA based on its ■Organizational governance (4.32) Consumer buyers in person and to promote their products, while With respect to risk factors, the Bucharest Office records work status by operating a leave application system for local 4.32 issues relatively stable market shares. building the foundation for market expansion to employees and an entry/exit record management system. In addition, the Office implements personal information protection include not only Europe, but also other regions of the Community ● Market Entry Strategies on a regular basis by using PC filters. Besides, in an effort to ensure information security, the Office has its employees use 4.41 involvement and world. development Korean SMEs intending to advance into the European market should adopt a strategic approach by taking advantage of the Koreashredders when discarding documents, make additional marks for important documents and keep them in cabinets, while EU FTA and growing demand for Korean products. educating tips on how to deal with personal information to local employees and interns. * The line graph indicates average scores of 92 KBC offices around the world. ■Consumer issues (4.32) Build a foundation for global, mutually-beneficial Establish customized models targeting the Concerning support for CSR activities, the Budapest Office provides support for local CSR activities by Korean SMEs such as Directions Select and concentrate on promising sectors cooperation with European companies European market environmental clean-up campaigns and repair of city kindergartens. Take advantage of European Concentrate on the Intensively target the Create new growth engines Tap into the European ■Fair operating practices (4.10) companies’ purchase demand Eastern /Western medical-bio market which by providing support for market through Details arising from cost reduction and Europe public is newly emerging with advancement of the Hallyu support for M&As With respect to the reporting system in the case of internal corruption occurrences, the Amsterdam Office implements a lead them to sign agreements procurement project in improved quality of Korean (Korean Wave) content into including technology partnership 2015 medical devices the European market policy via the Audit Office at the headquarters to prevent internal corruption cases. In addition, the Office offers integrity on a regular basis education for employees who are either dispatched from the headquarters or locally hired. ※The result was calculated based on survey responses given by 17 KBC offices out of 19 offices in Europe. 72 73 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA KOTRA Japan Head Office Social Contribution Organization CSR Activities and Achievements of KOTRA Japan Head Office Global Appendix KOTRA Japan Head Office explores global CSR initiatives on an ongoing basis by linking local CSR needs with Korean SMEs intending to provide social contribution services to promote mutual growth. Led by Korea Business Centers in Japan, many Korean SMEs donated proceeds from product marketing events to institutions for underprivileged children and areas hit by Performance in Japan Head Office in 2014 earthquake and Korean SMEs participating in expos donated their products to institutions that needed them. Korea Business Participating entities City Period CSR initiatives Centers in Japan Business Performance of Japan Head Office Woolim F&B, Yanghee Traditional Food, etc. Nagoya Nov. 2014 Donated proceeds from product marketing events to institutions for underprivileged children Tokyo, Osaka, Nagoya, Fukuoka 148case 332mil. $ 298case 2case 0case 0case 70.00case Six companies including Nature Hub Osaka Nov. 2014 Donated their food products to local welfare facilities (7.70%) (7.53%) (8.38%) (1.77%) (0.00%) (0.00%) (26.52%) Il Heung, Jinyang Oil Seal, etc. Nagoya Sept. 2014 Cleaned up local seashores jointly with Yamaha Motor Company Ebara CJ, Korean companies Tokyo Sept. 2014 Donated funds to areas hit by earthquakes operating in Japan, etc. Hyunwoo Corporation, Save Hwasung Fukuoka Aug. 2014 Donated bird repellents to local cultural properties * KOTRA Japan Head Office Homepage http://www.kotra.or.kr/KBC/japanese/KTMIUI010M.html Support for overseas marketing Foreign buyers that have Support for outbound Promising overseas Promising overseas Attraction of foreign Customized services activities by domesticallyoriented Korean SMEs signed import contracts with Korean SMEs investment projects (Exploration) projects (Participation) investment Diagnosis Result of CSR Implementation Level in Japan * The percentages by each business indicate their respective shares within the 10 regional head offices. Diagnosis result of Japan According to the diagnosis result of corporate social responsibility implementation level in KOTRA’s four Korea Business Centers in Japan, the community involvement and development category scored the highest recording 4.5 on average out of 5. The human 4.22 Organizational Success Stories of Korean SMEs in Japan governance rights category (3.47) scored relatively low, compared to other categories. KOTRA plans to carry out activities to improve human Company S, a Korean frying pan manufacturer, successfully clenched its first export deal worth US$70,000 in the Japanese rights on an ongoing basis by offering equal treatment between locally hired employees and employees dispatched from the market through its product differentiation strategy. In the Japanese market where high-quality, low-priced Korean frying pans headquarters such as use of amenities, team dinners, and opportunities for participation in events and by strengthening human 3.47 Human rights Market Entry Tips! had been already on the market, Company S found that consumption of premium products was on the rise. The company rights education. developed premium frying pans by applying a method, which was not common in Japan, through its differentiation strategy. 3.67 Labor practices According to a survey conducted by the Korea Trade Insurance Corporation, it was found that 79% of Major Activities and Achievements Korean companies participating in marketing activities Fair operating 4.17 practices in Japan have no exchange risk management systems ■Community involvement and development (4.50) and have failed to identify appropriate solutions. In KOTRA’s Suggestions for Japanese Market Entry Strategies in 2015 With respect to disclosure of CSR activities, the four KBC offices in Japan report their local CSR activities through their Consumer response, KOTRA encourages Korean small exporters internal reports. 3.88 issues to Japan to get coverage of foreign exchange risk ● Trends and Opportunities insurance which insurance benefit is paid when ■Organizational governance (4.22) Community exchange rates fall under certain levels and Japan is making an extraordinary effort to get out of deflation. Due to lowered interest rates following financial easing economic 4.50 involvement and Concerning education on corporate social responsibility, the Nagoya Office offers education on corporate social responsibility development companies incur losses. Moreover, in an effort to policy called Abenomics advocated by Japanese prime minister Shinzo Abe, who is also the president of the ruling Liberal and sustainability management by utilizing online/offline education system of the headquarters. In addition, the Office actively respond to procurement demand by global Japanese Democratic Party, the depreciation of the Japanese yen (weak yen) has been continued and the trend is likely to continue for the carries out activities aimed to improve transparency of the office operation, including sharing details on the use of public * The line graph indicates average scores of 92 KBC companies by matchmaking Korea’s leading SMEs, offices around the world. time being as prime minister Abe was re-elected in December 2014. Meanwhile, in April 2014, the Japanese government raised KOTRA organizes parts and materials business equipment such as vehicles and fuel cards by recording them on the ledger. counseling meetings, while hosting counseling consumption tax from 5% to 8% to resolve extreme fiscal deficit and as a result, the country experienced consecutive negative sessions related to support for exporting parts for growth since the second quarter and consumption as well as curtailed consumption. Concerned that the Japanese economy may ■Fair operating practices (4.17) Japan’s overseas auto factories to meet the fall into a vicious cycle of deflation, the Abe cabinet postponed its plan to additionally raise consumption tax, which was scheduled With respect to anti-corruption education, the Osaka Office offers integrity education once a year and enforces a strict policy to procurement demand of overseas Japanese plants. In for October 2015, to April 2017, while pushing ahead with a policy to lower corporate tax rate from the current 35% to 20% in a prevent corruption, requesting disciplinary actions to the headquarters in the case of internal corruption cases. addition, on the occasion of the 50th anniversary of normalization of diplomatic ties between Korea and phased manner. At the time of deflation, Japanese consumers show either a spending pattern in which consumers tend to buy ■Consumer issues (3.88) Japan, KOTRA plans to host the Korea-Japan inexpensive products meeting certain quality expectations or a spending pattern in which consumers cut back on overall spending, Concerning information security education, the Osaka Office has all employees install PC filters and operate “My PC Business Plaza aimed to facilitate economic but do not hesitate to purchase things or services they really like. Reflecting these consumer spending patterns, the private brand Inspection” program. Besides, all the four offices in Japan provide information security education 1.25 times a year on exchanges between the two countries. (PB) market in which retailers directly plan internal brand products is growing in Japan. average, emphasizing the importance of protection of personal information. ■Labor practices (3.67) ● Market Entry Strategies With respect to improving local language proficiency, the Nagoya Office provides language training once or twice per year on KOTRA presents strategies for Korean companies to achieve sustainable growth in the Japanese market as follows: average to help all employees, including those dispatched from the headquarters, those hired locally and local interns, command the local language and enhance their language skills. Meanwhile, all KBCs in Japan operates an anonymous Directions Respond to demands of global companies in Carry out strategic investment attraction Establish a status that “KOTRA represents grievance handling channel “Our Voice” to actively accommodate grievances of employees and offer individual counseling Japan and the Japanese government activities Korean talents” sessions, doing their utmost to take care of the whole grievance procedure from receiving grievances to finally resolving them. ·Expand collaboration by strengthening ·Enhance attraction of investment from ·Boost employment in Japan by promoting ※The result was calculated based on survey responses given by all the 4 KBC offices in Japan. responsiveness to procurement demand of Japanese parts and materials business brands and increasing business scale production bases of Japanese manufacturers manufacturers Details ·Respond to demand as a result of growth ·Explore demand for investment in Korea for ·Build a platform for employment in Japan, policies such as hosting the Olympic Games FTA utilization including pre-employment and postand opening of public data employment phases 74 75 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA KOTRA South East Asia and Oceania Head Office Social Contribution Organization CSR Activities and Achievements of KOTRA South East Asia and Oceania Head Office Global Appendix The South East Asia and Oceania Head Office includes a large number of Korea Business Centers (KBC) in emerging markets such as Vietnam and Indonesia. KOTRA is engaged in a project that transfers non-use equipment to emerging markets, providing Korean companies’ equipment and expertise on research and development and product manufacturing to emerging Performance in South East Asia and Oceania Head Office in 2014 economies. This contributes to dissemination of Korea’s industrial standards and technology around the world, as well as to Korea Business industrial growth of emerging economies. Centers in South East Business Performance of South East Asia and Oceania Head Office Participating entities City Period CSR initiatives Asia and Oceania 381case 513mil. $ 482case 37case 58case 1case 15.90case Gaon Korean Hanoi Dec. 2014 Shared teaching capability-building techniques with Korean language education centers (19.76%) (11.63%) (13.55%) (32.74%) (16.11%) (5.00%) (6.02%) Goodbyecar.com Phnom Penh Dec. 2014 Transferred auto repair skills to local technicians Manila, Vientiane, Singapore, Jakarta, Hanoi, Melbourne, Surabaya, Yangon, Satrec Initiative Manila Dec. 2014 Donated environmental radiation detectors to research institutes Kuala Lumpur, Ho Chi Minh, Bangkok, Doosan Infracore Yangon Nov. 2014 Shared construction machinery operation and repair technology with technicians Sydney, Oakland, Phnom Penh K-Water, Keumjeon Jakarta Oct. 2014 Shared water treatment technology with Indonesian government officials Industrial, Miraero Tec * KOTRA South East Asia and Oceania Head Office Homepage Provided architectural design software free of charge to transportation and civil http://www.kotra.or.kr/KBC/SouthEast/KTMIUI010M.html Support for overseas marketing Foreign buyers that have Support for outbound Promising overseas Promising overseas Attraction of foreign Midas IT Hanoi Oct. 2014 Customized services engineering universities and shared relevant technology with them activities by domesticallysigned import contracts with investment projects (Exploration) projects (Participation) investment oriented Korean SMEs Korean SMEs Donated its arts supplies products to local artists at an exhibition commemorating Good Feel Korea Surabaya Feb. 2014 * The percentages by each business indicate their respective shares within the 10 regional head offices. 40th anniversary of diplomatic ties KOTRA, Songam Syscom Vientiane Under progress Transferred strategic communication equipment to the National IPT University Success Stories of Korean SMEs in South East Asia and Oceania KOTRA, Pos Tech Kuala Lumpur Under progress Transferred multi-functional welding machines to state vocational training institutions Company H operating in Vietnam has successfully settled into local communities through its CSR initiatives. The company donated various medical equipment to hospitals located in villages where its employees reside, and started to offer free-ofMarket Entry Tips! charge medical services. It has also constructed and donated a public health center and has financed its monthly management expenses. In addition, the company built a library in its workplace and established a college in the company, while improving Diagnosis Result of CSR Implementation Level in South East Asia and Oceania Overseas Chinese people yield an absolute economic influence on the ASEAN region as 71.7% of overseas infrastructure by establishing the Reebok Royal Development Center. Through such activities, the company recorded US$250 Diagnosis result of South East Asia and Oceania According to the diagnosis result of corporate social responsibility implementation level in KOTRA’s 14 Korea Business Centers in Chinese or 29.28 million reside in the ASEAN million in annual sales. South East Asia and Oceania, the consumer issues category scored the highest recording 4.26 out of 5. The human rights category Organizational countries. Thus, it is desirable to advance into the 3.91 governance region through strategic partnerships with Chinese (3.47) scored relatively low. In response, the South East Asia and Oceania Head Office is striving to secure diversity and equal people in ASEAN countries. ASEAN Chinese people opportunities through recruitment based on the headquarters’ regulations and local labor laws. mainly focus on real estate development, resources KOTRA’s Suggestions for Southeast Asian and Oceania Market Entry Strategies in 2015 3.79 Human rights and finance and the second-generation Chinese business people hope to enter high value-added ● Trends and Opportunities 3.94 Labor practices industries such as high-tech industries. Korean SMEs wishing to enter the region should formulate market The ASEAN region offers abundant labor force whose wage levels are even lower than those of China. To capitalize on the lowMajor Activities and Achievements entry strategies in consideration of such factors. wage labor, investment by global companies, especially, Japanese companies briskly takes place in the region. Meanwhile, as low■Consumer issues (4.26) 4.10 Fair operating Korean companies intending to advance into income groups have become absorbed into the middle class, the consumer market of the ASEAN region is undergoing a rapid practices Vietnam’s automobile industry may consider indirectly With respect to grievance handling of SMEs, the Melbourne Office strives to listen to opinions of SMEs and to resolve their growth and consumer trends in the region are characterized by well-being, online culture and middle-class working women. With entering the Vietnamese market by manufacturing grievances. Until now, the Office has received a total of 50 grievances and successfully resolved all of them. The Hanoi Office Consumer improved income levels, healthy lifestyles are gaining more attention. Amid this trend, Korean food is drawing attention as healthful 4.26 issues auto parts locally in ASEAN countries, rather than handles grievances of SMEs through its petition handling system such as VOC (Voice of Customer) and Q&A section. directly exporting finished cars. The Vietnamese food. In addition, the Hallyu (Korean Wave), which had been triggered by Korean dramas and K-Pop, has evolved into “Hallyu 3.0” government adopts a policy of protecting the nation’s which involves overall Korean culture, products and services including traditional Korean culture. Amid such developments, the ■Fair operating practices (4.10) Community 3.89 involvement and auto industry, yet tariffs on automobiles imported from region’s exchanges with Korea are also expected to become more brisk. The Korea-Vietnam FTA negotiations held in the BEXCO, Concerning anti-corruption, the South East Asia and Oceania Head Office operates a report system where internal corruption development ASEAN countries will be eliminated starting from 2018 Busan in December 2014 were successfully concluded and it is forecasted that economic cooperation between Korea and ASEAN cases are reported to the headquarters, chief of the head office, audit office and team leaders. It also holds interviews with (AGITA (ASEAN Trade in Goods Agreement), thus it is * The line graph indicates average scores of 92 KBC will reach US$200 billion by 2020. those involved after undergoing identification procedures. offices around the world. necessary to formulate market entry strategies capitalizing on the agreement. ■Organizational governance (3.91) ● Market Entry Strategies With respect to security practices on confidential information, the Sydney Office maintains its security by operating the “My PC In order to help Korean SMEs make successful market entry into the South East Asia and Oceania region, KOTRA has divided the Inspector” program on a regular basis, while the Bangkok Office allows only users with approval authority to open confidential region into three zones depending on the size of economy and formulated respective market entry strategies. documents. In addition, the Office keeps confidential documents in double-layered cabinets. ■Community involvement and development (3.89) [Developed market] Australia, New [ASEAN 5] Indonesia, Malaysia, Country Zealand, Singapore Thailand, Philippines, Vietnam [CLM] Cambodia, Laos, Myanmar Concerning community involvement, the Bangkok Office is engaged in CSR initiatives sponsoring orphanages in slum areas and reports its activities in its internal reports, sustainability reports and the media. Push ahead with partnerships for market Enter global value chains Participate in infrastructure development Directions entry into third countries (M&As, financial Make investment targeting domestic markets projects in connection with knowledge sharing ※The result was calculated based on survey responses given by 10 KBC offices out of 14 in South East Asia and Oceania. partnership) in the region program (KSP) Expand new exports Elevate the level of CSR initiatives 76 77 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA KOTRA South West Asia Head Office Social Contribution Organization CSR Activities and Achievements of KOTRA South West Asia Head Office Global Appendix KOTRA South West Asia Head Office is engaged in CSR activities to encourage them to offer their products and services to promote health, medical care and community development in the region. It will continue to reinforce CSR initiatives to further community development on an ongoing basis, providing support for Korean SMEs attaining new growth engines in Performance in South West Asia Head Office in 2014 Southwest Asia. Korea Business Participating entities City Period CSR initiatives Centers in South Business Performance of South West Asia Head Office Irea Chemical Enterprise Bengaluru Dec. 2014 Donated paint products to support centers for youths from low-income families West Asia and provided painting service 83case 99mil. $ 209case 7case 35case 2case 0case Tamil state government, Chennai Dec. 2014 Discussed countermeasures on mandatory CSR activities with Korean companies India operating in India (4.37%) (2.45%) (5.88%) (6.19%) (9.72%) (10.00%) (0.00%) India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Sri Lanka Indian Chamber of Shared trends on mandatory CSR activities and exemplary CSR case studies of New Delhi Oct. 2014 Commerce a Indian and Korean companies IZ-FOG Dhaka June 2014 Donated epidemics-prevention fog machine to local health authorities Shared Korea’s trade promotion experiences with government officials from the KOTRA Colombo Jan. 2014 department of commerce and industry * KOTRA South West Asia Head Office Homepage: http://www.kotra.or.kr/KBC/SouthWest/KTMIUI010M.html Support for overseas marketing Foreign buyers that have Support for outbound Promising overseas Promising overseas Attraction of foreign Customized services activities by domesticallysigned import contracts with investment projects (Exploration) projects (Participation) investment oriented Korean SMEs Korean SMEs Diagnosis result of South West Asia * The percentages by each business indicate their respective shares within the 10 regional head offices. Diagnosis Result of CSR Implementation Level in South West Asia Organizational 3.98 governance Success Stories of Korean SMEs in South West Asia According to the diagnosis result of corporate social responsibility implementation level in KOTRA’s 8 Korea Business Centers in South West Asia, the fair operating practices and the community involvement and development categories scored the highest 4.06 Human rights Company S, a Korean SME leading the nation’s fiber optic cleaver market, recorded US$ 3 million in sales in India in 2013 recording 4.33 on average out of 5. The human rights category (4.06) and the organizational governance category (3.98) also thanks to its high quality and reasonable prices. Company S was able to secure price competitiveness and offered speedy aftershowed relatively high implementation levels. The KOTRA South West Head Office will make continuous efforts to achieve high Market Entry Tips! sale services by using the New Delhi Export Incubator offered by Korea’s Small and Medium Business Administration and 3.51 Labor practices implementation levels in all categories by making improvements on the consumer issue (3.75) and labor practices (3.51) categories India has language, racial and cultural differences by Small and Medium Business Corporation as a platform to enter the Indian market. Meanwhile, Company S, a manufacturer of with relatively low scores through information security education and industrial safety and health education. Fair operating region, requiring a proper understanding of India’s piping products for power stations, made inroads into India to pursue market diversification based on its high-quality products. scored relatively low. In response, the South East Asia and Oceania Head Office is striving to secure diversity and equal 4.33 practices market and culture. India is divided into four economic regions that include the northern region (governmentopportunities through recruitment based on the headquarters’ regulations and local labor laws. Consumer related projects, consumer goods distribution, the 3.75 issues granary of India), the mid-west region (finance, culture), northeastern region (outdated infrastructure, KOTRA’s Suggestions for Southwest Asian Market Entry Strategies in 2015 Community India’s largest mining industrial belt), and the southern Major Activities and Achievements 4.33 involvement and development region (auto parts, medical-bio industry, aerospace, ● Trends and Opportunities IT). Korean SMEs are advised to adopt strategic The Southwest Asian region encompasses India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Nepal, Afghanistan, Bhutan, and Maldives and India’s ■Fair operating practices (4.33) * The line graph indicates average scores of 92 KBC market approach by region. Meanwhile, India imposes economy takes up a large share in the region. India is an attractive market with abundant population, advanced science and With respect to anti-corruption, the Chennai Office has a reporting system in place where internal corruption cases are offices around the world. high tariffs and transportation costs are relatively directly reported to the head of the office who, in turn, takes appropriate measures to prevent corruption. The Mumbai Office technology, advanced service and knowledge-based industries, stable fiscal and political environment. According to a report costly in the nation. Moreover, it is difficult to win released by the World Bank in April 2014, India ranked 3rd in the world surpassing Japan in purchasing power, becoming the ensures that corruption cases are reported through various channels including online/offline bulletin boards and disciplinary government projects without joint production of local companies. Therefore, Korean SMEs inevitably world’s third-largest economy in the world. Meanwhile, India’s economy, which was sluggish over the past two years, is showing actions are taken at the headquarters level. considers local production and procurement. KOTRA signs of recovery thanks to the economic policy dubbed as “Modinomics” after the election of Indian prime minister Narendra Modi ■Community involvement and development (4.33) plans to embark on a project to create an industrial in May 2014. The new government is pushing ahead with market-friendly policies such as expansion of infrastructure Concerning community involvement, the Karachi Office supported Korean SMEs to donate photovoltaic lighting systems to complex exclusive for Korean SMEs in Rajasthan Province in India in 2015 to build a local manufacturing development, fostering of the manufacturing sector and expansion of foreign direct investment. In particular, the manufacturing schools in remote areas through CSR programs. The Mumbai Office is engaged in CSR initiatives in collaboration with the base, thereby addressing difficulties experienced by sector in the nation receives strong policy support from the government bsed on its policy of cultivating the manufacturing sector global CSR unit and its achievements are reported by Public Relations Office. Korean SMEs entering India’s market. represented by the “Make in India” drive. ■Human rights (4.06) With respect to human rights education, the Mumbai Office offers ethics/customer satisfaction (CS) education as well as ● Market Entry Strategies sexual harassment/sex trade/sexual violence prevention education. Its employees receive education of 24 hours per year on KOTRA presents market entry strategies to make inroads into the Southwest Asian market, a new economic frontier as follows: average per person. The Chennai Office opens all facilities and spaces to all employees including locally hired employees and interns without discrimination. ·Utilize marketing platforms for entering South West Asian market •Aggressively target key industries and future new industries Directions ·Adopt differentiated approaches by zone and focus on affiliated projects •Manage risks associated with investment ■Organizational governance (3.98) ·Aggressively target strategically fostered industries and promising sectors with rapidly growing demand Concerning internal control of confidential information, the Chennai Office authorizes only Korean employees to access the ·Increase the shares of local production and procurement internal system as part of effort to step up security and enhances internal control by offering relevant education to Korean ·Capitalize on India’s conglomerates and provincial key players ·Benchmark case studies of Korean SMEs with business presence in the region employees on a regular basis. Details ·Target differentiated markets by region and zone ·Target the New Wave Indian market and diversify distribution channels ※The result was calculated based on survey responses given by 4 KBC offices out of 8 in South West Asia. ·Adopt a paradigm shift thinking the region as an export/production base and capitalize on overseas Indian networks ·Establish a risk management system 78 79 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA KOTRA Central and South America Head Office Social Contribution Organization CSR Activities and Achievements of KOTRA Central and South America Head Office Global Appendix KOTRA Central and South America Head Office supports CSR activities in which Korean companies assist resolution of social problems in partnership with local governments and promotes shared growth with local businesses and governments. The image of Korea is widely promoted in Central and South America thanks to the Hallyu (Korean Wave) and thus CSR initiatives Performance in Central and South America Head Office in 2014 featuring Hallyu stars are undertaken in the region where the Hallyu is incorporated into CSR programs and products of Korea Business Korean companies are donated to local institutions. KOTRA Central and South America Head Office will expand its global CSR Centers in Central and Business Performance of Central and South America Head Office programs to help Korean SMEs operating in Latin America contribute to the development of the region and secure marketing competitiveness in the region through CSR activities linked to their key businesses. South America 122case 169mil. $ 285case 7case 74case 2case 0case Participating entities City Period CSR initiatives (6.24%) (3.78%) (8.01%) (6.19%) (20.56%) (10.00%) (0.00%) Guatemala, Peru, Brazil, Mexico, Mexico Federal Ministry of Shared exemplary CSR case studies with Korean companies operating in Mexico City Dec. 2014 Economy the nation Argentina, Dominica, Chile, Brazil, Cuba, Korea Cadastral Survey Corp., Shared land registration and cadastral technology with local government Paraguay, Venezuela, Ecuador, Panama Lima Nov.~Dec. 2014 Daeguk GS, Geomex Soft officials Shared ICT technology with government officials from Presidential Office Moon Engineering Asuncion Nov. 2014 and Interior Ministry Korea Cadastral Survey Corp., Shared land registration and cadastral technology with government officials El Salvador Nov. 2014 * KOTRA Central and South America Head Office Hojung Solution, Geomex Soft from the national registration office Homepage: Support for overseas marketing Foreign buyers that have Support for outbound Promising overseas Promising overseas Attraction of foreign activities by domesticallyCustomized services signed import contracts with investment projects (Exploration) projects (Participation) investment Korea Cadastral Survey Corp., Shared land registration and cadastral technology with officials from client Introducing Korea’s case study on the establishment of http://www.kotra.or.kr/KBC/latin/KTMIUI010M.html Santo Domingo Nov. 2014 oriented Korean SMEs Korean SMEs Samah Aerial Survey, Geomex Soft government agencies e–government and ICT technology to working-level officials Korea Southern Power, Doosan Shared power generation-related technology with officials from client from Paraguay government * The percentages by each business indicate their respective shares within the 10 regional head offices. Santiago Aug. 2014 Heavy Industries & Construction government agencies Provided trade capability enhancement education to businessmen in 5 KOTRA, OKTA, etc. Buenos Ares July~Aug. 2014 countries in South America Success Stories of Korean SMEs in Central and South America Shared Korea’s experience of formulating economic development policies KOTRA Rio de Janeiro June 2014 with local government officials and economic researchers Company L won a bid for the Intelligent Transport System (ITS) worth US$300 million in Bogota, Colombia. To this end, KOTRA organized various events including ITS roadshow in collaboration with the Intelligent Transport Society of Korea and pushed Market Entry Tips! ahead with mid-to-long term marketing activities to support market entry. It also carried out pinpoint marketing drive through In order to successfully enter Central and South exchange of opinions with local high-ranking officials of Colombia, spreading excellence of Korean-style ITS. Diagnosis Result of CSR Implementation Level in Central and South America America, it is essential to conduct thorough preliminary market surveys and to have a proper According to the diagnosis result of corporate social responsibility implementation level in KOTRA’s 14 Korea Business Centers in Diagnosis result of Central and South America understanding of local cultures which are vastly Central and South America, the fair operating practices category scored the highest recording 4.58 out of 5, followed by community different from Korean culture. It should not be KOTRA’s Suggestions for Central and South American Market Entry Strategies in 2015 Organizational overlooked that it is essential to establish close involvement and development (4.08), human rights (3.97), and consumer issues (3.90). In order to improve the organizational 3.98 governance relationships with local employees through governance category (3.74) which shows relatively low implementation level, KOTRA Central and South America Head Office ● Trends and Opportunities communication via local languages and cultures. provides anti-corruption and safety education and abides by Codes of Conduct on a continuous basis. In an effort to effectively support Korean companies’ The Central and South American market with abundant population and resources has emerged as a region with high 4.06 Human rights local marketing activities, KOTRA plans a joint GP manufacturing competitiveness thanks to its relatively low wages and accessibility to the U.S. and European markets. Mexico (Global Partnering) project in the first half of 2015. ranks 5th in the world in terms of manufacturing competitiveness, while Brazil possesses the best manufacturing development 3.51 Labor practices Also, to capitalize on Latin American economic foundation in Central and South America. Given the growth potential of the Latin American region, global companies from China Major Activities and Achievements communities, KOTRA plans to host seminars and and Japan rushed to the region, following those from Europe and the United States, resulting in sharp rise in foreign direct Fair operating consultation sessions on customized market entry by ■Fair operating practices (4.58) 4.33 practices economic bloc, while pushing ahead with joint investment in the region. It is forecasted that expansion of middle class consumers in the region will lead to expanded consumer With respect to anti-corruption, the Quito Office makes internal anti-corruption efforts through individual counseling and ad overseas market entry projects involving Korean large markets in the areas of automobile, communication and food/beverage industries. As business scale of companies from Central corporations and small and medium-sized hoc education sessions. The Office also offers anti-corruption education on a regular basis and educates its employees about 3.75 Consumer and South America is becoming bigger and globalization is in progress with increased overseas investment, multinational issues businesses in a bid to facilitate Korean SMEs’ market relevant Korean and local laws and regulations. corporations from Latin America have emerged in such industries as resource development such as mining, energy, cement, food/ entry. It also supports the development of new Community business areas by utilizing its projects such as KSP, beverage, distribution, construction and communication. Meanwhile, as for economic cooperation programs for Latin America, the ■Community involvement and development (4.08) 4.33 involvement and Concerning community involvement, the Rio de Janeiro Office provided support for CSR activities where Korean companies development G2G and CSR and thus it is recommended that Korean Pacific Alliance (PA) has been recently launched following Mercosur (Common Market of the South), and the Andean Community, companies intending to enter the Latin American forming a new common market and resulting in expanded goods and project markets. donated their products (strollers, etc.) to local needy people. * The line graph indicates average scores of 92 KBC region capitalize on these support programs. ■Human rights (3.97) offices around the world. ● Market entry strategies With respect to anti-discrimination, the Guatemala Office offers equal treatment among employees, allowing interns to take KOTRA prevents strategies to help Korean SMEs successfully adapt to the changing economic landscape of Central and South part in such activities as Team Spirit. It also guarantees same lunch hour and working hours for all employees. America as follows. ■Consumer issues (3.90) ·Make customized market entry by capitalizing on the characteristics of regional economic blocs In order to facilitate smooth local settlement of Korean SMEs, the Bogota Office encourages Korean companies to join ·Expand businesses featuring the integration of industrial and cultural aspects Directions ·Adopt high-end consumer marketing targeting middle and high class consumers in Central and South America business delegations and the Branch Office Service. It provides preferential treatment to Korean SMEs that have joined them, ·Push ahead with partnerships with Spain and Latin multinational companies assisting them in their entry into overseas markets. In addition, the Office operates a hotline to help Korean SMEs report their grievances by phone. It has successfully resolved all the grievances received (10 cases). ·Intensively target countries that have FTA agreements with Korea to enjoy tariff reduction benefits ·Utilize Hallyu for business ·Focus on items to be positively affected by increase in middle class ·Focus on change in industrial structure landscape Details ※The result was calculated based on survey responses given by 12 KBC offices out of 14 in Central and South America. ·Intensively target undeveloped markets with high potential (Guatemala, Ecuador, Paraguay, Jamaica, Dominica, etc.) ·Make differentiated entry by bloc and sector (Mercosur, Andean Community, PA) 80 81 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA KOTRA CIS Head Office Social Contribution Organization CSR Activities and Achievements of KOTRA CIS Head Office Global Appendix KOTRA CIS Head Office provides active support for Korean SMEs making entry into the CIS region to improve their brand recognition and to naturally promote their products by donating their products and services. Also, KBCs in the region are briskly involved in their respective CSR activities. KOTRA CIS Head Office will continue to explore relevant CSR initiatives to help Korean Performance in CIS Head Office in 2014 SMEs become closer to local communities and build networks with clients and buyers, while gradually expanding the scope of Korea Business CSR activities conducted by KBCs in the region. Centers in CIS Business Performance of CIS Head Office Participating entities City Period CSR initiatives Donated the ondol floor-heating system to an education institution for children with AOG System Vladivostok Dec. 2014 Russia, Belarus, Azerbaijan, 92case 132mil. $ 219case 3case 34case 1case -case disabilities Kazakhstan, Mongolia, Ukraine, (4.78%) (3.03%) (6.16%) (2.65%) (9.44%) (5.00%) (0.00%) Osstem Implant, Bio Moscow Sept. 2014 Shared specialized implant technology with local dentists Uzbekistan Land, etc. Transferred marketing techniques to students and hosted a marketing strategy contest KOTRA Moscow Sept. 2014 among Korean companies operating in the region Medonica Kiev May 2014 Shared MRI and X-ray technology with a local university of technology * KOTRA CIS Head Office Homepage: Samsung Electronics, Kiev May 2014 Held recruitment counseling sessions for ethnic Koreans in the CIS region http://www.kotra.or.kr/KBC/cis/KTMIUI010M.html Support for overseas marketing Foreign buyers that have Support for outbound Promising overseas Promising overseas Attraction of foreign etc. Customized services activities by domesticallysigned import contracts with investment projects (Exploration) projects (Participation) investment oriented Korean SMEs Korean SMEs Shared its experience of supporting Korean SMEs’ exports with government officials from KOTRA Moscow Apr. 2014 institutions aimed to support SMEs * The percentages by each business indicate their respective shares within the 10 regional head offices. Duksan Machinery Vladivostok Mar. 203 Donated Korean rice cake machine to a ethnic Korean village in Primorsky Krai Success Stories of Korean SMEs in CIS Company A, which found downtown Siberia lacking sufficient parking space, proposed the city government to build a parking tower. Through the project reflecting local demand, Company A made a successful entry to the local market, establishing a Diagnosis Result of CSR Implementation Level in the CIS Region Market Entry Tips! reference. This served as a springboard for advancing into other neighboring cities and the capital Moscow also showed interest. Diagnosis result of CIS region Although the CIS region appears unstable due to According to the diagnosis result of corporate social responsibility implementation level in KOTRA’s 10 Korea Business Centers in Organizational 4.53 governance political situations and fluctuating foreign exchange the CIS region, the community involvement and development category scored the highest recording 5 on average out of 5, showing rates, it still presents opportunities for Korean companies to make investments. It is favorable to KOTRA’s Suggestions for CIS Market Entry Strategies in 2015 extremely high level of CSR implementation. In addition, the CIS region surpassed average scores of all regional head offices in all 4.53 Human rights secure emerging markets thanks to the launch of the categories of the diagnosis, indicating high level of CSR implementation. EEU and the number of its member states is likely to ● Trends and Opportunities steadily increase in the future. In addition, more than In recent years, the CIS region has presented a politically complex situation.In order to improve the economic situation, Russia is 4.59 Labor practices 90% of businesses in the CIS region wish to have joint ventures with foreign companies and in particular a pushing ahead with the Far East region project. Under the circumstances, Ukraine withdrew from the CIS and concluded a FTA Major Activities and Achievements Fair operating business atmosphere favorable to Korean companies with the E.U., while the three countries of the old Soviet Union, namely, Russia, Kazakhstan, and Belarus have formed the Eurasian 4.79 practices has been formed in the region. Meanwhile, companies Economic Union (EEU) to counter the EU, realigning economic order and trade environment in the CIS region into the EEU, quasi■Community involvement and development (5.00) in the CIS region lack business funds and wish for With respect to CSR activities, the Moscow Office actively carries out global CSR initiatives in collaboration with the EU states, and other neutral states. CIS states, which are faced with limitations in their capability for pumping up the economy due Consumer technology transfer. In order to take advantage of such headquarters. The Office reports achievements of its CSR activities through the media (press release, contributory articles, 4.70 issues opportunities, it is necessary for Korean SMEs to form to low oil prices, are striving to attract foreign direct investment (FDI) by opening their doors to other countries. It is expected that media coverage support, etc.) and internal reports. mid-to-long term partnerships with the companies in the trends of low oil prices and the strong dollar will continue in 2015. * The line graph indicates average scores of 92 KBC the CIS region through joint venture investment, ■Fair operating practices (4.79) offices around the world. management support and technology transfer. ● Market Entry Strategies Concerning anti-corruption, three KBCs (Novosibirsk, Moscow, Ulan Bator) offers anti-corruption education on regular or KOTRA intends to provide support for Korean SMEs to ad-hoc basis. As the CIS region undergoes political and economic changes, KOTRA presents business strategies to cope with the changes as follows: enter new and untapped markets in the CIS region through the Global Partnering project, while planning ■Consumer issues (4.70) to foster new export companies. It also plans to ·Develop differentiated strategies by CIS zone ·Actively capitalize on various opportunities such as Far East development and cultivation of the manufacturing sector With respect to handling of grievances lodged by SMEs, the Novosibirsk Office reflects customer inquiries and suggestions Directions ·Respond to change in trade environment in the CIS region ·Pioneer new areas such as new trends and markets in the CIS region facilitate Korean SMEs’ local market entry through CIS through the VOC (Voice of Customers), while the head of the Office strives to address customers’ grievances in person. In investment forums and counseling sessions. Korean addition, the Office offers monthly information security education, taking the lead in preventing information leakage. companies planning to advance into the region are Immature market zone Details Mature market zone* advised to capitalize on such support programs. Open market Managed market ■Labor practices (4.59) ·Diversify export products Concerning handling of grievances related to labor practices, the Moscow Office resolve problems through dialogue with ·Actively respond to oil-free policy ·Create new micro markets ·Create new strategic markets for Korean ·Win project orders capitalizing on ·Make intensified bid to enter untapped products international funds colleagues and mediation by the Office in the case where problems occur due to cultural differences and lack of provincial markets ·Develop niche markets reflecting local * Market zones are classified based on income levels and Short-term ·Adopt advanced market schemes government’s industrial policies ·Make pre-emptive response to a policy communication between employees dispatched from the headquarters and local employees. the degree of external economic dependency. of fostering import alternative industries ·Turn the procurement market into a new ·Partner with large distribution channels ·Explore third-country partners such as High-income, low-external economic dependencyexport engine ·Develop and modernize infrastructure Turkey and Russia that can be utilized for ※The result was calculated based on survey responses given by 6 KBC offices out of 10 in the CIS region. Mature market zone: Russia, Kazakhstan ·Actively respond to the manufacturing ·Actively respond to projects market entry Low-income, high-external economic dependencycultivation policy Open market zone: Ukraine, Belarus, Tajikistan, ·Diversify investment areas ·Actively respond to geopolitical linkage with EU Kyrgyzstan, Moldova, Georgia, Armenia, Mongolia Mid-to-long ·Actively respond to Russia’s development ·Transform the region into a strategic base for ·Overcome limitations of closed markets Low-income, low-external economic dependencyterm of the Far East advancing into EU/EEU by making investments in through investment Managed market zone: Uzbekistan, Azerbaijan, ·Prepare for the era of North Pole Route a preemptive manner. Turkmenistan 82 83 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA KOTRA Africa Head Office Social Contribution Organization CSR Activities and Achievements of KOTRA Africa Head Office Global Appendix Due to hunger, civil wars, diseases and shortages of government funds, Africa s a region with high demand for CSR activities in the areas of community development and healthcare. In response, KOTRA Africa Head Office is actively engaged in CSR initiatives in the form of non-use equipment transfer and donation of products and services. KOTRA is taking the lead in fighting Performance in Africa Head Office in 2014 diseases through CSR activities offering products and services of Korean companies. KOTRA anticipates that such CSR Korea Business activities will boost recognition of Korean products among local buyers in Africa. Centers in Africa Business Performance of Africa Head Office Participating entities City Period CSR initiatives Kenya, Tanzania, Nigeria, Mozambique, 36case 21mil. $ 80case 1case 19case 0case 0case IZ-FOG Kinshasa Dec. 2014 Donated epidemics prevention fog machine to local health authorities Ethiopia, South Africa, Sudan, (1.92%) (0.48%) (2.25%) (0.88%) (5.28%) (0.00%) (0.00%) Democratic Republic of the Congo KOTRA Dares Salaam Dec. 2014 Donated basic necessities to local orphanages Donated dengue fever repellent clothing to local organizations and shared fruit drink Aid Green Addis Ababa Nov. 2014 development technology with farmers Epidemics prevention fog machine donation ceremony Seyong NDC Accra Nov. 2014 Donated human milk analyzer to local hospitals attended by Congo lawmakers * KOTRA Africa Head Office Homepage: http://www.kotra.or.kr/KBC/africa/KTMIUI010M.html Support for overseas marketing Customized services Foreign buyers that have Support for outbound Promising overseas Promising overseas Attraction of foreign Donated school supplies to elementary schools near power station construction sites of Korean activities by domesticallysigned import contracts with investment projects (Exploration) projects (Participation) investment KOTRA Nairobi Apr. 2014 companies oriented Korean SMEs Korean SMEs * The percentages by each business indicate their respective shares within the 10 regional head offices. Success Stories of Korean SMEs in Africa Diagnosis Result of CSR Implementation Level in Africa Diagnosis result of Africa Company T established a local subsidiary M-TEC by making equity investment in Malesela Technology, a local company based According to the diagnosis result of corporate social responsibility implementation level in KOTRA’s 9 Korea Business Centers in in South Africa, and transferring technology to the company. M-TEC successfully settled into the local market by actively 4.08 Organizational Africa, the fair operating practices category scored the highest recording 4.73 out of 5. In addition, the African region scored 4 or governance Market Entry Tips! responding to the South African government’s Black Economy Empowerment (BEE) policy, accounting for 11% of the electric higher on average in all categories, showing high CSR implementation levels overall, compared to average scores of the entire In order to tap into the African market, it is necessary wire market in South Africa. Meanwhile, company F, a metal roof tile manufacturer, achieved US$ 9 million in sales in Nigeria. KOTRA regional head offices. 4.34 Human rights to clarify target countries and markets and to KOTRA offices conducted in-depth study of credit status of local buyers using their local networks, while responding to Chinese collaborate with local companies and governments. products that stole the trademark through a local law firm and submitting trademark registration application. For instance, the South African government adopts a 4.34 Human rights policy of fostering the manufacturing sector and offers Major Activities and Achievements incentives such as imposing low corporate tax rates Fair operating on companies that join the Special Economic Zone ■Fair operating practices (4.73) 4.73 KOTRA’s Suggestions for African Market Entry Strategies in 2015 practices (SEZ). Also, Korean SMEs planning to enter the With respect to anti-corruption, the Kinshasa Office sends warning letters when internal corruption cases are found and African market may consider capitalizing on member Consumer companies of the World Federation of Overseas ensures that the cases are reported to the head of the Office or employees dispatched from the headquarters. 4.60 issues ● Trends and Opportunities Korean Traders Association (OKTA) which already Sudan, Angola and Congo in Africa, which had been plagued with civil wars, are regaining political stability and are also achieving ■Consumer issues (4.60) have business presence in the region. They can also Community Concerning disclosure of progress of major businesses, the Accra Office and the Kinshasa Office disclose major business 4.60 involvement and expand markets by fostering local workforce. Despite economic growth as indicated by GDP growth of 5.5% on average over the past three years since 2012. The influence of colonial development achievements to stakeholders via internal reports and sustainability management reports. expansion of the African market, there still exist rules such as the United Kingdom and France has weakened, rapidly replaced by influence of China and India. In particular, China African risks such as low country credibility ratings, exerts a dominant influence in the region with a market share of 16.4% as of 2013 in connection with infrastructure and resource ■Community involvement and development (4.60) * The line graph indicates average scores of 92 KBC high political risks, difficulties in local financing, and offices around the world. development projects. With respect to community involvement, the Nairobi Office offers education on operation of farming machinery and aftervolatility of local currencies. In order to make entry into Africa, companies should be patient and adopt a longThe African region features high percentage of young generations (200 million youth population aged between 15 and 24, 500 sales services to local farmers, as well as providing support for education on beauty skills designed for local people. term approach with an attitude of not avoiding such million working age population), indicating abundant growth potential. In addition, the African consumer market is growing rapidly ■Labor practices (4.34) risks and rather actively managing them. due to expansion of middle class, urbanization and the information age. The region is rich in energy and mineral resources such as Concerning a pleasant working environment, the Dares Salaam Office is located in the best office in the region, offering a crude oil, and thus countries around the globe are making continuous investments and offering support in the region. pleasant working environment for its employees. In addition, it operates emergency contact network system in the case of disturbances and natural disasters to ensure employee safety, while preparing from emergency situations by specifying roles ● Market Entry Strategies and responsibilities. KOTRA presents market entry strategies to facilitate full-fledged entry of Korean companies to the African market in the era of ※The result was calculated based on survey responses given by 6 KBC offices out of 19 in Africa. African Renaissance as follows: Directions Expand infrastructure for market pioneering support; Provide intensive support for strategic products ·Advance into the small and medium-sized plant industry amid growing demand for industrial products as a result of growing population Details ·Advance into distribution networks amid expansion of middle class and increased purchasing power of consumer goods ·Participate in infrastructure development projects amid prospect that development projects will be continuously implemented owing to lack of infrastructure 84 85 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA KOTRA Middle East Head Office Social Contribution Organization CSR Activities and Achievements of KOTRA Middle East Head Office Global Appendix There is high CSR demand in the areas of medical and health care sectors in Middle East. Korean companies focus on CSR activities targeting areas requiring immediate resolution in Middle East. KOTRA, jointly with local governments, awards prizes to Korean companies with outstanding CSR programs operating in the region and share their experiences. KOTRA also Performance in Middle East Head Office in 2014 endeavors to explore related projects. Korea Business Centers in Middle Participating entities City Period CSR initiatives Business Performance of Middle East Head Office Incoaching Doha Dec. 2014 Shared leadership techniques with female business leaders East 214case 166mil. $ 359case 3case 40case 5case 4.00case Korean food companies Doha Dec. 2014 Donated proceeds jointly with local large-scale distributors (11.23%) (3.76%) (10.09%) (2.65%) (11.11%) (25.00%) (1.52%) Korean companies operating Award prizes to exemplary companies with outstanding CSR activities and Amman Dec. 2014 Syria, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, in the region shared their case studies Saudi Arabia, Oman, Iraq, Algeria, Godbawee Food, Nongshim Tel Aviv Nov. 2014 Donated their products to Palestinian refugee camps jointly with buyers Jordan, Turkey, Morocco, Egypt, Kuwait, Offered medical volunteer services using its physical therapy appliances for Iran, Israel, Libya Nuga Best Casa Blanca Nov. 2014 local underprivileged people Neo Environmental Business Riyadh Nov. 2014 Shared bio-floc technology with local government officials * KOTRA Middle East Head Office Homepage http://www.kotra.or.kr/KBC/middleeast/KTMIUI010M.html Support for overseas marketing Foreign buyers that have Support for outbound Promising overseas Promising overseas Attraction of foreign Irae Chemical Istanbul May 2014 Donated paint products to children’s hospital and offered painting service Customized services activities by domesticallysigned import contracts with investment projects (Exploration) projects (Participation) investment oriented Korean SMEs Korean SMEs * The percentages by each business indicate their respective shares within the 10 regional head offices. Diagnosis Result of CSR Implementation Level in Middle East Success Stories of Korean SMEs in Middle East According to the diagnosis result of corporate social responsibility implementation level in KOTRA’s 15 Korea Business Centers in Diagnosis result of Middle East Company B, a boiler manufacturer, secured an exclusive supply right in combined cycle thermal power plants in Algeria and was registered as a vendor and service provider for its client CEEG of Algeria. Company B secured an exclusive supply right Middle East, the consumer issues category scored the highest recording 4.28 out of 5, followed by organizational governance (3.85), Organizational labor practices (3.65), and human rights (3.60). Overall, the KBCs in the region show lower CSR implementation level than average 3.85 governance Market Entry Tips! through designation as a joint venture company partner. It is scheduled to export its products worth at least US$ 100 million for scores of the entire KOTRA regional head offices. KOTRA Middle East Head Office will strive to come up with measures to actively three years starting from 2015. The company obtained an exclusive supply right for main boilers for power stations which will A buyer from Middle East once said, “Politics equals utilize KOTRA-led CSR initiatives, taking the lead in implementing corporate social responsibility. 3.60 Human rights economy in Middle East.” This means that Islam’s be constructed in Algeria starting from 2017. political and religious characteristics and culture have a great impact on business. Therefore, it is essential to 3.65 Labor practices respect Arab politics, religions and cultures when Major Activities and Achievements companies make market entry into Middle East. For instance, it is necessary for companies to acquire KOTRA’s Suggestions for Middle East Market Entry Strategies in 2015 3.60 Fair operating ■Consumer issues (4.28) practices HALAL certification if they plan to export foods, medicine and cosmetics to the region, depending on ● Trends and Opportunities With respect to handling of grievances experienced by SMEs, the Dubai Office resolves problems by operating “Trade Doctor” Consumer Islam cultures. In recent years, HALAL-certified foods Middle East is Korea’s largest project market accounting for 50% in Korea’s construction and plant order amounts. As of 2014, and “VOC,” receives investment counseling requests, and offers counseling service at the office in an effort to help Korean 4.28 issues have been drawing attention as “safe food” and “wellKorea imported crude oil worth US 75.1 billion (making up 86% of total import) and natural gas worth US$16.4 billion (accounting SMEs to make market entry into Middle East and address their problems. being food,” regardless of their religious meanings. Community Meanwhile, middle and high class people in Middle for 57% of total import) from the region, making Middle East the largest energy exporter to Korea. Due to outdated manufacturing ■Organizational governance (3.85) 2.36 involvement and development East tend to purchase new and unique products sector and excessive economic dependence on oil, oil-producing countries in Middle East are actively pushing ahead with the “oilConcerning risk management in KBCs, the Dubai Office conducts headquarters or internal audits once every three years in irrespective of their prices. Therefore, Korean SMEs free” policy, which is designed to their dependence on crude oil in preparation of the advent of the post-oil era, as well as industrial the areas of general affairs, accounting, and its overall projects. The Office takes corrective actions within two months from * The line graph indicates average scores of 92 KBC are advised to advance into Middle East by targeting diversification policy that can address employment issues. Since the Arab Spring in December 2010, countries in the region have the time when there are areas requiring improvements during the audit. offices around the world. middle class and affluent consumers with purchasing been actively pushing ahead with policies aimed at stabilizing the public’s livelihood, such as power generation, freshwater, ■labor practices (3.65) power and featuring products, which are differentiated from the existing products and applied with technology education, health, housing, and transportation. If the Iran nuclear agreement is reached in July 2015, there will be expanded With respect to a pleasant working environment, the Amman Office, the Cairo Office, the Dubai Office and the Istanbul Office and design preferred by local people. opportunities to enter the Iranian market. However, the four Middle East countries of Iraq, Syria, Libya and Yemen are in a state of provide a pleasant working environment by improving lighting, ventilation, safety, equipment and restrooms. civil wars, while the Islamic State (IS)* occupied Mosul in northern Iraq in June 2014. In addition, Israel is engulfed with disputes ■Human rights (3.60) with the Palestinians and Iran is under economic sanctions imposed by Western countries including the U.S. and Israel. Under the Concerning anti-discrimination, all KBCs in Middle East offer equal treatment among local employees, interns and circumstances, it is necessary to prudently consider opportunities and risks in the region. employees dispatched from the headquarters regarding working hours, lunch provision, and settlement of work-related personal expenses and abide by local labor laws and KOTRA management guidelines. ● Market Entry Strategies KOTRA suggests the following market entry strategies to Korean SMEs planning to enter the Middle East market: ※The result was calculated based on survey responses given by 9 KBC offices out of 15 in Middle East. *IS : Sunni Extremists or Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant renamed itself “Islamic State” on 29 June 2014 Intensively target relatively unaffected markets despite falling oil prices ·Turkey, Egypt and Iran: The three leading medium-sized markets in Middle East (main markets: Turkey and Egypt, market to enter first: Iran) **GCC : Gulf Cooperation Council. Six member Directions ·GCC**: Expand entry into the GCC where there are continuous project orders financed by state funds countries including Saudi Arabia, UAE, Kuwait, ·Maghreb*** and Algeria: Cultivation of the manufacturing industry to ensure stability of people’s livelihood and to promote economic development; entry into Algeria Oman, Qatar, and Bahrain ***Maghreb : In Arabic, the word “Maghreb: means ·Formulate a strategy to enter a third country by combining Middle East’s capital and marketing capabilities with Korea’s industry and technology capabilities “land of sunset.” It includes Morocco, Algeria, Details ·Boost competitiveness through strategic alliance Tunisia and Libya. ·Facilitate winning orders for construction and plant projects by providing customized financing support 86 87 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Facts & Figures_ Business Social Contribution Organization Global Appendix Business Category Unit 2012 2013 2014 Use of KBCs as No. of branches Branch office 2,079 2,205 2,400 corporate branches Contracted amount US$1 million 1,350 1,420 1,551 No. of participating Company 2,673 2,753 2,429 Trade delegations companies Amount under consultation US$1 million 20,309 34,711 27,997 Support for overseas No. of trips Trip 346 321 260 business trips Market survey contracts No. of contracts Contract 9,531 9,381 8,460 No. of meetings held by Meeting 66 105 68 KOTRA Export consultation No. of buyers Buyer 2,804 3,178 3,445 meetings No. of companies Company 8,541 8,778 10,759 Amount under consultation US$1 million 396,639 472,879 522,508 No. of exhibitions Exhibition 112 121 131 Overseas exhibitions participated by KOTRA Amount under negotiation US$1 million 1,348 1,914 1,785 Mobile KOTRA No. of consulted companies Company 2,048 2,303 No. of applying companies Company 69 90 120 World Champ Exports to market markets US$1 million 1,127 1,266 1,705 World-class products No. of companies Company 710 727 750 KOTRA Export No. of mentees Company 581 716 Gateway project Contracted amount US$1 million 15 76 Total exhibition area m 2 64,766 64,831 64,831 No. of participating Seoul Food 2014 Company 1,155 1,210 1,336 companies No. of visitors Person 49,156 51,974 52,800 No. of exhibitions Exhibition 20 20 22 No. of overseas 05 Co-hosted exhibitions Company 74 62 122 participating companies No. of visiting buyers Person 1,906 2,072 1,406 Establishment of DB on Person 8,117 8,214 5,880 overseas experts Supporting performance for Company, Person 346/616 356/645 384/610 employment of overseas experts Registered amount 16,286 14,548 19,003 US$1 million, % Foreign direct (increase rate) (19.1) (△10.7) (30.6) Contents investments Arrival amount 10,689 9,682 11,517 US$1 million, % (increase rate) (62.2) (△9.4) (17.1) Appendix Facts & Figures_ Business Institutional improvements Case 6 5 10 Facts & Figures_ Finance IK grievance Administrative handling Case 104 98 111 Facts & Figures_ Economy, Society and Environment settlement ISO 26000 Compliance Diagnosis Report Home Doctor handling Case 238 280 316 GRI G4 Contents Index Third-party Independence Assurance Report Awards and Memberships KOTRA Previous Reports / Publications Questionnaire for Readers’ Opinions 88 89 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Facts & Figures_ Finance Social Contribution Organization Global Appendix Summary Statement of Financial Position Statement of Comprehensive Income 53rd term ending December 31, 2014 53rd term (January 1 to December 31, 2014) 52nd term ending December 31, 2013 52nd term (January 1 to December 31, 2013) (Unit : Korean Won) (Unit : Korean won) 53rd term (current) Amount 52nd term (previous) Amount 53rd term (current) Amount 52nd term (previous) Amount Sales 342,257,088,836 326,647,702,667 Assets Revenue from provision of services 65,106,740,415 61,634,048,833 Current assets 92,574,656,305 74,189,338,035 Previous revenue (sales) 275,413,044,267 262,950,062,225 Cash and cashable assets 37,593,062,263 25,924,694,607 Other revenue (sales) 1,737,304,154 2,063,591,609 Cost of sales 226,944,302,219 213,735,501,448 Current financial assets 21,903,521,500 40,812,700,291 Accounts receivable and other Cost of sales for revenues from 755,054,053 720,494,127 224,679,332,266 211,322,568,349 receivables provision of services Current tax assets 269,440,143 392,370,897 Cost of sales for other revenues 2,264,969,953 2,412,933,099 Gross profit 115,312,786,617 112,912,201,219 Current non-financial assets 32,053,578,346 6,339,078,113 Selling and administrative expenses 108,830,530,587 110,978,987,793 Non-current assets 79,104,355,359 99,771,156,029 Labor cost 94,472,388,721 97,239,669,583 Non-current financial assets 5,385,981,242 6,098,069,801 Public expenditures 14,358,141,866 13,739,318,210 Long-term trade receivables and 9,263,017,896 8,690,856,789 Operating income 6,482,256,030 1,933,213,426 other receivables Tangible assets 15,208,737,973 15,286,834,220 Other revenue 5,727,478,232 74,911,158,490 Government subsidy revenue 5,727,478,232 74,911,158,490 Investment properties 2,430,977,374 2,475,193,007 Other expenses 34,820,869 34,820,869 Intangible assets other than goodwill 4,427,870,846 3,747,617,737 Depreciation of investment property 34,820,869 34,820,869 Investments in subsidiaries 42,337,165,177 37,405,475,441 Other income (loss) 3,418,268,087 1,236,776,476 Non-current, non-financial assets 50,604,851 26,067,109,034 Gain on disposition of tangible assets 1,599,830,359 196,027,643 Total assets 171,679,011,664 173,960,494,064 Foreign currency translation gain 281,490,792 27,376,600 Foreign exchange gain 499,114,578 393,743,192 Liabilities Non-operating income 1,648,908,174 1,866,894,261 Current liabilities 42,140,384,280 43,162,312,233 Loss on disposition of tangible assets (22,959,380) (11,099,177) Foreign currency translation loss (252,612,584) (614,754,126) Trade payables and other payables 10,771,086,345 15,771,504,971 Foreign exchange loss (335,503,852) (621,411,917) Current non-financial liabilities 15,127,050,098 11,616,706,599 Financial revenue 2,013,128,403 2,679,766,542 Current estimated liabilities 16,242,247,837 15,774,100,663 Interest income 2,013,128,403 2,679,766,542 Non-current liabilities 9,062,407,309 23,222,774,958 Profit (loss) related to affiliated companies (719,032,614) (67,368,873,845) Long-term trade payables and other and joint ventures 819,751,846 790,302,311 payables Paper profit from investment shares in 394,414,764 132,502,808 Non-current, non-financial liabilities 425,467,403 371,765,239 affiliated companies and joint ventures Paper loss from investment shares in Employee payroll liabilities 7,817,188,060 22,060,707,408 (1,113,447,378) (67,501,376,653) affiliated companies and joint ventures Total liabilities 51,202,791,589 66,385,087,191 Net income before income taxes 16,887,277,269 13,357,220,220 Corporation tax Equity Net income 16,887,277,269 13,357,220,220 Paid-in capital 50,000,000,000 50,000,000,000 Other comprehensive income (3,986,464,067) (304,723,330) Retained earnings 68,575,738,698 55,674,925,496 Re-measurement elements for defined (3,909,708,185) (279,013,398) benefit scheme Other components of equity 1,900,481,377 1,900,481,377 Share of other comprehensive income of (76,755,882) (25,709,932) Total equity 120,476,220,075 107,575,406,873 affiliated companies and joint ventures Total liabilities and equity 171,679,011,664 173,960,494,064 Total comprehensive income 12,900,813,202 13,052,496,890 90 91 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Figures_ Economy, Society and Environment Social Contribution Organization Male Person 32 48 78 Dispatched employees Global Female Person 89 93 112 (as of year-end) Total Person 121 141 190 Appendix By region (except Domestic Person 384 338 345 officials in special service) Overseas Person 276 343 340 Employees entitled to join the labor union and collective bargaining Economic Impacts Number of eligible employees Person 485 489 537 Unit 2012 2013 2014 Number of union members Person 424 430 438 Status of fund operations (fixed pay type) Proportion of union membership % 87.4 87.90 81.56 Operation amount KRW 1 million 18,712 20,855 24,343 Employee training Subscribers Person 679 710 583 Number of employees Person 771 805 839 Comparison of new employee’s wage against the legal minimum wage Number of training sessions Session 884 898 790 Legal minimum wage KRW 1,000 11,488 12,188 13,067 Total training expenses KRW 1,000 2,356,000 2,356,000 1,850,400 New employee’s pay (annual basic pay) KRW 1,000 27,037 28,317 28,904 Training expenses per person Won/Person 3,055,772 3,263,158 2,661,000 Employment of local staff overseas Total training hours Hour 142,250 144,174 1,850,400 Number of local employees Person 243 265 260 Training houses per person Hour/ Person 184.5 199.7 182 Number of managers overseas Person 17 20 20 Foreign language training hours per person Hour/ Person 72 63 72 Proportion of local managers % 2.58 2.59 2.65 Satisfaction with training Full score: 5 4.14 4.17 4.49 Employees subject to performance evaluation and career development reviews Social Impacts Total number of employees Person 776 805 839 Employees subject to performance evaluation Person 737 759 763 Unit 2012 2013 2014 Proportion of employees subject to performance evaluation % 95.0 94.1 90.9 Ethical education Education on human rights policies Online Session 2 2 2 Ethical education Education on sexual harassment Session 4 4 6 Offline Session 3 6 10 Attendance in education on sexual harassment Person 765 800 832 Offline Hour 11,600 13,431 16,140 Ethical education hours Complaints about human rights violations Offline Hour 1,007 1,155 1,148 No. of educated employees Employees Person 683 714 806 Complaints registered Case 7 0 0 Composition of staff (except officials in special service: data uncollectable) Complaints settled Case 7 0 0 Executives Person 7 7 7 Surveys on customer satisfaction Rank 1 Person 56 51 54 Number of surveys Survey 1 1 1 Rank 2 Person 141 150 153 Customer satisfaction scores Point 94.7 94.9 99.1 By rank Privacy invasion and lost items Rank 3 Person 156 161 150 Ranks 4,5,6 Person 300 312 321 Number of lost items Case 0 0 0 Others Person Male employees Person 531 531 532 By gender Environmental Performance (※Environment performance is based on domestic business sites.) Female employees Person 129 150 153 Below Person 211 216 223 Unit 2012 2013 2014 36~45 Person 206 215 224 Rate of (raw) materials recycling By age 46~55 Person 218 223 206 Quantity of materials used (copying paper) KRW 1 million 17.7 18.4 19.6 Over 56 Person 25 27 32 Rate of recycling of (raw) materials % 100 100 100 Female Person 16 20 13 Water usage and recycling rate Disabled Person 1 1 Use of water (groundwater) ton 12,430 13,236 10,823 New employees Regional talents Person 5 10 5 Total annual water use ton 27,791 27,831 25,870 Science & engineering majors Person 5 6 7 Water recycling (greywater) ton 1,565 1,780 1,310 Total Person 33 33 34 Water recycling ratio % 12.6 12.2 12.1 female employees & proportion Person (%) 129(19.5%) 150(22%) 153(22.3%) Total direct & indirect GHG emissions Female employment Team leader or above and Person (%) 7(1.05%) 7(1.03%) 8(1.17%) Scope 1 Total direct GHG emissions tCO2e 564 638 563 proportion Male employee Person (%) 15(2.8%) 20(3.8%) 20(3.8%) (fixed) city gas tCO2e 399 457 384 Employee turnover (mobile) gasoline tCO2e 136 145 155 Female employees Person (%) 5(3.9%) 3(2%) 6(3.9%) Male employee Person (%) 0 0 0 (mobile) diesel tCO2e 29 36 25 Work-related injury ratio Scope 2 Total indirect GHG emissions tCO2e 2,581 2,450 2,490 Female employees Person (%) 0 0 0 Composition of employees Electricity tCO2e 2,581 2,450 2,490 Executives Person 7 7 7 Total direct and indirect GHG emissions tCO2e 2,301 3,088 3,053 By job Trade experts & professionals Person 653 674 678 Total expenditures for and investments in environmental protection Officials in special service Person 111 124 128 Emissions treatment costs KRW 1 million 16.8 21.4 18.1 Full-time Person 660 681 685 Sewage treatment costs KRW 1 million 18.2 20.9 23.8 Indefinite-term contractual Purchase of eco -friendly products KRW 1 million 490.8 606.6 601.5 Person 1 0 6 By type of employment employees Total purchase KRW 1 million 544.5 669.5 667.7 Contractual employees Person 31 39 43 Proportion of green purchasing % 90.0 90.6 90.9 Others Person 85 79 92 93 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA ISO 26000 Compliance Assessment Report ■ Assessment Results by 7 Core Subject of ISO 26000 Social Contribution Organizational Governance | KOTRA is well–positioned regarding organizational governance. It has systematically Organization established a decision-making process and structure on social responsibility and social responsibility issues are reported to Global top management (vice president). KOTRA performs CSR activities at an organization level through the global CSR project group dedicated to CSR initiatives and operates a system that reflects advice of CSR-related experts through CSR advisory Appendix group at home and CSR councils overseas. KOTRA is superior to its competitors in these areas. ■ Assessment Criteria Human Rights | Concerning human rights due diligence, KOTRA is strong in that it strengthens audit function over overseas The Korean Standards Association has developed an assessment checklist for fulfillment level of social responsibility as a Korea Business Centers (KBCs) and operates a monitoring system. With respect to human rights risks, KOTRA manages its service of The Korean Agency for Technology and Standards on the basis of the international standard ISO 26000 for social local employees by reflecting global human rights standards and local characteristics, while, concerning human rightsresponsibility. This report contains the results that KSA arrived at concerning the process of KOTRA's social responsibility related grievance handling, its audit team listens to grievances of staff dispatched overseas or returning to Korea, as well as management and its performance regarding its 7 core subjects according to KSA's assessment checklist. entry-level employees. As human rights management has been strengthened at national level, however, it is recommended that KOTRA gain a deeper understanding of human rights management. ■ Scope of Assessment Labor Practices | KOTRA has experienced no labor disputes for the past 26 years since the establishment of a labor union, KSA assessed the process to fulfill KOTRA’s social responsibility and its performance results. For this, we examined KOTRA’s indicating how well labor and management coordinate their opinions, which is also well evidenced by its formulation of mid-to-long term strategies, its activities, stakeholder engagement, and its CSR (corporate social responsibility) activities. annual plans on labor union-related matters and organizing seminars on collective bargaining jointly with the labor union. KOTRA conducts GWP satisfaction surveys as a regular assessment on working conditions and allows its employees to ■ Assessment Methodology receive counseling service on stress from the Employee Assistance Program (EAP) Association for workplace stress Based on ISO 26000 assessment standards of performance level, we conducted the following activities to collect proper and management. It is considered that KOTRA responds appropriately to its employees main interests. relevant data: The Environment | The environment category bears little direct relevance to KOTRA. However, KOTRA is making diverse Examination of KOTRA’s midto long-term strategies and its management performance report efforts to protect the environment, including purchase of recycled paper products from social enterprises when purchasing Interview with staff in charge of KOTRA’s social responsibility management issues and its performance reports printing paper, formulation of internal recycling and energy-saving policies, and implementation of the 5-day vehicle rotation Identification of sustainability issues that may affect KOTRA’s stakeholders system. KOTRA also implements government policies related to EMS (Energy Management System) and ESS (Energy Storage System). ■ Result of Assessment by ISO 26000 Social Responsibility Process Fair Operating Practices | Led by the Auditor s Office, KOTRA conducts regular and special audits. Also, Ethical Management According to the result of assessment by social responsibility process, the stakeholder identification, engagement, and Committee, Clean KOTRA Committee, and Open KOTRA Committee assess anti-corruption activities. As such, KOTRA s anticommunication aspect turned out to be the best-performing category. Recognition, implementation and verification of corruption policies and activities to raise awareness of anti-corruption are considered excellent. In addition, as a social responsibility were also considered relatively positive. However, it turned out that analysis of social responsibility commissioned-service-based quasi-governmental institution, KOTRA appoints a PM in charge of National Assembly-related issues reflecting characteristics of the organization and setting priorities and formulating implementation strategies and affairs as a grade 2 executive and has provisions on bids and contracts through the Integrity Ombudsman system. plans were relatively insufficient, requiring improvement. Consumer Issues | In order to protect consumer data and privacy, KOTRA has a response manual and action plan in place. Information on overseas buyers is a precious asset of KOTRA and it is managed through systems such as CRM, buyer search and Kompass. In addition, it was found that KOTRA operates VOC (Voice of the Customer) program to collect Outcomes of Social Responsibility Process Assessment Assessment Results by 7 Core Subject customer feedback and analyzes it annually. Through the diagnosis, KOTRA plans to commission more in-depth analysis of Recognition of social responsibility Organizational Governance the VOC and we hope that we will be able to confirm it when we prepare next year s report. 100.0 100.0 100.0 80.0 88.0 Stakeholder identification Community Involvement and Development | KOTRA is engaged in global CSR initiatives based on its extensive global Improvement 80.0 and engagement Community Involvement network of 123 overseas branch offices in 83 countries. It also disseminates global trends of CSR activities by organizing 60.0 92.0 Human Rights 86.0 and Development 60.0 40.0 100.0 40.0 75.6 forums and prize-awarding ceremonies on CSR activities at home and abroad, taking the lead in CSR initiatives. Through 20.0 20.0 such activities, KOTRA encourage Korean companies operating around the world to engage in CSR activities and help them Verification 88.0 0.0 76.0 Analysis of core 0.0 get involved in local communities in which they operate, thereby boosting their image. subjects and issues 84.2 93.3 Consumer Issues Labor Practices ■ Conclusion 92.0 72.0 Setting priorities and 86.7 According to the ISO 26000 compliance assessment result, KOTRA gained 341 scores out of 400 in process and 525 scores Communication 88.0 implementation strategy 93.3 Fair Operating Practices The Environment out of 600 in performance, recording a total score of 866, which corresponds to SR stage IV. It is assessed that KOTRA’s ISO Implementation 26000 compliance level is relatively high and KOTRA has sufficient potential for sustainable development. In order to KSA is a special corporation established under the upgrade KOTRA s sustainability management to the next level, it is recommended that KOTRA set priorities on sustainability Korea Industrial Standardization Act in 1962. KSA is Recognition of social Reviewing the current status of an organization based on top management’s Organizational Activities to respect social responsibility principles and integrate these principles into existing responsibility commitment Governance systems, policies and practices management-related issues, formulate implementation strategies and plans, and put them into action. We hope that, a knowledge service agency that disseminates Stakeholder identification Examining stakeholder’s interest and demand and formulating engagement strategy Human Rights Activities to respect, protect, observe and realize human rights within an organization and the through such effort, sustainability management will become strategically internalized in KOTRA s management, helping industrial standardization, quality management, and engagement sphere of influence KOTRA become an organization trusted by stakeholders. sustainability management, and KS/ISO certification Analysis of core subjects Creating a list of issues through review of issues and analysis of organization’s internal Labor Practices Policies and practices that influence working environments of employees within an organization and issues capacity and partner companies to companies. KSA contributes to our society's Setting priorities and Setting priorities, goals and implementation plans regarding issues to be improved Holistic approach that takes into account the implications of decisions made and actions taken in sustainable development as Korea's ISO 26000 implementation strategy and managed in consideration of organization’s capacity The Environment order to reduce organization’s impact on the environment May 2015 Baek, Soo Hyun Chairman & CEO of KSA administrative agency, certified GRI training partner, Putting strategies, vision, goals and implementation plans into action and regularly Fair Operating Activities that concern ethical behaviors regarding transactions between an organization and its Implementation AA1000 assurance provider, Korean Sustainability monitoring accomplishments associated with social responsibility Practices counterparts such as partner companies and suppliers Communication Communicating with stakeholders by preparing performance reports Consumer Issues Activities to protect consumer rights covering consumer training, fair and transparent marketing Index(KSI) operating agency, UN CDM operating information and contracts and promotion of sustainable consumption Verification Taking action and reporting to enhance reliability of achievements body, and greenhouse gas and energy target Community Involvement Activities to recognize and respect community rights and to maximize its resources and Improvement Reviewing achievements regularly to ensure sustained improvement and Development opportunities management verification body. 94 95 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA GRI G4 Contents Index For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary within the organization, as follows: Social Contribution * Report whether the Aspect is material within the organization Organization * If the Aspect is not material for all entities within the organization (as described in G4-17), select one of the following G4-20 two approaches and report either: 20 ● Global – The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspect is not material or – The list of entities or groups of entities included in G4-17 for which the Aspects is material Appendix * Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary within the organization For each material Aspect, report the Aspect Boundary outside the organization, as follows: Report whether the Aspect is material outside of the organization G4-21 If the Aspect is material outside of the organization, identify the entities, groups of entities or elements for which the Aspect 20 ● is material. In addition, describe the geographical location where the Aspect is material for the entities identified GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Report any specific limitation regarding the Aspect Boundary outside the organization G4-22 Report the effect of any restatements of information provided in previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. About this Report ● External General Standard Disclosures Page G4-23 Report significant changes from previous reporting periods in the Scope and Aspect Boundaries. About this Report, 64~85 ● Assurance Strategy and Analysis Stakeholder Engagement Provide a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the organization (such as CEO, chair, or equivalent senior position) G4-24 Provide a list of stakeholder groups engaged by the organization. 16~18 ● G4-1 2, 3 ● about the relevance of sustainability to the organization and the organization’s strategy for addressing sustainability. G4-25 Report the basis for identification and selection of stakeholders with whom to engage. 18 ● G4-2 Provide a description of key impacts, risks, and opportunities. 8, 13 ● Report the organization’s approach to stakeholder engagement, including frequency of engagement by type and by G4-26 stakeholder group, and an indication of whether any of the engagement was undertaken specifically as part of the 18 ● report preparation process. Organizational Profile Report key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, and how the organization has G4-3 Report the name of the organization 6 ● G4-27 responded to those key topics and concerns, including through its reporting. Report the stakeholder groups that raised 16~18 ● each of the key topics and concerns. G4-4 Report the primary brands, products, and services. 6 ● G4-5 Report the location of the organization’s headquarters. 6 ● Report Profile Report the number of countries where the organization operates, and names of countries where either the organization has 7, 51, 66, 68, 70, 72, 74, G4-6 ● G4-28 Reporting period (such as fiscal or calendar year) for information provided. About this Report ● significant operations or that are specifically relevant to the sustainability topics covered in the report. 76, 78, 80, 82, 84 G4-7 Report the nature of ownership and legal form. 6 ● G4-29 Date of most recent previous report (if any). About this Report ● Report the markets served (including geographic breakdown, sectors served, and types of customers and 7, 51, 66, 68, 70, 72, 74, G4-30 Reporting cycle (such as annual, biennial). About this Report ● G4-8 ● beneficiaries). 76, 78, 80, 82, 84 G4-31 Provide the contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents. About this Report ● Report the scale of the organization, including: Total number of employees Total number of operations Report Profile: GRI Content Index G4-9 6, 7 ● Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues (for public sector organizations) a. Report the ‘in accordance’ option the organization has chosen. Total capitalization broken down in terms of debt and equity (for private sector organizations) G4-32 About this Report ● b. Report the GRI Content Index for the chosen option (see tables below). Quantity of products or services provided a. Report the total number of employees by and gender. b. Report the total number of permanent employees by employment type and gender. Report Profile: Assurance c. Report the total workforce by employees and supervised workers and by gender. a. Report the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. d. Report the total workforce by region and gender. b. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, report the scope and basis of any G4-10 e. Report whether a substantial portion of the organization’s work is performed by workers who are legally recognized 90, 91 ● external assurance provided. as self-employed, or by individuals other than employees or supervised workers, including employees and G4-33 About this Report ● c. Report the relationship between the organization and the assurance providers. supervised employees of contractors. d. Report whether the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking assurance for the f. Report any significant variations in employment numbers (such as seasonal variations in employment in the tourism organization’s sustainability report. or agricultural industries). G4-11 Report the percentage of total employees covered by collective bargaining agreements. 91 ● Governance G4-12 Describe the organization’s supply chain. 42, 43 ● Report the governance structure of the organization, including committees of the highest governance body. Identify any Report any significant changes during the reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or G4-34 11, 12 ● committees responsible for decision-making on economic, environmental and social impacts. its supply chain, including: Changes in the location of, or changes in, operations, including facility openings, closings, and expansions Report the process for delegating authority for economic, environmental and social topics from the highest governance G4-35 11, 12 ● G4-13 Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for About this Report, 7 ● body to senior executives and other employees. private sector organizations) Report whether the organization has appointed an executive-level position or positions with responsibility for economic, Changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or in relationships with suppliers, including G4-36 12 ● environmental and social topics, and whether post holders report directly to the highest governance body. selection and termination Report processes for consultation between stakeholders and the highest governance body on economic, environmental and G4-37 12 ● social topics. If consultation is delegated, describe to whom and any feedback processes to the highest governance body. Organizational Profile: Commitments to External Initiative Report the composition of the highest governance body and its committees by: Executive or non-executive G4-14 Report whether and how the precautionary approach or principle is addressed by the organization. 13, 47 ● Independence List externally developed economic, environmental and social charters, principles, or other initiatives to which the Tenure on the governance body G4-15 101 ● organization subscribes or which it endorses. G4-38 Number of each individual’s other significant positions and commitments, and the nature of the commitments 10, 11 ● Gender List memberships of associations (such as industry associations) and national or international advocacy organizations Membership of under-represented social groups in which the organization: Competences relating to economic, environmental and social impacts Holds a position on the governance body G4-16 101 ● Stakeholder representation Participates in projects or committees Provides substantive funding beyond routine membership dues Report whether the Chair of the highest governance body is also an executive officer (and, if so, his or her function G4-39 10 ● Views membership as strategic within the organization’s management and the reasons for this arrangement). Report the nomination and selection processes for the highest governance body and its committees, and the criteria used for nominating and selecting highest governance body members, including: Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries Whether and how diversity is considered G4-40 10~12 ● *List all entities included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Whether and how independence is considered G4-17 *Report whether any entity included in the organization’s consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is 88, 89 ● -Whether and how expertise and experience relating to economic, environmental and social topics are considered not covered by the report. Whether and how stakeholders (including shareholders) are involved a. Explain the process for defining the report content and the Aspect Boundaries. Report processes for the highest governance body to ensure conflicts of interest are avoided and managed. Report G4-18 19 ● whether conflicts of interest are disclosed to stakeholders, including, as a minimum: b. Explain how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for Defining Report Content. Cross-board membership G4-19 List all the material Aspects identified in the process for defining report content. 20 ● G4-41 10 ● Cross-shareholding with suppliers and other stakeholders Existence of controlling shareholder Related party disclosures 96 97 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Report the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ roles in the development, approval, and updating of the Indirect Economic G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services supported 44~46 ● Social Contribution G4-42 organization’s purpose, value or mission statements, strategies, policies, and goals related to economic, environmental 11 ● Impacts Organization and social impacts. (Infrastructure G4-EC8 Significant indirect economic impacts, including the extent of impacts 44~46 ● Investment) Global Report the measures taken to develop and enhance the highest governance body’s collective knowledge of economic, G4-43 11 ● environmental and social topics. Appendix a. Report the processes for evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of Category: Social economic, environmental and social topics. Report whether such evaluation is independent or not, and its frequency. Report whether such evaluation is a self-assessment. G4-44 11, 12 ● Sub-Category: Labor Practice and Decent Work b. Report actions taken in response to evaluation of the highest governance body’s performance with respect to governance of economic, environmental and social topics, including, as a minimum, changes in membership and Total number and rates of new employee hires and employee turnover by age organizational practice. G4-LA1 90 ● group, gender and region Employment a. Report the highest governance body’s role in the identification and management of economic, environmental and (By gender, new, Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Include the highest governance body’s role in the implementation of due G4-LA2 58~60 ● part-time) part-time employees, by significant locations of operation G4-45 diligence processes. 12 ● b. Report whether stakeholder consultation is used to support the highest governance body’s identification and G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave, by gender 60 ● management of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, and opportunities. Labor/Management Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes, including whether these G4-LA4 58 ● Report the highest governance body’s role in reviewing the effectiveness of the organization’s risk management processes Relations are specified in collective agreements G4-46 12, 13 ● for economic, environmental and social topics. Percentage of total workforce represented in formal joint management–worker Report the frequency of the highest governance body’s review of economic, environmental and social impacts, risks, G4-LA5 health and safety committees that help monitor and advise on occupational not related ● G4-47 12 ● health and safety programs and opportunities. Report the highest committee or position that formally reviews and approves the organization’s sustainability report Occupational Health Type of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and G4-48 11 ● and ensures that all material Aspects are covered. and Safety G4-LA6 absenteeism, and total number of work-related fatalities, by region and by not related ● G4-49 Report the process for communicating critical concerns to the highest governance body. 11 ● gender Report the nature and total number of critical concerns that were communicated to the highest governance body and G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their occupation not related ● G4-50 59 ● the mechanism(s) used to address and resolve them. G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions 58 ● a. Report the remuneration policies for the highest governance body and senior executives for the below types of remuneration: Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by employee * Fixed pay and variable pay: G4-LA9 91 ● category – Performance-based pay – Equity-based pay Training and Programs for skills management and lifelong learning that support the continued G4-LA10 57 ● – Bonuses Education employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings – Deferred or vested shares Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development G4-51 * Sign-on bonuses or recruitment incentive payments 12 ● G4-LA11 91 ● reviews, by gender and by employee category * Termination payments * Clawbacks Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee Diversity and Equal * Retirement benefits, including the difference between benefit schemes and contribution rates for the highest governance G4-LA12 category according to gender, age group, minority group membership, and other 10, 90 ● Opportunity body, senior executives, and all other employees indicators of diversity b. Report how performance criteria in the remuneration policy relate to the highest governance body’s and senior executives’ economic, environmental and social objectives. Sub-Category: Human Rights Report the process for determining remuneration. Report whether remuneration consultants are involved in G4-52 determining remuneration and whether they are independent of management. Report any other relationships which 12 ● Non-discrimination G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No incidents ● the remuneration consultants have with the organization. Report how stakeholders’ views are sought and taken into account regarding remuneration, including the results of Sub-Category: Society G4-53 12 ● votes on remuneration policies and proposals, if applicable. Report the ratio of the annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in each country of Percentage of operations with implemented local community engagement, G4-SO1 46 ● G4-54 significant operations to the median annual total compensation for all employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) 12 ● Local Communities impact assessments, and development programs in the same country. (Social Contribution) Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local G4-SO2 not related ● Report the ratio of percentage increase in annual total compensation for the organization’s highest-paid individual in communities G4-55 each country of significant operations to the median percentage increase in annual total compensation for all 12 ● Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related to employees (excluding the highest-paid individual) in the same country. G4-SO3 No violation ● corruption and the significant risks identified Anti-Corruption G4-SO4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 14, 15 ● Ethics and Integrity G4-SO5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 15 ● G4-56 Describe the organization’s values, principles, standards and norms of behavior such as codes of conduct and codes of ethics. 14 ● Public Policy G4-SO6 Total value of political contributions by country and recipient/beneficiary not related ● Report the internal and external mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical and lawful behavior, and matters related to (Lobby, Political Contribution) G4-57 15 ● organizational integrity, such as helplines or advice lines. Report the internal and external mechanisms for reporting concerns about unethical or unlawful behavior, and matters Sub-Category: Product Responsibility G4-58 related to organizational integrity, such as escalation through line management, 15 ● whistleblowing mechanisms or hotlines. Percentage of significant product and service categories for which health and G4-PR1 60 ● safety impacts are assessed for improvement Customer Health and Safety Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary G4-PR2 codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services during not related ● SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES their life cycle, by type of outcomes Type of product and service information required by the organization’s procedures External G4-PR3 for product and service information and labeling, and percentage of significant 39 ● Material Aspect DMA and Indicators Page Omissions Product Service product and service categories subject to such information requirements Assurance Labeling Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary (Customer Category : Economic G4-PR4 codes concerning product and service information and labeling, by type of not related ● Satisfaction) outcomes G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 6 ● G4-PR5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction 60 ● Financial implications and other risks and opportunities for the organization’s Economic G4-EC2 47 ● G4-PR6 Sale of banned or disputed products not related ● activities due to climate change Performance Market Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary G4-EC3 Coverage of the organization’s defined benefit plan obligations 55 ● Communications G4-PR7 codes concerning marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, No violation ● G4-EC4 Financial assistance received from government 55 ● and sponsorship, by type of outcomes Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of customer Market Presence G4-EC5 12 ● Customer Privacy G4-PR8 63 ● at significant locations of operation privacy and losses of customer data (Wage, Purchase, Recruit) Proportion of senior management hired from the local community at significant Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws and regulations G4-EC6 91 ● Compliance G4-PR9 No violation ● locations of operation concerning the provision and use of products and services 98 99 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Third-party Assurance Report Social Contribution Organization Our conclusion Global Based on the results we have obtained from material reviews and interviews, we had several discussions with KOTRA on the Appendix revision of the Report. We reviewed the Report’s final version in order to confirm that our recommendations for improvement and our revisions have been reflected. When reviewing the results of the assurance, the assurance team could not find any inappropriate contents in the Report to the compliance with the principles stipulated below. Nothing has come To the Readers of Korea Trade-Investment Promotion to our attention that causes us to believe that the data and information included in the verification scope are not presented appropriately. Agency Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 ■ Inclusivity Inclusivity is the participation of stakeholders in developing and achieving an accountable and strategic response to sustainability. Foreword KOTRA is developing and maintaining stakeholder communication channels in various forms and levels in order to make a Korea Management Association Registration and Assessments (KMAR) has been requested by Korea Trade-Investment commitment to be responsible for the stakeholders. The assurance team could not find any critical stakeholder group left Promotion Agency (KOTRA) to verify the contents of its Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 (the Report). KOTRA is out during this procedure. responsible for the collection and presentation of information included in the Report. Our responsibility is to carry out assurance engagement on specific information in the assurance scope stipulated below. ■ Materiality Materiality is determining the relevance and significance of an issue to an organization and its stakeholders. A material Scope and Standard issue is an issue that will influence the decisions, actions, and performance of an organization or its stakeholders. KOTRA describes its efforts and achievements of the sustainability activities in the Report. KMAR performed a type 2, KOTRA is determining the materiality of issues found out through stakeholder communication channels through its own moderate level of assurance using AA1000AS (2008) as an assurance standard. We evaluated the adherence to Principles of materiality evaluation process, and the assurance team could not find any critical issues left out in this process. Inclusivity, Materiality and Responsiveness, and the reliability of the selected GRI G4 indices as below, where professional judgement of the practitioner of KMAR’s assurance team was exercised as materiality criteria. ■ Responsiveness Responsiveness is an organization’s response to stakeholder issues that affect its sustainability performance and is realized The team checked whether the Report has been prepared in accordance with the ‘Comprehensive Option’ of GRI G4 which through decisions, actions, and performance, as well as communication with stakeholders. covers the followings. The assurance team could not find any evidence that KOTRA’s counter measures to critical stakeholder issues were ■ G4 Reporting Principles inappropriately recorded in the Report. ■ General Standard Disclosures ■ Specific Standard Disclosures We could not find any evidence the Report was not prepared in accordance with the ‘Comprehensive Option’ of GRI G4. ·Generic DMA of each of following material aspects ·Non-discrimination: G4-HR3 ·Economic Performance: G4-EC1, G4-EC2, G4-EC3, G4-EC4 ·Local Communities: G4-SO1, G4-SO2 Recommendation for Improvement ·Market Presence: G4-EC5, G4-EC6 ·Anti-corruption: G4-SO3, G4-SO4, G4-SO5 We hope KOTRA’s publication of the Report is actively used as a communication tool with stakeholders and recommend the ·Indirect Economic Performance: G4-EC7, G4-EC8 ·Public Policy: G4-SO6 following for continuous improvements of the Report.. ·Employment: G4-LA1, G4-LA2, G4-LA3 ·Customer Health and Safety: G4-PR1, G4-PR2 ·Labor/Management Relations: G4-LA4 ·Marketing Communication: G4-PR6, G4-PR7 ■ KOTRA needs to set up integrated management system and feedback process in regarding to sustainability ·Occupational Health and Safety: G4-LA5, G4-LA6, G4-LA7, G4-LA8 ·Customer Privacy: G4-PR8 management-related performance indicators. ·Training and Education: G4-LA9, G4-LA10, G4-LA11 ·Compliance: G4-PR9 ·Diversity and Equal Opportunity: G4-LA12 Our independence The data and information related to the boundary outside of KOTRA such as suppliers, contractors, etc. are not covered by With the exception of providing third party assurance services, KMAR is not involved in any other KOTRA business operations our assurance engagement. that are aimed at making profit in order to avoid any conflicts of interest and to maintain independence. Our Approach In order to verify the contents of the Report within an agreed scope of assurance in accordance with the assurance standard, KMAR’s assurance team has carried out an assurance engagement as follows: ■ Reviewed sustainability related data and reporting process ■ Reviewed Internal documents and materials April, 15th, 2015 ■ Interviewed people in charge of preparing the Report 100 101 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Introduction Global Business Platform Business KOTRA Awards and Memberships to Initiatives Social Contribution Organization Memberships Global Organization Major activities Appendix Korea International Trade Association Round-the-clock use of trade information DB on the website at the KOTRA head office and KBCs Institute of Internal Auditors Korea Participation in major forums held by the institute, networking among institutions Awards Sharing information on auditing, enhancing the innovative mindset, and promoting friendship Awards Hosts Date Auditors’ Forum for Progress among members Korea Society of Public Enterprise Information sharing with related agencies Proud Korean Award, Grand Prize Journalists Federation of Korea Dec. 2014 Korea Accounting Association Improving transparency in financial budget management Exchanging information on training programs among training institutions, KOTRA Korea Management Association president having KOTRA PR opportunities at breakfast forums as an invited speaker Business Innovation Awards, Korea Chamber of Commerce & Korean Red Cross Participation in social settlement programs Nov. 2014 Minister’s Award Industry, JoongAng Ilbo, etc. Orientations on FDI in Korea for invited foreign correspondents stationed in Korea, Seoul Foreign Correspondents’ Club meetings with invited major overseas media personnel on FDI in Korea Finding out the situations of HR and labor management of foreign-invested companies, c Korea HR Club Minister’s Award for anti-violence o-hosting seminars on labor management by foreign-invested companies with Korea HR Club Ministry of Gender Equality education, public institutions Nov.2014 and Family category UN Global Compact Submitting a Communication on Progress (COP) annually, annual posting of COP by the CEO Sharing quality information, networking with experts in quality; presenting a quality roadmap for Quality Leaders’ Forum national and industrial development Korea’s Top 100 Great Places to BEST (Business Ethics is the Source of Sharing and disseminating outstanding ethical management cases, benchmarking excellent Work (GWP) Awards, Grand Prize in GWP KOREA Nov. 2014 Top Performance) Forum ethical management practices public institution category World Association of Investment Sharing information promoting cooperation with world investment promotion agencies in 174 Promotion Agencies (WAIPA) countries through regular conferences UFI (Global Association of the Forbes CSR Award, Participating in top global tradeshows and government-subsidized exhibitions Exhibition Industry) Grand Prize in public institutions Forbes Korea, Korea Chamber of Sept. 2014 and heads of public institutions Commerce & Industry categories Implementation of the UN Global Compact’s Ten Principles Vision Awards, USA LACP(League of American Human Rights July 2014 Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Golden Award Communications Professionals) proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labor Standards Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition Cuba Jose Marti of the right to collective bargaining; Cuba Council June 2014 Special Award Principle 4: elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principle 5: effective abolition of child labor; and Principle 6: elimination of discrimination with respect to employment and occupation Environment KOTRA has joined the United Nations Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Korea Top 100 Happy Global Compact, the world’s largest challenges; Dong-A Ilbo May 2014 Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Businesses Award voluntary corporate responsibility initiative; Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environment-friendly it abides by the ten principles in four areas: technologies. human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion Forbes Best CEO Awards, and bribery. Grand Prize in Talent Forbes Korea Apr. 2014 Management category 102 KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014 Global Business Platform KOTRA Questionnaire for Readers’ Opinions KOTRA’s Previous Sustainability & Reports Publications KOTRA Sustainability Reports Thank you for your interest in KOTRA Integrated Sustainability Report 2014. We appreciate your taking time out to read this report through. We at KOTRA would like to hear the invaluable opinions of our diverse stakeholders on the contents of this report so that we can publish a better sustainability management report in the future. Please spare a couple of minutes to answer a few questions about our report. We would appreciate it very much if you could send the duly filled out questionnaire to us either by mail or by fax. Thank you very much. 2011 2012 2013 1. To which stakeholder group do you belong?  Customer  Employee  Government  Local resident or local government  Business partner  Civil society including NGO  Specialized institution  Others ( ) KOTRA’s Publications 2. How did you find out about this report?  KOTRA website  Media including newspapers  Web surfing  KOTRA employees  Seminar/Lecture  Others ( ) 3. Which part(s) of the report impressed you the most? (Multiple answers allowed) Perforations  Introduction  Business  Social Contribution  Organization  Global  Others ( ) 4. Which part(s) of the report do you think should be enhanced? (Multiple answers allowed)  Introduction  Business  Social Contribution  Organization  Global  Others ( ) A Comprehensive 2015 KOTRA World Guide to Overseas 12 Trends that Will Economic Outlook Investment 2015 Rock Korea 2015 5. Was this report helpful in understanding KOTRA’s sustainability management activities?  Very helpful  Helpful  Average  Not helpful  Not helpful at all 6. Please make an evaluation of the five key aspects of the report. Disagree very Agree very much Agree Average Disagree much The report contents are easy to follow      The report contents are well-organized      Entering the Chinese Market: A 400 Power Elites Comprehensive The report offers enough useful Who Are Changing Guide for Small 2015 Guide to information on material issues      China Businesses Living in KOREA The report is designed such that information is easy to find      and convenient to read The report contents are credible      7. Please feel free to make comments on the sustainability activities of KOTRA or the composition of the contents of this PLEASE SEND report below. KOTRA Business Management Team, Planning & Coordination Department Reasons Behind 13 Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul, Korean Companies’ Korea’s Recent Export Republic of Korea Success Stories on 2014 Global Slowdown and Their the World Stage FDI Briefing Implications Tel : +82-2-3460-7074 Fax : +82-2-3460-7908
