1 THIS IS OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) WHICH DESCRIBES THE EFFORTS WE HAVE MADE INTERNALLY TO APPLY THE 10 GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES CONCERNING HUMAN RIGHTS, EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS, ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND THE FIGHT AGAINST CORRUPTION. 2016 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress October 2016 Vignal Lighting Group 2 Commitment Renewal Dear Secretary General, I have pleasure in confirming Vignal Lighting Group’s continuing support for the United Nations Global Compact. We hereby renew our commitment to adopt, support and apply the 10 founding principles relating to human rights, employment rights, environmental protection and the fight against corruption in our sphere of influence. We also wish to express our determination to ensure that these principles progress by continuing to build them into our company’s strategy, business culture and operating methods. Please find attached our communication on progress for 2016. Yours sincerely Jean-Louis Coutin Chairman, Vignal Lighting Group United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress October 2016 Vignal Lighting Group 3 “Vignal Lighting Group ‘s strategy: global design, local production Vignal Lighting Group specialises in the design, production and commercialisation of lighting and signalling products and systems for industrial or commercial vehicles. Vignal Lighting Group is the result of a merger in 2014 between Vignal Systems and ABL Lights, which, over time, have each acquired an international reputation in their respective business sectors for innovative, high-quality products. Vignal Lighting Group aims to become the world leader for lighting and signalling for on-road and off-road industrial vehicles. To conquer new customers – mainly in North American and Asia – and appeal to existing customers, we do our utmost to ensure that our production system is in line with the highest world standards and we have to produce where our customers are established. By eliminating unnecessary transport and providing our customers with a more reactive service, we are ensuring the sustainability of our business in compliance with our CSR principles. Vignal Lighting Group’s strategy is thus based on global design and local production. Jean-Louis Coutin Chairman, Vignal Lighting Group ISO 14001 since ISO TS 16949 since July 2003 November 2000 CSR rating since 2013 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress October 2016 Vignal Lighting Group 4 Our values Vignal Lighting Group’s development strategy is focused on customer satisfaction and value creation. It is based on profitable growth and respect for people and the planet. The Group organises the development of its divisions worldwide around the implementation of its CSR policy (Corporate Social Responsibility) and the 5 Key Points. Corporate Social Responsibility Responsible and Committed The implementation of our policy in favour of sustainable development constitutes a vehicle for progress consistent with our strategy for geographical development and sustainable growth. Vignal Lighting Group has adopted a Corporate Social Responsibility policy that deliberately includes environmental, social, societal, responsible purchasing and governance issues concerning all its divisions. By placing CSR at the heart of its business model, Vignal Lighting Group and its stakeholders have confirmed their determination to act in a spirit of innovation in order to meet the challenges of world markets, which are sources of sustainable value creation. Governance and Action At the instigation of its Chairman, Vignal Lighting Group has made a major change to its CSR governance. This vital change has involved significant management action, with the introduction of a CSR Committee, CSR charter, Code of Business Ethics and Code of Conduct in Commercial Relations. Our participation in annual reporting meets the requirements of article 225 of Grenelle II and confirms our commitment to a policy of continuing improvement based on a sense of responsibility and transparency. Every employee in the group has been involved in the sustainable development policy for many years through ISO 14001 certification. Today, CSR has become part of Vignal Lighting Group’s life-blood. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress October 2016 Vignal Lighting Group 5 CSR and the 5 Key Points… organising sustainable development CSR Vignal Lighting Group has incorporated the environmental, social, societal, responsible purchasing and governance issues concerning all its divisions into its Corporate Social Responsibility project. Its industrial and sales policy is dictated by these priorities. Employee Involvement Involving the employees means recognising their skills and improving them through training, giving them the means to exercise responsibility and encouraging them to make suggestions for improvements and play and active role in the work of an autonomous production team. VPS –Vignal Production System The VPS aims to improve productivity and the quality of the products and systems. The means used are: pull-flow organisation, flexible production facilities, elimination of all unproductive operations and production stoppage at the first fault. Ongoing Innovation In order to design innovative products that are easy to produce at a high level of quality and at the lowest cost and at the same time reduce development times, Vignal Lighting Group has widened the organisation into Project Teams and the simultaneous study of products and processes. Supplier Involvement By involving our suppliers, we benefit from their ability to innovate and are able to develop productivity plans with them and improve quality. Vignal Lighting Group is looking to establish and maintain close, longterm relations with a small number of suppliers chosen from among the best in the world that will be profitable to both parties. Total Quality The goal of total quality is to achieve customer satisfaction. To meet their expectations in terms of product and service quality, it requires the total, continuous and rigorous application of the 5 Key Points. It is implemented by every member of the company and the suppliers. Scope of the COP VIGNAL LIGHTING GROUP SAS VIGNAL SYSTEMS ABL LIGHTS FRANCE SAS ABL LIGHTS INC. SAS United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress October 2016 Vignal Lighting Group 6  HIGHLIGHTS  Themain CSR Initiatives in 2016     Group • Support for the United Nations Global Compact • Updating of the CSR Charter and the Business Ethics Charter • Drawing-up of a Code of Conduct in Commercial Relations • Participation in the Diafora Survey (gender parity) Vignal Lighting Group & Vignal System SAS  Introduction of a “Health / Well-being at work” barometer  Signature of a company agreement on gender parity  Consideration of the environmental and energy aspects in the construction of the new premises ABL Lights France SAS  Introduction of compulsory top-up health insurance beyond the legal minimum  Increase in the percentage of the payroll dedicated to Joint Consultative Committee social welfare activities  Installation of a compressor to reduce the central compressor’s energy consumption ABL Lights Inc  Organisation of an appreciation day with a social event  Introduction of plastic packaging recycling  Replacement of a gas boiler by another, more efficient one that uses less natural gas. CSR Reporting Framework  CSR reporting meets a statutory obligation (Loi Grenelle II) to which Vignal Lighting Group is subject in the scope of application of our majority shareholder.  The reporting base is made up of 158 indicators. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress October 2016 Vignal Lighting Group 7 Governance Indicators Elements measured in 2015 Highlights 2015 Operational governance  Support for the United Nations Global Compact The shareholder’s governance  Updating of the CSR Charter and the Business Ethics Specialist committees attached to the Supervisory Charter Committee or Executive Board  Setting-up of an Audit Committee Environmental Indicators Elements measured in 2015 Highlights 2015 Water Energy – excluding fuels Fuels  Vignal Systems Discharges into the atmosphere and Climate Change Replacement of a thermoplastic injection press to save 30 % consumption on this process. In total, Waste Vignal Lighting Group reduced its electricity Compliance with environmental legislation consumption ratio by 9 % in 2015. Environmental certification Scrap levels were reduced by 32% between 2011 Organisation and/or training and 2014, and by a further 10 % between 2014 and Management of environmental risks and pollution 2015, as a result of work on tools, optical injection processes, traffic light casings and gluing processes. Production of an environmental evaluation.  ABL Lights France  Installation of a back-up compressor to reduce the central compressor’s energy consumption.  ABL Lights Inc.  Replacement of a gas boiler by another, more efficient one that uses less natural gas.  Introduction of plastic packaging recycling.  Vignal Systems and ABL Lights’ environmental management systems are ISO 14001 certified. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress October 2016 Vignal Lighting Group 8 Social Indicators Elements measured in 2015 Highlights 2015 Workforce distribution and jobs Working time  Vignal Systems is committed to offering the same salary to men and women on recruitment for the Gender mix and equality positions of production operative and logistics worker, Salaries and to facilitating the development of part-time Social welfare cover parental leave in order to maintain the level of Skills management employment of women. Social dialogue and societal commitment  As part of the 2015 “NAO” (mandatory annual negotiation), a full evaluation of gender parity was handed over to employee representatives so that it could be discussed during the negotiation. The issue of minimum and average salary was reviewed for each employment category.  Vignal Lighting Group & Vignal Systems SA: Introduction of a “Health / Well-being at work” barometer from 2 November to 4 December 2015 (participation level: 58%).  ABL Lights Inc: Organisation of an appreciation day with a social event for the employees. ABL Lights: Introduction of compulsory top-up health insurance beyond the legal minimum required in terms of cover and the right to refunds for non-management employees. Supplier & Subcontracting Indicators Elements measured in 2015 Highlights 2015 Suppliers and subcontractors, including:  Vignal Lighting Group: Drawing-up of a Code of Conduct CSR certified suppliers in Commercial Relations. CSR questionnaires to suppliers When qualifying suppliers, Vignal Lighting Group asks them to sign the Group CSR charter. Supplier CSR audits Suppliers who have signed the CSR charter represent 41 % Responsible purchasing policy and/or charter of purchasing for the Vignal Systems production activity. United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress October 2016 Vignal Lighting Group 9 The fight against corruption Vignal Lighting Group’s ethical principles Over the years, Vignal Lighting Group has acquired an undisputed reputation for its strong culture of integrity and ethical conduct. Relations with all our partners are based on this trust and reputation. The Group Management is keen to raise awareness of this ethical behaviour among its employees and stakeholders and has designed tools such as the Ethical Business Code in order to consolidate the Group culture and aim for excellence. The Ethical Business Code is implemented throughout the Group and is available to all employees and stakeholders (Website); it calls for a respect for business ethics and is set out in the form of guidelines such as:  Confidentiality  Declaration of conflicts of interest  Use of assets  Political and associative activities  Lobbying / fighting corruption  The fight against money-laundering  The fight against anti-competitive practices  The use of the social networks. The 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact Human rights 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights in your sphere of influence 2. Make sure that you are not complicit in human rights abuses Employment rights 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 4. Uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5. Uphold the effective abolition of child labour 6. Uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally-friendly technologies. The fight against corruption 10. Work against corruption in all its forms in your sphere of influence, including extortion and bribery. Communication on Progress Industrial and CSR Division – October 2016 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress October 2016 Vignal Lighting Group
