UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2015 Statement of continuing support In the last twelve months two significant milestones have passed: the 21st Conference of the Parties on Climate Change at which a global climate deal was reached; and the UN’s agreement of new Global Goals on sustainable development. HSBC supports both of these important commitments. We recognise the opportunity this new framework presents to business, to make a more focused contribution to sustainable development. I am therefore pleased to reaffirm HSBC’s commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. For more than ten years these principles have helped us to shape our approach to sustainable business. As a large corporation we make a significant impact on a wide range of stakeholders: we serve more than 47 million customers around the world, ranging from individuals to the largest of companies; and we employ more than a quarter of a million people representing more than 150 nationalities. This makes our relationship with the UN Global Compact and adherence to its principles all the more important. Our role as part of the global financial system includes tackling challenges such as financial crime and climate change. We are strengthening our ability to safeguard customers and ourselves against financial crime, and believe this will be a source of long-term advantage for our business. We are also committed to helping enable a transition to a low-carbon economy through our business activities and our own operations. In this Communication on Progress we signpost our most up-to-date disclosures on our policies and performance on the important issues enshrined in the UN Global Compact Principles. HSBC remains committed to making progress on each of these areas, for the benefit of our employees, customers, suppliers, shareholders and wider society. Douglas Flint Group Chairman, HSBC Holdings plc April 2016 UN Global Compact Principles Human Rights Labour Principle 1: : Businesses should support and respect the Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Policies: HSBC Values, HSBC Ethical and Environmental Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Goods and Services, HSBC Global Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Standards Manual, Sustainability Risk Policies Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of – In 2015, HSBC issued a Statement on Human Rights which employment and occupation. sets out our policies and commitments in relation to human Policies: As above, plus human resources policies in countries rights and is available on our website. of operation and employee handbooks and contracts that are – HSBC is guided by the International Bill of Human Rights and also aligned with local regulation, laws and practice. has expressed its support for the UN Universal Declaration Progress: of Human Rights and the principles concerning fundamental rights set out in the International Labour Organisation’s Employees Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. – We consult with and, where appropriate, negotiate HSBC is a signatory to or has publicly expressed support with employee representative bodies. It is our policy to for a number of international codes, including the Global maintain well-developed communications and consultation Sullivan Principles, and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational programmes with all employee representative bodies and Enterprises. there have been no material disruptions to our operations from labour disputes during the past five years. – HSBC also applies the Equator Principles when financing projects and has its own policies to assess and support – HSBC is committed to building a values-driven high customers covering forestry, agricultural commodities, performance culture where all employees are valued, chemicals, defence, energy, freshwater infrastructure, mining respected and where their opinions count. We report on and metals and World Heritage Sites and Ramsar Wetlands. our approach to employee diversity and inclusion and other employee issues on page 38 of the Strategic Report 2015. – HSBC’s Values are to be dependable and do the right thing; to be open to different ideas and cultures; and to be Communities connected with our customers, communities, regulators and each other. – HSBC has been working with the Consortium for Street Children (CSC) since 2011. CSC is a global network that Progress: amplifies street children’s voices, promotes their rights and – Our training programmes reinforce a culture that is improves their lives through advocacy, research and network grounded in our values. In 2015, we completed a threedevelopment. year programme of values-led leadership training for all – In 2013, HSBC supported the first shared learning hub, employees. specific to issues related to street children, to enable – We want to recognise and reward people for doing the right organisations to collaborate, address challenges and develop thing. Every employee’s conduct during the year is taken good practices. This virtual hub, together with a research into account during their performance appraisal. We also hub, comprises CSC’s Global Resource Centre. encourage employees to recognise the efforts of colleagues – With our support, through Future First, SOS Children also do whose behaviour and actions exemplify our values. We education outreach work with families around their Villages, report on the HSBC Values in the Strategic Report 2015 and which in turn enables young people to get employment. Annual Report and Accounts 2015. – In 2015, we continued to implement all of our sustainability Customers risk policies, and our internal training programmes for risk and – HSBC applies the Equator Principles which are underpinned relationship managers focused on the new policies issued in by the IFC’s Performance Standards on labour issues which 2014: forestry, agricultural commodities and World Heritage include notes on child labour and non-discrimination. HSBC Sites and Ramsar Wetlands. More details and the policies also requires all customers to abide by the national law in themselves are available at hsbc.com/sus-risk. their countries of operation. – In 2015, we also updated our Ethical and Environmental Code of Conduct for Suppliers of Goods and Services Suppliers www.hsbc.com/our-approach/supplier-code-of-conduct in – HSBC’s Ethical and Environmental Code of Conduct for response to new legislation on human rights. We partnered Suppliers of Goods and Services makes reference to with a specialist consultancy to assess more than 200 standards on child labour, treating all employees fairly, nonsuppliers of promotional and branded items for ethical and discrimination, and prohibition of the use of forced labour. responsible risks in their business practices, and stopped Progress on embedding the Code of Conduct is mentioned working with one as a result. We are working with our above. top 300 vendors – responsible for 50% of supplier spend – We will integrate the provisions of the Modern Slavery Act – to raise awareness of our ethical and environmental 2015 into our business and supply chain, and will report in expectations and identify risks. line with the guidelines published by the UK government. Environment – In 2012, we launched our ten sustainable operational goals Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary for 2012 – 2020. The goals cover the full range of our approach to environmental challenges; operations, including supply chain, energy, waste, carbon, paper, travel and sustainability engagement. The overall Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater goal is to reduce annual carbon emissions per employee by environmental responsibility. one tonne, from 3.5 to 2.5 tonnes. By 2015, our annual per Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of employee carbon emissions had reached 2.97 tonnes. environmentally friendly technologies. – Our total carbon emissions have reduced by 22% between Policies: Global Standards Manual, Sustainability Risk Policies, 2011 and 2015. Operational Sustainability Goals – We have signed agreements to increase the percentage of – We have a goal to reduce our per employee annual carbon our electricity from new wind and solar sources to 9%, and emissions from 3.5 to 2.5 tonnes by 2020 (based on 2011 have a target of 25% by 2020. This approach led to a wind data). As part of this, we have a ten-point plan to cut our farm opening in the UK in 2015. natural resource use and run our operations more efficiently. Anti-Corruption – HSBC’s Global Standards Manual states that sustainability Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all means building our business for the long term by balancing its forms, including extortion and bribery. social, environmental and economic considerations in the decisions we make. Policies: Global Standards Manual (Anti-Bribery & Corruption Principles) and HSBC Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy – The HSBC Ethical and Environmental Code of Conduct for Suppliers states that they should consider the principles of – HSBC’s Anti-Bribery & Corruption Policy gives practical effect Whole Life Costing and Life Cycle Analysis in the design, to global initiatives such as the Organisation of Economic manufacture and recycling / disposal. Cooperation and Development (OECD) Convention on Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International – Our sustainability risk policies require our corporate Business Transactions, and Principle 10 of the United Nations customers within sensitive sectors to apply consistent Global Compact. standards of international good practice, going beyond international laws and agreements. – The global Anti-Bribery and Corruption programme is informed by our membership on various organisations; – We have also adopted the Equator Principles and apply the including the B-20, Madison Group and Wolfsberg. International Finance Corporation Performance Standards as required through the Principles. – We have risk based Global Policies for our Third Parties which include principles in relation to anti-bribery and corruption, focusing on the UK Bribery Act, the Foreign Progress: Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the Hong Kong Prevention – Reducing global carbon dioxide emissions is a critical of Bribery Ordinance (POBO). challenge for society. We see the potential for financial – The “HSBC Group Anti-Bribery and Corruption Policy services to facilitate investment that can help the world Statement”, which is published on our website states that transition to a low-carbon economy. HSBC does not tolerate the giving or receiving of bribes, – In 2015, our Global Research team was ranked number one including the making of facilitation payments. The statement for Integrated Climate Change for the second year running in sets out clear anti-bribery principles on key issues such the Extel Survey. as our relationships with associated persons, gifts and entertainment, recruitment, charitable giving and political – Our Asset Management business joined the Montreal Pledge contributions. to disclose the carbon intensity of its portfolio. – We are committed to implementing the most effective global – In 2015, the Group issued a green bond for the first time standards to combat financial crime. This comprehensive when HSBC France raised €500m to fund customers and approach is designed to help us detect, deter and prevent projects in the following sectors: renewables, energy financial crime. This goes beyond simple compliance with efficiency, sustainable waste and water management, legislation to develop a culture of compliance and ethical sustainable land use, climate change adaptation, and clean behaviour. These principles are reflected in our Policies and buildings and transportation. communications both internally and externally. – HSBC also pledged to invest $1bn in a portfolio of green, social or sustainable bonds. More detail is available on page 27 of our Strategic Report 2015. Progress: The Financial System Vulnerabilities Committee (‘FSVC’) is a sub-committee of the HSBC Holdings Board and has nonexecutive responsibility for governance, oversight and policy guidance over HSBC’s framework of controls and procedures designed to identify areas where HSBC and the financial system more broadly may become exposed to financial crime or system abuse. The FSVC has continued to provide governance and oversight of AB&C related matters during 2015. Under this governance structure, HSBC has developed a Global AB&C programme which focuses on consistency and standardisation: setting strategy, standards, education, planning and providing oversight. This has included developing a global AB&C risk assessment, enhancements to current policies & processes and independent monitoring & testing, assurance and audit activities. During 2015, HSBC has also focused on developing local expertise to implement and embed the Global AB&C enhancement programme and provide local legal and regulatory knowledge, cultural understanding, and language skills. This has been supported by an AB&C Communication strategy that includes: – an e-learning mandatory training course for all staff that provides a comprehensive level of knowledge – targeted role-based bespoke training to our highest risk roles – regular communications and guidance to staff, such as festive season reminders and latest case updates – the promotion of a culture of regular, open discussions between staff and management. © Copyright HSBC Holdings plc 2016 All rights reserved No part of this publication may be reproduced, stored in a retrieval system, or transmitted, in any form or by any means, electronic, mechanical, photocopying, recording, or otherwise, without the prior written permission of HSBC Holdings plc. Issued by Global Corporate Sustainability, HSBC Holdings plc, London
