Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco G4-17 Amount of km saved by OMD 2 0 1 4 i n D E , B eL ux , I T, CH Water savings in m 3 Dear reader, 853,333 48,992 Energy consumption in GJ CO 2 emissions in t 993,877 57,464 Total energy consumption Scope of application of this report Sustainability is a cornerstone of the CWS-boco business. As a provider of CUSTOMERS & EMPLOYEES PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE rental textile services, the efficient use of resources comes naturally to FACTS & FIGURES Unless otherwise indicated, all the information in this report refers to the calendar year 2014 and the nine companies in the CWS-boco Group with the highest turnovers: CWS-boco us. This is not only good for the environment, but also a force behind the Deutschland GmbH, CWS-boco Suisse SA, CWS-boco Italia company’s financial success. S.p.A., CWS Nederland B.V., CWS-boco Sweden AB, CWS-boco Österreich GmbH, CWS-boco Ireland Ltd., CWS-boco Polska The focus at CWS-boco is firmly on people. In 2014, a comprehen49% 51% Sp. z o.o. and CWS-boco BeLux N.V. sive training monitoring system was established and, as such, it is now Procured Procured green energy standard energy “About this report” on page 113. possible for the first time to report on the indicators for staff further training measures. Moreover, we are committed to the further development of every single member of staff. A good example of how this manifests itself CWS-boco Group overall 2014 2013 is the “Sales Excellence” programme which has been developed for l­ ateral National subsidiaries in Europe and China --19 19 entrants in Direct Sales and certified by the German Technical Control Group employees overall 7,549 7,527 Board (TÜV). Company’s own laundries --52 55* Our goal is to improve all our fields of activity. CWS-boco is sucTurnover € million 751 748 Operating result before one-time effects € million 74 72 cessfully working to lower overall resource consumption on an ongoing Operating result € million 71 64 basis. The reduction of water consumption, improved energy efficiency in Earnings before taxes € million 47 46 the laundries and savings of more than 850,000 kilometres by the service Shareholding of CWS-boco Group % 100 100 fleet are just a few examples of this. We are continuously investing in the *Site closings and openings in the course of the year have not been taken into consideration here. modernisation of our service network. We publish our annual financial key figures and capitalisation at CWS-boco International GmbH level as part of the Haniel Financial Report. Sustainable WE OPERATE OUR LAUNDRIES WITH ­P A R T I C U L A R LY E F F I C I E N T T E C H N O L O G I E S … The progress made as regards the implementation of a Code of …which reuse water and energy and reprocess Conduct in the supply chain is a source of great pride to us. CWS-boco collaborates actively with international supplier partners to ensure combusiness: wastewater. We not only reduce our CO2 emissions at our locations, but also by employing efficient engines and route optimisation in our serpliance with and implementation of this Code and, if necessary, the improvement of production conditions. Seizing vice fleet. The efficient and responsible handling of resources remains a constant area of focus for In 2014 the issue of sustainability focused on the strategic develus. We demonstrated our commitment in this opment of CR activities. This was based on a comprehensive analysis of our areas of reporting as well as intensive dialogue with internal and exteropportunities, area in 2014 by making large investments in the modernisation of our laundry network. The ongoing changeover to increasingly susnal stakeholder groups. More than 280 pieces of feedback from an inter­ national, internal and external study were used to hone and expand our steering tainable businesses is a huge opportunity for us. We operate a sustainable business model which opts for reuse instead of single use. Conserving indicators. CWS-boco thus now has a new and enhanced basis for Group reporting. These indicators create transparency in the relevant areas of the challenges resources has been a core area of our focus from the very beginning. Our rental business is orientated towards business and correspond to the international reporting standard GRI G4. long-term customer relationships. These last longer than 12 years on average. Changes in the CUSTOMERS & EMPLOYEES In several areas we have significantly enlarged the scope of the PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE general economic climate therefore take effect FACTS & FIGURES data pool with the result that a 1:1 comparison with the previous year AS A SOUND COMMERCIAL ENTERPRISE,… with a slight delay. Due to the long-term nature …we act with responsibility and with foresight of our rental business, only high-quality materials is not always expedient. With detailed facts and extensive information, in our operating sector. We are aware of our come into consideration for us. For our core prodCWS-boco offers an in-depth insight into each area of reporting. In doing ­responsibility to the environment as well as to ucts – cotton towel rolls and workwear – cotton so, we are fulfilling our commitment to improving continuously in terms our internal and external stakeholders and regard is the most important raw material. Here, we are this as a constant area of action. ­dependent on the international raw material marof reporting activities too. kets. We and our customers attach great imporWE ARE A RESPONSIBLE EMPLOYER… Our motto remains “Handle with Care”, and I invite you to read how tance to a reliable supply chain. Our subsidiary …We at CWS-boco accept the responsibility which CWS-boco Supply Chain Management GmbH cothese words are turned into reality. comes with our personnel-intensive business and ordinates ­procurement, product development and act in accordance with this. We follow a sussupply chain management for us. tainable personnel policy which, among other things, focuses on training and further education. WE CONDUCT OUR BUSINESS WITH FORESIGHT… To form an even more structured approach here, …in order to be able to recognise and steer opporYo u rs, we began implementing a training monitoring tunities and challenges at an early stage and iden­system in 2014. tify and assess developments and trends. This is as We rent out, wash and deliver textiles in Eumuch a part of our precautionary approach as the rope and China for our customers. With 52 launmanagement of risks. We work with different supdry locations and a service fleet of around pliers and sell various products in different busi1,500 vehicles, national and international norms ness sectors to a multitude of large, m ­ edium-sized and guidelines regarding hygiene and the envir­ and small customers. On top of this, we are also Max Teich n er onment are important standards for us. As memintegrated in the risk management system of our Chairman of the Management Board CWS-boco International GmbH bers of various associations, we are committed parent company, Franz Haniel und Cie. GmbH. to the further development of existing standards. “Management approach” on page 100 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Table of Contents Corporate Chapter 3 Sustainability Laundry and Technology Corporate portrait-----------------------------06 Pretty smart… ---------------------------------48 Business model ------------------------------08 Sustainable washing concepts--------------52 Vision, mission & values---------------------10 — Energy efficiency programme — Washing with polymers CR guidelines ----------------------------------12 — Alternative energies Stakeholder dialogue and materiality matrix 14 — Balanced usage of resources Corporate governance -----------------------18 The right adjustments -----------------------56 Chapter 1 Chapter 4 Customers and Employees Logistics and Service Staying safe on the go with the Juchem Group-----------------------22 Intelligent driving-----------------------------60 CUSTOMERS & EMPLOYEES Chapter 1— p. 22 Chapter 2 — p. 36 PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE Staying safe on the go A r­ esponsible approach For customers and employees ------------26 Protection of resources on the go --------64 FACTS & FIGURES with the Juchem Group to ­p roduction — Customer satisfaction — Route optimisation — Employee satisfaction — “Smart Box” vehicle type — Further training — International logistics centre — Occupational safety — Alternative drives — Hygiene education Tailor-made clothing--------------------------68 Excellently trained----------------------------32 Chapter 2 Facts Products and Sourcing and Figures A r­ esponsible approach to ­p roduction ---36 Customers and Employees-------------------72 Embracing responsibility Products and Sourcing ----------------------82 right from the source-------------------------40 Laundry and Technology -------------------87 — Code of Conduct for suppliers Logistics and Service -----------------------93 — Supplier structure Materiality matrix and material topics -97 — EcoVadis award Management approach --------------------100 — Sustainable products GRI G4 content index ----------------------103 Fountain of youth for dispensers-----------44 About this report --------------------------113 Chapter 3 — p. 48 Chapter 4 — p. 60 Publication details ------------------------114 Pretty smart… Intelligent driving CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Corporate Sustainability Our organisation Overview of the CWS-boco Group Foundation and ownership structure boco *1899 is distinct Duisburg Headquarters CWS *1954 19 *2001 National subsidiaries in Europe and HTS GmbH CORPORATE PORTRAIT CWS-boco is a medium-sized company with roots China Part of Franz Haniel & Cie. GmbH stretching back over more than a hundred years. Our business CWS-boco rents out workwear, protective and cleanroom clothing, washInternational room hygiene solutions and dust control mats as well as flat linen. Continuous innovations in these areas have made us one of the 7,549Employees GmbH *2008 CUSTOMERS & EMPLOYEES PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE leading international suppliers in the textile service industry. FACTS & FIGURES Our CWS products As well as the consistently high quality standards, the operation The CWS portfolio includes around 250 individual ­products of our laundries und service logistics in such a way as to optimise 250 CWS products for hygienic washroom solutions such as towel, soap and fragrance dispensers, refills and dust control mats. All ­ ­dispenser systems are offered for rental including installation, consumption and be as resource-friendly as possible are at the maintenance and repair. CWS also offers dust control mats for enhanced safety and cleanliness in entrance areas and workplaces – a product heart of what we do. range which encompasses over 30 items. Our boco products 2,400 standard boco offers industry-specific workwear, highly ­functional protective and safety clothing as well as ­representative business fashion – including expert reprocessing. boco articles Due to the high standards in the area of personal protective equipment (PPE), CWS-boco has obtained special certification in this segment. boco articles such as occupational safety accessories, vests, shirts and accessories like scarves and ties round off the employee equipment. The boco product range also includes textiles for the workplace, such as cleaning cloths for industrial use and linens for hotels, ­gastronomy and healthcare facilities. In the healthcare sector, boco also cleans care home residents’ private clothing. Altogether there are more than 2,400 boco standard items in the German ­national subsidiary alone. 06 07 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Corporate Sustainability Our business 1. Collection 2. Sorting Our service drivers regularly colThe textiles are sorted at the lect the rental textiles for reprolaundry in order to feed them into cessing in the laundry. different wash programmes. This revolves around the ensures that each item is cleaned precisely as required. concept of reuse 6. Delivery The items our service drivers return to customers are freshly BUSINESS MODEL CWS-boco operates in contrast to the principle washed, dried and have been subjected to quality controls. of disposable goods. Instead of resource-intensive single use, Day after day. All over the world. our business concept is based on reuse. We offer textile rental CUSTOMERS & EMPLOYEES PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE services which are directed towards hygienic reprocessing and FACTS & FIGURES the longest possible product life cycle. To achieve this, we have 5. Repairs + 3. Washing + drying created a service cycle which can be completed any number replacement We wash around 28 million towel of times by towel rolls, workwear and mats. A towel roll, for Areas affected by wear are rerolls and 85 million items of clothpaired directly in the laundry. If ing per year in our laundries in example, can be washed and reused up to 100 times, meaning that is not possible, the item is Europe – in a way that is as rereplaced. source-friendly as possible. that it can be used for drying hands up to 15,000 times in its life cycle – without producing a single piece of waste. 4. Quality control The quality of our products is under constant scrutiny at all stages of our service cycle: From the service driver during collection and delivery to the employees at all the stations in the laundry. 08 09 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Corporate Sustainability A focused mission Our values Drive for results Sustainability VISION, MISSION & VALUES Sustainability drives us – and we drive sustainWe recognize the value of Dedicated customer focus ability. Rental textile services are our business and resourceminimizing our environmencombined with efficient protal footprint. It’s not only good for the world in duction and distribution ensure a viable and saving reuse is the model. Based on our entrepreneurial drive alone, which we operate – it’s a strong contributor to profitable company. We have the most modern our long-term financial success as well as social and most effective service infrastructure in our we are as economical as possible in what we do and continue engagement. We promote sustainable services. industry. We remain competitive regardless of We continuously increase energy efficiencies in economic conditions enabling long-term custo drive sustainability fuelled by this interest. For this reason, the our laundries and logistics operations. tomer relationships. concept of sustainability can be found in our vision, mission and almost all the values defined by CWS-boco. We take our responsibilities towards people and the environment seriously – People Integrity CUSTOMERS & EMPLOYEES PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE FACTS & FIGURES according to our motto “serving you, serving nature.” We provide a workplace that We believe it is vital that motivates people to be passionpeople who deal with us trust ate about delivering an excellent service to our us and can count on our allegiance and dependcustomers. We trust our employees by delegating ability, whether they are colleagues, customresponsibility and support them with appropriate ers, suppliers, shareholders, or our neighbours training. We strive to engage people to earn their in the communities in which we operate. We loyalty and trust. We want to be the company of say what we mean and do what we say – we choice and provide a cooperative, open, motivatkeep our promises and take responsibility for ing, and sustainable management style. our actions. Our vision We intend to become the leading and, at the same time, most sustainable provider of textile services – in Europe and beyond. Quality Service spirit Everything we make, and We have a commitment to Our mission everything we do, must be as our customers. We care about good as it can be. Driven by a culture of discithem, listen to them and work to anticipate As a leading provider of textiles services we stand for hygiene and safety in the pline and attention to detail, we provide contheir needs and solve their problems. Customworkplace and in the public sphere. In doing so, we seek to contribute towards sistently high-quality services. Superior quality er satisfaction is a priority for everyone in our improving the health and well-being of employees and society. We have a vested interest in the efficient and customer satisfaction are our ultimate obcompany. utilization of natural resources in our service cycles. We care – about people and the environment, and jectives. securing a sustainable future for our business. 10 11 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Corporate Sustainability We take CR guidelines responsibility – for CR is part of CR affects our business everyone model the long term The concept of reusability is a core component of our business model as a provider of textile ser­ vices. We rent out our textiles and process them Achieving something together requires the active participation and commitment of all concerned. At CWS-boco the management’s support goes hand time and time again so they can be used anew, in hand with the efforts of all areas and their perCR GUIDELINES With its corporate responsibility guidelines, the with this in mind, we regard the careful handling sonnel in the interests of successfully living by the and use of resources and raw materials as a matter principle of sustainability. Each and every individCWS-boco Group is committed to interacting with people and of course. It goes without saying that we are conual can contribute towards making his or her workstantly expanding and advancing our commitment ing environment more sustainable. Together we the environment in a sustainable and responsible manner. As to sustainability. We aim to minimize our ecologcan make sustainability a success at CWS-boco. CUSTOMERS & EMPLOYEES PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE ical footprint – to the benefit of the world we live a leader in quality and innovation, we see it as our social and FACTS & FIGURES in and our own business as well. ecological duty to bring a sustainability concept to life which has been developed for the long term. When such a concept succeeds then so do we. CR safeguards CR continues the future to evolve Foundations are good if laid correctly. This applies Sustainable commitment must also be flexible in both to the company’s success as well as the enthe same way as underlying conditions can change. Certified sustainability vironment. CWS-boco takes on this responsibility With this in mind, we see it as a matter of course to At CWS-boco, we bring sustainability to life every day. Our awards internally and externally and invests in its employcontinuously check and optimise our activities for from outside of the company are proof of how successful we are ees. In doing so, we strengthen the company and the good of people and the environment. Any and in our endeavours. CWS-boco Germany, for example, was awarded silver status in the EcoVadis Initiative, placing it among the top secure its long-term competitiveness. A commitall adjustments arising from ecological, social and seven per cent of examined companies in its industry sector. In ment today to and for the company and environmarket developments are actively integrated into the environment category, it is in the top 2 per cent of companies. ment will benefit future generations. the company’s CR orientation. We regard CR as an EcoVadis is committed to establishing better environmental and social standards in international supply chains. Our national subentrepreneurial task which is never completed but sidiary in the Netherlands reached level 4 out of 5 on the CSR remains a permanent process. Performance Ladder – this is the best score in its own industry. The initiative assesses a company’s CSR management system with regard to the areas of environment, people and efficiency. 12 13 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Corporate Sustainability G4-18, 19, 24, 25, 26, 27 G4-18, 19, 24, 25, 26, 27 In dialogue with Process of materiality analysis Identification of our stakeholders possible relevant issues for the CR strategy and report Project implementaStakeholder tion in departments questionnaire S TA K E H O L D E R D I A L O G U E As a commercial enterprise, CWS-boco directly and preparation and (conducted in publication of the nine countries) affects the interests of many people in a whole range of different CR Report 2014 sectors and countries. For this reason, we actively seek out continuous, open and respectful dialogue with our internal and external interest groups and stakeholders. External CUSTOMERS & EMPLOYEES PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE Customers FACTS & FIGURES Suppliers, media, nongovernmental organisations, business partners Determination Assessment and (questionnaires and discussion) of CR measures weighting of results and annual data according to stakecollection holder groups Internal Staff at the national subsidiaries: Management, We regard stakeholders as all persons or organof CWS-boco International and Haniel meet Sales, Service, Laundry isations who have a legal, financial, operational regularly for discussions. We are a member of (questionnaires and discussion) or ethical interest in CWS-boco. We are in regvarious associations including the European Haniel ular dialogue with our stakeholder groups. For Textile Service Association (ETSA), the Wirtschafts­example, the customer dialogue is performed verband Textil Service e.V. (WIRTEX), the UN in person and on-site by our employees from Global Compact, the Business Social Compliance Sales and Customer Care as well as via our back Initiative (BSCI) and the Sustainable Apparel Discussion with Preparation of office. We also regularly hold a Suppliers’ Day Coalition (SAC). We are active participants in CR board and materiality matrix management and Bankers’ Day for the suppliers and banks the working groups of these organisations and with whom we work. With the Haniel holding document our activities in progress reports. company, dialogue takes place regularly at variIn the course of checking and specifying our ous levels – in the business, for example, in the CR strategy 2014/2015, we entered into close areas of Controlling, Corporate Responsibility, IT discussions with the most important stakeholder and Human Resources. The management teams groups. 14 15 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Corporate Sustainability G4-18, 19, 24, 25, 26, 27 G4-18, 19, 24, 25, 26, 27 Materiality analysis The survey respondents were customers, Definition of material issues employees, suppliers, representatives of non-govSupplier assessment CO2 emissions from laundry and service Energy efficiency A comprehensive analysis of opportunities and ernmental organisations and the media as well as Sustainable sourcing Water efficiency Upcycling and material efficiency risks formed the starting point for our strategy representatives of the Haniel holding company. process in autumn 2014. The analysis included A total of around 280 digital questionnaires were Wastewater Philantropy Employee benefits Alternative materials Waste recycling methods our areas of action to date, market developments, completed in nine countries. Security of supply Employee retention (job security) Anti-corruption Sustainable products new legal guidelines and regulations, reputation Each respondent evaluated the topics of our Diversity Education and information Detergent efficiency Safe work environment and brand value and topics discussed in public existing areas of action derived from the opportusettings and in the media. They were assessed nity and risk analysis in two aspects on a scale of Training and development Customer retention Customer satisfaction with regard to emerging trends, new starting 1 to 10. The first dimension was the importance points for our future alignment as well as of the topic for the respective stakeholder group. opportunities and risks for the development of For external respondents, the second dimension CWS-boco. Based on the results, we developed a enquired about the positive influence CWS-boco Materiality analysis: list of relevant topics for each of our existing can have on the topic in general through its Prioritisation by external and internal stakeholders areas of activity – business, ecology, employees business activity. For internal respondents, the as well as management and and social aspects. This range of topics was second dimension involved rating the effect of CR experts complemented and focused as necessary in the respective topic on the business development internal workshops. The finalised selection of of CWS-boco in the next five years. Both ratings topics served as the basis for the survey of our per question formed the X and Y axes of a CUSTOMERS & EMPLOYEES PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE stakeholders at the beginning of 2015. personal materiality matrix graph which was FACTS & FIGURES shown to each respondent during the survey and reflected his or her personal weighting of the Stakeholder survey topics. Each respondent was also free to add and Top 3 topics Top 3 topics Strategically most rate additional topics beyond the predefined ones. external stakeholders internal stakeholders relevant Following the first survey in 2012, we once again The results can be found on page 97 onwards. Customer satisfaction Safe work environment Energy efficiency engaged in close dialogue with our most imporSustainable sourcing Customer satisfaction Water efficiency tant stakeholders. To select these, we analysed Security of supply Training and development Detergent efficiency our interest groups in an international project Upcycling and material efficiency Weighting for the evaluation of data group and developed an official stakeholder Co2 emissions from laundry map, which was subsequently used to define the and service groups for our stakeholder survey. The groups are: Supplier assessment Customers, employees, suppliers, representatives of non-governmental organisations and the media The responses of all those surveyed were materiality analysis. We have also defined Internal as well as representatives of the Haniel holding 50 % stakeholders weighted in such a way that the information ­further issues as material which are essential company. collected from the internal and external stakefor ­controlling our business. The aims of this dialogue were: holder groups accounted for 50 per cent of the  The specification and further development evaluation respectively. As customers are one of of our sustainability strategy on the basis the most important interest groups for CWS-boco, External of our topic analysis and the feedback from stakeholders 50 % their responses were weighted more heavily our stakeholders; within the group of external stakeholders. T he redefinition of the relevant topics for The graphic above shows the three most releMateriality matrix and further the creation of the materiality matrix. vant issues for internal and external stakeholders details: See page 97 onwards which emerged from prioritisation during the 16 17 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Corporate Sustainability In focus: Leadership International management National management and integrity T hree members   etermine the goals for the Group as well as its D One Managing Director Management Board with one or more members strategic alignment One Managing Director as main contact to Meet with the Country Executive Committees International Management CORPORATE GOVERNANCE We believe that clear, open communication, four times a year to discuss marketand countryspecific issues both within and outside of the company, is a basic prerequisite International decision-making National decision-making for a sustainably operating business. Clear, flat hierarchies in all areas are ideal for achieving this with efficiency – because only a management team with integrity and which is aware of the CUSTOMERS & EMPLOYEES PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE corporate values can steer CWS-boco into a successful future. FACTS & FIGURES International Managing Heads of Managing Heads of the management Directors of central depart­Director national core all national ments in the functions (resubsidiaries international presentatives holding of all areas) The decision makers meet up several times a year Meets regularly in all countries in order to co­ to discuss cross-Group issues such as the shaping ordinate material issues within the national subof innovation and corporate culture. sidiary. Our management structure – CWS-boco opts for management structures with clear and flat hierarchies which enable Staff in all national subsidiaries Staff in the national subsidiary national and international efficient decision-making. At national and interThe legal form of CWS-boco International is national level there is a Management Board as a company with limited liability (GmbH). At well as respective Executive Committees which CWS-boco International itself there is no Supermeet regularly. This structure makes it possible visory Board; this exists at the level of the Haniel to communicate decisions and information to holding company. The German national subsidiary all employees in just a few steps, even from the Culture of joint decision-making Intensive international dialogue also is represented in the Supervisory Board by one highest level. takes place at departmental level, for example female employee and one male employee as well Wherever possible, we fill vacant manageNational and international meetings promote between Sales and Marketing. Every year, a as the responsible union representative. The Manment positions with individuals from within joint decision-making within the CWS-boco sales and marketing plan is developed in aging Directors of CWS-boco International and its our organisation. This allows us to convey the Group. Around one hundred managers from all order to identify market opportunities and subsidiaries are not members of the Supervisory comprehensive knowledge already found in our national subsidiaries attend the annual Managechallenges systematically and react to them Board. departments to the management level. ment Conference. with appropriate measures. 18 19 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Customers and Employees Customers Widening our As one additional pillar we have established a Compliance Programme Compliance Committee at CWS-boco Inter­ national. Compliance-relevant topics are disIt goes without saying that CWS-boco is cussed with functional departments. The Commit­committed to complying with legal regulations tee also suggests measures to implement these and and internal guidelines. Thus we are constantstandards and discussed topics. As such, we ly working on improving and developing our are striving to anchor the notion of compliance ­Compliance Programme and its core topics. into our corporate culture. Directives Personnel Focus Employees  New Compliance Guideline with  Compliance Committee meets once Anti-trust directives from the Haniel holda year as well as when required Anti-corruption ing company  Establishment of Complicance Com New version of the Code of Conmittee at CWS-boco International duct as a framework for the busi Monthly compliance calls at Haniel ness activities of CWS-boco and level with the representatives from its employees all business areas CHAPTER 1 CUSTOMERS & EMPLOYEES PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE FACTS & FIGURES Compliance Programme Training Compliance hotline Reporting  International training concept for Availability 2014: German nat­ional  From 2015 onwards, annual Comall countries subsidiaries including CWS-boco pliance Report for each national  In place in: Germany, Switzer­ Supply Chain Management GmbH subsidiary with events from the land, Sweden, Ireland, Nether Expansion from 2015: Austria, reporting year and plans for the lands, Belgium, Luxembourg, Switzerland, Poland, Sweden, following year. Austria and EEU Belgium and Ireland  Risk matrix for anti-trust and anti Planned for 2015: Training in PoAim 1: Employees can report corruption across all national subland and Italy, implementation conduct which is not in line with sidiaries for shaping future measof e-learning legal stipulations or internal diures rectives. Aim 2: Advice for questions regarding correct, guideline-compliant conduct Partner: External legal firm Report: No cases reported in 2014 Number of employees in 2014 Number of calls to the who received face-to-face compliance hotline in 2014 compliance training 132 0 20 21 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Customers and Employees Staying safe on the go with the Juchem PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE FACTS & FIGURES Group E m p l oye e s 300 Sites 1 3 in Germany Tr a d e  roduction of asphalt mixtures P and ready-mixed concrete as well as mineral substances for the production of asphalt and concrete; Execution of all kinds of road construction measures O r i g i nat e d I n 1933 with first quarry in Niederwörresbach in Hunsrück 22 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Customers and Employees Adding the finishing function. “For this reason, I quickly decided against purchasing the clothing,” said Mr Mix. He explained touches together that while purchased clothing does fulfil the requireBefore a new boco collection hits the market, it has to ments in terms of comfort and functionality, “in the prove its suitability for everyday use in a special test. long-term, it is neither safe nor cost-effective for us.” It must fulfil the needs of our customers. For this reason, we work in close cooperation with our customers, Contact partner on-site who put our clothing through vigorous testing before it enters production. One of our test customers for the Customer feedback and satisfaction are of great imhigh-visibility and weather protection collection 2014 portance to us – and not just in product developwas the Juchem Group. The employees there have to ment. That’s why we’re always there for them. Our wear their protective clothing the entire day, making customer care employees, such as Jörg Franke, who them the perfect partner for our test. Joachim Mix, a is responsible for Juchem, regularly visit our cusManaging Director in the Juchem Group, agreed. “It tomers’ premises and are always ready to lend an is fantastic that we can bring our customer perspecear for customer feedback or issues. tive into product development at boco,” he confirmed. “It’s great that boco takes an interest in our requireNumber of customer contacts which our ments and that we can contribute to a product being service drivers have each day Origins of the Juchem Group: created which is really suitable for everyday use.” A quarry in Niederwörresbach PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE One useful tip from a Juchem employee was the in 1933. FACTS & FIGURES need for more pockets in the work trousers and overalls. These will now be added to the clothing before it hits the market. “It’s great that boco takes an interest in our require27,743 ments and that we can contribute to a product being created which is really suitable for everyday use.” Number of incoming customer care calls — Joachim Mix, a Managing Director Phon e, emai l , fax (n o s peci fi c r epor ti ng i n BeLux in the Juchem Group an d S weden ) Renting is preferable to buying Joachim Mix’s employees need to be clearly visible in the field of road construction in particular. “The protective clothing really does have to protect my employees. This means it must retain its reflective function for a long time and, of course, remain 740,883 Ideally protected staff with Customised clothing water­proof,” emphasised Mr Mix. If the clothing is the high visibility and weatherfor all employees in dedi ­ not cleaned professionally, it can lose its protective proof clothing from boco. cated lockers. 24 25 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Customers and Employees Both satisfied: Customers Customer retention rate Employee satisfaction survey 2014 customers every month. In both companies, the and employees i n ni ne r epor ti ng coun tr i es , i n % results are passed on as direct feedback to the Customer satisfaction is a matter which is close to 9 Management Board. The opinion of our customers is of great value to us even above and beyond countries our hearts and the reason why we maintain such our daily business. For this reason, we regularly close contact with our customers. Our employees from Customer Service, Service and Customer Care 15 involve them in the strategy process for our sustainability alignment via the stakeholder dialogue. languages speak to more than 100,000 customers in person every day. Our customer retention rate of 93 per cent is testament to the fact that good commu93% Over to you nication is the right approach. On average, our customers have been with us for over 12 years. Do you feel connected to CWS-boco? Do you The satisfaction of our employees is equally Long-term customer relations enjoy your work? Is the working atmosphere okay? as important. In this respect, training and further Aver age dur ati on We asked our employees these questions and education in particular as well as work safety are many more – in nine countries and 15 languages, critical aspects that we are constantly working to improve. In 2014, we asked our employees for 58 % online and on paper. Between 18th November and 5th December 2014, almost 6,700 employees feedback in a Group-wide survey. We have already of staff had the chance to participate in the survey, with begun setting up monitoring for international 12.3 58 per cent seizing the opportunity. PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE training. For the first time, we were also able to We attach great importance to open ­dialogue FACTS & FIGURES collect data on the further education measures imyears with our employees. They therefore have the plemented last year, thereby adding an important opportunity every two years to provide us indicator to the scope of our reporting. In addition, with feedback on CWS-boco as a company and we have developed our own training programme Results employer. We communicate the results openly for lateral entrants in Direct Sales and have been and transparently to all participants: Starting certified for our commitment to work safety to date with the Management Board of the CWS-boco in the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany. Group to the Managing Directors and employee Number of wearers of boco personal representatives in the countries, managers and protective equipment Management of the team leaders and each individual employee. i n DE , AT, CH , BeLux, IT CWS-boco Group In constant dialogue Suggestions for improvement are developed and Managing Directors concrete measures derived in rounds of discusWe remain in close dialogue with our customers sions and meetings. A pleasing result: We were Executives – and not just through service and customer care. able to keep the employee commitment index It is vital to us that our customers are satisfied. Team leaders (average value from measured employee motivaOur national subsidiaries have developed various tion and identification) at a very good 4.0 points monitoring concepts with the aim of keeping (as in 2012), based on a scale of 1 to 5, with 5 constant control of this. In Belgium, Luxembourg representing the best result. and the Netherlands, individual customer groups It’s worth participating: After the first are surveyed regularly, sorted by region or certain survey in 2012, measures implemented included contract duration, for example. The feedback from the launch of a Group-wide intranet in order to our employees with customer contact is equally as improve interdepartmental and international colimportant. In Germany, employees from Sales and Service are asked about the satisfaction of their 169,642 Staff laboration as well as the flow of information and communication. All employees – including those 26 27 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Customers and Employees from the commercial divisions – have access to Further education Gender split in employee categories People in focus i n the countr i es cover ed i n the r epor t, CWS -boco As a per c entag e this. In 2012, improvement of cooperation and inIn ter nati onal and CWS -boco S uppl y Chai n M an agement formation provision were among the central areas As a textile service provider, we are in a very 1,093 11,370 of action revealed by the survey results. personnel-intensive business. We employ a lot of 51 49 people and are actively committed to ensuring training sessions participants that they are well looked after. We encourage Further education in focus them with further education measures and offer them various employee benefits. The latter are Another area of action resulting from the emorganised on an individual basis depending on the ployee survey: Further education and personnel development are topics of great importance to 15,160 h total hours of training male female subsidiary. Employees of CWS-boco International, for example, can take advantage of the services our employees. We can only be successful as a (%) (%) offered by PME Familienservice, which provides ­company if our staff have the necessary skills, support in finding a successful work-life balance. Management 75.05 24.95 competencies and knowledge of how to keep Various company sports or fitness activities are our service and quality promise to the customer Administration 40.91 59.09 also available depending on the site. CWS-boco day after day. This is why we want to make our 3,112 h 4,935 h Laundry and Service 5 0 .4 0 4 9 .6 0 Germany operates a national health initiative, international training and further education activStaff Staff which focuses on the workplace, exercise, nutriin in ities more structured and more closely oriented tion and the provision of information. Administration Laundry and Service Sales 4 7 .9 5 5 2 .0 5 towards the respective market. PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE The first step towards achieving this involves FACTS & FIGURES setting up international monitoring of all Excellent working internal and external further education measAward-winning working conditions OHS AS and S edex conditions ures completed by our employees. In 2014, we launched an international system for collecting OHSAS information about all training measures. Among other things, this records the type of qualificaNL BE In 2014, CWS Netherlands and CWStion, the duration, the number of training hours, boco BeLux were commended by the ­Occupational the training providers and associated costs. We Health and Safety Assessment Series (OHSAS) for will also be expanding the resulting database and their health and safety management system. The further differentiating the information collected, system helps to identify and minimise risks in the with the aim of developing country-specific and working environment. OHSAS is one of the most market-specific training and further education well-known and important standards for occupastandards in the CWS-boco Group by the end of tional health and safety management systems. 2015. In this way, we aim to develop employees in a more targeted and demand-oriented manner and Sedex to make a sustainable investment in both their future and our own. DE CWS-boco Germany passed the SEDEX (Supplier Ethical Data Exchange) 4-pillar audit in accordance with the SMETA (SEDEX Members 1,097 h 5,479 h Ethical Trade Audit) guidelines for 2014. The audit tested standards on ethical business practices Staff Staff with personnel in Sales and environmental sustainability as well as social responsibility sustainability standards including compliance with 28 29 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Customers and Employees the ILO core labour standards. Sedex is a digital Total workforce by age Hygienic hand-washing Innovative solutions for better health and safety platform on which companies can make informain the workplace which allow simultaneous cost tion regarding ethical and social standards in their <30 30–50 >50 1. Wet hands under 2. Lather up thoroughly savings should foster support among employees running water production available to customers and partners. and provide them with an incentive to participate. Membership of Sedex is subject to a successful male audit. 58.20 % Hand-washing made simple Coalition for work safety NL It’s easy with comic characters Tom and Tammy. They are just one part of a ­comprehensive PL Better safety in the workplace is one of the hygiene package that CWS Netherlands is employcore objectives of our boco business. CWS-boco ing to approach primary schools. The two illustratstrives for safety – but not just with its workwear. ed heroes show children how to wash their hands 3. Rub the soap on the 4. Rinse hands under In cooperation with a number of other partners, back of the hands, running water properly in a way they can understand. A wide wrists and between CWS-boco Poland has established the “Coalition for the fingers range of posters and stickers, hand-washing and Health and Safety/Koalicja Bezpieczni w Pracy”. hygiene certificates for children, an information The main objective of the coalition is to booklet for teachers and a bacteria strip test bring establish a culture of health and safety in the 29.44 % 12.36 % the issue to life. workplace among employees and employers. They DE CWS-boco Germany also participates PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE should be motivated to change their attitudes actively in teaching the very youngest members of FACTS & FIGURES towards this topic, improve safety standards and society about hygiene: The national subsidiary refemale exchange information on successful measures. In cently toured nurseries with magic shows covering short: They should spread the word about the topic 53.46 % 5. Dry thoroughly all aspects of the topic of clean hands. In addition, and increase public awareness. To achieve this, and always use a the German organisation also runs a homepage the coalition has initiated active collaboration fresh portion of fabric which explains how to wash your hands correctly. towel or paper with national institutions. Anyone interested can order ­materials with inforFigures published by the Polish national mation on clean hands from www.haendehygiene. industrial inspectorate show that around 40 per de. In 2014, 52 requests were received and over cent of all accidents in the workplace are down 1,200 articles shipped. to human error, with a further 40 per cent being CH CWS-boco Switzerland is also ­active traced to incorrect workflows. With the aim of when it comes to hygiene education. The slashing these figures, the coalition wants to ­national subsidiary communicates its expert increase employers’ and employees’ awareness With its comic figures Tom and Tammy knowledge on all aspects of hand hygiene and CWS Netherlands is teaching primary school of the consequences of carelessness in safety matters and demonstrate the advantages of 33.71 % 12.83 % children how to wash their hands properly health to customers and interested parties in the scope of an extensive campaign including NL increased safety in the workplace for companies specialist talks. The national subsidiary has comat the same time. Ultimate goal: Commendation piled a wealth of useful information about hand of Poland’s top experts for health and safety in hygiene at www.haende-hygiene.ch. the workplace. In addition, the campaign also Health and Safety Coalition PL promotes exchange among specialists and awareAdditional data and facts about ness of the issue. our customers and employees are The creation of a network between companies available as of page 72. should help to establish higher safety standards. 30 31 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Customers and Employees Excellently Thorsten Althaus sales consultant With six years of experience, Thorsten Althaus is already an “old hand” in Sales at CWS-boco. His special. It gives us the opportunity to train new employees with our expert knowledge precisely in line with our requirements,” explained Mr Althaus. And that’s not all: The final exams for the programme are officially certified by TÜV Rhineland. trained role in Sales Excellence is as a mentor. “It simply gives me a thrill to pass my knowledge on to young Practice meets theory colleagues and, of course, to learn from them,” said Mr Althaus. CWS-boco is so far the only company to Six modules in which the lateral entrants learn prooffer its own internal training programme for lateral fessional consulting, product details and contract entrants in Direct Sales. “This is really something administration alternate with intensive acquisition Total number of g raduates Fit for Direct Sales in just twelve months – s ince programme “The programme is perfectly launch: 25 − that is the aim of the Sales Excellence suited to lateral entrants. six women and 19 men G r a d u at e s in 2 0 1 4 ­training programme at CWS-boco. The recipe The practical and theoretical 1  3 − three women training teaches you everything for success: Motivated lateral entrants for LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY and 10 men PRODUCTS & SOURCING you need to know in order LOGISTICS & SERVICE FACTS & FIGURES O f f i c ial g r aduat e t it le C WS-boco Sales, a fountain of expert knowledge to be successful.” Sales Specialist — Philipp Kribbeler with TÜV Rhinelandcertified qualification from the company and a sound mixture of theoretical and practical units. Philipp Kribbeler Sales during my dual study programme, I wanted to get into Direct Sales at all costs.” lateral entrant in Sales The fact that he became a successful Sales Philipp Kribbeler has been working in the field in ­employee so quickly following his lateral entrance Direct Sales for CWS since November 2013 – and is down to Sales Excellence. “The programme is is now a proud graduate of the Sales Excellence perfectly suited to lateral entrants. The practical training programme. “When I started at CWS-boco, and theoretical training teaches you everything you field work in Sales was unchartered territory for need to know in order to be successful,” enthused Getting practical experience: me,” said Mr Kribbeler about his starting period. Mr Kribbeler. “This makes you even more motivated The lateral entrants during ­“Despite this, having gained initial experience of for your daily work.” supported acquisition days 32 33 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Products and Sourcing Products and The product lines and dispensing technologies are also on the agenda. Sourcing CHAPTER 2 PRODUCTS & SOURCING LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY “It simply gives me a thrill to LOGISTICS & SERVICE FACTS & FIGURES pass my knowledge on to young colleagues and, of course, to learn from them. This is really something special. It gives us the oppor­tunity to train new employees with our expert knowledge precisely in line with our requirements.” — Thorsten Althaus phases in the field. “During the field work, each parExcellence we are focusing on sustainable HR deticipant is accompanied by an experienced mentor, velopment.” Furthermore, the programme is helpwho is always on hand to provide help and advice,” ing the company to achieve an even higher level explained Birte Krapp, Head of HR Development at of consulting quality in Direct Sales as well as enCWS-boco Deutschland. And if any questions do hanced customer satisfaction and stability within remain unanswered, additional training days are Sales. Launched in Germany in 2013, the training organised in the local branches. “The aim is that programme has become such a success that two each lateral entrant works successfully in acquicolleagues from CWS-boco Switzerland joined the sition in his sales area following graduation from training modules in ­Germany in May 2015. the programme,” explained Ms Krapp. “With Sales 34 35 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Products and Sourcing A ­responsible approach to ­production For us, responsibility doesn’t start in our comLAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY pany, but begins instead with the partners in LOGISTICS & SERVICE FACTS & FIGURES our supply chain involved in the manufacturing of the CWS-boco products. We are always on hand and assist them with the implementation of social and environmental standards. P r od uc t i on sit e Ama-Dress Si t e B erat, Albania E s t a bli s he d in 2 011 C W Sbo c o par t n e r Since 2012 Duties S ews boco clothing Our supplier Ama-Dress has its headquarters in the historic city of Berat, Albania. 36 37 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Products and Sourcing An eye on the Code of Conduct for suppliers at all times: Dirk Baykal is on site at Ama-Dress Ama-Dress BA RS for CWS-boco. Albania XK Ama-Dress has been sewing workwear for boco since MK Capital city Tirana IT 2012. All the necessary components such as materiGR als, buttons and zips are supplied. In mid-2013, AmaPopulation 2.8 million Dress underwent its first audit to ensure compliance Area Approx. 28,700 km2 with the Code of Conduct. The results showed that Currency Albanian lek there was a need for improvement in various areas. Tirana A joint action plan was drawn up into which AmaDress invested significant time and energy. And the hard work paid off: Just one year later all the planned measures had been implemented and the follow-up audit in 2014 was passed with flying colours. AmaDress now has an electronic system for timekeeping. An emergency plan has been developed and checked by the local authorities. Moreover, the operation has improved communication between management and staff and appointed an employee who is responsible for ensuring adherence the code. LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE “We are proud of this successful cooperation FACTS & FIGURES and the excellent progress Ama-Dress has made,” Responsibility for concluded Mr Baykal. ongoing development There is a lot of talk about responsibility in the supply chain. “But we are actively involved in ensuring precisely this on a daily basis,” stressed Dirk Baykal, CSR coordinator at CWS-boco Supply Chain Management. “We work on-site with our suppliers around the world From the reams of cloth through and help them to ­develop further if necessary.” After to the finished items: Ama-Dress complies with all of the manufacall, a sustainable supply chain is much more than just turing specifications. a Code of Conduct. “Although we do have such a code in place and compliance with it is checked by external Material, buttons and zips are auditors, we do not leave our suppliers to implement professionally combined to Tested and certified this on their own,” explained Mr Baykal. Many partners produce the finished items. CWS-boco works closely with external certified auditors. are not always aware of the requirements which result This also includes SGS. from this code. Mr Baykal explained CWS-boco’s role The well-known auditing company issued the following “Ama-Dress is a young company which is committed statement: as follows: “Should a partner fail an audit, we work closely together with this partner. We draw up action to fair production. Right from the word go it was our stated “To comply with the BSCI standard Ama-Dress has plans together and help to implement these with the aim to work in line with European guidelines and developed very positively thanks to our audits and the support of CWS-boco. We are particularly pleased aim of ensuring that the partner passes the next austandards. We are delighted that CWS-boco helps us to about this.” dit.” Our partner Ama-Dress in the Albanian town of achieve just this.” Berat is a good example of this successful approach. — Emisa Osoja, Ama-Dress management 38 39 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Products and Sourcing Embracing responsibility Supplier structure and product procurement Roll-out of Code of Conduct in the together with the partner in question to develop textile supply chain right from the source Textiles and resources (such as zips, buttons, I mpl entati o n o f ph ase 1 o f th e C o de an improvement plan and support and accompany them in its implementation. Our suppliers’ emetc.) CWS and boco For us, sustainability doesn’t just start in our own ployees can report critical issues to the auditor in company: It begins in our supply chain. Sustaincharge on a special hotline. All cases are forwardable procurement as well as supplier assessment 272 suppliers Code ed to CWS-boco. Only one such case was reported CWS-boco Supply Chain Management GmbH and development are of great importance to us in 2014. Our aim is the development of our part55% 45% here. When our products reach the end of their life ners and long-term cooperation. cycle, upcycling is an important topic which helps Our procurement companies are responsible for us to ensure that our products have the longest purchase of outward the implementation and monitoring of our Code of possible life and that waste is kept to a minimum. finished clothing, processing, 160 of the textile This corresponds to Conduct. The responsibility for all textile products suppliers approx. Socially acceptable working conditions and Western Europe Eastern Europe lies with our subsidiary CWS-boco Supply Chain the conservation of resources are the utmost have signed the 95% Management GmbH. This company has already Code in phase of the purchasing priorities in our supply chain. We cater for this by 1 of its roll-out. volume. presented the Code of Conduct to almost all of our committing ourselves to complying with social strategically relevant suppliers and 68 per cent of Western and environmental standards throughout our entire Europe Eastern Europe the strategically relevant suppliers have already Location (suppliers) (producers) Audit process supply chain. In order to implement and sustain signed it in phase 1 of the roll-out. This corresponds this effectively, we have integrated our Code of Non-risk country 255 1 to approx. 95% of the purchasing volume. In 2014, Conduct for suppliers (CoC) into our procurement first audits were carried out in our partner compaLAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE contracts and supplier agreements. Low-risk country 3 3 nies. We have set ourselves the target of getting at FACTS & FIGURES The Code of Conduct is based on internationleast 99% of the strategically important textile Internal and external auditor teams al agreements such as the ­Universal Declaration Risk country 5 5 inspect implementation on site suppliers to sign the Code of Conduct by the middle of Human Rights, the guidelines on children’s of 2016 (percentages based on purchase volumes). rights and entrepreneurial activity, the UN Guiding As a company, we have the aspiration and aim Principle on Business and Human Rights, the OECD of expanding our Code of Conduct to encompass Non-textile products for CWS directives as well as the UN Global Compact and all areas of procurement (phase 2 of the roll-out): the conventions and recommendations of the InProduct procurement for CWS (e.g., washroom ternational Labour ­Organisation (ILO). It describes 30 suppliers dispensers or soaps) as well as the area of Indirect CWS-boco Supply AG the planned objectives and minimum expectations Spend (e.g., framework agreements with vehicle 83.3% 10% for our partners. Among other things, these include Passed directly Failed standards on: Taking action for a sustainable supply chain Compliance with laws production sites production sites Prohibition of discrimination (25 suppliers) (3 suppliers) Develop action plan CWS-boco SCM is a member of in Western Europe in non-risk and support  the Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), Pay and working hours countries in implementation which is committed to improving social, working and Health and safety in the workplace Eastern Europe/ environmental standards in production countries. Prohibition of child and forced labour Israel  the Sustainable Apparel Coalition (SAC), which aims to reduce negative social and environmental Environmental standards and safety issues effects of textile and shoe production. Management systems the UN Global Compact (via CWS-boco International), which aims to establish global principles of action from the areas of human rights, working 6.7% Internal and external certified auditing teams Unannounced Re-audit standards, environmental protection and anti-­ perform regular checks of implementation on site. inspection audit corruption for entrepreneurial activity and initiate appropriate measures. If these checks reveal potential for improvement or production sites in risk countries in Asia 5 of the 12 audits performed in 2014 in the case that a company fails an audit, we work (2 suppliers) were passed directly! 40 41 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Products and Sourcing manufacturers and tour operators as well as facility Our high quality standards are certified 439 washrooms awarded the ecoilet label Double points: For c­ ustomers management). By mid-2016, we want the Code to * * i n th e Neth er l ands and I tal y and the environment have been signed by at least 99% of the strategically important CWS product suppliers and 80% of Sustainable products from CWS-boco are not only the strategically important partners from Indirect environmentally friendly − they also benefit our Spend (percentages based on purchase volumes). customers. The Clean Touch hygienic door handle enAt the moment, social production standards in these Oeko-Tex® Standard 100 sures you are always presented a clean handle when for Product Class 2 areas are regulated by our procurement conditions. opening doors, whilst the Washroom Information Products which are in contact with the skin In the long-term, we want to establish the Code of Service (WIS) helps customers to plan their resources Conduct for all strategically relevant suppliers in more efficiently. To give another example: ecoilet, all purchasing segments in several stages. Blue Angel * the “ecological calling card” for washrooms. With the for our cotton towel dispenser systems ecoilet label from CWS, customers can make their Plastic savings for new soap bottles environmental awareness visible to washroom users. Sustainable means durable The eco label is awarded for the use of CWS cotton and high-quality towel dispensers, CWS foam soap dispensers and recycled toilet paper. Together, these products help This also goes for all the resources that we select to save water, resources and consumable materials. for our products. As we rent our products out, they This is not only good for the environment, but also rehave to withstand a long life cycle. Our textiles duces costs for the customer. The ecoilet concept was –9 g LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE are repeatedly reprocessed in our industrial launlaunched internationally in countries including the FACTS & FIGURES dries – the cotton towel rolls up to 100 times. Netherlands and Italy, where the label was awarded to Only high-quality materials are suitable for this. per bottle 439 washrooms in 2014. Since 2015, washrooms have When we integrate new textiles into our product also been being awarded the ecoilet label in Germany, range, they must first pass an intensive wash test. Belgium, Poland and Ireland, with other countries set –30 t Reprocessing and quality control The same applies to all labels, buttons and zips of rented textiles to follow in the near future. intended for use on our clothing. Our new soap bottles also constitute a real bonus However, our demand for superior quality does per year for the environment. The revised design allows us not end with criteria for long durability. The skin to save up to nine grams of plastic per bottle, which compatibility of our textiles is equally as important. translates to a saving of more than 30 tonnes of plastic For this reason, all cotton towel rolls and the majorin the CWS-boco Group within a calendar year. In the ity of our textiles are certified in accordance with last twelve months since this optimisation was introthe Oeko-Tex® Standard 100 for product category 2 duced, we have proven that the quality and stability of – products with skin contact. Longer life cycle for all textiles In Sweden textile bags are also used to the bottles remain high. We are also planning further Our washroom dispensers are produced in deliver clothing optimisations for the packaging material in other areas. SE Switzerland. Here, too, we have a constant demand In Sweden, all signs point to reuse when it for high quality. The dispensers are made from comes to boco transport packaging. The plastic bags CWS-boco Germany takes silver materials which are particularly robust, designed which have been used to date to deliver items of for long-term use and which can withstand heavy CWS-boco Germany’s commitment to ecological and clothing are being replaced by textile bags. These bags 120 X social sustainability in the supply chain has been loading, for example in washrooms with a large can be used repeatedly and washed up to 120 times. rewarded with the silver status of the EcoVadis CR number of visitors. rating. This places the national subsidiary among the top seven per cent of the more than 70 companies washable assessed in its industry sector. In the “Environment” Additional data and facts about * Blue Angel: Applies for the national subsidiaries CWS-boco Deutschland GmbH, CWS-boco BeLux N.V., CWS Nederland B.V., CWS-boco Suisse SA, CWS-boco Italia sub-section, it even ranks in the top two per cent of our products and their origin are S.p.A., CWS-boco Ireland Ltd. companies. available as of page 82. Hygiene certificate: Applies for the national subsidiaries CWS-boco Deutschland GmbH, CWS-boco BeLux N.V., CWS Nederland B.V., CWS-boco Suisse SA 42 43 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Products and Sourcing Fountain of youth for dispensers “All devices which are unsuitable for reuse are recycled.” — Hans-Jörg Gerhard, Quality Manager Si t e D iepoldsau, LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE Switzerland FACTS & FIGURES D i s p e n s er s r e pair e d Incoming and outgoing dispensers p e r m on th in the Upcycling Centre in 2014 3 ,455 D i s p e n s er s r e c e ive d in 2014 out 4 1,464 Dispensers repaired in 2014 Disassembled towel All the reprocessed dispensers undergo 28,464 2 8,464 intensive cleaning. dispensers waiting for Upcycling Centre a new lease of life. in There is great emphasis on reuse and recycling at ­CWS-boco Welcome to the Upcycling Centre 41,464 Used dispensers from Germany, the Netherlands, – right across the board. The c­ oncept of reuse applies not Switzerland and Italy are taken to the Upcycling Centre in Switzerland, with more than ­41,000 deonly to textiles, but also to our cotton towel dispensers. Just vices passing through its doors in 2014. Only some Does the motor work? Are all the cogs and springs of them are in good enough condition to be revived undamaged? Does anything need to be cleaned? Is because they have been taken off our customer’s wall doesn’t for a new customer assignment. the outer cover intact? It takes about 12 minutes, an “The dispensers have to pass an entrance test,” exterior facelift, cleaning and spare parts to make necessarily mean that they have reached the end of their explained Hans-Jörg Gerhard, Quality Manager at the dispenser as good as new. useful service life. Their “reincarnation” happens at our Up­ CWS-boco. Only then are they allowed to begin the “All devices which are unsuitable for reuse are rejuvenating treatment known as upcycling. Each recycled,” said Mr Gerhard. “This involves disassemcycling Centre in Diepoldsau, Switzerland. dispenser is subjected to a meticulous examination: bling them into their basic components.” Some of 44 45 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Laundry and Technology Laundry Number of dispensers which could be returned to an as-new condition 69% and Our dispensers are as good as new following The trick behind this new lease of life: A partially new interior. Technology CHAPTER 3 reprocessing LAUNDRY & TECHNOLOGY LOGISTICS & SERVICE FACTS & FIGURES Recycled plastic from old dispensers for the production of new dispensers 13 t we produce,” he stated proudly. Around 13 tonnes of recycling material was used for the production of new dispensers in 2014. the plastic is shredded and reprocessed. The remainLearning – a whole (dispenser) life long ing plastic and the metal parts are disposed of in the appropriate manner. “The Upcycling Centre offers us the fantastic opportunity to take a close look at our dispensers after Old becomes new their time with the customer,” explained Mr G ­ erhard. Information about recurring problems with devices Processing expert Mr Gerhard and his colleagues take is passed from the Upcycling Centre to quality asthis literally. “We use the plastic granulate obtained surance and from there directly to the CWS Develfrom recycled devices to produce new dispensers,” he opment department. Mr Gerhard always has an eye said. “In this way, old dispensers become new ones on this process: “In this way, we can continuously and we also significantly reduce the amount of waste improve our dispensers.” 46 47 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 Si t e W iesbaden, Germany Capacity 20,000 laundry items per day 37 x 24 kg barrier washing machines 17 dryers 1 finishing system 30 employees per shift Innovative steam production Unique wastewater Transparency: The washing data pretreatment from every machine can be output via a USB interface. Pretty LOGISTICS & SERVICE FACTS & FIGURES smart… …would be an accurate description of the technology we employ in our new laundries. In Łódź (Poland), Čakovec (Croatia) and Wiesbaden (Germany), lots of small washing machines will soon be ensuring that everything is spotless. This makes us particularly flexible, as we can wash the textiles sorted according to customer. 48 49 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Laundry and Technology Washed and packed A clean finish in just four hours But it’s not only the laundry that makes a “clean Having lots of small machines enables us to wash and getaway” with us. We have also come up with a process textiles even faster. Intelligent tables help A clean bonus special solution for pretreating wastewater. Durto save time while doing this. They scan the items ing the washing process, the clothing is freed from upon them and allocate them to the correct wearer. for customers and dirt particles which have been “collected” by their This makes time-consuming sorting superfluous, as wearer. The so-called flotation technique filters the items arrive at the laundry grouped according to the environment these from the water even more efficiently. The customer and are not separated or mixed with other formula for success: Thanks to a patented technolitems during any part of the process. This means that ogy, minimal use of resources results in maximum Capacity per day cleaning performance. Always ready: Quick steam generator in Wiesbaden. 20,000 washed items Number of items washed across Europe in 2014 ~ 28 million LOGISTICS & SERVICE FACTS & FIGURES From sorting to packing towel rolls 4 Clean: Particles of dirt are filtered out of the waste ­ water by means of filtration. hours ~ 8 million ~ 85 million mats items of workwear The SmartLine concept SmartLine stands for many small washer extractor machines in which the textiles are processed and washed only two to four hours pass between sorting the dirty in line with the customer’s wishes. As opposed to with large washing tunnels, they enable us to achieve items and packing the clean clothing. Ideal use of resources maximum customer flexibility and a high level of availability as well as better load capacity and production security. An additional advantage: We can deploy Always ready for action The use of small machines allows us to control the the machines in different locations – depending on machine load far more precisely than with large how much washing needs to be done where. All the machines operate independently of each machines. At the start of the washing process, stateAll the machines are connected via software which records the operating data. It documents the ­other, this is unlike the individual stations in a large of-the-art, high-speed steam generators produce load, running time, temperature, consumption and fully automated plant or a long washing tunnel. If a the required steam in just a few minutes. These many more details. These data can be used to compare and optimise all the locations which work in acmachine malfunctions in Wiesbaden there are still switch off automatically when not in use. Thanks cordance with the same concept. An additional bonus 36 others which are fully operational. This makes the to this new concept, Wiesbaden is one of the most is that we can wash larger volumes while simultaneIdentified immediately: A scanner site particularly reliable for customers. efficient laundries in the CWS-boco Group in terms ously taking the load off our employees. built in to the table matches the item to its wearer. of thermal energy. 50 51 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Laundry and Technology Hand in hand: Washing Less water required for more washed laundry Pilot scheme: Washing with polymer beads This means that every saving we make must and saving resources be carefully considered. To make practical resource Washing textiles is a core element of our business. –3.9 % savings without sacrificing quality, we choose technologies which make particularly efficient use of less water Water and energy efficiency as well as the use of consumption water, energy and detergent. The reprocessing and laundry detergents are important aspects which we compared to 2013 reuse of washing water is one example of this. are constantly developing. In 2014, we sharpened the focus of our reporting and, for example now also record the oil consumption of our locations. This Targets exceeded this corresponds to rounds off our data collection and enhances our reporting, meaning that our energy and emission –48,992 m³ CH The target for the laundries in the Germanindicators cannot be compared 1:1 with the figures speaking region of Switzerland is to reduce CO2 emisfrom the previous year. However, adjusted for the sions by three per cent each year: A figure that the effects of the new data collection scope, it is clear company has agreed with the Swiss Federal Office that we have continued to save resources success+3.06 % Polymer beads Reduced use for the Environment. There, as well as in Châtel-­Saintfully in terms of energy, water and detergent. washed laundry of water Denis in west Switzerland, CWS-boco is participating In order to act efficiently and sustainably, the compared to 2013 and detergent in the energy efficiency programme of the Energy further development of our technology is centred Agency for Industry (EnAW). The objective of the proWashing process around conserving resources. Our activities here gramme is to reduce the output of CO2 emissions and LOGISTICS & SERVICE focus on more efficient laundry concepts for new make more efficient use of energy. Within the scope FACTS & FIGURES locations as well as on the modernisation of this corresponds to of this initiative, the Swiss company has committed existing buildings and facilities. In 2014, two new laundries were built close to the old locations + 4,900 t Removal of dirt particles itself to reducing CO2 emissions from oil and gas in its laundries in German-speaking Switzerland by and two others were expanded with a cleanroom. 3 per cent per year between 2014 and 2020. Operations were discontinued at one older location Specific agreement for 2014: A maximum CO2 and the washing volume distributed among other Resources in balance – the Sinner’s Circle output of 3,317 tonnes. Cleaning of Transfer to more resource-friendly laundries. We are constantly polymer beads polymer beads The triumph: With just 2,743 tonnes of CO2 investing in our laundry network and the technology Water Temperature emission, CWS-boco exceeded the target by used in order to make even more efficient use of 12.6 per cent! water, energy and detergent. We have also launched This is down to highly effective measures. In a whole range of projects internationally with the Absorption of Glattbrugg, for example, one measure involved aim of meeting these objectives. dirt particles decommissioning old, less efficient mangles and installing new heat exchangers. In Kriens, there is a new system for heat recovery from wastewater Constantly in balance in operation, and in Widnau, gas-operated dryers have taken over from their steam-heated predecessor. Four quarters make a whole. This is similar to the factors required for successful washing results. The correct balance of water, detergent, wash duration Alternative thinking and temperature results in clean textiles. If one factor is reduced, the others must be increased accordingWhen equipping our laundries, we always consider Protection of the Protection of the ly in order to ensure the same wash performance – Duration of Detergent textiles on highenvironment the use of alternative energy and innovative technolthis is the logic of the so-called Sinner’s Circle. washing cycle visibility clothing ogies and are treading new ground in many countries. 52 53 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Laundry and Technology Washing with polymer beads Total electricity consumption Detergent efficiency per kg of laundry washed assessments are already under way as to whether it (g /kg ) can also be installed in other locations in Sweden. DE BE Water and detergent are not the only things that can get clothes clean. Tests at our sites in Green energy right out of the socket Puurs and Wiesbaden are already demonstrating that Towel rolls 21.38 it is also possible with alternative methods. There, DE NL Our companies in Germany and the Nethinnovative washing machines clean items such as erlands have opted for 100 per cent green energy: high-visibility clothing with so-called polymer beads. They use electricity which is generated entirely from These are small, rounded plastic particles about the 49% 51% renewable sources such as wind, water or biomass. size of a peppercorn which are added to the wash. Austria, Belgium, Luxembourg and Switzerland have They absorb stains and dirt, thereby removing these Procured green energy Procured standard energy Mats 0.88 also switched to alternatively generated electricity. from the clothing. This requires special machines, The share of renewable and non-renewable energies is which store the polymer beads and add them to the balanced across all the countries in this Report. wash during the washing cycle before filtering them Electricity from renewable sources DE NL out and cleaning them again. As usual, water and detergent are required for More than just clean processing the textiles, but the amount required is Workwear 36.30 far smaller than without the polymer beads. This is Hygiene is not only a top priority in the pharmaceubecause the small beads can considerably improve tical and microelectronics industries; customers from LOGISTICS & SERVICE the washing mechanics, i.e., the cleaning process rea whole range of other sectors also manufacture their FACTS & FIGURES sulting from the textiles’ rubbing together. Thanks to products in cleanrooms and thus require special cloththe new technology, it is mainly the polymers which ing, which in turn needs to be cleaned using special extract dirt from the textiles. As a result, less water procedures. The washing and drying procedures in our 100 % and detergent are required. In addition to this, the Growing business area: Cleanroom cleanroom laundries satisfy the highest requirements washing process is already effective at low temperafor cleanroom clothing. They ensure that the clothing tures, which translates to lower energy consumption. is free from particles and, if required, sterile. We use This cleaning method leaves not only the environment Energy from special pure water for the laundry and our dryers are renewable sources but also our high-visibility clothing shining – and that in German and equipped with air filters, which allow gentle drying in the true sense of the word: The reflective strips on Dutch operations and keep particles away from the washing. Each batch our clothes retain their reflective properties for longer of washing is analysed for particles using the Helmke than with conventional washing. Intensive tests are CO 2 savings from steam generated by pellets Drum test and the clothing is only approved for decurrently being carried out to assess whether the techSE s i n ce fi r s t oper ati on livery once it passes the test. Textiles reprocessing in nology is suitable for use in other laundries. our cleanroom laundries is performed in accordance with EN ISO 14644. In 2014, we opened new locations Steam from pellets in Heidenheim, Germany, and Puurs, Belgium. The cleanroom segment is a growing market – including SE In Märsta, Sweden, we use wooden pellets to for CWS-boco. We are continuously expanding our net7,300 t generate steam. The system has been in operation work of sites and can draw on more than two decades since 2011 and is completely CO2-neutral with pure of experience around the world in this industry. pellet operation. In 2014 alone, we saved around 1,950 tonnes of CO2 – and we have even saved Additional data and facts about more than 7,300 tonnes in total since the steam our laundries and technology are generator went into operation. As such, the new Further energy KPIs see p. 67 available as of page 87. technology is a real bonus for the environment and 54 55 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Laundry and Technology The right adjust1. 2. 3. ments A weighing cell measures the weight of the load The detergent and water supplied are adjusted according to the weight Saves energy, protects clothing and the LOGISTICS & SERVICE environment FACTS & FIGURES of the washing … are what we have made to many ­ aspects of our laundries. Our ­­“ef ­fi ciency inspectors” from the business departments are cons­tantly dropping in at our locations. Their opinion: Thumbs up in terms of efficiency and not only for washing, spinning How about a little more? and detergent added as well as the energy required, so that it does not use more than is absolutely necand drying. How much washing is in the machine? How much essary. These intelligent machines are in use in water and detergent are required? Our new washlocations such as Puurs (Belgium), Łódź (Poland), ing machines answer these questions fully autoČakovec (Croatia) and Wiesbaden (Germany). matically. They are equipped with a weighing cell It goes without saying that our dryers are inwhich records the device load and, based on this telligent too. They measure the residual moisture in value, calculates the correct amount of water and the clothing and stop running when the textiles have detergent. If the machine is not at full load capacreached the desired degree of dryness. This saves enity, it automatically reduces the amount of water ergy, reduces emissions and is gentle on the clothes. 56 57 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Logistics and Service Logistics Energy efficiency in kWh per kg washed Flotation technique for wastewater treatment (thermal and electricity) Air and an agent are added to the wastewater Dirt particles Towel rolls 1.28 1.28 2014 2013 Air plus agent and Service Workwear 1.78 1.84 The particles 2014 2013 rise in the air to the surface CHAPTER 4 LOGISTICS & SERVICE There they can be FACTS & FIGURES skimmed off Mats 0.41 0.44 2014 2013 It’s a gas without steam It’s all down to physics Mangles and dryers used to run on “full steam”. The We rely on physics when it comes to freeing our heat required for drying and flattening textiles was wastewater from dirt particles. For this process, we produced by steam, which was heated in large boilroute air through the water and add an agent which ers. The disadvantage of this was that large boilers binds the dirt particles. The particles then float to the have to run non-stop to prevent damage from fresurface in the air, where they can simply be skimmed quent cooling and heating. Furthermore, mangles off. This flotation technique is employed in our and dryers have to be ready for use quickly. latest generation laundries. It requires a lot less enToday, many devices are gas-operated. When ergy than the ultrafiltration technique, as it does not they are not in use, the gas can simply be switched require the operation of any large pumps. off. This reduces the energy required significantly and enables us to use dryers and mangles quickly and with great flexibility. 58 59 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Logistics and Service Intelligent “Thanks to OMD I only drive the kilometres necessary. OMD plans the shortest route for me which means I get to the customer driving even quicker.” — Markus Pusch “A new order on your route.” Most of our drivers are sent customer orders which arrive at short notice directly to their smartphone. Using the “Optimize my Day” app – OMD for short – makes it possible not only to integrate additional stops, but also to optimise the existing driving FACTS & FIGURES route and list of daily tasks in order to drive the shortest possible route. OMD helps our drivers to cut down on their mileage every day. OMD shows our drivers the shortest route to the customer. A OMD Impl emented i n  E, NL, BeLux, IE, D IT, CH Techno l o g y Smartphone app O pti mi sed ro u tes R educed kiloB metres covered and higher customer satisfaction 60 61 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Logistics and Service Fuel savings 102,400 litres Customer, address, delivery time. OMD provides our drivers with all the important information about the route. Kilometres saved 2 0 1 4 i n D E , B e L ux , I T, CH Drivers with OMD OMD 71% FACTS & FIGURES >850,000 km Our products take the shortest possible route to customers. “By doing so, we want to reduce the number of kilometres covered even More than just a route list Intelligent technology saves kilometres ­further. Because in this respect: Even less Even less is even more is even more. Not only for us as a comOptimize my Day can do much more than just plan Optimize my Day renders the route planning of As a company with a large service fleet, CWS-boco is alpany and for our customers, but for the the route. The application provides the service driv­service vehicles at CWS-boco intelligent. “The apways striving to cut down the number of kilometres drivers with all the important route information such as plication calculates the drivers’ service routes in environment too.” en as far as possible. One target on this journey: In the — Rüdiger Pfeiffer customer data and delivery qualities straight to their such a way that he or she always takes the s­ hortest existing OMD countries, the company wants to launch smartphone. With photo and note functions, the drivroute,” explained Rüdiger Pfeiffer, Head of Warehouse the tool across the board by the end of 2015 and equip er can send customer enquiries with a photo directly ­Management. The application also offers the oppormore than 80 per cent of drivers with it. “By doing so, we to his or her superior or to Customer Care. As a retunity of evaluating the routes taken in almost real launched in six CWS-boco Group countries. “And it’s want to reduce the number of kilometres covered even sult, OMD also helps to shorten reaction times and time. “We have been using this technology since really a great success,” said Mr Pfeiffer happily. “In further,” explained Mr Pfeiffer. “Because in this respect: increase customer satisfaction. the end of 2012,” said Mr Pfeiffer. Following a six2014, we saved more than 850,000 kilometres across Even less is even more. Not only for us as a company and month pilot phase in Ireland, the tool has since been the Group.” for our customers, but for the environment too.” 62 63 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Logistics and Service Saving on the go Number of service drivers in the Smart Box service vehicles have been replaced by small vans, and CWS-boco CWS-boco Group NL Switzerland has replaced all its vehicles with new Customer service is a vital component of our textile ones which satisfy the Euro 6 emission standard. services. In the rental service this means: We NL CWS in the Netherlands actually went as far collect dirty clothing from the customer, clean it as to develop its own type of vehicle, the so-called and return it to them. The kilometres covered during “Smart Box”. This is a delivery van with a load this service and the CO2 emissions of our vehicle capacity of 1,250 kilograms. Usually, this type of 31 fleet are areas we continuously investigate in vehicle, which is equipped with a lifting platform at order to make improvements and provide a more the tailgate, can only carry a load of around 700 kilosustainable customer service. As in all other areas, grams. So what’s different at CWS? The national we want our reporting for Logistics and Service to Smart Boxes subsidiary focused on the basic requirements of be as transparent as possible, which is why we service logistics and took a close look at the vehicle. additionally included all company cars in our data All “superfluous ballast” has been removed and the 1,608 collection measures in 2014. As a result, the vehicles are equipped with a sliding door at the side indicators regarding ­kilometres and fuel consumpas well as the lifting platform at the rear to make the tion as well as CO2 emissions cannot be compared drivers’ work easier. Built-in steps make it easier to 1:1 with the figures from the previous year. Another access the vehicle and reduce the physical effort new element within the scope of reporting is the required from the drivers, leaving them feeling Delivery reliability in Germany CO2 emissions resulting from our administrative fitter and therefore more attentive in traffic. Another employees’ business trips. advantage: As the load compartment is accessible FACTS & FIGURES In order to save kilometres and fuel, one of the from two sides, it can be loaded in such a way as to measures we take in our service logistics is to use a mobile app for route planning as well as special 22 save far more space, meaning that the driver doesn’t have to leave a path free between the containers in 98% vehicles which have been optimised in terms of order to reach the load at the rear any more. In loading. We replace our vehicles at regular intervals in order to remain up-to-date with the latest develx addition, the company paid close attention to the load. In the future, the only items to be loaded will opments in drive technology and comply with the latest emission standards. 1,250 kgPayload be the ones that actually have to go to the customer – the “emergency reserves” will remain in the depot. All this culminates in the result that the vehicles make do with only 60% of the load compartment Reaching customers Reduction of CO 2 emissions thanks to OMD volume of their predecessors. With its 31 Smart more efficiently 2014 i n DE , BeLux, CH , IT Boxes, CWS Netherlands saves around 22,500 litres of diesel in four years. We don’t just optimise routes using the “Optimize my PL Our new central warehouse for workwear in Day” app though: Combining CWS and boco products Poland is also part of our comprehensive, responsible for delivery also cuts down on the number of kilologistics concept. The location is close to our metres to be covered. In so-called “mixed service suppliers in Eastern Europe and therefore on the routes”, we don’t differentiate between CWS and boco route our products take from there to the customers. customers. The products are delivered together in the Our clothing doesn’t make any double journeys and 22,500 l same lorry. This allows us to save kilometres and use unnecessary kilometres are avoided. The location in – 272 t fewer vehicles – particularly outside of the cities. Poland makes well thought-out logistics imperative SE CH We also employ smaller and lighter and requires the systematic coordination of the vehicles. At CWS-boco Sweden, for example, lorries Diesel savings internal goods flows via regional depots. To distrib64 65 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Logistics and Service ute the goods from Międzyrzecz to our national Energy consumption of service fleet vehicles the poor fuel station network. This is why, outside of subsidiaries efficiently, we have also adapted our and c­ ompany cars these test projects, we opt for the most efficient diesel Van s , tr ucks , car s Additional data and facts about feeder logistics to the altered requirements. We want our logistic and service are available technology. All new vehicles comply with the Euro 5 to cover as few kilometres as possible on the road. as of page 93. or 6 emission standard. Our fleet is regularly updated, For this reason, various deliveries are bundled together in one vehicle – even to different countries, 264,439,568 MJ ensuring that the vehicles we have on the road are young and as environmentally friendly as possible. like G ­ ermany and Belgium for example. All returns to Poland are also planned with great precision. Lorries returning goods to the warehouse take new orders 3% Energy consumption Owned service fleet vehicles on their return journey, allowing us to avoid vehicles and company cars 1% travelling empty and covering unnecessary kilometres. Owned service fleet vehicles and company cars 4% Open to alternative drives Oil CWS-boco’s innovative talents do not end with 5% Procured standard energy product development. When it comes to drive technologies, we are also open to new approaches 5% and are already testing alternative technologies Procured green energy and concepts. As part of a research project by the 57% 2% FACTS & FIGURES Our main energy German Federal Ministry of Transport, we are testing source is natural gas Steam two electric vehicles in Bochum and Solingen. This test is part of the “ELMO – Elektromobile Urbane 26% Leased vehicles Wirtschaftsverkehre (Electric mobility and urban Service fleet, company cars commercial transport)” research project as well as the federal “Modellregionen Elektromobilität (Model 97% Regions Electric Mobility)” programme. Kilometres Leased service fleet vehicles covered, kilowatt hours used and route topography and company cars CO 2 emissions by energy source are constantly recorded and assessed. The electric lorries have to measure up particularly in terms of 12,291 t 3,764 t their reliability and servicing requirements. These aspects currently pose the biggest challenge for the test vehicles, as their reliability and the network of Total energy consumption 57,464 t total CO 2 emissions Service fleet vehicles owned and leased Procured standard energy 1,519 t in 2014 Steam electric charging stations are not yet sufficient for our service standards or those of our customers. The engine technology requires further development, 993,876,957 MJ which will also help it defy the challenges of the cold winter period, and the network of electricity fuel stations is still being improved. Many regions need to be 2,911 t Oil better connected in this respect. For these reasons, we are not yet in a position to deploy the technology 29,399 t 7,247 t 333 t Natural gas for laundries Company cars Sales Business across the board. The natural gas technology we use and Administration trips in several vehicles also suffers from the same issue of owned and leased 66 67 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Logistics and Service Tailor-made Storage area in Międzyrzecz clothing 7,700 m 2 Shorter sleeves, two extra pockets and a company logo as well? No problem! In our international warehouse and The construction kit principle logistics centre, the Customer Fulfilment Centre, all boco Tall, short, slim, well-built – our clothing is as individual as those who wear it. Around 160 employees clothing is customised for each wearer. in the Customer Fulfilment Centre in Międzyrzecz, Poland, are dedicated to ensuring that everything fits perfectly. They equip clothing with company logos or FACTS & FIGURES name badges and shorten trouser legs and jacket arms upon request. What’s more, if the items of clothing require even more individual features, they can be fitted with additional details from a large “construction kit”, which includes more than 300 different types of pocket, reflective stripes and buttons. And to ensure that the personal garments don’t later get lost in the laundry, they are also fitted with a barcode and chip prior to delivery. Spare parts in four hours if required S i te Over 2 million items of clothing – more items Jacket torn. What now? Regardless of their European than inhabitants in Vienna M iędzyrzecz, Poland Cu sto mer location, if a wearer requires a new item of clothing, Fu l fi l ment Centre help is close at hand. Our entire boco range is now S torage and stored in Międzyrzecz and is immediately available. customisation of workwear If an urgent order for a spare item of clothing is received, an employee can take the item directly from the warehouse and hand it over to processing, where it is immediately adapted for the wearer. Once the We customise around 12,000 “length has been adapted and all additional pockets items every day at the CFC. This is why we have more than and logos are on”, the clothing is prepared for ship300,000 customer logos in stock. ping to the customer. If necessary, all this can be ­performed within four hours. 68 69 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Facts and Figures Facts Replacement items can be delivered within 4 hours if necessary 4h and IT-supported manual processes make the warehouse particularFigures ly flexible and reliable. FACTS & FIGURES Out and about in uniform We take a uniform approach to our customers’ and our own clothing alike. For many years now, we have been providing our customers with workwear for a uniform appearance. If a customer employs new staff, Our entire workwear range is available centrally at one we deliver the appropriate clothing from the same location. collection worn by all other colleagues. As opposed to seasonal wear, our clothing is available for the long term: A clear advantage for our customers. An additional advantage is the consistently high quality standard which, thanks to the new warehouse location, we can control even better. Even when planning the CFC it was important to us that we reap the benefits of a central location. The storage and individual adaptation of the clothing take place in one location, which leads to faster processing and a consistently high level of quality for our customers. 70 71 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Facts and Figures Customers and Employees – Turnover rate G4-LA 1 a/b Total workforce by age G4-LA 12 b Essential targets <30 30–50 >50 Male Customer retention 11 % 13 % 2014 2013 58.20 % Target 2020 Status 2014 Basis 2012 95 % By 2020, we plan to increase our custom93 % Currently, our customer retention rate is 93 % In 2012, our customer retention rate was Injury rate G4-LA 6 a 3.58 3.43 er retention rate to 95%. at 93%. at 93%. 2014 2013 Training and development 2014 29.44 % 12.36 % Target 2020 Status 2014 Basis 2012 Injury rate in Management* 1.31 (incl. everyone with personnel responsibility) 100 % By 2020, we want the national training guide100 % Currently, 100% of the employees of the In 2012, no Group-wide monitoring system Injury rate in Administration* Injury rate in Laundry and Service* 1.20 4.49 lines to apply to 100% of employees in the CWS-boco Group are covered by the trainwas in place. CWS-boco Group. Our approach is based on ing monitoring system. We have started Injury rate in Sales* 1.95 Female country-specific standards for different emto work on a country-specific training apployee categories. proach. * i nc l udi ng f atal i ti es 53.46% Absenteeism rate total Injury rate G4-LA 6 a Target 2020 Status 2014 Basis 2012 0.07 0.07 2014 2013 By 2020, we plan to develop a ­Group-wide Currently, we are monitoring our injury rates In 2012, the injury rate was at 2.89 (not system of risk analysis and risk manageindividually per country to prepare a risk all reporting countries included in the ment in order to prevent accidents before assessment system. In 2014 our injury rate monitoring). 2014 they even happen. increased to 3.58. The definition of a target Absenteeism in Management* and focus on this topic increased the aware0.04 (incl. everyone with personnel responsibility) ness and therefore higher transparency and coverage in monitoring in 2013 and 2014. Absenteeism in Administration* 0.05 The health and safety of staff remains our priority; as such our measures are ­focused in particular on accident prevention. Absenteeism in Laundry and Service* 0.09 33.71 % 12.83 % Absenteeism in Sales* 0.05 * i nc l udi ng f atal i ti es 72 73 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Facts and Figures Number of training activities for our employees Number of training activities on health and Gender split in employee categories G4-LA 9 safety for our employees G4-LA 12 b male female 1,093 224 80 % 361 (75.05%) 120 (24.95 %) 252 (40.91%) 364 (59.09%) 2,118 2,084 (50.40 %) (49.60%) 700 (47.95 %) 760 (52.05 %) 70 % Hours of training per employee category Total number of participants in 60 % G4-LA 9 training activities* G4-LA 9 50 % 15,160 Total hours of training Management 239 40 % 30 % Administration 1,702 20 % 3,112 4,935 Operations (Laundry and Service) 6,573 10 % Staff Staff Sales 2,494 in in Administration Laundry and Service Training participants not assigned to a 0% 362 certain employee category Managem ent Ad m inistration Laund ry and S er vi c e S a les Total number of participants in 11,370 training activities* Number of wearers of boco personal Number of incoming customer care calls * each empl oyee can atten d mor e than on e tr ai n i ng acti vi ty protective equipment (PPE) G4-PR 1 ph o ne, ema i l , fa x ( n o t p o s s i b l e fo r B e L u x , S E ) G4-PR 1 i n D E, AT, C H, BeLux , I T Number of employees G4-10 a 740,883 3,431 3,328 Number of boco PPE products G4-PR 1 i n D E, AT, C H , B e L u x , IT (51 %) (49 %) 615,518 male fe male total male female 5,279 3,095 2,184 Customer retention rate full-time (78.10 %) (90.21 %) (65.63 %) G4-PR 1 i n ni ne r ep o rt i n g co u n t ri e s 1,251 269 982 part-time (18.51 %) (7.84 %) ( 29.51 %) 1,097 5,479 inactive* 229 (3.39 %) 67 (1.95 %) 162 (4.87 %) Staff Staff with personnel responsibility in Sales * inactive refers to employees with a running contract but no working hours in the reported period (e.g., parental leave or early retirement) 169,642 93 % 74 75 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Facts and Figures Further KPIs Customers and Employees Supply Holding 60.00 % 40.00 % 23.81 % 59.05 % 5.71 % 11.43 % 100.00 % 105 Chain CWS-boco Please note: Due to the change to GRI G4 the scope of several KPIs has been changed. In these cases, only the 2014 data is displayed. With the next report we will be able to show the trend and development. ManageInter­36.02 % 63.98 % 12.90 % 45.16 % 37.10 % 4.84 % 100.00 % 186 ment GmbH national G4-10 a Number of employees by gender and by contract 2014 Total number of employees with a fixed term contract 843 100.00 % Switzer48.81 % 51.19 % 8.19 % 8.53 % 62.29 % 20.99 % Total number of employees with a permanent contract 5,916 586 land Share of employees with a fixed term contract 12.47 % Sweden 45.10 % 54.90 % 6.82 % 4.15 % 71.51 % 17.51 % 100.00 % Share of employees with a permanent contract 87.53 % 337 Poland 33.06 % 66.94 % 7.90 % 7.69 % 63.20 % 21.21 % 100.00 % G4-10 b Employee key figures 2014 2013 481 Total number of employees in Management 481 274 616 717 100.00 % Total number of employees in Administration Nether58.52 % 41.48 % 0.00 % 10.93 % 58.52 % 30.55 % 311 Total number of employees in Laundry and Service 4,202 4,182 lands Total number of employees in Sales 1,460 1,106 57.43 % 42.57 % 12.21 % 7.26 % 51.16 % 29.37 % 100.00 % Total number of employees (nine reporting countries + Headquarters + Supply Chain 6,759 6,279 Italy 303 Managment GmbH) Ireland 56.13 % 43.87 % 6.81 % 5.45 % 80.65 % 7.08 % 100.00 % G4-10 c Total number of supervised workers 2014 367 Total number of male supervised workers 3,070 Germany 52.61 % 47.39 % 7.25 % 7.25 % 62.66 % 22.83 % 100.00 % 3,543 Total number of female supervised workers 3,208 BeLux 50.29 % 49.71 % 0.00 % 5.20 % 61.85 % 32.95 % 100.00 % 173 Austria 52.04 % 47.96 % 1.09 % 7.36 % 70.03 % 21.53 % 100.00 % 367 Aggregated 50.76 % 49.24 % 7.12 % 9.11 % 62.17 % 21.60 % 100.00 % 6,759 total Total number of employees Share of male employees Share of female employees G4-10 d Employee Share of employees Share of employees Share of employees Share of employees at year end (headcount) Total of employees key figures in Management in Administration in Laundry and Service in Sales 76 77 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Facts and Figures Please note: Due to the change to GRI G4 the scope of several KPIs has been changed. In these cases, only the 2014 data is displayed. Please note: Due to the change to GRI G4 the scope of several KPIs has been changed. In these cases, only the 2014 data is displayed. With the next report we will be able to show the trend and development. With the next report we will be able to show the trend and development. G4-LA1 a/b New employee hires and employee turnover 2014 2013 G4-LA 6 a Rates of lost working days and fatalities in the organisation 2014 Total number of employees who left the company –1,034 –820 Total rate of lost working days 47.01 (incl. fatalities) (2013: 54.88) Total number of male employees who left the company in the reporting year –635 –375 Rate of lost working days due to accidents in Management Total number of female employees who left the company in the reporting year –399 –445 12.84 (incl. everyone with personnel responsibility) Total number of employees who left the company in the reporting year (age <30 years) –271 Rate of lost working days due to accidents in Administration 6.74 Total number of employees who left the company in the reporting year (age 30–50 years) –534 Rate of lost working days due to accidents in Laundry and Service 67.63 Total number of employees who left the company in the reporting year (age >50 years) –229 Rate of lost working days due to accidents in Sales 20.21 Share of male employees who left the company in the reporting year 61.41 % 45.73 % Share of female employees who left the company in the reporting year 38.59 % 54.27 % 0 Total number of work-related fatalities (2013: 0) Share of employees who left the company in the reporting year (age <30 years) 26.21 % Number of work-related fatalities in Management (incl. everyone with personnel responsibility) 0 Share of employees who left the company in the reporting year (age 30–50 years) 51.64 % Number of work-related fatalities in Administration 0 Share of employees who left the company in the reporting year (age >50 years) 22.15 % Number of work-related fatalities in Laundry and Service 0 Number of work-related fatalities in Sales 0 Total number of new male employees 694 362 Total number of new female employees 409 334 G4-LA 9 Average hours of training per year by employee category 2014 Total number of new employees in the reporting year (age <30 years) 400 Average hours of training in Management 2.28 Total number of new employees in the reporting year (age 30–50 years) 559 Average hours of training in Administration 5.05 Total number of new employees in the reporting year (age >50 years) 144 Average hours of training in Laundry and Service 1.17 Share of new male employees 62.92 % 52.01 % Average hours of training in Sales 3.75 Share of new female employees 37.08 % 47.99 % Average hours of training 2.24 Share of new employees in the reporting year (age <30 years) 36.26 % Share of new employees in the reporting year (age 30–50 years) 50.68 % GA-LA 12 a Composition of governance bodies 2014 2013 Share of new employees in the reporting year (age >50 years) 13.06 % Share of males in governance bodies (age <30 years) 0.00 % 0.00 % Share of males in governance bodies (age 30–50 years) 66.67 % 66.67 % Share of males in governance bodies (age >50 years) 33.33 % 33.33 % Share of females in governance bodies (age <30 years) 0.00 % 0.00 % Share of females in governance bodies (age 30–50 years) 0.00 % 0.00 % Share of females in governance bodies (age >50 years) 0.00 % 0.00 % 78 79 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Facts and Figures Please note: Due to the change to GRI G4 the scope of several KPIs has been changed. In these cases, only the 2014 data is displayed. With the next report we will be able to show the trend and development. Additional qualitative KPIs G4-LA 12 b Employee split according to gender 2014 2013 GRI Indicator Name 2014 Total number of male employees 3,431 3,182 G4-LA 2 Employee benefits For our staff in all national subsidiaries there are a wide range of social benefits and other add-on benefits. This is particularly Total number of female employees 3,328 3,097 important given that the population and thus also our workforce are ageing. Share of male employees 50.76 % 50.69 % G4-LA 5 Health and safety In all 9 reporting countries there are persons responsible for committees health and safety, especially at the laundry sites. E.g. in Poland is Share of female employees 49.24 % 49.31 % a committee of the H&S specialist and additional employees’ re­presentatives that meets once a quarter. G4-LA 6 a Types of injuries Monitoring of injury types handled individually per country. E.g. in DE separation between injuries at work and on the way to work. G4-SO 4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and procedures 2014 G4-LA 11 Performance and career In all the national subsidiaries regular assessment and feedback development reviews meetings are arranged with staff. At these meetings training and Number of employees trained in anti-corruption 132 career development measures are discussed. G4-EC 7 Impact on communitees and As an expert in the field of hand hygiene, CWS-boco wants to pass local economies on its know-how and show people of all ages just how important G4-SO 5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 2014 correct hand washing is. E.g. In Germany, we distribute information material or educate kids in schools and kindergarden. Number of calls to compliance hotline 0 G4-PR 5 Results of customer satisCustomer satisfaction survey done in AT, BeLux, DE, NL. E.g. in NL faction survey customer satisfaction rate 7.66; in DE customers are very satisfied with service drivers and the personal contact is very important; in PL timelines of delivery assessed very good Compliance to hygiene management 2014 Number of laundries certified (DIN EN 14065, DIN 9001 or RABC) 49 Further targets KPI Target Status 2014 Basis 2012 Training of Target 2015: Participants of the The “Sales Excellence Programme” is in place in Germany. Sales new sales staff programme will make up 50% of Excellence Proour new hires in the German direct gramme not sales team by the end of 2015. yet in place Delivery reliability By 2020, we plan to set up an In 2014, delivery reliability increased in Germany to 97.9%. Delivery individual monitoring system for reliability for each country. Implementation will Germany: 96.7% be done in course of the re-design of our IT landscape (ERP). Employee By 2020, we want to keep the The 2014 Group-wide employee survey showed an engageEngagement engagement index index at the very high level of 4.0 ment index of 4.0. index (excl. as a minimum. Benelux): 4.0 (external benchmark 3.8) Number of training By 2020, we plan to provide all In 2014, 224 health and safety training activities were held. 207 health and activities on health relevant CWS-boco employee All of them have been monitored within our general training safety training and safety groups (focus on Operation and monitoring system. activities were Service) with regular health and held safety training courses. Employee Diversity Following the EU’s recommendaCurrently, 25% of our management positions are held by 16% women in in Management tion we plan to raise the share of women.* management women in management positions positions. to 30%. *Re-definition of Group-wide KPI scope in comparison to 2012: Management positions include all employees holding personnel responsibility. Following our strategic review and re-focus process in 2014, we will continue monitoring and steering employee t­ urnover as one aspect of employee satisfaction. Therefore, it is no longer a stand-alone target. 80 81 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Facts and Figures Products and Sourcing – Number of towel rolls washed G4-9 Incoming and outgoing dispensers in the Upcycling Centre 27.6 G4-EN 28 Essential targets million out Responsible sourcing and supplier Code of Conduct 28,464 Target 2020 Status 2014 Basis 2012 Upcycling Centre By 2020, we aim to have established our At present, 95% of our strategically im7 textile contract manufacturers signed Code of Conduct, in several stages, at portant textile suppliers, 85% of our strathe CoC (100% of contract manufacturall our strategically important s­ uppliers. tegically important suppliers from the ers). 80% of them were audited. By mid-2016, more than 99% of our washroom sector and 23% of the stratestrategically important suppliers in the gically important suppliers from Indirect textile and washroom sectors as well as Spend have signed our Code (percentages Number of mats washed 50% of the strategically important supbased on purchase volumes). As such, in G4-9 pliers from Indirect Spend should have the future we will focus on expanding the 8.3 signed the Code (percentages based on ­coverage of our Code of Conduct to include ­p urchase volumes). more suppliers in the Indirect Spend sector. Upcycling and material efficiency million Upcycling Centre in Target 2020 By 2020, we want to develop a holistic Status 2014 Currently, we are refurbishing increasing Basis 2012 On average 2,900 dispensers per month 41,464 upcycling concept for all our products and numbers of hand towel dispensers – on were processed in our Upcycling Centre. packaging.* average 3,455 pieces per month are processed. * Former KPI “recycling methods” was optimised following our strategic review and re-focus process in 2014. In future, we will focus on upcycling and careful use Number of dispensers which could be returned of raw materials. Number of workwear pieces washed to an as-new condition G4-EN 28 G4-9 84.7 Further targets 69% Following our strategic review and re-focus process in 2014, we will continue monitoring and steering biodiversity as one aspect of material efficiency. Therefore, it is no longer a stand-alone target. million 82 83 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Facts and Figures Plastic savings for new soap bottles Organic cotton used Further KPIs Products and Sourcing G4-EN 1 Please note: Due to the change to GRI G4 the scope of several KPIs has been changed. In these cases, only the 2014 data is displayed. –9 g With the next report we will be able to show the trend and development. G4-EN 27 Extent of measures for mitigating the environment impact of products and services 2014 Number of ecoilet packages installed 439 per bottle –30 t G4-EN 28 Alternative material/upcycling 2014 2013 Number of dispensers repaired in Upcycling Centre (total per year) 28,464 32,624 Number of dispensers recycled in Upcycling Centre (total per year) 18,576 – per year Dispensers processed per month 3,455 4,012 Recycled plastic from old dispensers for the G4-EN 32, G4-LA 14–15, G4-HR 1, 5, 6, 10–11 Supplier assessment and support 2014 20,105 kg production of new dispensers (Information on textile procurement) 13 t G4-EN 2 Total number of suppliers (finished, trading goods and raw materials) 272 Total number of “Contractors” (finished goods) 9 Total number of “Business partner” suppliers (trading goods and raw materials) 263 Percentage of FSC-certified/ Eco label paper Duration of cooperation with “Contractor” suppliers (<2 year) (number of suppliers) 1 91% Duration of cooperation with “Contractor” suppliers (2–5 years) (number of suppliers) 1 Duration of cooperation with “Contractor” suppliers (5–10 years) (number of suppliers) 2 Duration of cooperation with “Contractor” suppliers (>10 years) (number of suppliers) 5 Number of sensor taps in the market in Duration of cooperation with “Business partner” suppliers (<2 year) (number of suppliers) 54 2014 NL and DE Duration of cooperation with “Business partner” suppliers (2–5 years) (number of suppliers) 91 G4-EN 7 4,371 Duration of cooperation with “Business partner” suppliers (5–10 years) (number of suppliers) 48 Duration of cooperation with “Business partner” suppliers (>10 years) (number of suppliers) 70 Selected suppliers (CoC roll-out project) 235 Selected suppliers reflect % of total yearly purchased volume >99 % 18,000 l Number of suppliers that signed the Code of Conduct 160 savings p.a. vs. conventional taps G4-EN 32, G4-LA 14–15, G4-HR 10–11 Suppliers inspected based on ecological, 2014 labour practises, human rights criteria (Information on textile procurement) Indirect water savings with these water saving taps Number of first-time audits at suppliers 4 G4-EN 7 85% Number of re-audits at suppliers 8 78,678 m Number of audits/re-audits passed directly 5 2 2013 Number of audited suppliers where CAPs were formulated 7 84 85 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Facts and Figures Laundry and Technology – Please note: Due to the change to GRI G4 the scope of several KPIs has been changed. In these cases, only the 2014 data is displayed. With the next report we will be able to show the trend and development. G4-EN 34, G4-LA 16, G4-HR 12 Formal grievance mechanisms and number of grievances about ecological, labour practises, human rights issues (Information on textile procurement) Number of calls from suppliers to grievance hotline 2014 1 Essential targets Supplier Structure (Information on textile procurement) 2014 Energy efficiency “Contractors”: Number of suppliers producing in no risk countries 1 Target 2020 Status 2014 Basis 2012 Share of spending volume with these suppliers 1.25 % 30 % “Contractors”: Number of suppliers producing in low-risk countries 3 By the end of 2014, we achieved an enerEnergy consumption of 1.24 kWh per kilogy efficiency improvement at Group ­level gram of laundry washed (aggregated for Share of spending volume with these suppliers 1.89% by 8.5%, down to 1.14kWh/kg washed main service lines towel rolls, mats and By 2020, we want to improve our energy (aggregated for main service lines ­t owel workwear). “Contractors”: Number of suppliers producing in risk countries 5 efficiency by 30% per kg washed (vs. 2012, rolls, mats and work wear vs. 2012). As Share of spending volume with these suppliers 6.10 % aggregated for main service lines towel optimisations in a running business are rolls, mats and workwear). always difficult to predict, we were not “Business partner”: Number of suppliers in no-risk countries 255 able to reach the full 10% which we aimed for by the end of 2014. There will Share of spending volume with these suppliers 83.55 % be a slight delay before the measures “Business partner”: Number of suppliers in low-risk countries 3 which have been initiated achieve their full potential. We aim to reach the 10% Share of spending volume with these suppliers 0.03 % reduction during 2015. “Business partner”: Number of suppliers in risk countries 5 Share of spending volume with these suppliers 7.19 % Water efficiency Target 2020 Progress 2015 Basis 2014 10 % Will be reported in 2015. Our water efficiency for towel rolls, mats and workwear was 6.7 l/kg washed. This is an improvement of 2.7% compared to By 2020, we want to reduce our water water efficiency in 2013. consumption by 10% per kg washed (vs. 2012, aggregated for main service lines Out total water consumption was reduced towel rolls, mats and workwear). by 3.9% in 2014 (compared to 2013). 86 87 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Facts and Figures Total volume washed Amount of items washed in kg Litres of water consumed per kg of Detergent efficiency per kg of laundry washed laundry washed (g /k g ) 169,893,201 kg 19.21 g/kg (l /k g ) Towel rolls 49,516,660 Towel rolls 5.33 5.35 2014 2013 2014 (for all services) Total of water consumed at laundries G4-EN 8 Towel rolls 21.38 1,216,380 m3 Mats 2.66 2014 3.35 2013 Total detergent consumption Mats 41,440,985 0.88 3,263,584 kg 13.83 13.48 Workwear Mats 2014 2013 Workwear 36.30 Workwear 33,036,472 Flat linen 7.36 7.44 Energy consumption 2014 2013 G4-EN 3 e 993,876,957 MJ Flat linen 21.36 Total electricity consumption Flat linen 43,536,197 Cleanroom 27.51 30.10 textiles 2014 2013 G4-EN 3 b,c Cleanroom 16.36 textiles 49% 51% Cleanroom 2,362,766 Procured Procured textiles green energy standard energy 88 89 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Facts and Figures Please note: Due to the change to GRI G4 the scope of several KPIs has been changed. In these cases, only the 2014 data is displayed. Further KPIs Laundry and Technology With the next report we will be able to show the trend and development. Please note: Due to the change to GRI G4 the scope of several KPIs has been changed. In these cases, only the 2014 data is displayed. With the next report we will be able to show the trend and development. G4-EN 15 a/b, G4-EN 16, G4-EN 17 Green house gas emissions (in t) 2014 Total CO2 emissions (scope 1 + 2 + 3) 57,464 G4-EN 3 e Report on total energy consumption of the organisation (in MJ) 2014 2013 Total energy consumption 993,876,957 935,607,830 Total scope 1 CO2 emissions 44,815 CO2 emissions by natural gas 29,399 G4-EN 3 c/G4-EN 3 e Report on total energy consumption CO2 emissions by owned service fleet vehicles (vans and trucks) and owned company cars 561 2014 2013 of the organisation by type of fuel use (in MJ) CO2 emissions by leased service fleet vehicles (vans and trucks) 11,944 Natural gas consumption 572,169,632 564,001,222 CO2 emissions by oil 2,911 Energy consumption by owned service fleet vehicles (vans and trucks) and owned company cars 7,587,606 8,413,853 Energy consumption by leased service fleet vehicles (vans and trucks) 161,663,080 243,674,479 Total scope 2 CO2 emissions 5,283 Energy consumption from oil 37,761,538 – CO2 emissions by procured standard energy 3,764 Procured standard energy 48,105,709 35,147,394 CO2 emissions by steam 1,519 Procured green energy 46,374,858 60,450,988 Energy consumption from steam 25,025,652 23,919,894 Total scope 3 CO2 emissions 7,366 Energy consumption by leased company cars 95,188,881 – CO2 emissions by leased company cars 7,033 CO2 emissions by business travel 333 G4-EN 5 Energy intensity (kwh/kg) 2014 2013 Energy (thermal + electricity) per kg of washed towel rolls 1.28 1.28 Energy (thermal + electricity) per kg of washed mats 0.41 0.44 Energy (thermal + electricity) per kg of washed workwear 1.78 1.84 Energy (thermal + electricity) per kg of washed linen 1.26 1.25 Energy (thermal + electricity) per kg of cleanroom products 3.51 3.03 G4-EN6 Reduction of energy consumption 2014 2013 Improvement in energy efficiency in laundries vs. 2012 –8.5% – 90 91 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Facts and Figures Further targets Logistics and Service – Essential targets KPI Target 2020 Status 2014 Basis 2012 Detergent efficiency By 2020, we plan to develop a We improved data transparency on detergents used, The detergent Group-wide harmonised concept based on individual laundry locations. For 2014, the usage of 17% for our use of detergents. detergent usage of 89% of our washing lines has been of our washing monitored centrally. lines has been monitored centrally Route-optimisation tool OMD: km savings Total direct By 2020, we want to reduce our Compared to the 2013 data scope, we reduced our 57,625 tonnes and indirect CO2 CO2 emissions by 20%. CO2 emissions by 5.9% in 2014 (adjusted comparison*). emissions Due to non-recurring effects from the OMD tool and the modernisation of our laundries the reduction is Target 2020 Status 2014 Basis 2012 comparably high. Will be defined after the restructuring of In 2014 our service fleet saved more than 0 km saved, pilot project launched in Ire*D  ue to an increased scope in 2014, the data is not comparable to 2013 (change in company cars and owned service vehicles in serveral countries, emissions from oil and business travel newly included) our ERP landscape is completed.* 850,000 kilometres thanks to the impleland. mentation of the “Optimize my Day” application (OMD) in several countries. Following our strategic review and re-focus process in 2014, we will continue monitoring and steering water ­sources as one aspect of water efficiency. Hygiene management will be reported within the scope of the safe working ­environment. Therefore, both topics are no longer stand-alone targets. Route-optimisation tool OMD: Completion ratio Target 2020 Status 2014 Basis 2013 71 % 66 % Will be defined after the restructuring of our ERP landscape is completed.* Currently, 71% of our drivers are 66% of our drivers in participating counTarget 2015 equipped with the OMD tool. tries were equipped with the system. We want to equip over 80% of our drivers with the OMD tool to further optimise our service routes and reduce the number of kilometres driven. *Based on our strategic re-orientation and our experiences with natural gas and electric vehicles, we are still working on the definition of new targets in this field. Improvements in logistics and service remain one of our most important tasks. 92 93 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Facts and Figures Total number of drivers Energy consumption of total service fleet Total number of km driven (per year) Reduction of CO 2 emissions by route vehicles and company cars optimisation with OMD 1,608 G4-EN 30 owned an d l eas ed vehi cl es 52,760,771 2013 G4-EN 19 2 0 1 4 i n D E , B e L u x , C H , IT 2014 1,562 7,587,606 MJ – 1.6% –272 t 2013 Business travel by employees 51,923,497 G4-EN 4 i n BeLux, DE , IT, PL, S E Number of km saved by OMD 20 1 4 i n D E , B e L u x, I T, CH By plane 2014 853,333 km Number of drivers equipped with OMD tool Delivery reliability in Germany 1,000 1,480,431 km By train 98 % CO 2 emissions (scope 1–3) by energy source G4-EN 15–17 57,464 t 12,291 t 3,764 t 63,487 km total CO 2 emissions Service fleet vehicles Procured in 2014 owned and leased standard energy 1,519 t Steam Number of customer contacts which our service drivers have each day 27,743 29,399 t 7,247 t 2,911 t Oil 333 t Natural gas for laundries Company cars Sales Business and Administration travel owned and leased 94 95 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Materiality matrix G4-18, 19, 27 Further KPIs Logistics and Service Please note: Due to the change to GRI G4 the scope of several KPIs has been changed. In these cases, only the 2014 data is displayed. Materiality matrix and material topics With the next report we will be able to show the trend and development. G4-EN 30 Significant environmental impacts of transport 2014 Owned service fleet vehicles (vans and trucks only) amount of diesel purchased (in l) 88,655 If number of litres is not available, number of kilometres driven by diesel service fleet vehicles (in km) 600,000 The depicted materiality matrices shows the graphic summary of the materiality Owned company cars (cars for Sales and Administration employees) amount of diesel purchased (in l) 0 analysis. The three most important topics for our external stakeholders are marked If number of litres is not available, number of kilometres driven by diesel owned company cars (in km) 1,155,000 Leased service fleet vehicles (vans and trucks only) amount of diesel purchased (in l) 4,341,165 in light green; those of the internal interest groups are marked in dark green. If number of litres is not available, number of kilometres driven by diesel leased service fleet vehicles (van and 1,800,156 The most important control parameters that we rate as strategically relevant for trucks only) (in km) Leased service fleet vehicles (vans and trucks only) amount of petrol purchased (in l) 3,531 us as a company are summarised below the graphs. All highlighted topics are If number of litres is not available, number of kilometres driven by petrol leased service fleet vehicles (van and trucks only) (in km) 0 relevant for our future CR alignment. From these, we will de­rive measures, Leased service fleet vehicles (vans and trucks only) amount of LPG purchased (in l) 13,275 projects and targets to improve our CR efforts continuously. In addition, we will If number of litres is not available, number of kilometres driven by LPG leased service fleet vehicles (van and trucks only) (in km) 227,500 also use this basis to help us to select the relevant GRI indicators which will be Leased company cars (cars for Sales and Administration employees) amount of diesel purchased (in l) 2,535,272 reported on in this publication. If number of litres is not available, number of kilometres driven by diesel leased company cars (Sales and 1,080,000 Administration) (in km) Leased company cars (cars for Sales and Administration employees) amount of petrol purchased (in l) 42,086 External stakeholders If number of litres is not available, number of kilometres driven by petrol leased company cars (Sales and 0 Administration) (in km) Top 3 topics Leased company cars (cars for Sales and Administration employees) amount of LPG purchased (in l) 84.50 Customer satisfaction very important Security of supply G4-EN 3 b Report on total fuel consumption from renewable sources (in l) 2014 Sustainable sourcing Owned service fleet vehicles (vans and trucks only) amount of biofuel purchased 0 Energy efficiency Anti-corruption Safe work environment Sustainable products Supplier assessment Employee retention (job security) Importance to Training and development Waste recycling methods Customer retention Water efficiency Diversity Wastewater CO 2 emissions from laundry and service external stakeholders Detergent efficiency Alternative materials Philantropy Employee benefits Upcycling and material efficiency important Impact on important CWS-boco very important 96 97 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Materiality matrix G4-18, 19, 27 G4-22, 23 Internal stakeholders Changes in reported aspects and material topics Top 3 topics very important Training and During the strategic review process we updated and optimised several aspects and material topics. For example, we now report in greatdevelopment er detail on training activities for our employees and have added new KPIs for training and development. Waste management has been re-weighted and re-grouped under a more detailed KPI focusing on upcycling. Safe work environment Customer satisfaction Employee retention (job security) Material topic 2014 Change vs. 2013 Comment Material topic 2013 Security of Importance to Employee benefits supply Customer satisfaction Re-grouped Includes customer retention and customer Customer retention and Customer interaction customer interaction Sustainable sourcing retention stakeholders Education and Information Sustainable Security of supply New Additional KPI vs. 2013: products Delivery reliability for our customers Anti-corruption Water efficiency Wastewater Energy efficiency Sustainable products and services Re-weighted Reported on qualitatively in the chapter Sustainable innovations Detergent efficiency CO2 emissions from laundry and service “Products and Sourcing” Alternative materials Supplier assessment Optimised and Refers to cooperation with and selection Supply chain Waste recycling methods Upcycling and material efficiency enlarged scope of partners in our supply chain – reported Diversity Supplier assessment in the chapter “Products and Sourcing” Sustainable sourcing Optimised and Sustainability in our supply chain regarding Supply chain important Philantropy enlarged scope working and production conditions at suppliers, as well as compliance of our partners to international standards in terms of human and children’s rights and Impact on environmental protection – reported in important CWS-boco very important the chapter “Products and Sourcing” Anti-corruption/compliance Unchanged – – Training and development Enlarged scope New monitoring system in place Training and education Employee engagement Optimised Reported in the chapter “Customers and Employee engagement Employees” Safe work environment Optimised – Health and safety Energy efficiency Optimised – Energy Water efficiency Re-weighted Reported as “water efficiency” in the Water sources and wastewater chapter “Laundry and Technology” Top 3 topics Top 3 topics Strategically Detergent efficiency Optimised Increased coverage Chemicals external stakeholders internal stakeholders relevant topics CO2 emissions from Optimised and Additional KPIs included, coverage inEnergy and CO2 emissions laundry and service enlarged scope creased for existing ones Customer satisfaction Safe work environment Energy efficiency Upcycling and material efficiency Re-grouped and Focus on upcycling and re-use of raw mateRaw materials and waste disposal Sustainable sourcing Customer satisfaction Water efficiency optimised rials, partly qualitative information, reported in the chapter “Products and Sourcing” Security of supply Training and development Detergent efficiency – Re-weighted Reported on qualitatively in the chapter Social commitment –  Upcycling and “Customers and Employees” education material efficiency – Re-weighted Reported on qualitatively in the chapter Social commitment – “Customers and Employees” hygiene and education  CO2 emissions from laundry and service Supplier assessment 98 99 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — Management approach G4-18, 19, 20, 21, 23 G4-18, 19, 20, 21, 23 Management approach consumption of fresh water. We do this by reusing water: For example, using it first for hand towel rolls and then for dust control mats. We reprocess our water in order to use Upcycling and material efficiency There are more than 2.6 million rented CWS dispensers it more than once. We are also testing alternative washing installed in our customers’ washrooms. When a contract We have defined eleven essential aspects for our commitment to Corporate technologies such as the use of polymer beads, which reends, we collect the dispenser from the customer and take quires less water. Water is of strategic importance to our it back. It contains valuable resources which can be reused Responsibility. When doing so, we considered the effects of our activities within business, which means that this aspect is also essential or recycled, for example for the production of new dispensand outside of the organisation. In our management approach, we describe all within our sustainability approach. As wastewater is also of ers. Used dispensers which are still in good condition are great importance to us, it is something that we are constantreprocessed in our Upcycling Centre in Switzerland. We are the aspects and how we, as the CWS-boco Group, steer them. ly working to improve and we report on it in the scope of working on the development of an upcycling concept for water efficiency. the CWS-boco Group, which will include textiles as well as washroom dispensers. Cotton towel rolls which cannot Detergent efficiency be used any further are recycled to make mops, for examand more closely oriented to the respective market. To ple. The return and recycling of our products is a strategic Essential within the do so, we have introduced an international training monWe use various detergents for cleaning our textiles. We use topic for us, which is why we have defined upcycling as CWS-boco Group itoring system and are working on international training these with care and careful consideration in order to minan essential aspect of our sustainability activities. As such, guidelines. Our internal interest groups rated training and imise the effects on the water cycle and the environment. we have decided to focus on the reprocessing of products, Safe work environment development as one of the three most essential topics for One way in which we manage this is through the reuse of as this provides much more detailed information about our our sustainability commitment in our materiality analysis. washing water in which the washing agents are still active business than general reporting about waste management As a provider of rental textile services, we employ a large and working. We are also constantly working on the optiand recycling methods. It goes without saying that these number of staff. In addition to our administrative staff, we Energy efficiency mal interaction of detergent, washing duration, temperatopics are still important to us, but we do not report on employ many colleagues in our laundries as well as in serture, etc., in order to be as efficient as possible in the use them explicitly. vice capacities and in the field. Our employees are responCWS-boco operates 52 laundry locations across the globe of detergents. Comparisons between the laundries in the sible for our success as a service company and can only and the operation of our facilities for washing and drying CWS-boco Group and the harmonisation of detergent fulfil this role in a good and safe working environment. Our textiles requires energy. Energy is a valuable resource that suppliers help us in this regard. Detergent efficiency is Essential outside of the employees regularly participate in safety training within the we must handle with care and employ as efficiently as posan essential aspect of our sustainability activities, as it is CWS-boco Group companies and our service drivers partake in driver safety sible. To achieve this, we invest in the modernisation of our inseparable from our core business and therefore of stratetraining. We are also planning to introduce a risk monitoring laundry network every year. We opt for efficient systems, gic importance to us. system. The topic of a safe work environment was rated as use heat exchangers, for example, and install mangles and Customer satisfaction one of the three most important topics for our sustainability dryers which run on gas instead of steam. The washing and CO 2 emissions from laundry commitment by the internal interest groups in our materidrying of our rental textiles is a core component of our Customers are among our most important stakeholders. and service ality analysis. business. The aspect of energy efficiency is of strategic Their satisfaction is a critical factor for the success of importance to us and thus an essential aspect of our susAnother essential part of our rental service is the collecour business. Our national subsidiaries have individual Training and development tainable approach. tion and delivery of textiles with our service fleet. We are approaches for keeping the customers in our sights. In constantly striving to cover as few kilometres as possible Germany, for example, we survey the employees in our As a service company, our employees are our face to the Water efficiency and to minimise the CO2 emissions of our vehicles. Our Sales and Customer Care departments who come into regcustomer. We are only able to keep our quality promise to success here is driven by systems for route optimisation as ular contact with our customers. In the Benelux countries, our customers with staff who have the relevant knowledge Just as we require energy for the operation of our launwell as regularly renewing our fleet. We possess a young the customers themselves are surveyed regularly. Within and the right competencies and skills. To keep things this dries, water is also an indispensible resource for us. As we fleet equipped with efficient engines. Our service fleet is an our stakeholder dialogue, the aspect of customer satisway and to enable our employees to continue leading wash enormous volumes at our locations, the responsible essential part of our business. It has a high level of strategic faction was rated one of the three most important topics CWS-boco to success, we want to make our international handling of water is a matter of course for us. Our aim is importance, which means that CO2 emissions are an essenfor our sustainability commitment by internal and external training and development measures even more structured to achieve a clean washing result with the lowest possible tial aspect for sustainability at CWS-boco. stakeholders alike. 100 101 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — GRI Content Index G4-18, 19, 20, 21, 23 Security of supply We work together with our partners over many years. For a selection of our goods, we employ the concept of outward We provide our customers with a rental service for washprocessing. This means that we purchase material, buttons, room equipment, dust control mats and workwear. As such, our customers rely heavily on us and the reliability of our delivery service. As a company, we need more than just zips, etc., separately and then have our clothing produced from them. This allows us to keep control over the materials used to create our products. We only use high-quality GRI G4 content index smooth processes within our service network. In particular goods to ensure that our products meet the high standards This report has been prepared based on the Global Rewhich have been identified during the materiality analythe reliable delivery of products by our suppliers is of great of the rental business. The aspect of sustainable sourcing porting Initiative’s (GRI) G4 Guidelines. It is our first pubsis and the stakeholder dialogue. Following this analysis importance to us. We bundle this responsibility centrally; was rated one of the three most important topics for our lication referring to the GRI G4 Guidelines. Previous reour set of material topics, relevant aspects and reportour subsidiary CWS-boco Supply Chain Management GmbH sustainability commitment by our external stakeholders in ports on 2013 and 2012 comply with the G3.1 Guidelines. ed indicators has been updated. Changes in reported (CWS-boco SCM) takes on the areas of Product Developour materiality analysis. The information provided in this report has not been aspects and material topics can be found on page 99. ment, Procurement and Supply Chain Management integratchecked externally. The boundaries of the identified material aspects remain ed together for us for the textile sector. The counterpart to The Disclosure on Management Approach (DMA) unchanged compared to our last report and are described CWS-boco SCM for the washroom sector is the subsidiary can be found on page 100. It explains all material topics on page 100 onwards. CWS-boco Supply AG. The aspect of delivery reliability was rated one of the three most important topics for our sustainability commitment by our internal and external interest f u lly p a r ti a lly not groups in our materiality analysis. r e p o r te d r e p o r te d r e p o r te d General Standard Disclosures Supplier assessment Material GRI Name Reported Note Page Topic Indicator CWS-boco stands for a responsible and sustainable supply chain. Strategic partners must commit themselves to compliance with our Code of Conduct for suppliers. We monitor Strategy and Analysis this by means of external audits. If the need for improveG4-1 Statement from the most senior decision-maker 1–2 ment is identified with a partner, we work in close cooperaG4-2 Risks and chances Reported on Group level 3 tion with them and support them to meet the requirements of the Code. We regard this commitment as a strategically Organisational Profile important factor for our business in order to be able to offer G4-3 Name of the organisation 7 our customers responsibly produced products. For this reaG4-4 Primary brands, products and/or services 6–9 son, the aspect of supplier assessment is essential for the G4-5 Location of organisation’s headquarters 7 sustainability of the CWS-boco Group. G4-6 Countries of significant operations U2, 7 Sustainable sourcing G4-7 Nature of ownership and legal form 7 G4-8 Markets served Differs from country to country, reported on Group level 6–7 We don’t just work internally on social and ecological susG4-9 Scale of organisation Total capitalisation – information can be taken from U2, 7, 50–51, 83 tainability and the compliance of appropriate standards – Haniel annual report we also work on this together with our suppliers. In the G4-10 Employee key figures a) Contract type and gender split reported in two KPIs U2, 7, 29–30, e), f) Not applicable for CWS-boco 73–80 textile sector in particular, the supply chain is extremely G4-11 Collective bargaining agreements Immaterial complex and encompasses various preliminary stages. Creating more transparency here is a matter close to our G4-12 Description of supply chain 36–41, 85–86 hearts. We take responsibility for products from the very G4-13 Significant changes during reporting period regarding size, structure, Focus on new/closed laundries; other requirements not U2, 52 ownership or its supply chain applicable for us beginning, even before the products enter our company. G4-14 Precautionary approach or principle 3, 40, 41 102 103 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — GRI Content Index Material GRI Name Reported Note Page Specific Standard Disclosures Topic Indicator G4-15 Subscribed or endorsed external charters, principles or initiatives Certified by Ecovadis, Sedex, OHSAS 18001, RAL, 12, 29, 42 OekoTex, support the German Toilet Organisation (GTO), Material GRI Name Reported Note Page B.A.U.M. eV (German Environmental Management Topic Indicator Association), ECOPROFIT G4-DMA Disclosures on Management Approach 100–102 G4-16 Membership of associations Memberships of WIRTEX, ETSA, BSCI, SAC, UNGC 14, 41 Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Entities included in financial statement U2, 113 ECON OMIC G4-18 Report content and boundaries 14–17, 97–98, Economic Performance 100–102 G4-19 Material aspects 14–17, 97–98, G4-EC 1 Direct economic value generated and distributed See Haniel annual report U2 100–102 Reporting of applicable items only G4-20 Boundaries for material aspects within organisation 100–102 G4-EC 2 Risks and opportunities for the organisation’s ­activities due to Immaterial climate change G4-21 Boundaries for material aspects outside organisation Data are published at Group level, not for each national 100–102 G4-EC 3 Coverage of the organisation’s defined benefit plan obligations Immaterial subsidiary G4-22 Effects of any re-statements of information provided in earlier Data are published at Group level, not for each national 99 G4-EC 4 Financial assistance received from government Immaterial reports subsidiary G4-EC 5 Ratios of standard entry level wage compared to local minimum wage Immaterial G4-23 Significant changes from previous reporting periods in the scope 99, 100–102 and aspect boundaries or applied standards G4-EC 6 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community Qualitative information 18–19 Stakeholder Engagement Indirect Economic Impacts G4-24 List of stakeholder groups 14–17 G4-EC 7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments Qualitative information 81 G4-25 Identification and selection of stakeholders 14–17 Sustainable G4-EC 8 Significant indirect economic impacts Qualitative information, training sessions with suppliers 3, 36–42 G4-26 Stakeholder engagement 14–17 sourcing/ to improve production conditions Supplier G4-27 Key topics and concerns raised through stakeholder engagement 14–17, 97–98 assessment Report Profile Procurement Practices G4-28 Reporting period U2, 113 G4-EC 9 Proportion of spending on local suppliers No data available G4-29 Date of most recent previous report 113 G4-30 Reporting cycle 113 EN VIRON MEN TAL G4-31 Contact point for questions regarding the report or its contents 113 Materials G4-32 In accordance' option chosen, report the GRI G4 content index, “In accordance” – Core 113 reference to external assurance report Upcycling G4-EN 1 Materials used Qualitative information 42, 45–46, 83–84 and material G4-33 External assurance 103, 113 efficiency Upcycling G4-EN 2 Percentage of materials used that are recycled input materials Recycling material from old dispensers for the production 45–46, 84 Governance and material of new dispensers, reprocessing and reuse of cotton efficiency hand towels G4-34 Governance structure 18–20 Energy G4-35–55 Only for “In accordance” – Comprehensive required Energy G4-EN 3 a Report total fuel consumption within the organisation from nonU2, 66–67, 88 Ethics and integrity ­efficiency renewable sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used Energy G4-EN 3 b Report total fuel consumption within the organisation from renewable 67, 88, 96 G4-56 Organisation’s values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour 10–13, 20 ­efficiency fuel sources in joules or multiples, including fuel types used (Code of Conduct) Energy G4-EN 3 c Energy consumption by type of use Cooling energy not applicable; 66–67, 88, 90 G4-57 Mechanisms for seeking advice on ethical behaviour (internal and Only for In accordance – Comprehensive required ­efficiency heating energy = natural gas external) Energy G4-EN 3 d Sold energy Not applicable G4-58 Mechanisms for reporting concerns about ethical behaviour Only for In accordance – Comprehensive required ­efficiency 104 105 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — GRI Content Index Material GRI Name Reported Note Page Material GRI Name Reported Note Page Topic Indicator Topic Indicator Energy G4-EN 3 e Report total energy consumption of the organisation U2, 66, 88, 90 CO2 G4-EN 15 f–g Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) – source of the emission See note G4-EN15 d-e See notes column ­efficiency emissions factors used and the GWP rates used from laundry Energy G4-EN 3 f–g Report standards, methodologies, assumptions and conversion Conversion factors for natural gas, steam and oil: See notes column and service ­efficiency factors used. Department for Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) GHG, UK 2014; Country specific electricity CO2 own KPI Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) – split by energy source 67, 91, 95 conversion factors: International Energy Agency (IEA) emissions Conversion factors for energy, 2011, published by from laundry the U.S. Energy Information Administration of the U.S. and service Department of Energy CO2 G4-EN 16 a Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) Only CO2 relevant, so other types of GHG omitted 67, 91, 95 Energy G4-EN 4 Energy consumption outside of the organisation Qualitative reporting 94 emissions ­efficiency from laundry and service Energy G4-EN 5 Energy intensity Energy efficiency per kg laundry washed 58, 90 ­efficiency CO2 own KPI Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) – split by energy source 67, 91, 95 emissions from laundry Energy G4-EN 6 Reduction of energy consumption 62, 65, 87, 90 and service ­efficiency CO2 G4-EN 16 b Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) – gases Only CO2 relevant, so other types of GHG omitted 67, 91, 95 Energy G4-EN 7 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services Qualitative information (sensor taps) 84 emissions ­efficiency from laundry and service Water CO2 G4-EN 16 c Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) – report on base year Fuel conversion factors: Department for Environment, See notes column emissions Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) GHG, UK 2014; Conversion Water G4-EN 8 Total water withdrawal by source Not possible to split by sources (no data) U2, 52, 88, 89 from laundry factors for natural gas, steam and oil: Department for ­efficiency and service Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) GHG, UK 2014; Country specific electricity conversion factors: G4-EN 9 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Immaterial International Energy Agency (IEA) Conversion factors for energy, 2011, published by the U.S. Energy Information Water G4-EN 10 Percentage and total volume of water recycled and reused Qualitative reporting 100–101 Administration of the U.S. Department of Energy ­efficiency CO2 G4-EN 16 d Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) – standards, See above See notes column Biodiversity emissions methodologies, and assumptions used from laundry and service G4-EN 11 Operational sites in protected areas Immaterial CO2 G4-EN 16 e–f Indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 2) – source of the See above See notes column G4-EN 12 Significant impacts of activities in protected areas Immaterial emissions emission factors used and the GWP rates used from laundry G4-EN 13 Habitats protected or restored Immaterial and service G4-EN 14 Total number protected species in areas affected by operations Immaterial CO2 G4-EN 17 a–g Other indirect greenhouse gas emissions (scope 3) Data on business travel 67, 91, 95 emissions from laundry Upcycling own KPI Proportion of certified paper in international portfolio Individually defined figure on topic of biodiversity 84 and service and material efficiency CO2 G4-EN 18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity Not applicable emissions Emissions from laundry and service CO2 G4-EN 15 a Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) Only CO2 relevant, so other types of GHG omitted U2, 67, 91, 95 CO2 G4-EN 19 a–e Reduction of greenhouse gas emissions e) Not applicable 64, 92, 95 emissions emissions from laundry from laundry and service and service CO2 G4-EN 15 b Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) – gases Only CO2 relevant, so other types of GHG omitted U2, 67, 91, 95 CO2 G4-EN 20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances Not applicable emissions emissions from laundry from laundry and service and service CO2 G4-EN 15 c Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) – CO2 equivalents Only CO2 relevant, so other types of GHG omitted U2, 67, 91, 95 CO2 G4-EN 21 Other significant air emissions Not applicable emissions emissions from laundry from laundry and service and service CO2 G4-EN 15 d–e Direct greenhouse gas emissions (scope 1) – report on base year, Fuel conversion factors: Department for Environment, See notes column emissions standards, methodologies, and assumptions used Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) GHG, UK 2014; Conversion Effluents and Waste from laundry factors for natural gas, steam and oil: Department for and service Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA) GHG, UK G4-EN 22 Total water discharge by quality and location Immaterial 2014; Country specific electricity conversion factors: International Energy Agency (IEA) Conversion factors for G4-EN 23 a–b Total weight of waste Immaterial energy, 2011, published by the U.S. Energy Information Administration of the U.S. Department of Energy G4-EN 24 Total number and volume of significant spills Immaterial 106 107 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — GRI Content Index Material GRI Name Reported Note Page Material GRI Name Reported Note Page Topic Indicator Topic Indicator G4-EN 25 Weight waste under the terms of the Basel ­Convention Immaterial G4-EN 26 Identity of water bodies significantly affected by the organisation’s Immaterial Occupational Health and Safety discharges of water and runoff Safe work G4-LA 5 a–b Formal joint management–worker health and safety committees Qualitative information 81 environment Products and Services Safe work G4-LA 6 Rates of injury and absenteism in the organisation No data available for: Type of injuries, occupational 72–73, 79, 81 G4-EN 27 Extent of impact mitigation of environmental impacts of products Qualitative information (number of ecoilet certifications) 43, 85 environment a and c disease rate, split by gender and services Data published at Group level, not for each national subsidiary Upcycling G4-EN 28 Percentage of products sold and their packaging materials that are Own KPI: Data on Upcycling Centre 44–46, 83, 85 and material reclaimed by category Safe work G4-LA 6 b Rates of injuries for independent contractors Not applicable efficiency environment Safe work G4-LA 7 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases related to their No data available Compliance environment occupation Target until 2020 G4-EN 29 a–b Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with Not applicable Safe work G4-LA 8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade Qualitative information 29 environmental laws and regulations environment unions Transport Training and Development Energy G4-EN 30 Significant environmental impacts of transport 60–67, 94, 96 Training and G4-LA 9 Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and by Not possible to split by gender, planned as of 2015 28, 72, 74, 79 effiency development employee category Training and G4-LA 10 Programmes for skills management and lifelong learning Qualitative information (Sales Excellence Programme) 32–34 Overall development that support the continued employability of employees and assist them in managing career endings G4-EN 31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments Immaterial Training and G4-LA 11 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Qualitative information, not possible to split by gender 81 development development reviews and employee category, planned as of 2015 Supplier Environmental Assessment Supplier G4-EN 32 a Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using Information on textile procurement (not restricted to 40–41, 82, 85 Diversity and Equal Opportunity assessment environmental criteria new suppliers partly qualitative) G4-LA 12 a Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees No split by minorities (ethnic) including other 79 G4-EN 33 a–e Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts No data available according to gender and age group characteristics of diversity – not applicable in the supply chain and actions taken G4-LA 12 b Employees split in employee categories No split by minorities (ethnic) including other 29, 73, 75, 80 characteristics of diversity – no data available Environmental Grievance Mechanisms Sustainable G4-EN 34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts Qualitative information on textile procurement 41, 86 Equal Remuneration for Women and Men sourcing/ (grievance hotline for suppliers) Supplier G4-LA 13 a–b Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Immaterial assessment Supplier Assessment for Labour Practices SOC I A L Sustainable G4-LA 14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labour Information on textile procurement (Chapter Products and 38–41, 82, 85 sourcing/ practices criteria Sourcing: Info on audits not restricted to new suppliers) Supplier Employment assessment Sustainable G4-LA 15 a Significant actual and potential negative impacts for labour practices Qualitative information on textile procurement 40–42, 82, 85 Safe work G4-LA 1 New employee hires and employee turnover Data published at Group level, not for each national 73, 78 sourcing/ in the supply chain (Chapter Products and Sourcing: Information on audits environment subsidiary Supplier not restricted to new suppliers) assessment G4-LA 2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to Qualitative information, benefits are provided to all 29, 81 temporary or part-time employees employees Sustainable G4-LA 15 b–e Number of grievances about labour practices Qualitative information on textile procurement 41, 86 sourcing/ (grievances hotline for suppliers) G4-LA 3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave No data available Supplier assessment Labour/Management Relations Sustainable G-LA 16 Number of grievances about labour practices filed, addressed, Qualitative information on textile procurement 41, 86 sourcing/ and resolved (grievances hotline for suppliers) GA-LA 4 a–b Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes No data available Supplier assessment 108 109 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — GRI Content Index Material GRI Name Reported Note Page Material GRI Name Reported Note Page Topic Indicator Topic Indicator Human Rights Grievance Mechanisms H U M A N RI G H T S Sustainable G4-HR 12 Number of grievances about human rights impacts Qualitative information on textile procurement 41, 86 sourcing/ (grievances hotline for suppliers) Investment Supplier assessment G4-HR 1 a–b Significant investment agreements and contracts that include Qualitative information on textile procurement (CoC for 40–41, 85 human rights clauses suppliers in place) G4-HR 2 a–b Total hours of employee training on human rights No data available S OCIETY Non-discrimination Local Communities G4-HR 3 a–b Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Immaterial G4-SO 1 Local community engagement at significant locations of operations Immaterial Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining G4-SO 2 Significant impacts of operations on local communities Immaterial G4-HR 4 a–b Operations and suppliers identified in which the right to exercise Immaterial freedom of association and collective bargaining may be violated or at significant risk, and measures taken to support these rights Anti-corruption G4-SO 3 Total number and percentage of operations assessed for risks related Immaterial Child Labour to corruption and the significant risks identified Sustainable G4-HR 5 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for Qualitative information on textile procurement (CoC for 40–41, 85 Training and G4-SO 4 Communication and training on anti-corruption policies and Qualitative information 20, 80 sourcing/ incidents of child labour, and measures taken to contribute to the suppliers in place) development procedures Supplier effective abolition of child labour assessment G4-SO 5 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Qualitative information 20, 80 Forced or Compulsory Labour Public Policy Sustainable G4-HR 6 Operations and suppliers identified as having significant risk for Qualitative information on textile procurement (CoC for 40–41, 85 G4-SO 6 Total value of political contributions Immaterial sourcing/ incidents of forced or compulsory labour, and measures to contribute suppliers in place) Supplier to the elimination of all forms of forced or compulsory labour assessment Anti-competitive Behaviour Security Practices G4-SO 7 Total number of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, Immaterial anti-trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes G4-HR 7 Percentage of security personnel trained in the organisation’s human No data available rights policies Compliance Indigenous Rights G4-SO 8 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws Immaterial and regulations G4-HR 8 Total number of incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous Immaterial peoples Supplier Assessment for Impacts on Society Assessment G4-SO 9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for Not applicable impacts on society G4-HR 9 Total number and percentage of operations that have been subject to Immaterial G4-SO 10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the Not applicable human rights reviews supply chain Supplier Human Rights Assessment Grievance Mechanisms for Impacts on Society Sustainable G4-HR 10 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using human rights Qualitative information on textile procurement (CoC for 40–41, 85 G4-SO 11 Number of grievances about impacts on society Immaterial sourcing/ criteria suppliers in place) Supplier assessment Sustainable G4-HR 11 Significant actual and potential negative human rights impacts in Qualitative information on textile procurement (CoC for 40–41, 85 sourcing/ the supply chain suppliers in place) Supplier assessment 110 111 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 CWS-boco — About this report G4-17 Material Topic GRI Indicator Name Reported Note Page About this report PR O D U C T RES P O N SIB IL ITY Scope Report chronology Customer Health and Safety The published data include the nine national sub­ 2014: Interim Report on the Reporting Year 2013 Safe work G4-PR 1 Product and service categories for which health and safety impacts Own KPI: Number of wearers of boco personal 26, 75 sidiaries in the Group with the highest turnover figures: 2013: Full Report on the Reporting Year 2012 environment are assessed protective equipment (PPE) G4-PR 2 a–b Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes No data available 1 --CWS-boco Deutschland GmbH concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services 2 --CWS-boco Suisse SA ​ Reporting cycle Product and Service Labelling 3 --CWS-boco Italia S.p.A. 4 --CWS Nederland B.V. Every two years, alternating between the Full Report G4-PR 3 Product and service information No data available 5 --CWS-boco Sweden AB and the Interim Report G4-PR 4 Incidents of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes No data available 6 --CWS-boco Österreich GmbH concerning product and service information and labelling 7 --CWS-boco Ireland Ltd. Customer G4-PR 5 Results of surveys measuring customer satisfaction Qualitative information 26–27, 81 8 --CWS-boco Polska Sp. z o.o. satisfaction Global Reporting Initiative 9 --CWS-boco BeLux N.V. Report according to G4 Guidelines “in accordance” Marketing Communications with the option Core. G4-PR 6 Sale of banned or disputed products Immaterial GRI Materiality Disclosure Service G4-PR 7 Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and Immaterial voluntary codes concerning marketing communications Customer Privacy Auditing G4-PR 8 Total number of substantiated complaints regarding breaches of Immaterial Strategic consultation and data validation together customer privacy and losses of customer data with KPMG. This Report has not been subjected to an Compliance official external audit. G4-PR 9 Monetary value of significant fines for non-compliance with laws Immaterial and regulations concerning the provision and use of products and services Contact Should you have any questions on our Report or the contents thereof, please contact Dr. Maren Otte, Head of Corporate Communications and ResponsibilThe data in the report incorporates ity, CWS-boco International GmbH, e-mail: maren.otte@cws-boco.com. 86 % 95 % of the workof the total Online version www.cws-boco.com/sustainability force turnover Period under review Calendar year 2014 Scan the QR code to go ­d irectly to the online portal. 112 113 CWS-boco — Sustainability Report 2015 More information on CWS-boco www.cws-boco.com Forward-looking statements Published by This Sustainability Report contains forward-looking CWS-boco International GmbH statements. These statements are made on the basis Franz-Haniel-Platz 6–8, 47119 Duisburg, of assumptions and expectations which, in turn, are Germany based on the information available at the time of the publication of the report. They are therefore associated Sustainability at CWS-boco: with risks and are not to be deemed to constitute www.cws-boco.com/sustainability guarantees of projected developments and results. Responsible parties: Many of these risks and uncertainties are determined Dr. Maren Otte, Head of Corporate by factors which are beyond the control of CWS-boco Communications & Responsibility International and which cannot be reliably assessed at Dreieich Plaza 1B, 63303 Dreieich, Germany the present time. These risk factors include future market conditions and general economic data, the achievement of anticipated synergies as well as legal Collaboration and political decisions. CWS-boco International does not assume any obligation to update the forward-lookDesign and realisation: ing statements contained in this report. Strichpunkt GmbH, Stuttgart/Berlin Printed by: Coordination Uscha printmedia Unterleider Medien GmbH, International coordination: Rödermark, Germany Dr. Maren Otte, Carolin Wiegand, Laura Herms National coordination and departmental Certifications coordination: Alina Theissen, Anna Perolfi, Arjan Bolink, Beat Büchi, Christoph Göschl, Clement Higgins, Dirk Baykal, Ewa Nowak, Gino Verbelen, Haidi Widén Kullman, Lars Fröbe, Mateusz Słowikowski, Michael Rumswinkel, Oliver Hirschberg, Roman Wolf, Rüdiger Pfeiffer 114 CWS-boco International GmbH Franz-Haniel-Platz 6–8 47119 Duisburg Germany w w w . cws b o co . c om
