G R I S D E C O U PAG E ’s commitment to the Global Compact GRIS DECOUPAGE, founded in 1984 and based in Lesménils (department 54, France), specialises in the manufacture of mechanical components and flat or conical die-cut washers in medium or large runs. GRIS DECOUPAGE signed up to the Global Compact in 2006, thus demonstrating its commitment to the basic values of human rights, labour standards and environmental protection. But well before then, GRIS DECOUPAGE had already espoused the ideals underlying the ten Global Compact principles. Participation in the Global Compact was a logical step in the continuous improvement process adopted by the company a number of years ago. Continuous improvement was implemented initially in the fields of industry, quality and management and led to the ISO 9001 and ISO TS 16949 certifications obtained in 1993. It was subsequently extended in the early 2000s to cover environmental and sustainable development issues, as confirmed by the awarding of ISO 14001 certification in June 2007. GRIS DECOUPAGE is renewing its commitment to the Global Compact for 2017. In so doing, we undertake to uphold the ten principles on a daily basis, to make sure they are shared by all employees and to bring them fully to the attention of our subcontractors and suppliers. Francis GRIS Président Progress update from Global Compact participant 1. OBJECTIVES SET FOR 2016 For 2016, GRIS DECOUPAGE chose to illustrate the following groups of principles: Human rights 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS UNDERTAKEN IN 2016  Human rights / Labour Actions with the CHSCT workplace health and safety committee to improve employee working conditions are conducted on a daily basis. In 2016 investments were made to improve safety and working conditions in two main sectors of the workshop. The problem of noise in the administrative offices was also addressed. Communication operations were undertaken within the company, particularly regarding the reception of new recruits. Also, in the area of human resources, work-related interviews were initiated, a training commission set up and a new working time agreement reached between Management and the Personnel Representatives following the merger of two entities.  Environment Under the rules for ISO 14001 certification, waste materials are tracked. Since grinding activity has been expanding, an increasing amount of grinding slurry has been generated. This slurry, classed as hazardous waste, requires processing and eliminating by a specific and costly process, but this operation does not result in any recycling of the grinding slurry. So a study to examine how this type of slurry might be recycled was performed. To comply with ISO 14001 standard, a check was carried out to verify employee familiarity with the procedure to be adopted in an emergency.  Anti-corruption GRIS DECOUPAGE is not affected by this issue. However, our suppliers and subcontractors have been made aware of this problem. 1. HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOUR Investments in safety and working conditions Every year investments are made in managing safety and in improving working conditions. In 2016 the annual prevention programme included the following investments:  Purchase of a coil tipper in the raw materials yard to ensure that raw material coil tipping operations are secure and to avoid unstable storage of coils on the ground.  Acquisition of a stacker for easier insertion of tool blocks into the presses. This equipment avoids the need for operators to make a physical effort to remove the tool blocks, each weighing around one hundred kilos, from the automatic presses. This action helps prevent the onset of musculoskeletal disorders. Problem of noise in administrative offices To address administrative staff concerns, actions were undertaken in the open space office. A focus group was set up and the collaboration of employees sought through a questionnaire on their requirements. As a result, changes were made. An extra office was built for the logistics department instead of an archives room. The commercial pole was reorganised. The coffee machine was moved to reception in order to relocate the discussion area. Similarly, hand towel dispensers were installed in place of the electric hand dryers. These changes have reduced noise in the open space, thus responding to the wishes expressed by staff by offering employees a working environment more conducive to concentration. In addition, employees using computers were provided with an ergonomic mouse to avoid carpal tunnel compression. Improvement of in-house communication To further strengthen communication within the company, new recruits are introduced to other employees via a welcome email from the communication officer as soon as they join the company. They are also given an introductory handbook to help them quickly familiarise themselves with the company. A new edition was issued in 2016. More modern and more convivial, this handbook is regularly updated and gives details on how the company works while providing qualitative and quantitative information. To complete the integration process, new recruits are invited to attend various training courses and presentations, including:  Commercial presentation of the company,  Safety and environmental awareness,  Quality training. After each session, each attendee is given a hardcopy handout summarising the main points raised. An in-house journal is published every six months containing articles on the GRIS Group’s current activities, the company’s investments, safety and environmental issues as well as quality and purchasing. It also contains employee portraits to raise the profile of the various areas of business and bring people closer together. Management has informed all personnel of the company’s strategy through in-house displays of material presenting the four key factors for the success of the company. Meetings involving all personnel are held twice a year. These provide an occasion to review the past year’s results and the current year’s trends. In addition to this, three employees are rewarded under the “Kaizen” scheme, which encourages staff to put forward ideas to improve their day-to-day work. During these meetings, employees with more than 25 years’ seniority are also honoured and presented with a trophy in recognition of their loyalty to the company. Conducting of work-related interviews with employees To comply with the law on training adopted on 5 March 2014 and applicable as of March 2016, GRIS DECOUPAGE has introduced work-related interviews for all its employees. Conducted by the Human Resources Department, these interviews have a two-fold objective. First, the Human Resources Manager describes the process to the employees, emphasising those aspects relating to the Validation of Acquired Experience (VAE) procedure and the new Personal Training Account (CPF) which now replaces the Individual Entitlement to Training (DIF). Subsequently, the interview enables the participants to take stock of the career path of the employees and to determine whether the necessary basic skills have been acquired to successfully take on board new developments in digital tools. Training: “Another way to build skills” A training commission was set up bringing together employees representing the different sectors of the company along with the trade unions and Management, the purpose being to focus on how best to develop skill-building practices, given that skill requirements are changing increasingly quickly. Over and above the cost earmarked for training (to meet an obligation of 0.10 % of the payroll), the company must ensure that training is optimised and adapted as closely as possible to what is happening on the ground and to the need to meet strategic guidelines. In 2016 the financial effort allocated to Breakdown of trainings in 2016 training under the training plan represented 2.53 % of the payroll. This is Actions to enhance skills broken down as follows:  Actions to enhance skills Actions of adaptation and  Actions of adaptation and further job further job training training Safety  Safety Working time, profit-sharing and end-of-career compensation A new agreement on working time was negotiated in order to address the “right to switch off” through the possibility of obtaining more resting time and/or being paid for overtime as and when worked and no longer at the end of the year. The profit-sharing agreement was renewed. Outsourced coverage for end-of-career compensation was also put in place. In this connection, an extraordinary payment of €150 K to cover our commitments in this area was made in 2016. 2. ENVIRONMENT Considerations on recycling hazardous waste produced by the company Double side surface grinding activity has greatly expanded since it began in 2010. The waste material produced by this activity, grinding slurry, is currently sent to an engineered landfill entailing a high processing cost. A trial to compact the slurry was conducted by a specialist company and the results are encouraging. When briquetted, the sludge could be reused in steelmaking and hence recycled. In addition, the compacting operation enables the cutting fluid present in the slurry to be extracted and reused. This will be an area for an investment in 2017 or 2018. Grinding slurry Briquettes obtained after compacting Personnel responsiveness to an emergency In the framework of our ISO 14001 certification, we are required to regularly test the responsiveness of our personnel to an emergency. In 2016 the fire risk was tested and a fire drill was held to evacuate the personnel. This exercise served to check employee familiarity with the procedure to be followed in the event of a fire and helped identify strengths and areas for improvement. Again to improve our responsiveness in the event of a fire, all new recruits were trained in the use of fire-fighting devices (extinguishers and fire hose stations). 3. ANTI-CORRUPTION All our subcontractors and suppliers have been informed of our participation in the UN Global Compact. The contract we ask them to sign each year requires them to uphold the basic values of human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. We also demand that they ensure no product sold has been made by children or by foreign nationals working illegally as undeclared labour in France. Our subcontractors and suppliers are assessed every 6 months and informed of the results. If their score is other than “A”, subcontractors and suppliers are required to provide action plans. If 5 nonconformities are detected in any one year or if their order fill ratio is less than 90%, GRIS DECOUPAGE will no longer work with those subcontractors or suppliers.
