Sustainability Report 2015 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Brewing a Better World Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Our Sustainability Report 2015 HEINEKEN Hrvatska has a long brewing tradition since 1854 and has been a member of HEINEKEN, the most international beer producer in the world, since 2003. Sustainability is one of our core business priorities and “Brewing a Better World” is our long-term approach for creating shared, sustainable value for our business and our stakeholders. This report summarises HEINEKEN Hrvatska’s progress in 2015 and presents our achievements in our areas of focus. 329 employees 7 brands 10 Karlovačko enjoyed in countries Our mission: Our rich tradition and respect for the highest standards of quality create innovative beer brands which deliver unique experiences and contribute to the enjoyment of life. By respecting safety rules and being responsible towards our consumers, customers, employees, and the local community we ensure the sustainability of our business. Our vision: We want to lead the market, focusing on value and sustainability through exceptional brand experiences, beer category vision, and engaged and safe employees. Contents Introduction Our focus areas Other information GM foreword [2] Protecting water resources [9] Stakeholder dialogue [28] Reducing CO2 emissions [12] HEINEKEN’S global benchmarks and The big picture Sourcing sustainably [15] achievements  [29] Advocating responsible consumption [18] Spotlight on Suistanable Brewing a Better World [3] Promoting health and safety [21] Development Goals  [30] What we said and what we’ve done [5] Growing with communities [24] From Barley to Bar [7] Values and behaviours For more information see: Actions and results [27] www.heineken.hr HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 1 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information GM foreword To make our top quality beer, it is for the obligation to respect and necessary to use top quality implement the law prohibiting the sale ingredients. We believe that local and consumption of alcoholic farmers can produce raw materials beverages to persons under 18. that meet our high standards and we want to make our products using Furthermore, we have made progress Croatian ingredients whenever in decreasing the negative impact of possible. Thus, in 2014, we presented our business on the environment in our local sourcing initiative, “Croatian several areas. Due to optimizations in barley for Karlovačko beer” and in production and distribution processes, 2015, we took it one step further. We HEINEKEN Hrvatska reduced specific started cooperating with local farmers direct and indirect CO2 emissions by who grow Croatian citrus fruits for 16% compared to last year and 39% Boris Miloushev, Managing Director of Karlovačko radlers, and HEINEKEN compared to the baseline year of HEINEKEN Hrvatska Hrvatska started purchasing home2008. In addition, we have continued grown lemons from the island of Vis to purchase exclusively green and mandarins from the Neretva river refrigerators (820 of them) and Taking care of valley area. Consequently, in 2015 decreased the CO2 emissions from sustainability, while HEINEKEN Hrvatska sourced 98% of distribution by 9%. We are proud that its raw materials locally, which gave us HEINEKEN Hrvatska has lower specific ensuring the top quality the chance to create benefits for local non-recycled industrial waste of our products and producers, communities, and the production than the HEINEKEN delivering exceptional national economy. average and that in 2015 it fell by 42% brand experiences is the compared to the previous year. We think that beer is an excellent way we lead our business. product and, if consumed responsibly, This sustainability report represents it can be part of a balanced lifestyle. our progress in the “Brewing a Better Yet alcohol abuse is still a problem we World” approach and compiles the For us at HEINEKEN Hrvatska, 2015 have to deal with, both on the industry company’s most important 2015 was a year of new business projects, level and as a company. It is important projects in the field of social new market successes, and new steps to redirect the focus from quantity to responsibility. Of course, as the world forward in our sustainability journey. quality and ensure that minors do not keeps changing, the need for further We are proud that our portfolio drink at all. That is why we have improvements is always present so we features a variety of top quality continued with responsible will keep tracking our results and products that satisfy our adult consumption initiatives in 2015 – creating new projects to make it a consumers’ various preferences. externally we conducted our better place in which to live. Besides Karlovačko lager beer, our traditional initiatives “I’m 18+” and Karlovačko family includes: Karlovačko “For Responsible Youth,” and internally, 0.0% Maxx, Karlovačko Limun Natur among our employees, we organized Boris Miloushev Radler, Karlovačko Laganini Natur various educational programs and Radler, Karlovačko Leđero Natur workshops for “Enjoy Responsibly Day.” Radler, Karlovačko 0.0% Natur Radler, Also, HEINEKEN Hrvatska, along with Karlovačko Royal 1854, Karlovačko other members of the Croatian crno and Karlovačko Nepasterizirano Chamber of Commerce’s Association Retro. We also offer international of beer, malt and hop producers Managing Director brands like Heineken, Amstel Premium launched a large national campaign, HEINEKEN Hrvatska Pilsener, Edelweiss Snowfresh, “Be conscious – sometimes kids have Desperados, Strongbow – the top to hear no”, in partnership with the global cider brand, and as of 2016, Ministry of Health. The main goal of Affligem and Brand IPA. the campaign was to raise awareness HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 2 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Brewing a Better World Sustainability at HEINEKEN is a business imperative and one of its six key business priorities. The “Brewing a Better World” approach is designed to create genuine economic opportunities for both the company’s business and its stakeholders. ING WATER RESOUR TECT CES PRO ES RE TI GROW CI NG ING DU WI TH CO 2 CO S M ION M ISS UN EM I BREWING Our six business priorities A BETTER WORLD 1. Win in premium led by Heineken® TH AL 2. Shape the cider category SU HE STA NG 3. Lead by cool marketing & innovation INA OTI BLY PROM 4. Be commercially assertive OU 5. Drive end2end productivity AN D RC IN FE G 6. Brewing a Better World SA S TY AD VOC ION ATIN MPT G RESPONSIBLE CONSU Our focus areas Global governance Building sustainability into The way forward: 2016-2018 and Sustainability is embedded performance plans beyond throughout HEINEKEN’s business, for Selected senior managers within each In this report we document our example in Supply Chain (Water & function at a global, regional and local progress against the three-year CO2), Procurement (Sustainable level had sustainability objectives linked milestones HEINEKEN communicated Sourcing), HR (Health & Safety) and to their function to support the delivery for 2015. In order to meet the 2020 Marketing & Sales (Responsible of our sustainability agenda. Bonus commitments, HEINEKEN has created Consumption). In 2015 the Executive targets were set for relevant senior concrete new milestones for 2018. We Team, chaired by the CEO, became managers in the area of energy, water will report our progress towards these the highest governing sustainability and procurement. For specific markets, milestones each year in our body, replacing the Corporate Affairs sustainability objectives were set in Sustainability Report. Committee. Progress on sustainability areas such as Supply Chain, was also shared with the Supervisory Procurement and Corporate Relations Board. where relevant. HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 3 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Brewing a Better World AGRICULTURE MALTING BREWING PACKAGING DISTRIBUTION CUSTOMER CONSUMER HEINEKEN’s value chain HEINEKEN focuses on six areas where FOCUS AREAS the biggest difference can be made by PROTECTING the company and its stakeholders. WATER RESOURCES These are underpined by company’s values and behaviours. Its approach to REDUCING sustainability covers the entire value CO2 EMISSIONS chain “From Barley to Bar“. SOURCING SUSTAINABLY ADVOCATING RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION PROMOTING HEALTH AND SAFETY GROWING WITH COMMUNITIES VALUES AND BEHAVIOURS High Responsible Consumption Global materiality matrix HEINEKEN has updated its materiality Water matrix based on an ongoing dialogue Sustainable Sourcing with its stakeholders, reputation Human Rights Energy & Carbon research, benchmark results and Importance to stakeholders Labour Conditions internal risk analysis. Biodiversity In company’s annual research more Economic Circular than 2,400 stakeholders in 30 markets Economy* Diversity Impact & Tax were asked what topics they see as Community Investment most material for HEINEKEN. The top three clusters mentioned were: Business Conduct 1. Environment (climate change, Gene Technology Health & Safety environmental protection, water, Remuneration waste, energy) 2. Public health (responsible Low Low High consumption, obesity) Current or potential impact on HEINEKEN 3. Economic conditions (growth, Focus Area Global Policy/Standard Locally Managed Trend New competitiveness, unemployment, income) *Waste and Packaging have been integrated in this overarching theme HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 4 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information What we said and what we’ve done Focus 2015 global 2015 global results 2015 HEINEKEN Local 2020 global Area milestone Hrvatska’s results Indicommitment cator Reduce specific water Achieved Water consumption amounted In 2014 we raised our consumption in our Water consumption to 4.2 hl/hl. This is the same level ambition for 2020 to breweries to 3.9 hl/hl1 decreased to 3.7 hl/hl as last year 3.5 hl/hl1 overall, and (-26% compared with (-38% compared to 2008) 3.3 hl/hl on average for 2008) breweries in water-scarce and water-distressed areas Reduce CO2 emissions Achieved HEINEKEN Hrvatska has Reduce CO2 emissions in production by 27%1 36% reduction compared decreased the specific direct in production by 40%1 (resulting in 7.6 kg with 2008, resulting in 6.7 and indirect CO2 emissions by CO2-eq/hl) kg CO2-eq/hl in 2015 39% compared with 2008. The specific direct and indirect CO2 emissions of HEINEKEN Hrvatska decreased from 9.1 kg CO2-eq/hl to 7.8 kg CO2-eq/hl. This is a decrease of 16% compared with last year Reduce the CO2 Not achieved HEINEKEN Hrvatska has Reduce the CO2 emissions from Our overall emissions decreased the CO2 emissions emissions from distribution by 10%2 in increased by 1.7%. Main from distribution by 15.4% distribution by Europe and the cause is the production compared to the baseline of 20% in Europe Americas footprint challenge we 2010/2011. The CO2 emissions and the Americas face in Mexico, our biggest from distribution decreased in market. When we focus on 2015 by 9% in comparison with Europe only, we actually 2014 (from 2.34 kg CO2/hl decreased emissions by traded in 2014 to 2.13 kg CO2/hl 9.8% traded in 2015) Reduce the CO2 Achieved 100% of 820 refrigerators Reduce the CO2 emissions of our 100% of the more than purchased by HEINEKEN emissions of our fridges by 42%3 115,000 fridges that Hrvatska in 2015 were green. fridges by 50%3 HEINEKEN purchased in The CO2 emissions of these 2015 were ‘green’. The CO2 fridges are 45% lower compared emissions of these fridges with the fridges from baseline are 45% lower compared year 2010 with the fridges from baseline year 2010 1 Baseline 2008. 2 Baseline 2010/2011, scope is Europe and Americas, 24 of our largest operations: Belgium, Bulgaria, France, Ireland, Italy, Netherlands, Portugal, Spain, Switzerland, UK, Austria, Belarus, Croatia, Czech Republic, Greece, Hungary, Poland, Romania, Russia, Serbia, Slovakia, Brazil, Mexico, USA. HEINEKEN Asia Pacific is not in scope of the 2015 commitment as the business was not consolidated at the time the commitment was made. 3 Baseline 2010. Achieved On track Partly achieved Not achieved HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 5 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information What we said and what we’ve done Focus 2015 global 2015 global 2015 HEINEKEN Local 2020 global Area milestone results Hrvatska’s results Indicommitment cator Aim for sustainable sourcing Achieved HEINEKEN Hrvatska sourced Aim for at least 50% of raw materials for crop year In 2015 we sourced sustainably 92,7% of agricultural of our main raw 2015: 20% (barley), 40% sustainably: raw materials in 2015: 97,5% (malt), materials2 from (hops), 60% (bittersweet barley: 21%, hops: 53% 81,2% (corn maize), 100% (hops) sustainable sources apples for cider)1 apples: 71% 50%3 of agricultural raw Partly achieved In 2015, HEINEKEN Hrvatska sourced Deliver 60% of materials used in Africa to We increased our local 98% of agricultural raw materials agricultural raw be locally sourced4 within sourcing from 48% in locally: materials in Africa via the continent 2014 to an estimated local sourcing within 49% in 2015 malt: 96,5% the continent corn girt: 100% Four-step Supplier Code Partly achieved Four-step Supplier Code was signed Ongoing compliance Procedure operational Four-step Supplier Code and fully operational among 100% with our Supplier Code within all operating Procedure operational in registered suppliers in HEINEKEN Procedure companies5 46 out of 50 operating Hrvatska’s vendor master data base companies in scope (representing 99% of sales volume in scope) Every market in scope6 has a Achieved partnership to address Fifty operating companies, HEINEKEN Hrvatska continued its alcohol-related harm across 48 markets, have partnership to address minors’ a partnership alcohol abuse (project: For in place to address Responsible Youth) Every market in scope alcohol-related harm has and reports publicly on a measurable partnership aimed All partnerships meet Partly achieved HEINEKEN Hrvatska’s partnerships at addressing alcohol HEINEKEN’s seven-point 56% have met all meet six out of seven criteria points. abuse partnership criteria HEINEKEN’s partnership criteria representing 72% of the beer volume in scope 1 Based on volume. 2 In scope are barley, hops, cider apples, fruit concentrates, sugar, rice, sorghum, wheat, maize. 3 Based upon tonnage. 4 With local sourcing we refer to sourcing within the region of Africa & Middle East. 5 HEINEKEN Asia Pacific is not in scope of the 2015 commitment as the business was not consolidated at the time the commitment was made. They are in the process of becoming compliant in the coming years. 6 The 50 operating companies, which cover 48 markets, include all HEINEKEN markets except Islamic countries, markets where we have a Joint Venture and three minimal-volume markets for who allocating resource is unrealistic (Laos, Solomon Islands and Sri Lanka). Achieved On track Partly achieved Not achieved HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 6 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information From Barley to Bar Sustainability at HEINEKEN is a business imperative and one of company’s six key business priorities. The “Brewing a Better World” approach is designed to create genuine economic opportunities for both the company’s business and its stakeholders. HEINEKEN Inputs Financial Shareholders’ equity, Capex, assets and borrowing Natural Land, water, energy, biodiversity and ecosystem EMPLOYEES Human MALTING HEINEKEN N. V. employs more than 81,000 people. They enjoy the beneﬁts and rewards – Employees, training and beneﬁts, safety and pay, training, healthcare, career opportunities – their hard work deserves. The HEINEKEN Code of Conduct Employees’ and Human Rights Policy supports and guides us all to act according to our core values. And our global Code of Conduct provides guidance so that every employee knows Manufactured what is expected of them. The annual employee ‘Climate’ survey tracks engagement levels Buildings, breweries, packaging materials, and action is required on dimensions that fall short. transport, equipment and supply chain Social Communities, NGOs, customers, suppliers and trade groups Intellectual Brands, R&D, innovation, processes and corporate reputation PACKAGING The majority of our beer and cider is served in bottles, cans and kegs. We are constantly looking to innovate, ﬁnding ways to optimise the production of our packaging materials, such as light-weighting and increasing the recycling and re-use rate. DISTRIBUTION CUSTOMERS The movement of our products around the globe is carefully managed. Millions of retailers, bars, restaurants and clubs serve Several modes of transport are used, including road, rail and ocean freight a selection of our brands. New fridges purchased by as well as inland barges. Health and safety policies are in place to reduce HEINEKEN meet green standards and we continue the incidence of accidents. We optimise the distribution by changing the to develop greener draught brewing equipment. form of transport, training drivers on road safety, using more eﬃcient We work in partnership to ensure our products engines, improved vehicle design and reassessment of distribution networks. are only sold to consumers of legal drinking age. HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 7 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information We work with farmers worldwide to sustainably grow raw materials, like barley and hops, needed to brew our beers. In addition, we use bittersweet apples for cider making. Local sourcing is a priority because AGRICULTURE of the shared value it creates for the local communities, the country and for HEINEKEN. Global HEINEKEN Outputs Financial €20.5 billion revenue €822 million income tax expense (beia) 27.8% eﬀective income tax rate (beia) Total dividend of €1.30 per share (to be approved at 2016 AGM) Natural Sustainably sourced raw materials: 21% barley, 53% hops and 71% bittersweet apples 21% renewable electricity under green certiﬁcates 2% own-generated renewable electricity BREWING 3.8% renewable thermal energy used Human Brewing beer and making cider is a craft. HEINEKEN N. V. own 11 malteries across the world Over 1.5 million training hours completed by employees and buy malted barley from business partners who have all signed our Supplier Code. 50,000 employees completed HeiCode e-learning training HEINEKEN N. V. also operate 156 breweries, cider plants and other production facilities. Strict 2,000+ employees completed Road safety training safety standards are adhered to. We invest in capacity expansion and build greenﬁeld 6,000+ employees completed Anti-bribery e-learning module breweries, respecting all land rights. We are committed to improving energy and water 53 nationalities represented in senior management eﬃciency and switching to more environmentally friendly energy sources where feasible. 77% employee ‘Climate’ engagement score Manufactured 167 breweries, malteries, cider plants and other production facilities 26% water reduction since 2008 24% energy reduction since 2008 115,000+ green fridges purchased in 2015 with 45% average energy saving compared with 2010 Social €23.6 million donations €10 million increase in endowment fund Heineken Africa Foundation to €30 million in total in 2016 9.7% media spend on Enjoy Heineken® Responsibly 50 operating companies have a partnership to address alcohol-related harm • Participation in Global Commitment to reduce alcohol-related harm • Direct and indirect job creation • Healthcare support Intellectual 4.15 (out of 5) reputation rating across 30 countries and 3,000 external stakeholders 250+ brands €1.9bn revenue from innovations COMMUNITY Growing with communities underlines our ambition to have a positive impact in the CONSUMERS communities where we live, work and sell our products. HEINEKEN N. V. support is based on three building blocks: direct contributions made locally, shared-value projects, and on the Every day, millions of consumers in 179 countries choose to African continent the Heineken Africa Foundation. The biggest contribution we make to enjoy one of our more than 250 brands. We provide choice communities is through the positive impact of our business itself: creating jobs, providing through our premium portfolio approach. Innovations, business to suppliers and paying taxes that support local and national development. especially in the lowand no-alcohol categories, are meeting changing consumer tastes. Across the world we engage consumers on responsible drinking, most notably with the Heineken® brand campaigns. HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 8 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Protecting water resources Actions and results HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 9 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information 4.2 hl/hl Reduction in speciﬁc water consumption compared to 2008 38% average water consumption in our brewery Reducing water consumption in our brewery At HEINEKEN Hrvatska we are aware tanks and the water treatment plant. of the critical importance of However the usage remained the sustainable use and the protection of same, mostly because of the Specific water consumption water to safeguard this precious maintenance of packaging lines and hl/hl beer resource. We prioritize improvements lower batches (due to innovations in the field of water efficiency and and planning). reduction in the amount of water used in production. In 2015, the Although our water consumption is 4.2 hl/hl 2015 4.2 specific water consumption of 38% lower compared to the baseline 2014 4.2 HEINEKEN Hrvatska remained at 4.2 year of 2008, it is still higher than the 2013 4.6 hl/hl, as it was in 2014. There were 2015 global milestone of 3.9 hl/hl. 2012 4.8 many initiatives for reducing water Therefore, we will continue to work 2011 4.7 usage, like optimizations of pressure further on improvement projects. 2010 5.0 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 10 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Barley has a relatively low water footprint compared with other crops Wastewater management As we use water both in our final policy is also the treatment of for the wastewater system treatment product, and throughout our supply wastewater. We ensure that effluent finished so full performance has chain, one of our priorities is to from our production units is treated begun. The treatment has an protect water resources. Apart from before discharge to surface water, operating licence, which means it is in reducing water consumption, a part either by our own or third party accordance with all relevant Croatian of our water resources protection treatment. In 2015, the testing period regulations. Protecting water resources When focusing on water protection, HEINEKEN has two goals: to reduce water consumption by addressing avoidable losses and to minimize the impact by balancing the used water that cannot be returned to the local watershed. By stimulating, financing, and supporting water initiatives the company helps to conserve or restore the watershed. Cetina River Source: Water Footprint Network, Product Gallery HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 11 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Reducing CO2 emissions Actions and results HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 12 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information 39% reduction in carbon emissions since 2008 Reducing energy consumption Our energy consumption includes brewhouse and packaging, as well as both thermal and electrical energy lower batches (mostly because of Total specific energy sources. In 2015, our specific total innovations and planning). In consumption energy consumption increased from addition, due to weather conditions MJ/hl beer 113.1 MJ/hl to 116.8 MJ/hl. This is an and the cold winter, more energy was increase of 3% compared to last year, spent on heating. At the same time, related to the increase of specific specific electricity consumption 2015 116.8 thermal energy from 82 MJ/hl to 86.1 decreased from 8.6 kWh/hl to 8.5 2014 113.1 MJ/hl. Although optimizations were kWh/hl mostly because of the 2013 118.5 conducted in boiler room and optimization projects of the cooling 2012 122.6 wastewater treatment, the increase installation, wastewater treatment, 2011 127.3 was caused by higher consumption in and the boiler room. 2010 140.4 Reducing CO2 emissions in our brewery Specific greenhouse gas emissions Taking into consideration compared to the baseline year of kg CO2-eq/hl beer HEINEKEN’s global goals, HEINEKEN 2008. The decrease is the result of Hrvatska continued with efforts in the significant investments in the reducing its CO2 emissions in 2015. automation of the boiler room and 2015 7.8 Thus, we have decreased the total the change in fuel from oil to natural 2014 9.1 (direct and indirect) CO2 emission gas, which also contributed to the 2013 9.0 from 9.1 kg CO2-eq/hl to 7.8 kg four-fold reduction in emissions of 2012 9.2 CO2-eq/hl. This is a decrease of 16% NOx (nitrogen oxides). 2011 9.4 compared to last year and 39% 2010 11.5 Reducing CO2 emissions in distribution To reduce our global emissions in distribution by 9% in comparison to distribution, HEINEKEN focuses on 2014 (from 2.34 kg CO2/hl traded in transport efficiency to reduce total 2014 to 2.13 kg CO2/hl traded in HEINEKEN Hrvatska distance driven, fuel efficiency to 2015). This is a result of route decreasing CO2 emissions reduce fuel consumption, and modal optimization in secondary in distribution by 15.4% efficiency to select the most efficient distribution, increase in delivery fuel type for transport. In 2015, through primary distribution and compared to the baseline HEINEKEN Hrvatska continued starting local production/packaging 2011 decreasing CO2 emissions in of Amstel 0.5 l and Sokol PET 1.8 l. HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 13 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information 100% -45% average energy use of of 820 refrigerators newly purchased fridges purchased by HEINEKEN Hrvatska compared with baseline in 2015 were green year 2010 Reducing CO2 from fridges We buy and supply fridges used to this area, we focus on installing more system, and energy-efficient fans. In store and display our beer products in energy-efficient fridges. According to 2015, HEINEKEN Hrvatska bought supermarkets, bars, and restaurants. HEINEKEN Energy Efficiency Index 820 fridges that were This allows us to control the quality of (HEEI), the fridges are considered environmentally acceptable or the beer by setting the correct “green” if they have up to four “green.” Saving energy does not just temperature as well as the “green” characteristics: use of reduce our emissions, it also means appearance of the fridge and our hydrocarbon refrigerant, LED our customers incur less costs in their products in it. To reduce emission in illumination, an energy management businesses. Waste recycling in production We measure and monitor our waste kg/hl, and we made significant Most of our residual products from recycling rates during the production progress in 2015 as well. Our the brewing process are reused as of beer, aiming to improve total non-recycled industrial waste animal feed or recycled into energy recycled volumes. HEINEKEN production decreased from 0.16 kg/hl (biogas) or compost. Hrvatska has lower specific nonto 0.09 kg/hl, which is a decrease of recycled industrial waste production 42% compared to last year. than the HEINEKEN average of 0.38 Waste Hierarchy Destination Quantity % of total 2015 (ton) Specific non-recycled industrial Animal feed 9.462 62% waste production kg/hl beer Materials 1.686 11% Compost/ soil improvement 232 2% Most preferred option Energy (biogas) 3.748 24% 2015 0.09 2014 0.16 Combustion with energy recovery 147 1% 2013 0.21 Landfill 81 1% 2012 0.50 2011 0.50 Recycling 2010 0.48 Recovery Disposal HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 14 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Sourcing sustainably Actions and results HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 15 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information 98% raw materials was produced and 96.5% of malt and purchased 100% corn grit in Croatia Sustainable sourcing of agricultural materials As global demand for food continues the quality of life for local individuals to grow, responsible agriculture and and communities, to help the sourcing have never been more environment and ensure a consistent important. The key issue facing supply of our raw materials. Through agriculture is how to increase our local sourcing projects, we are productivity in a more sustainable helping smallholder farmers to way to meet this rising demand. We improve yields and compete against want to operate in a way to improve imported crops. Case study: Croatian lemons and mandarins for Karlovačko Local sourcing radlers In April 2015, HEINEKEN HEINEKEN Hrvatska believes that amount of them in the vicinity of our Hrvatska introduced the local farmers can produce the high brewery has a positive impact on the long-term project of production, quality raw materials we use for transport-related CO2 emissions and procurement, and purchase of production of our beer. By managing eliminates import duties. In 2015, we Croatian lemons to produce its local sourcing, we support local sourced 98% of raw materials locally: Karlovačko Limun Natur Radler. agriculture and contribute to the 96.5% of malt and 100% of corn grit The company started sustainability of domestic cultivation was produced and purchased in cooperating with local lemon of raw materials. Having a sufficient Croatia. growers like those from the island of Vis. The establishment of these partnerships is considered to be a big incentive for small producers, opening Croatian ingredients for Karlovačko opportunities for further development of lemon cultivation in Croatia. Later in Our local sourcing projects create a sourcing after the project of July, we proudly launched the benefit for farming communities by purchasing barley from Croatian initiative that brought us closer providing a reliable market for specific fields started in 2014. HEINEKEN to making yet another product quantities of various raw materials, Hrvatska introduced the long-term made from ingredients of thus inciting the further development project of purchasing Croatian Croatian origin. This time, it was of their production. It is our intention lemons and mandarins from local about Croatian mandarins for to make Karlovačko and its farmers to produce its Karlovačko the production of Karlovačko extensions with Croatian ingredients radlers – Karlovačko Limun Natur Leđero Natur Radler (radler with whenever possible. That is why, in Radler and Karlovačko Leđero Natur mandarin flavour). 2015, we took a further step in local Radler (mandarin flavour radler). For more information, see our website HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 16 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information 100% of our suppliers have signed the Supplier Code Compliance with our Supplier Code Procedure Our suppliers are key to achieving our expect them to act in the areas of sustainability commitments, as much Integrity and Business Conduct, of our impact lies indirectly with Human Rights, and the Environment. them. The HEINEKEN Supplier Code, By the end of 2015, our Supplier Code applicable to all of our suppliers, was signed and fully operational provides clear guidelines for how we among all 450 of our suppliers. By picking mandarins in the Neretva valley, HEINEKEN Hrvatska employees have marked the beginning of the project of purchasing local mandarins for Karlovačko Leđero Natur Radler. HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 17 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Advocating responsible consumption Actions and results HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 18 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Making responsible consumption aspirational If consumed in moderation, beer can drink responsibly so we use our be a part of a healthy and balanced impact to promote this message both lifestyle. HEINEKEN encourages externally and internally. We also responsible consumption and by maintain existing and build new various campaigns aims at making it partnerships in order to address aspirational, at the same time alcohol abuse related issues, and take promoting zero tolerance for action on the industry level by underage drinking. At HEINEKEN collaborating with other breweries in Hrvatska, we believe it is our Croatia. Case study: responsibility to encourage people to “Be conscious – sometimes kids have to hear no” In addressing alcohol abuse related issues, we also maintain existing and build new For Responsible Youth partnerships, and take action on the industry level by collaborating with other During 2015, HEINEKEN Hrvatska on young people. breweries in Croatia. Thus, the continued addressing the underage In 2015, informing and educating the Croatian Chamber of drinking problem with its “For public on this issue was done through Commerce’s Association of beer, Responsible Youth” project that was a specially designed section on the malt and hop producers, in originally launched in 2013 in žena.hr website where parents could partnership with the Ministry of cooperation with psychological read texts dealing with topics such as Health launched a project “Be centre TESA and the žena.hr website. teenagers’ first night out or stressing conscious – sometimes kids have By continuing with this project, we what adolescence brings to young to hear no”. The main goal of the wanted to contribute to raising people. They also had the campaign was to raise awareness, educating the public on opportunity for online counselling awareness about the obligation this issue, and have a positive impact with psychologists. to respect and implement the law which prohibits the consumption and sale of alcoholic beverages to persons under 18 years of age. The I am 18+ campaign was conducted through a TV commercial directed by famous Croatian film Originally launched during Beer Days inscription “I’m 18+” were only director Dalibor Matanić, 2013, an initiative “I am 18+” was handed out to adults with a valid ID. billboards and city lights, as well conducted again in 2015. At the The bracelets helped waiters to easily as through more than a million event that was visited by thousands identify minors and to avoid selling partner locations where the of beer lovers, the bracelets with the beer to them. campaign visuals were placed (300 bars and 600 shops). HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 19 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Enjoy Responsibly Day In 2015, the global initiative “Enjoy communications and HR experts. Responsible Day,” held on September Employees also had the opportunity 18, engaged more than one to participate in gatherings with thousand employees in 45 people who managed to overcome HEINEKEN Group markets. Croatia alcohol problems, supported by also participated with a number of psychologists from the “Ti si OK” lectures in several regions, including association. Karlovac, held by a team of corporate Creating a taste for no-alcohol and lowalcohol brands We offer not only information to consumers about moderate consumption, but we also offer consumers choice by providing low-alcohol and non-alcoholic brands to enjoy. Thus, our portfolio features several brands that contain no alcohol, or low levels of alcohol: Karlovačko Limun Natur Radler, Karlovačko Laganini Natur Radler, Karlovačko Leđero Natur Radler, Karlovačko 0.0% Natur Radler and Karlovačko 0.0% Maxx. HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 20 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Promoting health and safety Actions and results HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 21 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Number of accidents reduced from 4 to 1 on company level Improving safety Health and safety have always been area, pedestrians’ walking paths are an integral part of HEINEKEN clearly marked. Hrvatska’s business. Nothing is more important than ensuring the safety In line with the Safety First approach, of our employees and the people we HEINEKEN Hrvatska conducts various work with when they perform their activities and internal campaigns in duties. HEINEKEN’s “Safety First” order to raise awareness about safety approach is focused on improving in the workplace and to educate safety across our whole company. We employees. This resulted in a positive respect clear and strict rules about trend in 2015 – we reduced the protective clothing and equipment number of accidents that occurred Case study: inside of our production plants as well from four to one. One of our sales “Accidents don’t happen to as on logistic surfaces. At the representatives was involved in a car others” movie brewery’s entrance, every outside accident but did not cause it. In visitor receives a safety induction and addition, the number of lost days was Considering the fact that in 2014 a leaflet with safety rules. Because of reduced significantly to 16 days. 50% of all accidents at the traffic going through the brewery HEINEKEN were traffic-related, road safety was one of the main topics in 2015. Thus, during the local “Enjoy Responsibly Day” on September 18, locally produced movie “Accidents don’t happen to others” premiered. Employees who have experienced car accidents shared their testimonials, and the company’s Director of Sales Petar Bermanec said: “Every time we sit in a car, we are not responsible solely for ourselves, but also for others on the road. Maybe we cannot influence their behaviour, but our own responsible behaviour can reduce risk. Just a few simple habits can save lives: fasten your seat belt, limit speed, do not drink alcohol, use a hands-free device and return to your homes safely.” For more information, see our website HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 22 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information 1,600 hours of safety trainings 116 employees from Sales sector 300 employees participated in participated Safe Driving trainings 468 hours of e-learning Safety First training In 2015, more than 1600 hours of company car drivers in the Sales safety training was conducted, and sector. Training was held in June, more than 300 employees October, and November in Oryx participated in a total of 468 hours of centre and 116 attendees e-learning. E-learning covered topics participated. Training consisted of a such as: hazardous substances, theoretical and practice sections and working at height, safety in the goal was to improve driving skills commerce, working with computers, with a main focus on precision, and lockout-tagout. smoothness, and accuracy in all conditions. The participants could Legally required training like safety experience the dangers of driving specialist training and Heineken under the influence of alcohol using training were also organized, as well so called “drunk glasses.” as training for Safe Driving for HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 23 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Growing with communities Actions and results HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 24 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Investing in our communities Our business brings us into close sponsorships of local projects and contact with a great number of participation or initiation of shared consumers and stakeholders daily. value projects. We make the greatest We want to ensure that our business contribution to the community helps our partners, people, and through our business itself – job society in which we operate to creation for 329 people, ensuring prosper, so we invest in our business for 450 suppliers and by community through donations, paying taxes. Case study: Cooperation with Karlovac Direct contribution Polytechnic University HEINEKEN Hrvatska and Karlovac Polytechnic University In 2015, through various initiatives Zmaj association by donating food have a long history of we supported locally significant and other necessities to socially cooperating on various manifestations such as John’s Bonfire, vulnerable families. Thus, we helped projects. During the Beer Days River Cinema with Karlovačko, and five families with a total of 18 children 2015 in Karlovac, the first Beer Days. In addition, we have living in Karlovac and the surrounding Croatian student beer was organized a voluntary Christmas area. presented as the result of action in cooperation with the Mali successful cooperation between the University’s Department of food technology and our company. This successful project connected the scientific community and the business sector, in which students had the opportunity to obtain practical experience, participating in the actual production process. All raw materials for production, packaging and the necessary resources for pasteurization were provided by HEINEKEN Hrvatska. For more information, see our website HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 25 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Shared value projects Our shared value projects are those help local agriculture and the Institute Osijek and Slavonija slad – to that follow HEINEKEN’s ‘inclusive national economy, and at the same our brewery where they had the growth’ philosophy, creating a benefit time, we help HEINEKEN Hrvatska to opportunity to see the beer both to the local community and receive an ongoing supply of our key production process. HEINEKEN Hrvatska as a business. raw materials. During Beer Days in In December of last year, we took a Our local sourcing initiatives, that Karlovac in 2015, HEINEKEN Hrvatska further step in enhancing our include purchasing Croatian barley, organized a group visit for our partnerships in local sourcing – we lemons and mandarins, are a great Croatian barley project partners – started the preparations for founding example of a shared value project. barely producers from Slavonia, the Barley Producers’ Club Karlovačko Through partnership with local representatives of Poljoprivredno in 2016 that would bring together our farmers, we support their job growth, prehrambeni kompleks, Agricultural local providers of barley. HEINEKEN Business Academy HEINEKEN Business Academy is opportunity for professional where they have their mentors and another way the company is development, allowing them to gain participate in projects and daily cooperating with the local community. business experience and helps them in operational activities. So far, Through this educational and practical building their career. During 3 months, HEINEKEN Business Academy in program, HEINEKEN Hrvatska offers trainees are involved in the business Croatia gathered 15 participants. young talented individuals the operations of several departments Participants of HEINEKEN Business Academy 2015 HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 26 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Values and behaviours Our acitivities We are driven with passion for quality inspire us and are embodied by our Business Conduct that ensures people and produce brands people love while employees on every level, function, all over the world understand what is enjoying their lives. At the same time, and business. expected of them when acting on we respect our people – these are the We are committed to conducting behalf of the company. The code and values that represent what we stand business with fairness, integrity and its policies are available in 34 for as a corporate citizen, a business respect for the law. This commitment languages, including Croatian. partner, and an employer. They is laid down in the HEINEKEN Code of Five for Five At HEINEKEN Hrvatska we are continuing with a program rewarding the best employees. Thirty colleagues were nominated in 2015 and the management team, led by our MD, chose five of them who all live and work in accordance with our values and can be considered role models. The “Five for Five” winners were awarded with a special weekend trip to Oktoberfest in Munich. Green Patrol Traditionally, as a part of the Karlovac sorting the waste. In ten days, some Beer Days (Dani piva) annual event, 13,000 glasses were recycled which is HEINEKEN Hrvatska organized an two times better than the last year’s environmental event, collecting and mark. sorting waste under the slogan “Recycle and toast!” The action was implemented by our so-called “Green Patrol” who informed the visitors of the importance of protecting the environment and rewarding them for HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 27 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information Stakeholder dialogue Our stakeholders are vital to our business. We maintain a constant dialogue with them about our sustainability strategy and actions. This keeps us focused and lets us know where they see an opportunity for us to do more. HEINEKEN global activities In 2015, HEINEKEN N. V. completed numerous roundtables, panels and Besides that, HEINEKEN N. V. continued one of its largest reputation research conferences around sustainability the discussion with global retailers cycle ever, talking to more than 2,400 matters. The company’s CEO, CFO around developing joint responses to stakeholders across 30 markets. The and other members of the Executive sustainability issues and maintained the Company also initiated a second Team actively participated in senior dialogue with investors, shareholder series of expert meetings with various level stakeholder meetings with groups and analysts about the organizations and participated in relevant external stakeholders. sustainability considerations. HEINEKEN Hrvatska’s activities Every year HEINEKEN Hrvatska HEINEKEN Hrvatska’s reputation its activities related to local conducts a Reputation Research that increased since previous years, communities and investment in local covers customers, governmental showing a strong result at 4.15 (with production. Thus, we have upgraded stakeholders, NGOs, media, suppliers 5 as the highest score). Business our project of local sourcing by and trade associations. Outcomes are performance is stated as the best starting cooperation with local lemon used for assessing materiality, overall performing dimension. and mandarin growers and set analysing gaps and related action preparations for establishing the planning. Many stakeholders praised the Barley Producers’ Club Karlovačko. initiative of purchasing Croatian Besides that, we continued with In 2015, reputation research was barley for Karlovačko that HEINEKEN organizing dialogue meetings such conducted among 79 key Hrvatska has started in 2014 and as meetings with neighbours from stakeholders and showed that recommended company to step up in Karlovac and other stakeholders. HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 28 Introduction The big picture Our focus areas Values and behaviours Other information HEINEKEN’s global benchmarks and achievements To help evaluate HEINEKEN’s progress on “Brewing a Better World” in a more objective way, the company tracks its performance against a number of recognized external benchmarks. GLOBAL BENCHMARKS Dow Jones Carbon Disclosure FTSE4Good Sustainability Project (CDP) – Index For the 12th conseClimate Change cutive year, HEINEKEN maintained HEINEKEN had its highest score ever HEINEKEN achieved its highest score ever its inclusion in the Index. Its in 2015 and made it once again to in disclosure: 100 out of 100 (from 99 in Environmental, Social and the 2016 Sustainability Yearbook. 2014 and 96 in 2013). Its performance Governance (ESG) rating was the The company received the was rated B1 (2014: A, 2013: B). Overall, same as in 2014: an absolute score RobecoSAM Bronze Class distinction the company was awarded a position on of 4.2 out of 5, and a relative and the Industry Mover award for the Benelux Climate Disclosure LeaderSupersector score of 98 out of 100. the greatest improvement in ship Index and the lead in the Consumer Supersector score sustainability performance 98/100 Staples category. compared to the previous year. Highest ever score of Highest ever score of 82/100 100/100 DUTCH BENCHMARKS Transparency Benchmark VBDO Tax Transparency and Water transparency For the fourth year running, Circular Business Practices HEINEKEN was the first of 75 Dutch HEINEKEN was ranked as a The Dutch Association of Investors for listed companies in the new water ‘frontrunner’ in transparent Sustainable Development (VBDO) transparency rankings, with a score reporting. It retained a position in created a new benchmark for the of 43%. The ranking was created by the top 20, while the number of transparency of Dutch multinational the University of Twente with companies in scope increased companies regarding tax policy and support from the Water Footprint significantly. implementation. HEINEKEN ranked sixth Network and WWF. With many Position out of 64 companies, placing itself among companies scoring 0%, the report 13/485 those considered to have satisfactory tax demonstrated a need for greater disclosures. VBDO also initiated a transparency around water benchmark study on circular business consumption. The ranking was practices. HEINEKEN ranked 13th of the published in the scientific journal 52 Dutch listed companies assessed. Sustainability. Position Position 6/64, 13/52 1/75 Across its operations, HEINEKEN received a number of sustainability awards in 2015. See its website for details. 1 CDP performance brands reach from A (highest) to E (lowest) HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 29 Spotlight on Sustainable Development Goals In September 2015, the UN’s General Assembly agreed on the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Agenda contains 17 global Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) plus 169 accompanying targets. Subsequently HEINEKEN reviewed its strategy internally against the SDGs. The analysis of current policies and activities highlighted how its strategy directly relates to and supports several of the 17 SDGs. Where it connects Protecting Water Resources • Reducing the amount Where it connects of water used in production • Ensuring the responsible discharge of brewery effluent Growing with Communities • Protecting water resources • Community investments by the operating companies 6 12 15 in water-stressed areas • Involving stakeholders and foundations through HEINEKEN’s 8 • Supporting economic growth partnership with UNIDO through job creation and paying taxes 7 • Heineken Africa Foundation water projects 4 Promoting Health & Safety Reducing CO2 Emissions • The ‘Safety First’ approach 12 • Energy-saving initiatives 3 for company’s employees in production and contractors • HEINEKEN provides BREWING • Increasing renewables (solar, wind, biomass) healthcare for employees and family members in A BETTER in energy mix • Increasing efficiency developing countries, including malaria and HIV WORLD in distribution • Installing more energytreatment 8 efficient fridges • Heineken Africa Foundation healthcare projects 3 Sustainable Sourcing Advocating Responsible 12 • Local sourcing projects, helping smallholder farmers Consumption to improve yields and • Making responsible increase incomes consumption aspirational • Sustainable sourcing of through Heineken® 3 agricultural raw materials • Building partnerships to • Ongoing compliance address alcohol-related harm with Supplier Code • Taking action at global Procedures industry level • Increasing portfolio of noand low alcohol brands Good health and well-being – 3 Decent work and economic growth – 8 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable for all at all ages. economic growth, full & productive employment and decent work for all. Quality education – 4 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education Responsible consumption and production – 12 and promote learning opportunities for all. Ensure sustainable consumption and Clean water and sanitation – 6 production patterns. Ensure availability and sustainable Life on land – 15 management of water and sanitation for all. Protect, restore, and promote sustainable use of Affordable and clean energy – 7 terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable forests, combat desertification and halt and and modern energy for all. reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss. HEINEKEN Hrvatska Sustainability Report 2015 30 About this Summary Sustainability Report Let us know your thoughts This printed report summarises Which aspects of “Brewing a Better HEINEKEN’s and HEINEKEN Hrvatska’s World” are working well? progress on “Brewing a Better World” in Where do you think we could do 2015. better? We would love to hear from you, because your feedback will allow us to learn and improve. Ljudmila Bratko Gašpić Corporate Relations Manager Email: ljudmila.bratko@heineken.com pr.kapi@heineken.com Post: Heineken Hrvatska d.o.o. Dubovac 22 47000 Karlovac Croatia Please visit HEINEKEN’s global Sustainability Report 2015 at: www.theHEINEKENCompany.com www.heineken.hr www.uzivajukarlovackomodgovorno.com Reference information: Address Photography Printing Heineken Hrvatska d.o.o. We would like to thank wider ZT ZAGRAF Dubovac 22 HEINEKEN community and Paper 47 000 Karlovac company’s suppliers for providing Agripina 300 gsm cover Croatia imagery to support Brewing a Agripina 135 gsm inside pages Tel. +385 47 607 340 Better World. Fax +385 47 451 301 HEINEKEN Hrvatska’s archive (Ivo Our Sustainability Report is Pervan, Mario Pavlović, Mladen printed on paper which is Production produced with 100% recycled Volarić, Vjekoslav Skledar, Robert Heineken Hrvatska d.o.o. post-consumer fibre and is Fajt, Oliver Budimir, Igor Corporate Relations Department produced in a chlorine free Čepurkovski) Text process PCF (Process Chlorine Graphic design and electronic Free). Heineken Hrvatska d.o.o. publishing Corporate Relations Department Addison Group HEINEKEN global Sustainability www.addison-group.net Report 2015 AB studio dizajn Barjaković For more information see: www.heineken.hr
