Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability at Nordea sources All information of sustainability at Nordea can be found in our annual Sustainability Report, Fact Book, GRI index document and Annual Report. In addition to the reports, nordea.com has a comprehensive overview with download centre. For any feedback, contact us at sustainability@nordea.com. Annual Report Responsible Investments Fact Book Sustainability Report Our Annual Report is a compreAnnual Report Our Sustainability Fact Book offers This is Nordea's eighth annual hensive guide to Nordea's business Nordea Asset Management’s sixth users all the key data from within the sustainability report. The goal of the performance during 2015. It includes an Annual Report focuses on our comSustainability Report collected in one report is to provide a holistic underoverview of Nordea's sustainability work mitment to being a responsible asset place and accessible in excel format. standing of Nordea's sustainability to add context as one of the building manager. This year we again highlight work. This year we're proud to introblocks of the financial performance of companies in our Stars funds’ portfolio duce our new sustainability strategy the bank. The Annual Report can be and present cases from 2015. and showcase the ongoing progress downloaded from nordea.com/ir made by the bank during 2015. Website Visit our section on nordea.com to get an overview of Nordea's sustainability work, download documentation and gain a more in-depth understanding through our regularly updated stories and case studies. Visit the site at nordea.com GRI index The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) index provides reference to compliance with GRI G4. It includes the general and Specific Standard Disclosures and describes the boundaries for our reporting. Download the report from nordea.com Contents Sustainability at Nordea 04 Casper von Koskull 04 CEO statement describes 05 Nordea at a glance Nordea's transformational agenda and how 06 Thinking broader, looking farther the sustainability strategy addresses societal 08 Developing our new sustainability strategy challenges. 09 Determining our material issues 10 Engaging with stakeholders 11 Managing sustainability 12 Nordea is committed to creating Acting with integrity a compliance framework and culture that will over time live up to the 12 Re-thinking our approach to compliance best-in-class standards. 14 Towards a more structured framework 15 Ensuring awareness Making sustainable economic progress 20,4 BN€ 137,2 BN€ 16 17 Addressing our business impact Helping customers and communities to prosper Other household lending 686,474 Mortgages 12.1millio Number of branc Number of financial plans transactions 20 Aiming for customer satisfaction created 21 Focus on climate change 22 Supporting large corporations for sustainable growth 16 Our aim is to run a successful business that makes a positive impact on society. 24 Investing responsibly 26 Spending wisely: Responsible procurement 28 Paying taxes responsibly 30 We work with our partners and volunteering programme to share our Building skills in personal finances expertise and skills to help people understand 30 Working together to teach money management money management. 32 Partnerships and volunteer work in the Nordic countries Creating opportunities for our people 34 Creating opportunities 34 Equipping our people for a changing world is about making sure that we employ 35 Leadership is vital the right people with the 36 Spotlight on gender diversity right blend of skills and competences, and that 38 Engaging with staff we offer opportunities for development. Managing our environmental footprint 42 We want to manage our 42 Reducing our operational impact own operations responsibly and run our 44 Becoming carbon-neutral business in a way that 46 Nordea EcoFootprint programme promotes the long-term health of our environment. Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 3 Sustainability at Nordea CEO statement Any company has to be centred on the compliance culture and bolstering our countries we have great partnerships in needs of its customers. As our customers efforts to combat financial crime. We have place that allow us to reach large numincreasingly engage with us online or by established a Business Ethics and Values bers of young people. phone, we are now in a transition period Committee to instil a strong group-wide to becoming a truly digital bank. culture that fosters high ethical and Helping others in turn helps our employprofessional standards and ensures poliees develop their own skills. In a time of We have launched new digital services cies clearly guide decision-making and demographic changes with increased such as our updated mobile bank and conduct in daily business. We see this as competition for skilled people, this is further changes will demand we invest crucial to our business sustainability and something we value highly. We believe that in our competences and IT. The outcome long-term value. by attracting and developing a competent of this transformational agenda will be workforce we will be well positioned to a more efficient and straightforward When we reflect on 2015 it is impossible face this challenge. We have some way to structure with benefits to our customers, to ignore the issue of climate change and go in achieving gender diversity, and we employees and investors and enable us to the historic commitments made in Paris. In have combined targets with training for become truly “One Nordea”. step with this, we made our own climate managers to help recognize unconscious change pledge. This includes the combias in our recruitment decisions. Seeing As well as taking action because of mitment to be carbon neutral in our own more women in senior management posidigitalisation, we have also reflected on operations, which we achieved this year. tions is our medium-term goal. It will make how other megatrends such as climate us a stronger company, better able to change and ageing demographics affect Our pledge goes further. We know that serve our diverse customer base. our business. decisions about how we invest, who we fund and what we spend our money on Committing to actions that drive forWe have concluded that our sustainhave a significant impact. We will thereward our new sustainability strategy is a ability programme should address the fore raise concerns about our clients’ priority. If we do it well, the prize is great. societal challenges where we have relimpacts on society with them, preferring Not only will it help us be ‘One Nordea’, evant skills and expertise. We must take engagement to exclusion. That said, the it will also deepen our engagement with responsibility for social and environmental need for concerted action on climate stakeholders – above all our customers issues in our business but we should do change and the risk that some sources of – and address the need to rebuild trust more. Banks have an important role to fossil fuels will become ‘stranded assets’ in the financial sector. This aligns with play as enablers of economic success in cannot be ignored, and we will not begin our business goal of creating the future society. We have therefore identified three new client relationships with companies relationship bank, and helps us realise key focus areas for our new sustainability that primarily depend on coal. the company’s vision of providing great ambitions: promoting sustainable ecocustomer experiences in today’s increasnomic progress, building skills in personal Ensuring people can benefit from ingly challenging world. finance and ensuring a diverse workforce. economic opportunities and be productive and responsible members of society In addition, in 2015 we have focused on is another area where we can play a role. compliance, which is an essential building Nordea employees make a difference block in our customer journey and digital by sharing their expertise and teaching Casper von Koskull, transformation. We are strengthening our financial skills. Throughout the Nordic Group Chief Executive Officer 4 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability at Nordea Finland Nordea at a glance Russia Norway Sweden Estonia Latvia Denmark Lithuania Key figures 9,964 m* Total operating income, EUR 4,791 m* Operating profit, EUR 16.5%* Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio A Nordic bank with a global reach Nordea is the largest financial services group We operate in: Denmark, Finland, Norway, Sweden, 12.3% Return on equity in Northern Europe. Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Russia Nordea has leading positions in corporate and institutional banking as well as retail banking and private banking. It is also • Operations • Centre (NOC) in Poland with 1,466 employees International branches in Frankfurt, London, New York, Shanghai & 14 b.p.s. Loan loss ratio the leading provider of life and pensions Singapore and representative offices 0.64 products in the Nordic countries. in Beijing and Sao Paulo. A total of Formal name: Nordea Bank AB (publ.) 300 employees who are a mix of locals and expatriates (40 in 2015). Legally registered in Sweden with head offices in Stockholm. • The largest Nordic private bank in Luxembourg and Switzerland. Proposed dividend, EUR per share * Excluding non-recurring items. For further explanation please see the Fourth Quarter and Full Year Results 2015 or Annual >10,500,000 Report 2015 at nordea.com/ir. The Nordea share is listed on NASDAQ OMX Nordic Exchange in Stockholm, Helsinki and Copenhagen Total number of customers 32,610 Total number of employees 57% 43% % of women as managers: 41% Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 5 Sustainability at Nordea Thinking broader, looking farther In 2015 we launched Nordea’s new in building the future of the societies sustainability strategy, which represents where we operate, and our desire to a significant milestone in our journey. be a significant force for good in these With many years’ experience of mansocieties. aging and reporting on our operational sustainability impact, and a growing Our strategy is framed around the appreciation of our broader impact on societal challenges for which we have society, we believe it is time to expand relevant expertise and competence, our horizons, raise our ambition and and we have identified three specific embed sustainability even more deeply areas where we feel we have the best within our business strategy. opportunity to make a positive difference (see below in Illustration 1). These three It will always be important for us to priority areas each form a chapter in this act responsibly and ethically and to report. In each area we have defined minimise our negative impacts. However, the key challenges, clarified the role we our analysis is that the world is changing can play and our main goals, and made and facing unprecedented challenges, exacting commitments. Our focus is now and expectations on business are higher on working together across the whole than ever. Our new strategy reflects our business – taking actions that will turn belief that we have an important role our commitments into reality. Illustration 1: Sustainability strategy Sustainable economic Financial Diversity progress skills Mitigating Improving the level of financial Improving gender diversity climate change skills in society at Nordea Supporting individuals Supporting and companies equal opportunities Foundation Risk management Own environmental Sustainable Sustainability Compliance & governance footprint sourcing reporting 6 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability at Nordea Gunn Wærsted, Head of Wealth Management, Chairman of the Sustainability Committee Letter from Gunn Wærsted In 2015 we committed to being more ambitious with our sustainability work. Having reporting. This work continues to underpin our broader ambitions. worked with sustainability actively since New sustainability strategy our Sustainability unit was established in based on societal challenges 2008, we have created a solid foundaThroughout the year, we have worked tion for our programme. Our 2013 stakeclosely with key business areas and Our new holder dialogue – which gave rise to over 5,000 suggestions for actions we could group functions, first to appreciate societal trends that affect us and then sustainability take to be more sustainable – and the to agree on our next steps. This work great appetite of our staff to do more, successfully led to the Sustainability strategy is based led us to form Sustainability focus areas Committee approving the new sustainon the relevant grouped according to key stakeholders. ability strategy in November 2015. societal challenges We want to gain a clearer understanding Our new sustainability strategy is based of the impact of our business on society, on the relevant societal challenges where we can and as a part of this process we conwhere we can apply our skills and expeapply our skills and tinue to analyse fundamental changes in the financial industry and in customer rience to make a positive change. We have articulated our beliefs about our experience to make demands for our services. We aim to be role in tackling these societal challenges, ahead of these developments and be and have made specific commitments in positive change. part of shaping the future of the financial each area. An overview of our sustainaindustry. bility strategy is provided in Illustration 2. Nordea is a value-based organisaIt has been an exciting and inclusive tion guided by our three values: Great process that is good for Nordea and, Customer Experiences, It’s all about peowe believe, good for society too. More ple and One Nordea Team. Our business remains to be done and in 2016 we will fundamentals need a solid foundation, work further with the business areas composed of sound ethical principles. to define action plans and measurable This foundation is our licence to operate. goals. With those in place society can It includes risk management and complihold us to account and we will be able to ance, our own environmental footprint, tangibly demonstrate the contribution we our supply chain, and our sustainability make to a more sustainable society. Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 7 Sustainability at Nordea Developing our new sustainability strategy Our strategy and materiality analysis •• Technological breakthroughs: These business: ‘Great Customer Experiences’, were developed concurrently in 2015. We require us to radically rethink how to ‘It’s All About People’ and ‘One Nordea considered external and internal perspecinnovate in order to keep pace with agile Team’ guide all decisions we make. As tives to find the most material issues for competitors and develop online services. these values suggest, people, be they our business and the cornerstones for our We have also observed the United Nation’s employees or other stakeholders, are at sustainability strategy. See Illustration 2 for 17 Sustainable Development Goals the core of both our business strategy an overview of our process to define the (SDGs) to understand both the positive and our approach to sustainability. We most material issues. and negative impact of our operations and engage our employees by working with a activity. Our sustainability strategy is totally group-wide network and aim to retain and External perspective aligned with the SDGs most relevant to the further build the trust of our stakeholders We began by analysing global megatrends financial industry. in general by further emphasising the role and considering which were particularly of compliance and risk management in relevant to the financial industry. From Internal perspective our strategy. there, we identified the ones that most Our Sustainability Committee is the govaffect our business and shape customer erning body on sustainability matters and The new business strategy and customer demands. decided in spring 2015 to set more ambivision launched in spring 2015 were furtious sustainability goals. We set up a task ther internal perspectives that shaped the How did we ‘Identify force with representatives from all three sustainability ambition. The new customer challenges in society’? business areas and Group HR. Members vision is based on meeting the changing Global megatrends identified were: of the Sustainability team and the task demands of customers and being easy to •• Demographic and social changes: These force held numerous individual and joint deal with, relevant and competent, anylead to heightened requirements for a meetings to discuss the new ambition level where anytime and making Nordea the diverse workforce with the right areas together. We also conducted a stakeholder safe and trusted partner for a personal of competence and the need to provide survey among the top 40 senior managand digital relationship. The main eleequal opportunities so all people can ers at Nordea to ensure alignment and ments of the new business priorities for become full members of society obtain input to the strategy work ahead. 2016-2018 are: •• Climate change and resource scarcity: The outcome was that the future priorities This leads to demands to mitigate enviidentified were supported. •• Simplify for scale and a forceful digital ronmental damage, develop sustainable response business, assess exposure to climate How did we ‘Define •• Expand on core strengths and drive risk and grow economies without commitment and direction?’ cost and capital efficiency increasing emissions Our values are the foundation for all our •• Maintain a low risk profile. Illustration 2: How we developed our new strategy ng yi es c D External perspective tif ng ty an om efi Internal perspective Mega and industry trends en le ie d m nin Sustainability committee and Id hal oc di itm g re e Sustainability unit c ns ct n Mega trends i io t •• Demographic and social changes n •• Values •• Climate change and resource •• Ethics & compliance scarcity •• Business strategy •• Technological breakthroughs •• Customer vision New Sustainable Development Goals Sustainable economic progress Internal Sustainability Trends in financial services Financial stakeholder network •• Regulatory changes skills •• Behavioural changes •• Retail banking •• Financial environment Diversity •• Wholesale banking •• Social inclusiveness •• Wealth management Solid •• Human resources foundation •• Investor relations •• Group credit risk External stakeholders •• Group marketing & communications •• Customers •• Shareholders/investors •• Regulators Ensure diverse Ensure •• Suppliers: range of external business •• Analysts: views are fundamentals •• NGOs considered are considered •• Government authorities 8 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability at Nordea Determining our material issues Through bringing together the various where, left unaddressed, our business opportunities to add value to society, external and internal perspectives, we may have a potentially negative impact on support our stakeholders and develop have defined three societal challenges in society. By investing time and effort in the opportunities for our business. which Nordea can make the most signifactions associated with each challenge icant contribution. These are challenges area, we manage that risk and identify 1) Sustainable economic progress Corresponding GRI aspects We believe that our business decisions and we are therefore committed to Economic performance affect the future and are therefore enabling businesses to prosper and Indirect economic impact committed to taking environmental and supporting individuals so that they Procurement practices & Supplier assessment social issues into account in business can enjoy a good quality of life. Investments selection and in investment decisions. Our core commitments on Product Portfolio Furthermore, we believe that the success this area relate to: Active Ownership of businesses and individuals are the key •• Climate change to economic growth and social wellbeing •• Sustainable finance •• Responsible investments •• Responsible procurement. 2) Building skills in personal finances Corresponding GRI aspects We believe people need to understand have a good quality of life. Local communities their finances to be a responsible Our core commitments on Product & services labeling member of society. We therefore this area relate to: support selected groups in society to •• Improving the level of help them achieve a good level of skills financial skills in society. in personal finances so they can 3) Promoting diversity Corresponding GRI aspects We believe that attracting and retaining There is a vital role for leaders in the Employment the best, diverse expertise in the industry business in motivating and developing Diversity & Equal opportunity is crucial for successful business their people. We are committed to Training & Education and we are committed to attracting a increasing our understanding of diverse workforce and continuously our potential role in this area. developing our staff. Companies as Our core commitments on employers play a role in providing the this area relate to: platform for people to achieve a good •• Improving gender diversity at Nordea quality of life and fulfil their aspirations. •• Strengthening leadership competences •• Developing our people. 4) Developing our solid foundation Corresponding GRI aspects We have long understood that •• Risk management and governance Anti-Corruption ethical conduct and sound business •• Developing our sustainable Compliance practices are necessary as a procurement Grievance mechanisms Energy & Emissions foundation to ensure we continue •• Minimising our own to enjoy our ‘licence to operate’. environmental footprint Our core commitments on •• Increasing transparency this area relate to: in sustainability. • Compliance For our commitments & policies, see nordea.com Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 9 Sustainability at Nordea Engaging with stakeholders Every three years, we carry out a This has since been amended to include proved useful. And fourth, in December large-scale dialogue with all our stakea series of further stakeholder engage2014, we conducted another survey to holder groups. In spring 2013, participaments. First, we reflected internally understand what proportion of Nordea’s tion in the stakeholder dialogue proved and included some more fundamental shareholders can be defined as responto be very fruitful with the number of aspects of our core business. Second sible investors, who they are and what responses far in excess of our expectawe incorporated some of the insights the changes had been since the end of tion. Based on that dialogue, in 2013 we gained from one-on-one dialogues with 2013. Based on these external expecintroduced a new, more comprehensive international finance sector analysts tations, we are committed to meeting sustainability strategy. that we held in 2014. Third, our regular the heightened demands on transparfeedback mechanism for customer and ency to keep and build the trust of our employee feedback and satisfaction also stakeholders. Customers Over 10.5 million How we engage Topics raised •• Customer satisfaction survey •• Service availability •• Immediate automated •• Service quality feedback •• Quality of advice •• Customer Ombudsmen •• Netbank Cards •• Greenwich Large Corporates •• Relationship quality Survey •• Strategic thinking Employees 32,610 Regulators How we engage Topics raised How we engage Topics raised •• Employee satisfaction survey •• Relevant advice Regular interactions Various relevant stra•• Performance and •• Knowing our customers to support good tegic, supervisory and Development Dialogue cooperation advocacy topics Shareholders 466,901 How we engage •• Roadshows with Investor Relations Topics raised •• Engagement with customers •• Answering questionnaires •• Transparency, openness and 41% of shares owned by responsible reliability investors (representing approx. 75% •• Trustworthiness of institutional free-float) •• Society and community relations NGO’s 50 Topics raised Analysts 53 How we engage Important for Nordea to How we engage Topics raised •• Facilitiated discussion have a view on emerg•• One-on-one dialogues •• Responsible lending with NGO's ing ESG issues both •• Roadshows with •• Business ethics, compliance regarding investments Investor Relations •• Tax transparency and lending. •• Answering •• Equal opportunities questionnaires •• Responsible sales & marketing Suppliers 700 Topics raised •• Supply chain transparency How we engage •• Corporate policies and procedures at local levels •• Sustainability questionnaire •• Set targets and continuous follow-up in the UNGC •• On-spot reviews areas •• Dialogues during RFP processes •• Environmental performance 10 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Sustainability at Nordea Managing sustainability From 1 January 2016 a new Executive Sustainability strategy. The Committee The Sustainability Committee prepares Committee for Business Ethics and Values comprises senior personnel from business and executes the Sustainability stratoversees the company’s efforts to ensure areas including the Heads of Retail and egy and acts as a coordinating body in all staff conduct their daily business in Wholesale Banking, as well as group funcrelation to the business areas and group accordance with the company’s values and tions such as the Head of Sustainability functions. The Head of Sustainability ethical and professional standards. and representatives from Group HR and reports to the Head of Group Marketing Group Risk Management. The Committee and Communications. See the illustration The Committee will decide Nordea’s minutes are submitted to Group Executive below for an overview of the governance values, set policies and review relManagement and a report will be submitframework. evant documents such as the Code of ted annually to the Group Board on the Conduct, the Sustainability policy and the committee’s findings and insights. For more on our governance, see nordea.com A governance structure to support integration of sustainability into our core business At Nordea, business areas are responsible for managing and executThe sustainability governance model has been built to support the busiing the implementation of our sustainability work. The Responsible ness areas in achieving this. The Committees include representatives Investment unit in Asset Management and the Sustainable Finance unit from business areas and group functions as does the Sustainability in Wholesale Banking work to make responsibility for environmental, Stakeholder Network which acts as a task force to prepare and implesocial and governance (ESG) issues an integral part of our business. ment the decisions carried out. Board Risk Committee Board of Directors Group Executive Management Approves: Decides on: Decides on: • Sustainability report • Code of Coduct • Sustainability strategy • Conflict of interest policy • Sustainability report • Sustainability policy Business Ethics & Values Committee The Business Ethics and Values In addition, the Committee develops the values Similarly, the Committee provides guidance Committee oversees that Nordea’s business of the Group and ensures that key policies to business areas and functions on ethical is conducted responsibly and in adherence and strategies reflect these values as well as considerations such as conflicts of interest. with our values and ethical standards. our ethical standards. Sustainability Committee The Sustainability Committee consists • Preparing, following up on and ensuring • Ensuring that the decisions made are impleof the business areas and functions most execution of Nordea’s Sustainability strategy mented in the business areas and group important to the development of sustainability • Defining and following up on Nordea’s functions as planned at Nordea. sustainability focus areas • Sharing knowledge and identifying sustainThe Committee’s responsibilities include: • Defining Nordea’s core sustainability policies ability trends and opportunities for Nordea. Sustainability unit The Sustainability unit: • Coordinates sustainability actions and busiprojects as separately agreed. • Ensures that sustainability is on the business area commitment ness agenda of the group • Communicates Nordea as a sustainable • Creates & develops the overall sustainability company and good corporate citizen strategy and goals for the group • Initiates and participates in sustainability Sustainability Stakeholder Network We establish task forces as needed based on business who can drive forward sustainability governance model enables us to integrate a Sustainability Stakeholder Network, initiatives once the Sustainability Committee sustainability activities into all parts of the comprised of representatives from around the has decided on a course of action. This new business. Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 11 Acting with integrity Re-thinking our approach to compliance Building trust is key to Nordea’s success, and tions, and we have a crucial role in protecting being a safe and trusted partner to our customour customers, our bank and society from these ers and other stakeholders is thus an essential illegal activities. part of our customer vision. The importance we place on developing relationships of trust is a Rebuilding after a disappointing fine main reason why compliance matters, and must In the spring of 2015 we received a SEK 50 milhave top priority. We see an increasing number lion fine from the Swedish Financial Supervisory of important regulations with the aim of protectAuthority (SFSA) for insufficient processes ing our customers and supporting efficient and to counteract money laundering and terrorist effective financial markets, and we need to be financing. Nordea has taken the fine and warning sophisticated and involve all our employees in from the SFSA extremely seriously. Although we our efforts to secure that these objectives are had taken thorough measures in recent years to achieved. strengthen this area, the fine proved that we had underestimated the complexity and the resources Facing escalating risks needed to meet all requirements. We acknowlBanks are now subject to an unprecedented edged that we have to change the way we operdegree of regulatory scrutiny. Compliance is thus ate, and need to become more sophisticated in increasingly complex and costly, but the conseour efforts to prevent financial crime. quences of non-compliance are also increasingly severe including regulatory fines, greater precThe fine made us realise that it is neither effiedents for legal action, C-Suite personal liability, cient nor sustainable to have different processes scarcity of financial support and, ultimately, risks in different countries and business areas, and to a bank’s licence to operate. that we need a more holistic approach to managing our compliance risks across the organisation. One area of particular importance is the prevention of financial crime. This is an escalating chalWhile we were very disappointed to have incurred lenge all over the world, driven by factors such as a fine, this experience has catalysed the develpolitical instability and terrorism. Consequently, opment of a new approach that we believe will authorities are imposing more stringent regulastrengthen our capacity to meet future challenges. AMBITION: to raise the level of compliance at Nordea and to create a compliance framework and culture that lives up to best-in-class standards over time GOAL: to develop a holistic, systematic approach, supported by a common strategy, policies and way of working throughout Nordea ACTIONS OUTCOME 1. Strengthening the overall compliance framework •• Ensure consistency •• Establish common, sustainable compliance processes across Nordea and quality •• Strengthen implementation capabilities •• Strengthen the oversight function Group Compliance •• Meet regulatory 2. Establishing a Financial Crime Change Programme (FCCP) expectations •• Develop a group-wide sustainable model for the prevention of financial crime •• Implement common processes, supported by core IT solutions and •• Be more rigorous, communication and training efficient and competent in 3. Equipping our people to meet the challenges serving our •• Increase compliance awareness and competence through training customers 12 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Acting with integrity Compliance Q&A with CEO Q Today banks are highly reguQ You have talked about the lated and compliance with those ‘digital transformation’ Nordea regulations is very important for is going through. How does this banks. What’s your view, in gencompliance effort contribute to eral, on compliance? that? Compliance is vital for a bank, Our compliance work is a great because we cannot operate without example of both the challenge and the the confidence of our stakeholders. opportunity of our digital transformaIt’s actually quite straightforward: tion programme. It’s a challenge on banks enjoy a special place in society many levels: updating old processes as enablers of economic progress and ensuring we have the systems and we see compliance as a natural to transfer, store and share the right part of our role and responsibility in information with the right people in society. As an industry, we suffer from the most efficient way possible. a trust deficit and one way we can Then, of course there is the human collectively address that is by showing side of this. Our frontline people consumers, regulators and others that implement compliance work every day, we comply with the regulations. and sometimes this is face-to-face When it comes to anti-money with customers. Important, valuable laundering (AML) for example, of work that contributes to our complicourse we want to ensure the bank ance goals. How do we bring the best is not used for illegal activities. So of that into our digital future? These we have made a concerted effort to are not straightforward questions. So, address the deficiencies highlighted compliance is a great touchstone of by the Swedish Financial Supervisory the challenges. But also the opportuAuthority (SFSA) last spring. Our new nities: when we get this right, we will Financial Crime Change Programme have a more robust, effective system is a group-wide and sustainable and deliver it more efficiently. standard that will help us prevent financial crime across the business. Q With this work on compliance, what’s in it for customers? Q What are your overall ambitions for the new compliance Banking is built on relationships. If A more holistic and our customers trust us to serve them programme? well, and meet their needs, then we robust programme Well, we have set ourselves a very high ambition – we want to run a can enjoy mutually beneficial relationships. And our compliance efforts are that is flexible enough best-in-class compliance programme at the heart of that. Our Know Your to adapt to developing here at Nordea. We see that as being Customer programme is the bridge consistent with our values and what that takes us from what we need to regulations while our customers rightly want and expect from us. do to be compliant to what our customers want us to do for them. at the same time That will take time, but we have So I believe getting our new complibeing rigorously made a good start – the key focus in ance programme right is fundamen2015 has been to stabilize and lay the tal also to seeing an upturn in our and consistently foundation for the future. Now we are working hard to implement our more customer satisfaction numbers. And of course that in turn builds enduring applied across the holistic and robust programme that business success. whole business.” is flexible enough to adapt to developing regulations while at the same Casper von Koskull, time being rigorously and consistently applied across the whole business. Group Chief Executive Officer Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 13 Acting with integrity Towards a more structured compliance framework Strengthening the overall The plan is executed by six different Financial crime compliance framework at Nordea work streams: At Nordea, we are currently executing A financial crime is an offence by an extensive Simplification programme, •• Governance or against an individual or corporawith the aim to install a new core bank•• Know Your Customer (KYC) tion that results in a financial loss. ing platform, and establish sustainable •• Sanctions The two main types of financial common processes across the bank. To •• Transaction Monitoring crime that affect our business are support this, we established this year a •• Investigating and Reporting, and money laundering and bribery and Chief Operating Officer (COO) organisa•• Financial Crime Intelligence. corruption. tion, with the embedded Business Risk Implementation and Support (BRIS) Within the Governance work stream, the units, which will have an important role in first activity is to design a new financial Money laundering developing and implementing sustainable crime operating model which will be processes in business to ensure regulaimplemented in 2016. This is the process by which tory compliance. criminals attempt to conceal the Recognising the complexity within true origin and/or ownership of the Furthermore, we are strengthening the financial crime, our expertise has been proceeds of criminal activities. If Group Compliance unit, to be able to strengthened. A global head of Financial successful, the money can lose its meet the increasing regulatory demands Crime with international experience, criminal identity and appear legition this oversight function. The unit has including extensive experience as a UK mate. Criminals do this by disguising existed as a centralised function since 1 regulatory executive, has been recruited. the source, changing the form or September 2014, and has embarked on Besides hiring in-house resources, moving the funds so they are less a considerable change journey. Nordea has engaged consultants with likely to attract attention. experience from working with large We currently have several initiatives in international banks’ financial crime progress to strengthen the core proprogrammes. We therefore capitalise on cesses and infrastructure in the unit, and other large institutions’ experience in Bribery and corruption we will in the next few years implement this complex field. a fundamentally new operating model Bribery is a specific offence which enhancing common processes. As part The daily processing activities have also concerns the practice of offering of this process, staffing is considerably been addressed to ensure the right something, usually money, to gain strengthened to increase competence focus and resources. A new central an illicit advantage. Corruption is an and capacity. shared services unit ”Group Anti-Money abuse of a position of trust in order Laundering & Sanctions”, was formed to gain an undue advantage. Establishing a Financial Crime in November 2015 and is responsible Change Programme (FCCP) for transaction monitoring, sanction To specifically address the deficiencies screening and substantial parts of KYC highlighted by the Swedish Financial processing. Supervisory Authority (SFSA), we have established a Financial Crime Change The FCCP is sponsored by the head of Programme, which is a holistic approach Group Compliance and senior executo developing a group-wide and sustives from each business area and reltainable standard for the prevention of evant group functions form the Steering financial crime. Committee. The committee’s main role is to focus dedicated and disciplined The programme has been mobilised efforts on developing a new model to and a comprehensive plan has been prevent financial crime – one that will approved by the Board. The objective is ensure a global approach with collabotwofold: to remedy the outsanding speration across the organisation. cific issues addressed by the SFSA, but also to work more broadly to ensure a Ultimately, we aim to create a financial robust platform that can handle the concrime compliance culture that becomes tinuously changing regulatory requirea natural and embedded part of how ments. This work will be performed in the company operates, and equips us to stages and is prioritised based on risk. provide the highest level of protection to our customers, our bank and society. 14 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Acting with integrity Ensuring awareness At Nordea, we run two group-wide risk Operational risk and compliance and compliance awareness programmes. awareness programme Whistle-blowing The aim is to ensure high awareness for all employees among our people about risk and compliThe objective of this programme is to Nordea’s group-wide whistle blowance requirements and expectations both make all employees understand their ing system Raising Your Concern in the financial industry in general and at responsibilities in connection with operaencourages employees to speak up Nordea specifically. tional risk and compliance. if they have a serious concern about any misconduct or irregularities, Compliance awareness The programme enables the participants including any action that constitutes programme for senior management through e-learning to: a violation of laws or regulations, or The objective of this programme is to of Nordea’s internal policies, instrucoutline the responsibilities of a senior 1) Understand external and internal tions or guidelines. manager. The programme enables the regulatory requirements It also includes actions that could senior managers to understand relevant 2) Gain awareness of a range of operacause harm to Nordea’s business or requirements and expectations so that tional and compliance-related risks, reputation, or to the health or secuthey may identify the actions needed threats and challenges rity of our employees or customers. within their area of responsibility. 3) Be able to identify the need to act It aims to ensure our compliance accordingly. with the standards set out in the UK Our target is to launch two new modules Bribery Act and European Banking a year. In 2015, we updated 13 out of 20 Our target is a participation rate above Authority Guidelines. modules in the programme and launched 90%. In 2015, we closed one module, There were three known anona new module on data governance in ‘Acting with integrity builds trust’ on 20 ymously reported whistleblowing December 2015. February with a participation rate of cases which all are still considered approximately 95% of Nordea’s employopen and are under investigation. ees. Furthermore, another module was The reported cases relate to Code launched in December 2015, called of Conduct, anti-bribery and cor“Prevent manipulation caused by social ruption and credit instructions. The engineering”. This module will be closed two open cases from 2014 have in Q1 2016. been investigated and closed during 2015. Group Compliance has decided to, during 2016, review the Raising Your Concern process in order to find further improvement opportunities. Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 15 Making sustainable economic progress Addressing our business impact Through investing, lending, and depletion, an ageing population and the Most stable bank purchasing we aspire to place money pace of technological change. in the Nordic region: in a way that produces the greatest value. As the leading financial services Any responsible business needs to •• Strong capital generation provider in Northern Europe, Nordea analyse how it will run its business in •• Lowest volatility in net profit has an important role in these societies. line with society’s expectations of ethi•• AA credit rating We acknowledge this role and aim to cal and responsible business practices. run a successful business that has a The greater challenge – our sustainpositive impact on society. ability context – is not only a question for our company, but for all of society. For Nordea, making sustainable ecoFor us, sustainability has crystallised nomic progress means thinking past into a set of choices about addressing a narrow approach to value creation, the environmental and social impact of to one that considers the wellbeing of our business decisions: who we lend our customers, communities, and the money to, how we invest and spend ecosystems that support us. We have money and how we engage with the reconceived the context of our work to communities where we operate to take into account global “megatrends” understand how we contribute to socisuch as climate change and resource etal progress. Highlights in 2015 Focus area Activities Plans ahead Promoting entrepreneurship •• Supporting networks and organisations •• Continue developing advisory services and that foster entrepreneurship investing heavily in digital offering to businesses •• Utilising opportunities to mentor business owners •• Continue working with networks and organisations to support SME's Supporting individuals •• Providing advice and services based on •• Executing our transformational change knowing our customers and understanding agenda to become a truly digital bank their needs & preferences •• Developing services and products to meet customer expectations in the digital era Enhancing awareness and capabilities •• Enhancing tools and competences to evaluate •• Integrating ESG tool into the credit in sustainable finance ESG performance of our customers assessment of large corporate customers •• Arranging green bonds •• Continuing to promote green bonds Responsible investments •• Increase focus on ESG integration •• Continuing ESG integration into all investments •• Continuing to develop the work with our •• Driving change in our focus areas: focus areas and engage in new initiatives Climate change, Corruption, Water •• Continuing to work with the commitments waste management, Human rights of the Montreal Pledge •• Cimate change: Montreal Pledge and carbon footprint as part of the ESG footprint of our investments Responsible procurement •• Developing a more structured approach •• Continuing to work with risk assessment to responsible procurement of existing and new supplies •• Engaging with our stakeholders •• Continue conducting on-spot •• Increasing data availability reviews and training •• Further improve business data analysis 16 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Making sustainable economic progress Helping customers and communities to prosper Achieving a truly sustainable Nordea’s long-term ambition is to be economy is a long-term commitment number one in all of the four Nordic markets We want to be #1 The challenges that affect the lives of in terms of customer satisfaction, profitour stakeholders in the Nordic markets ability and employee satisfaction. We have are universal and complex. As we cannot two strategic focus areas for 2016-2018: know now what solutions will be most the first is in advisory, where we will strive needed in twenty, or even ten years, we to be available “anywhere and anytime”, and in customer satisfaction, profitability commit to proceeding step by step, closely this is facilitated by the second focus area and employee satisfaction. following developments in society, and of digital experience, where we will tailor our adjusting our plans accordingly. services to individual customer needs and preferences. We will achieve efficiency and Markets are not a sufficient mechanism scale by unifying our services under one to value non-financial goods. Financial Nordic banking model. markets, investments and related services have structural shortcomings that may Direct economic impact EURm have the unintended consequence of distorting or externalising significant social Total income, ex. non-recurring items 9,964 and environmental costs. Salaries and benefits, ex. non-recurring items -3,058 We can offer financial solutions with Supplier spend -2,275 sustainability in mind, but we cannot hope to solve these problems without collabPayments to governments -1,523 oration and leadership from partners in Payments to capital providers -2,501 our own and other sectors. We commit to listening to, and supporting, a range of Community investment -7 community and sector partners so we can Economic value retained 600 recognise and respond to challenges with the tools, skills and experience that we have to offer. Community investment 2015* EURt Our aim is to be the best Sponsorship 5,870 bank for each customer Sports 5,302 The success of businesses and individuals are the key to economic growth and social Culture (art, music, etc) 568 well-being. We are committed to helping businesses to prosper and supporting Community investment 524 individuals in enjoying a good quality of Donations 384 life. We aim to do this in a way that does not sacrifice the ability of future generaTotal 6,778 tions to also achieve these goals because we acknowledge that our decisions today *The figures are based on groupand country-level community investment in the Nordic countries. Regional sponsorships are not included. will affect the future state of the larger economy and ecosystem that sustains us. Donations This has led us to developing a companyPromoting Community wide position on climate change that entrepreneurship in society 6% involvement increasingly influences our lending, investBusinesses provide value to society in 8% ing and spending decisions. many ways. They provide direct benefits to individuals in the form of employment We know we make our biggest impact and wages. They are a hotbed for techniCommunity Community by offering our expertise and capacity in cal advancement and innovation that yields investment investment finance so our aim is to be the best bank improvements to an array of aspects of our 2015 2015 for each customer, whether an individual, daily lives, from energy to food to comsmall business, or large corporation. By munication and healthcare. Businesses finding mutually beneficial and compleprovide opportunities for self-fulfillment and 87% mentary relationships with our customers creativity to the entrepreneurs who invest in Sponsorship we can help create a better future. achieving their personal vision. Businesses Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 17 Making sustainable economic progress Customer impact in 2015 137.2 Mortgages BN€ 12.1million Number of branch transactions 686,474 Number of 20.4 BN€ Other household financial plans created lending entrepreneurs we also extended our 247,875,365 working hours for business banking, and introduced mobile banking for corporate customers. Supporting individuals and Number of netbank transactions households in realising their plans The landscape for financial planning is constantly evolving. We work with individuals and families to help them navigate drive prosperity in the market economy; the obstacles in this turbulent financial they are the conduit for the trade relalandscape and find solutions where they tionships that are the source of wealth. can grow their savings and investments In 2015 we Businesses contribute to financing the into long-term value. We offer competitive welfare state. lending, savings and financial planning invested heavily services that help our customers turn in our digital and How does Nordea help businesses create value? their ambitions into reality. advisory offering We have a strategic focus on businesses Responsible advice in and now have over 500,000 corporate the digital era to SMEs. customers. Every day, every time we are We firmly believe that we need to underin contact with them, we strive to be part stand our customers’ financial situation of making it possible for those companies and ambitions in order to offer them the to manage their everyday business, face best possible advice and services. That is their risks and challenges. We do this why our advisers meet with customers to by advising companies, lending to them, discuss their finances and future plans. offering infrastructure and financial products, and facilitating partnerships. In turn, But customers’ preferences about how we also help them invest the proceeds of they interact with Nordea are changing. their commercial activities. There is demand for increased accessibility to suit customers’ diverse schedules. We actively support business owners, Remote interaction is helpful for cusgrowth companies, and young people with tomers who live far from a branch, who entrepreneurial dreams by offering menlive abroad or who find it hard to fit in a torship, facilitating collaboration within the traditional meeting with the bank during industry, and helping build networks for standard working hours. new entrants to the market. We’ve responded by developing a portWe have defined our offering based folio of services and solutions that suits on customer needs and in 2015 we their wishes and modern-day habits. invested heavily in our offering to SMEs, both in modern digital services and in For example, in 2015 we piloted an online meeting the needs for advisory services branch offering with increased accesthat businesses have. To better serve sibility. Meetings are held face to face via 18 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Making sustainable economic progress video camera to enhance communication, Online onboarding (opening new improve the connection between bank accounts) is now available to corporate and customer and increase trust. We’ve customers in Norway and Sweden, as well also updated our mobile bank to allow customers to easily chat or place calls to as to household customers in Sweden and Finland. Customers can onboard at Nordea is more than Nordea with the app, improving the speed their own convenience, while ensuring just a bank, and and quality of customer service. that the required information is submitted. we want to support Increasing security We cannot compromise security and Administration security has also been improved. In Denmark, customers can our customers “Know Your Customer” processes in now sign and send documents electroniand society. the pursuit of convenience and accescally through the Netbank offering peace sibility so we have implemented digital of mind, and similar solutions are schedMasood Arai, senior authentication solutions across the Nordic region. In Finland, we’ve launched a log-in uled for launch in other countries. Project Manager in app to further increase security, which Digital Banking. pre-authenticates customers when they contact Nordea. Accelerating prosperity: Nordea start-up accelerator programme Case Nordea’s three-month accelto Europe. Its founder, Neil Ambikar, products and services – which in turn erator programme, run in partnership was attracted by the opportunity to is good for society. with Nestholma Venture Accelerator in collaborate with a bank and gain input The 70 employees who volunteer Helsinki, is aimed at supporting small from experts in payments, trade, FX their time and skills – 12 as permanent businesses with pioneering ideas and, and compliance. mentors – also benefit from exposure in so doing, advancing innovations for Neil said of his experience: “We to fresh perspectives and exercisproviding great customer experiences. have been able to validate our service ing their skills in a different context. We are the first bank in the Nordics to and business proposition by spendMasood Arai, Senior Project Manager run this type of initiative. ing time with real experts. We’ve also in Digital Banking, supports B2B pay Out of 170 applicants, 12 startbeen able to initiate a pilot project, by helping Neil to refine his business ups were invited to join the first and have the potential to partner model and connecting him to individuprogramme, representing a range of with Nordea in the future. In return, als with relevant expertise. potential new services aligned with we have shared ideas with Nordea Masood commented, “This is a brilthree themes – ‘payments’, ‘digital and hopefully inspired some creative liant opportunity to demonstrate that touchpoints’ and ‘achieving your solutions.” Nordea is more than just a bank, and dreams’. Indeed, for Nordea, supporting that we want to support our customers One of these is B2B Pay, which B2B Pay and other start-ups may and society. It is also a great way for provides a simple, low cost payment lead to professional partnerships and Nordea to gain a genuine insight into solution for non-European exporters opportunities to provide innovative how a start-up can make a difference.” Left: Nordea volunteers spend time with representatives from the startups. Above: Senior Project Manager, Masood Arai, shares his skills with his mentee, entrepreneur Neil Ambikar Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 19 Making sustainable economic progress Aiming for customer satisfaction The customer decides The banking industry is facing ous year. While we saw positive progress what an excellent unprecedented challenges, not least in some areas, the overall score highcustomer experience is in terms of meeting customers’ rapidly lights the need to strengthen our focus evolving demands for new ways of bankon being a close and trusted partner for ing, accessing information and protectour customers and giving more attention In 2009 Pirjo Kuusela was ing themselves, while at the same time to meeting their everyday needs. appointed as customer ombudsenhancing traditional services such as man for Nordea Finland, charged in-branch banking. In addition, banks are Each business area is looking closely at with working with employees to increasingly expected to take an active the results and taking the appropriate implement faster and higher-quality role in society and to act positively in actions in each country to address the processing of customer feedback. areas such as anti-money laundering main issues our customers highlighted. Today, Nordea’s market share of and identity fraud – and it is vital that customer complaints to external we meet these expectations if we are Role of the Ombudsman regulatory bodies is 22%, half of to position Nordea as a trusted financial A Customer Ombudsman in each Nordic what it was in 2006. partner. country serves as liaison between the “Our work in recent years consumer authorities, our customers has had positive results in three Inviting feedback and our employees. This ensures that areas – a change in organisational Feedback from customers is an imporwe have a consistent process for hanculture, fewer complaints and tant indicator of how we are doing, dling feedback, and helps our employgreater customer satisfaction in enabling us to learn more about their ees to handle customer complaints the processing of complaints,” says needs and our performance and to make appropriately. Kuusela. “All customer feedback appropriate changes. We obtain this is now passed to the relevant through an annual customer satisfacAbout 14% of customer feedback to line management and up to 90% tion survey, communications with our the ombudsmen in 2015 was positive. is handled within 24 hours. The Customer Ombudsman and social media Availability is the most important topic remaining 10% goes for further channels, as well as through seeking of our customer feedback and comprocessing, and customers are immediate automated feedback followplaints. Availability is connected to all informed that they will receive a ing customer interactions. services and products, examples being response within 14 days. cards and the Contact Centre. During “Today, customers are often In order to promote best practice, in the year we had a total of 16 substantiamazed at how quickly Nordea 2015 we focused on creating alignated complaints regarding breaches of contacts them. Even when the ment between countries and business customer privacy and losses of customer decision is negative, the way the areas to establish common definitions data. Nordea has not been subjected to issue is handled improves cusof different types of complaint, agreed any fines in relation to our producs or tomer satisfaction. ways of working with these complaints services during the past year. “Nordea has learned as an and consensus on what data should be organisation, and the biggest collected. Next steps change has been in the organiWe are planning some changes in our sational culture. Nordea is not Results of the Customer approach to obtaining feedback that we there yet, but the organisation is Satisfaction Index believe will deliver greater insight and being led by a culture of constant After an encouraging increase in our allow us to respond to our customers’ development.” 2014 Customer Satisfaction Index (CSI), concerns. We look forward to having we were disappointed that our overall a closer dialogue with our customers satisfaction score declined by 1.7 index through more frequent customer satispoints in 2015 compared with the previfaction surveys and customer panels. When a customer gives feedback, you know that it is the truth. It is the customer who decides Our customer feedback results and topics in 2015 what an excellent customer Amount of feedback Most frequent Channel in 2015 (2014) topics related to: experience is.” Pirjo Kuusela, Customer Satisfaction 52,273 (20,285) Customer Index survey (CSI)* Ombudsman •• Availability for Finland •• Loans Immediate automated feedback* 269,668 (265,518) •• Cards •• Transactions Customer Ombudsmen** 155,078 (160,417) *Nordic countries **Nordic and Baltic countries 20 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Making sustainable economic progress Focus on climate change Climate change is one of the bigThe impact of our core business: gest challenges facing humanity today. Doing nothing incurs high costs and increases the likelihood of hitting the ÚÚ LENDING: We continue the work to enhance our tools and com‘tipping point’, after which the consepetences in evaluating the ESG performance of our customers and quences will be unpredictable, irreversible engage with those to whom climate change and carbon are reland severe. As a responsible business we evant. We will not start new client relationships with companies that need to take account of the climate risks primarily depend on coal. See p 22-23. in the decisions we make about lending, investing and spending money. ÚÚ INVESTMENTS: We continue to drive change by engaging in new initiatives and developing our work with existing commitments. We In 2015 we agreed on a position that continue the integration of ESG factors into all our investments. See underpins our approach to climate change p 24-25. across our whole company. Nordea’s own operations have a net zero carbon ÚÚ PROCUREMENT: We continue to develop a more structured footprint, which is achieved by continuing approach to engaging with our suppliers, increasing awareness to reduce our own emissions, purchasing among our stakeholderes and improving availability of information. renewable energy and purchasing carbon See p 26-27. offsets equal to the amount of CO2 emitted. See p 42-44. Financing the Green Shift – Interview with Thina Saltvedt Chief Analyst Macro/Oil (Ph.D.) Q How can Nordea contribute to (Emissions Trading Scheme) prices solving the climate change chalhave been too low. Companies were lenge? We can contribute both on able to save up emission rights when the lending and the investment side. productivity decreased during the We can provide capital to greener financial crisis, and there are now too solutions and include climate risk in many emission rights on the marour lending assessment. And we can ket so prices have not increased as include environmental criteria when we intended. decide which companies to include in There are solutions: emissions funds in which our customers invest. rights could be removed to increase We have also arranged some green the price and new sectors could be bonds, which raise capital for purincluded in the ETS. Also there could poses with a positive environmental be a carbon tax. It’s not either or – it’s impact. And finally, as a major bank we possible to have both trading of emiscan join the global demand for more sion rights and a carbon tax. transparency into companies’ carbon footprint. Q You have spoken at climate change events in the past year Q Why do you feel it is important about financing the ‘green shift’. that carbon and the risk of ‘strandWhat is this and how would you ed assets’ are included in the analydescribe the developing interest sis of companies in the fossil fuel in it? There is no single definition. sectors? We are starting to feel the In my daily work it means a shift from effects of climate change and it is vital fossil fuel to green energy sources, that we speed up the effort to combat it. but it also means resource efficiency, Climate change will affect all of us going the sharing economy, and reducing forward – both individuals and compaconsumption. nies. For us, the increased demand for Companies and individuals are Thina Saltvedt is a chief oil analyst green energy – to meet the target for seeing opportunities in the green shift. with Global Research at Nordea carbon emission reductions – is affectFor example, the loss of jobs in the oil Markets, a member of the Research ing the profitability of our investments in and gas sector in Norway is spurring Council of Norway’s board for traditional energy companies. creativity and new technical solutions the Social Science Petroleum such as bioenergy based on seaweed. Research programme and a memQ What are your thoughts on the The green shift has hit us quite fast ber of the Ministry of Climate and future of carbon trading and the and hard. It is tough right now, but it Environment’s Climate Council. pricing of carbon? The EU ETS definitely brings opportunities. Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 21 Making sustainable economic progress Supporting large corporations for sustainable growth Being a responsible bank means understanding the broader implications Corporate of providing financial capital to busiTotal Wholesale Retail, nesses and projects. Climate change, corporate Banking Large corporate loss of biodiversity and environmental Lending, EURbn 176.8 97.5 79.1 pollution already pose critical risks to the planet and its people. Scientific research Bonds arranged, EURbn Total 18.3 demonstrating the complex interactions between ecosystems and climate highlights the need for aligned action within and between societies. An example of 4. Deepening customer engagement and carbon economy. In 2015 we arranged such cooperation took place in December transparency. several renewable energy green bonds, 2015, when the business community and including the first unrated benchmark civil society contributed to the climate In 2015 we continued the development size Eurobond in green format for Vestas agreement in Paris. Nordea signed the of a sophisticated tool to evaluate the Wind Systems. Demand for these bonds Paris Pledge for non-state actors to supESG risks on a scale and allow deeper remains strong and we continue to port the COP21 agreement. analysis of our corporate customer educate issuers in the municipal and portfolio. Project finance transactions – a corporate sectors about the benefits of One cornerstone of the agreement is very small part of our portfolio – are covservicing this growing investor group. increased transparency on the part of ered by the Equator Principles, which we all countries, which we believe will be have followed since 2007. See reporting We have also made public our policy of not expanded to include institutional invesfor EP 2015 on nordea.com. starting new relationships with companies tors and companies, either as a voluntary that primarily depend on coal. We continue or regulatory requirement. We need to Our focus in 2016 will be on building to do business with existing customers get better at recognising the positive and skills in this area among analysts and and, when possible, we favour investments negative impact on the environment and relationship managers, and sustainthat improve energy efficiency and conversociety embedded in different business ability and climate approach will be on sion to low-emission energy sources. models, and at evaluating the related risks the agenda in a number of strategic and opportunities. customer meetings in 2016. ESG as part of regular evaluation Our business strategy is to build longOur approach to sustainable finance Supporting a low-carbon economy term relationships that are based on Our approach to sustainable finance New business models that will encoura good understanding of our custominvolves four steps: age sustainable economic development ers’ business and the environment in and so-called ‘circular economy’ (where which they operate. As financial and 1. Supporting low-carbon businesses and manufacturing processes deliberately environmental sustainability increasingly transactions aim to produce no waste or pollution) merge, it is important to consider both 2. Understanding our customers’ enviare emerging. Our new IT platforms will elements in business and risk evaluation. ronmental, social and governance make our services fully digital and simWe need to understand all aspects of (ESG) performance and impact on the pler to use, reducing both Nordea’s and our customers’ operations and be clear environment our customers’ environmental footprint. about our expectations as lenders and 3. Upgrading our tools to assess and intermediaries. report ESG risks Green bonds support the shift to a lowIllustration 1: ESG as part of regular evaluation Know Your Customer ESG evaluation Credit risk Anti-Money Laundering with the ESG tool evaluation Performed at company Performed regularly for customer Credit risk evaluation is performed level for all customers groups in CIB and selectively at group and transaction level. in the large corporate sector of . Retail. Additionally, transaction level screening is performed when relevant. 22 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Making sustainable economic progress From when it is ready in early 2016, we we will meet with the customer to discuss For our industry specific guidelines, will begin to use the new tool to evalutheir willingness and capacity to change. see nordea.com ate the majority of the customer groups in Corporate and Institutional Banking Once a full cycle of credit reviews has (CIB) during their regular credit review. been completed using the tool, we will For corporate customers of Retail, ESG have an improved platform to anaprescreening questions will be integrated lyse ESG data at a portfolio level. The into the KYC evaluation, and selected industry-specific questions in the tool will customers will proceed to evaluation with also serve to increase understanding of the ESG tool. All customers deemed high ESG issues among our staff, and this will risk with the tool will be more closely be further strengthened by a training proreviewed by experts. If unacceptable gramme. See Illustration 1 for an overview practices or incidents (such as severe of the ESG evaluation process. violation of human rights) are identified, Sustainability in business: Interview with Stora-Enso Q We believe that the way a company handles sustainability issues can show how prudently it is run, and makes it a more successful company over time. What ESGrelated risks does Stora Enso face and how are you dealing with them? Over the past decade, sustainability has moved from being a set of operational and technical issues focused on day-to-day matters often underpinned by compliance and reporting requirements, to a long-term strategic matter for the entire company. Sustainability today is at the heart of our daily business and business planning processes.We have identified four material risks facing our company – ethics and compliance, global warming, occupational health and safety (OHS), and community relations. We Ulla Paajanen-Sainio, Head of Investor Relations and Seppo Parvi, Chief have policies and programmes in place Financial Officer of Stora Enso discussed the importance of ESG issues with to address each of them. Petteri Änkilä, Nordea’s Head of Corporate and Institutional Banking in Finland. For example, global warming might affect our fibre sourcing negatively or positively. Mild winters in the north business units actively engage with Supplier Code of Conduct. We want can increase biomass yields per those communities in a structured way. our banks to show a genuine willinghectare, while potential storms in the ness to understand our business and southern hemisphere might damage Q At Nordea we have developed help us develop it more sustainably. our forests. We address these risks tools to evaluate the ESG and through improving harvesting methods, reputational risks our customers Q Recently we have seen and investing in R&D to develop more face. This helps us make prudent demand-driven product growth in storm-resistant seedlings. lending decisions, and to better the bond market, i.e. green bonds. understand our customers’ needs To date, corporations have been Q Why is community relations so we can work together more slow to enter this market. What’s important to Stora Enso? It is really effectively. What support is Stora your position? While we have yet to important in the countries where land Enso looking for from a bank? We see strong demand for these products, and resource ownership rights are expect our relationship banks to lead we do expect bond investors in the unclear and disputes can arise that the way in the tightening regulatory medium term to have a preference for might disrupt operations. For example framework of the financial sector, and investing in companies with a solid, in China the state owns the land but to uphold our values and sustainability transparent and strong integrated local communities administer it. So we agenda. They must act in accordresponsibility agenda. have designed processes to help our ance with our principles and sign our Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 23 Making sustainable economic progress Investing responsibly Nordea Asset Management’s (Nordea Nordea Asset Management, AT THE FOREFRONT AM) mission is to invest responsibly and end of 2015 generate risk-adjusted returns by integrating environmental, social and governance Assets under Management 189 EURbn Best ESG investment (ESG) issues into our investment processprocess in Europe es and product development. Number of investors 1.7m ‘Capital Finance International’: Nordea applies internationally recognised Number of institutional clients ~ 775 principles of responsible investment and and 3rd party distributors Nordea has consistently been active ownership. In 2007 we were among at the forefront of responsible the first Nordic institutions to sign the investment, using ESG as a Principles for Responsible Investment If a company does not change its means to mitigate risk and (PRI). By endorsing the PRI we commit to behaviour, we may decide to divest or maximise opportunity. integrating ESG factors into our investexclude the company from our funds. ment analysis, decision-making processes Best user of and ownership policies and practices. The Nordea does not invest in: responsible investment guidelines for our work are set out in our •• companies involved in producing nuclear research IRRI (Extel Policy for Responsible Investment. weapons, or illegal weapons such as cluster munitions and anti-personnel & SRI connect): ESG integration mines Nordea is the biggest ESG issues are increasingly a source of •• sovereign bonds issued by governments contributor to the debate risk and opportunity, and we therefore subject to broad sanctions or failing to about these subjects. seek to integrate them as one factor into respect human rights. Nordea AM’s investment analysis methodology. This will improve risk management Corporate governance activities For our industry specific guidelines, and risk-adjusted returns. We continuously We have attended numerous annual see nordea.com assess and evaluate company and industry general meetings and voted by proxy in sector specific information, and transformore than 300 companies on thousands of mative themes and areas which we believe motions, which is an increase of over 50% shape the future landscape of investments. compared to 2014. We also engaged with Social and technology change as well as companies on a range of topics, including climate change impact business models. We ESG issues, remuneration programmes and underpin our approach with external ESG capital structure. research and ratings covering over 4,000 companies globally. In 2015, we joined 35 nomination committees, up by around 50%, accepting almost All Nordea’s equity holdings are screened all requests. In the companies where annually for verified violations of internaNordea Funds is represented on the nomitional norms surrounding environmental nation committee, the number of women on protection, human rights, labour standards boards increased by more than 7 percentand business ethics. We engage directly age points in 2015, to 37%. Nearly half with the companies identified, encouraging of these companies improved the gender them to improve their ways. balance of their boards. Our Stars funds invest in high-quality ESG companies While we integrate ESG into all investment able to the investment team through our protection, human rights, labour standards decisions and products, for our Stars funds internal database. and business ethics. we also apply positive ESG screening, i.e. We actively engage with companies Emerging Stars invests solely in emergproactively select high-quality ESG comwhen we see material risks that may not be ing market equities in countries such as panies, rather than negatively screening out adequately managed or opportunities that Brazil, India and China. poor ESG industries. Only the companies may not be fully capitalised. When assessNordic Stars consists of companies that receive a high enough ESG-based ing companies for our Stars funds, we with the most sustainable business models rating are included. Our ambition is to credo so on behalf of all Nordea AM’s funds, in the Nordic countries. ate shareholder value through identifying which supports our ongoing ESG integraSwedish Stars was the first investment companies that integrate environmental, tion activities. fund based on positive selection and is an social and governance metrics, as well as Stars funds are about actively selectequity fund focused on Swedish companies. financial metrics, into their business model ing companies that are financially solid and strategic decisions. Our ESG research and excel in the way they manage risks For more information on our Stars funds, and ESG company ratings are made availand opportunities related to environmental see nordea.com 24 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Making sustainable economic progress Acting on 1 Climate change •• We included carbon footprint on our Stars funds’ ESG scorecards. As signatories to the key issues Montreal Carbon Pledge (supported by the PRI and UNEP FI), we believe increased transparency of the carbon footprint of funds helps tackle climate change. We decide where to focus our •• We decided to exclude 28 companies who derived at least 75% of their revenues from engagement efforts by consales of coal products and did not have a meaningful opportunity to diversify away from sidering underperformance on coal. (See the exclusion list on nordea.com.) ESG, high ESG risk exposure •• We are members of The Institutional Investors Group on Climate Change (IIGCC) – a to a particular issue, materiality, forum for investors to collaborate on climate change. It encourages policies, investrelevance to our clients, and our ment practices, and corporate behaviour that address long-term risks and opportunities ability to influence. We engage associated with climate change. at both company and industry •• We were among the 120 investors that sent a letter to G-7 Finance Ministers, urging level, with stakeholders and support for a long-term global emissions reduction goal in the COP 21 Paris agreement, standard-setters. shortto medium-term national emissions pledges and country-level action plans. •• We participate in a collaborative investor engagement coordinated by the PRI targeting We have four focus areas for Australian, Canadian and US companies and trade organisations. our ESG stewardship and active ownership activities. In 2015 our •• We are a member of the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), which encourages compaefforts to drive change in these nies to measure and self-report climate change, water and forest risk data. We use this areas involved: information in our ESG analysis and investment decision-making. In 2015 we joined the water advisory board of CDP Water. 2 Corruption •• We launched an engagement project on corruption management involving 20 companies and some of our largest holdings. •• We have conducted seven in-depth engagements on norms violations. 3 Water waste management •• We began an engagement project on how pharmaceutical companies manage water waste in their supply chain in India involving 28 companies. •• We co-chaired the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative’s (UNEP FI) Water and Finance Work Stream (WFWS) in Tokyo. 4 Human rights •• We are part of a collaborative engagement in the extractive sector. Extractive companies can face significant operational and reputational risks if they do not take adequate steps to manage human rights issues. Such risks include boycotts, project delays and cancellations, lawsuits and negative press coverage. The engagement targets 50 global large cap mining and oil and gas companies with high exposure to human rights risks. Field trips in 2015 As part of our engagement and ESG analysis we regularly visit company sites to improve our understanding of relevant issues and to observe how they manage social and environmental challenges. Country Sites visited Purpose India Bank, water sanitation plant, Deeper understanding of environmental coal mine, environmental management, practice and governance in India. NGOs in Mumbai, Delhi and Calcutta. India Pharmaceutical companies Deeper understanding of supply chain management in in Hyderabad. the global pharmaceutical industry. Produced a video, which we shared with pharmaceutical companies. Singapore Emerging Star companies Investigated health & safety, labour issues, Philippines in Singapore, Manila supply chain management, corruption, and Indonesia and Jakarta. governance. Now satisfied that they are implementing policies and procedures. Ethiopia Garment companies Investigated how companies mitigate risks and handle environmental and labour issues. Sasja Beslik, Head of Responsible Croatia ICT companies Assessed how companies implement sustainability Investments at Nordea on a field trip. policies, and identify risks and opportunities Visiting companies often together in an area where corruption is endemic. with our customers gives us valuable Ukraine Kyiv and Lviv Gathered data for a report on corporate insight into relevant issues for our responsibility in times of conflict. key stakeholders. Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 25 Making sustainable economic progress Spending wisely: Responsible Procurement As a company with 32,000 employees Engaging with our existing suppliers to and spending in excess of €2 billion a complete the questionnaire provided a Our supplier base year, how and where we choose to spend good opportunity to explain our strategy Number of contracted suppliers: 700 our money has a significant impact on regarding responsible procurement. It led society. Responsible procurement is an some suppliers to reflect on how they Primary locations of Nordic region contracted suppliers: important lever for delivering sustainmay need to adapt their working practices able development and ensuring that the to face sustainability challenges and the Industries: •• IT services (software impact of our buying choices is as posilikelihood of heightened requirements and hardware) •• Travel tive as possible. from other sources. •• Facility management, •• Furniture, Our approach Verifying with on-spot reviews •• Marketing To achieve our goal of a positive impact Each year, Nordea conducts on-spot Nordea has developed its own guidelines reviews of selected first-tier suppliers, to for suppliers, based on the UN Global fulfil our responsibility and ensure that our on encouraging on-going improvement Compact, which are an integral part of guidelines for suppliers are understood and high ambitions. supplier agreements signed after 2011. and implemented. Suppliers are selected through a combination of individual risk The reviews showed that all three suppliWe also assess the risks involved in assessment and random selection. ers have well-established management purchasing products and services from systems in the most significant areas. different suppliers so that we can focus In 2015, for the first time, we engaged an Company-specific recommendations on those that pose the highest risk to external consultancy to bring third-party were given in all four areas of the UN sustainability issues. Factors considered independence and expertise into the proGlobal Compact (Human Rights, Labour include country of operation, industry seccess. Together with The CSR Company Rights, Environment and Anti-Corruption), tor, size of contract, criticality to Nordea International, we reviewed three of our relating to the scope and resilience of the business and reputation as a sustainable larger suppliers, focusing on undermanagement systems and focusing on company. standing their progress in implementing both the letter and spirit of the UN Global effective management systems. All three Compact. Recommendations included Assessing risks and co-operated fully with our request for working towards job security where use planning next steps a review, arranged audit-meetings, and of temporary workers is high; increasing Since 2014 it has been mandatory for involved management and subject matter transparency on policies, procedures and all new suppliers to complete a selfexperts where needed. performance; expanding stakeholder assessment questionnaire, indicating engagement to include NGOs and compotential sustainability risk, and in 2015 Results of on-spot reviews munities; working with peers on industry we extended this to existing suppliers. While international standards were used issues; and taking an ambitious approach In 2016, we will create individual action to benchmark the assessments, we to environmental improvements. plans for all suppliers assessed to be followed up with individually targeted high risk. For suppliers who chose not to recommendations rather than ‘pass or Each supplier is asked to propose an complete a self-assessment in 2015, we fail’ verdicts. This aligns with our view action plan for the next six months and to will conduct desk-top evaluations based – endorsed by the UN Global Compact – have reconciled all identified issues by that on information from reputed business that there is no ‘one size fits all’ approach time, or provide a reasonable explanation intelligence sources. to sustainability, and allows us to focus as to why this has not been achieved. Focus areas 2015 Focus areas Achievements 2015 Targets 2016 Develop a more structured approach •• Applied segmentation and engagement •• Engage with high-risk suppliers to responsible procurement model to all new and existing suppliers •• Continue work to cover supplier base by our Implement a CSR segmentation •• Requested all contracted suppliers complete segmentation and engagement model and engagement model sustainability risk questionnaires •• Appointed responsible procurement manager Engaging with our stakeholders •• Conducted three on-spot reviews, •• Conduct three to six on-spot reviews, Communicating and increasing supported by a third-party auditor supported by third-party auditor awareness among our stakeholders •• Delivered awareness training for all employees •• Incorporate sustainable awareness training into working in sourcing and procurement general supply chain management training •• Published sustainability requirements on nordea. •• Analyse best practice in sustainable com for all existing and potential suppliers supply chain management Increase data availability •• Created sustainability data records •• Analyse business data to better assess Create data foundation for sustainability in supplier database impact of procurement decisions analytics and compliance reporting •• Complete data records in supplier database 26 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Making sustainable economic progress Supplier data Nordea spent 2,275,000,000 Total purchases by Nordea Group, 2013-2015, EURm 2,300 2,282 2,275 2,259 2,225 EUR in 2015 2,150 Purchases per country, 2015, EURm 2,075 1,197 2,000 2013 2014 2015 543 Other Commercial services 10% 13% Office, Marketing, Representation IT Services 8% 200 22% Finland Purchases Purchases per Premises & Norway industry, per industry % 2015, Real Estate 17% 335 Sweden 17% 13% Consultants Travel & Staff Denmark Summary of the main findings from on spot reviews in 2015 Industry Focal points Findings Actions IT services Human Rights Insufficient adoption of the UN Guiding Perform Human Rights Impact assessments and introduce principles on Business & Human Rights. non-judicial external human rights grievance mechanisms. Labour Rights No material issues were found. Weaknesses in industry code Engage further in improving industry code or go beyond the on monitoring overtime above 48 hrs, guaranteeing living code to ensure alignment with international standards on wages and 14 weeks of maternity leave in the supply chain. overtime, living wages, and leave. Environment Well-developed environmental management systems. Monitoring Engage with suppliers on an ambitious approach to environmental issues in the supply chain limited to reliance on environmental goals and targets. Develop initiatives to support environmental certificates. Potential to improve circular economy a circular economy and consider increasing the use of energy approaches, and use of energy from renewables. from renewable sources. Anti-Corruption No material issues were found. Audited companies had or Continued focus on strengthening anti-corruption are in the process of establishing resilient anti-corruption programmes. programmes. Cross-cutting Lack of an integrated strategy. Need for improvements Development of a sustainability strategy and improvements in management in tracking and reporting to include more relevant and reporting and transparency. meaningful data. Lack of transparency on central documents. Production Human Rights Insufficient adoption of the UN Guiding principles on Perform Human Rights Impact assessments and introduce Business & Human Rights. non-judicial external human rights grievance mechanisms. Labour Rights Extensive use of temporary workers. Work towards job-security where use of temporary workers is very high. Environment Reliance on environmental certificates. Local targets could be Go beyond reliance on environmental management further developed. certification and ensure that an ambitious environmental approach is taken. Anti-Corruption No material issues were found. Continue focus on anti-corruption. Cross-cutting Percolation of corporate policies and practices to local levels Improve local understanding and knowledge of global policies. management can be improved. Lack of transparency on policies including Improve stakeholder engagement to include community relevant and meaningful reporting to the public and availability voices, NGOs, and working with peers to solve critical industry of central documents. Limited engagement with communities issues. Increase transparency on policies. and NGO’s besides charity. Please note: No material non-compliances were found in the on-spot reviews in 2015 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 27 Making sustainable economic progress Paying taxes responsibly We generate value for the societies Balancing our stakeholders’ in which we operate both through the expectations taxes we pay in relation to our business When managing our tax costs, we need and by withholding taxes on dividends to consider and balance our stakeholders’ and interests for customers on behalf of expectations. As well as the government the government. We are committed to being a recipient of our taxes, many other meeting the heightened expectations on stakeholders have an interest in what taxtransparency in respect of our tax manes we pay and where. For example, some agement, and for this reason we have of our owners are pension fund holders, worked to gradually improve the scope meaning that our customers not only and quality of our communication of our directly but also indirectly have expectatax position in the Sustainability report in tions on how we manage our taxes. recent years. Informing and advising Contributing to society our customers through our taxes At Nordea we strive to deliver great Nordea’s policy is to pay taxes in accordcustomer experiences, and to build trust ance with local regulations in all counthrough acting with integrity. This includes tries where we operate, and in so doing upholding the ethical standards outlined to make an appropriate contribution to in Nordea’s Code of Conduct, Tax Policy each society. We manage tax costs and and Sustainability Policy when advising risks carefully, and by paying and reportcustomers about the tax implications of ing taxes in due time, we aim to maintain different products. We also take care to a good local tax reputation. comply with external regulations regarding the provision of proper information and not Nordea is a substantial corporate income misleading customers in their decisions. tax payer in its main countries of operation – Denmark, Finland, Norway and Overview of 2015 tax payments Sweden – and we also pay social secuBanks can, unlike non-financial services rity contributions and bank levies in the companies, only recover a small amount countries where we operate. Statutory of the VAT incurred on the products and tax rates, contributions and levies vary in services they buy, with the rest remaining our countries of operation, as does the with the government. size of Nordea’s business operations in each country. The total amount of tax In 2015 Nordea paid EUR 956m (EUR paid in each country is determined by a 908m in 2014) in tax relating to our combination of these variables. profits. Furthermore, Nordea paid EUR 420m (EUR 406m in 2014) in payCorporate income tax includes current roll taxes (social security fees) to the taxes booked as an expense for the year governments of the countries where we and adjustments to the previous year’s operate. Nordea also pays bank taxes current taxes. and stability fees in various jurisdictions. 28 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Making sustainable economic progress Taxation data Nordea paid 1,523,000,000 Breakdown of tax payments To meet the increased demands globally on transparency regarding tax, we provide a breakdown of tax payments for our main markets. More detailed figures are available on nordea.com. EUR in taxes in 2015 Taxes paid by Nordea Group in 2013-2015 by tax type, EURm Bank levy 9.6% 1,600 183 193 147 147 1,200 398 420 406 Bank Social levy security fees Social 27.6% Tax paid by 800 420 security fees Nordea group in Corporate income tax Corporate 2015 breakdown 62.8% income tax 956 927 908 956 400 0 2013 2014 2015 Taxes paid by Nordea Group, by tax type, 2014 vs 2015, EURm Corporate income tax Social security fees Bank levy Total taxes 1,000 500 200 1,600 193 956 1,523 900 150 1,507 908 147 400 420 1,400 406 800 +48 EURm +14EURm 100 -46 EURm +16EURm 300 1,200 700 50 600 200 0 1,000 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 2014 2015 Tax paid by Nordea Group per country, 2014 vs 2015, EURm 500 450 470 446 400 425 432 350 300 250 262 275 200 207 198 150 167 148 100 50 0 Denmark Finland Norway Sweden Others Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 29 Building skills in personal finances Working together to teach money management Financial literacy – understanding manage their own finances, understand how money works – is a key life skill that risks and opportunities and achieve a enables people not only to meet their good quality of life. We also believe that personal ambitions, but also to be responwhen people are knowledgeable about sible members of society. As a financial their personal finances they can make services company, it is clearly an area in a positive contribution as responsible which we have considerable expertise members of society. and one in which we believe we can make a positive change for society. We are committed to teaching young people in particular to take responsibility We see it as part of our responsibility to for their financial future, and to giving our use and share our skills and knowledge employees opportunities to play their part for the good of society, and to give our by sharing their skills and expertise. We employees opportunities to contribute to believe that, in so doing, our people not society by sharing theirs. It is also in our only make an important social contribuinterest to ensure that individuals in the tion but also enhance their personal skills societies where we operate – many of and development. whom are, or may become, our customers – are as financially literate as possible. How we are enhancing financial skills Creating a financial future We provide many opportunities for our Nordea employees Recent studies demonstrate that there employees to share their financial skills volunteered for over are disturbing gaps in many people’s and expertise, both through our own 5,200 understanding of financial matters. At schools-based financial education proworst, this may lead to financial and social grammes and by entering into partnerexclusion, which harms individuals, disships with other organisations with the rupts families and burdens societies. same goals. In 2015, Nordea’s employees volunteered for over 5,200 hours and hours combined in 2015 Conversely, having a good understanding we continued to work with our selected of financial matters enables people to partners in the Nordic countries. Main partnerships and programmes in Nordic countries Partner organisation or programme Goal Involvement Group-wide, in all countries Financial education programme Nordea Advisors visit class rooms and give teens (13-18 364 employees year olds) hands on lessons in private economics 1,247 hours Denmark Young Enterprise Denmark Financial advice and guidance to students testing entrepreneurial ideas 28 employees 275 hours ‘Gældsrådgivning’ Advising citizens who need to get their private economy back on track 8 employees 600 hours Finland Me&MyCity Teach 6th graders how society works and inspire to entrepreneurship Me&MyCity reaches 80% via class room learning and a one day visit to a mini-society. of Finland's 6th graders Economic Skills programme Major banks' employees give advice on personal finances and discuss future 174 employees dreams with 16-29 year-old young people without a job or a place to study. 1,384 hours Norway Young Enterprise Norway, annual 'Nordea Day' Financial advice and guidance to students testing entrepreneurial ideas 85 employees 1,000 hours Sweden Teach for Sweden Engage top students to become teachers in schools located in lower socio35 employees economic areas to give children there a better chance to reach goals 480 hours 30 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Building skills in personal finances The revolutionary power of compassion What is the effect of compassion on dreams and plans, and it has made it a company’s productivity and comeasier for me to now have those conpetitiveness? Nordea is taking part in a versations with my customers.” ground-breaking study by the University The research project is also looking of Helsinki to explore this question. at emotional skills training for managBased in the Sata-Häme region, ers, which begins by considering how the project will look at two groups important feelings and compassion of employees – those enrolled in are to people’s health and happiness. the Economic Skills project to teach It aims to equip managers with the personal finance to young people, and tools to manage positive and negative managers receiving emotional skills feelings they might encounter in the training. Researchers will seek to measworkplace such as a colleague who ure the impact of these activities on is frustrated about their workload. The employee satisfaction and motivation, managers’ trainer Miia Paakkanen says commitment to the company, as well as the Nordea employees were receptive customer experience and sales. and enthusiastic: “Right from the first Our employee Elina Lampinen-Kinnari, Head of the session people showed proactivity satisfaction survey Sata-Häme region, worked closely with and motivation to open their hearts shows a correlation the university to launch the project: “It’s and minds to new ways of approacha big shift to examine the link between ing work and leadership.” Following between voluntary work the emotional skills of employees and the training, the managers have and staff commitment our financial performance. Up to now, made plans to incorporate emotional success has been measured mainly skills into the personal development and motivation. We can’t with financial indicators.” discussions they have with their direct wait to see if the study Savings specialist Mikko Särkiniemi reports. demonstrates wider is one of the Nordea employees taking Elina is delighted with the employee part in the study. He is certainly positive response: “We believe this project will scientific proof for this.” about his experience of volunteering provide us with new perspectives and Elina Lampinen-Kinnari on the Economic Skills project helping practical skills to improve our customer young people: “It was very rewarding services in the changing financial serHead of Sata-Häme hearing from young people about their vices environment.” branch region, Nordea I find it easier now to Emotional skills talk to customers about training helps their plans and dreams.” us understand the Mikko Särkiniemi, significance of compassion Savings specialist and our emotions to our performance and wellbeing.” Miia Paakkanen, M.Sc., Ph.D Candidate, About the research Faculty of Theology, Anne Birgitta Pessi is professor in church and social studies at the University of University of Helsinki, Helsinki and is leading the CoPassion project. founding member of “Our project asks what compassion means in the everyday life of an organisation and in its interactions with partners. How is it generated, maintained and CoPassion project. strengthened, and how can it improve profitability? “While there is a body of international research that suggests links between compassion and business productivity, the Finnish data is all but non-existent. This project will address that gap. “But it is practical too. We intent to conclude after three years with tools to measure the strength of compassion within a particular business and to assess the impact of compassion on business performance. “Ultimately we hope to help make workplaces better – and ultimately– to contribute to developing attractive and sustainable cities that serve contemporary values.” Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 31 Building skills in personal finances Partnerships and volunteer work in the Nordic countries Helping people in debt In Denmark Nordea works “I might write to creditors asking alongside other financial instituthem to stop adding any more interest tions to deliver the ‘Gældsrådgivning’ or to reduce the monthly payment for (debt advice) programme. Organised the debt. I find the work incredibly by the association of banks, the prorewarding – it’s a great opportunity to gramme helps individuals and families make a difference in people’s lives.” struggling with debt to come up with a structured and achievable plan to pay it off. This includes assisting people in drawing up a budget and giving financial advice. Employees, mainly personal banking advisors, receive time off in lieu for 50% of the work time they devote to the programme. Annmari Bæk Henriksen, a senior debt collection advisor at Nordea Finance in Denmark, volunteers with Gældsrådgivning one evening each week. She comments, “I meet all sorts Often people just need very practical of people in this role. Even though advice from a compassionate person. many of them have homes and jobs, some are living in financial chaos. As Many different kinds of people need well as financial problems, many are struggling with substance abuse or debt advice, also those with a home mental health challenges. Whatever their personal circumstances, the and job. Annmari Bæk Henriksen important thing is to treat them with compassion and respect. More focus from schools expected in Finland A survey on financial literacy ed taking into account the respondin Finland, commissioned by ent's age, sex and place of residence. Nordea and conducted by TNS The survey also showed that Finns Gallup, found that while half of all believe the management of personal Finns follow financial news on a regufinances should primarily be taught lar basis, just 10% of 18-25 year olds at home and at school. Respondents follow financial news daily. Meanwhile, voiced their hope that schools would around twice as many men as women focus more on the day-to-day manwatch or read financial news daily, and agement of personal finances, such a fifth of Finns rarely follow any finanas saving, loans and the use of credit cial news because they do not feel cards. sufficiently acquainted with the issues. We believe that to increase interest The survey was conducted as in financial matters, the media, experts, an internet panel in June 2015, with teachers and banks need to be able 1,004 respondents between 18 and to talk about financial issues in a clear 65. The responses have been weightand understandable way. An interesting finding which raises concern in my view was that 40% of the young people themselves don’t think that young people in general are able to take care of Olli Kärkkäinen is Nordea's Private their personal finances” Economist in Finland Olli Kärkkäinen 32 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Building skills in personal finances Nordea receives financial education award In 2015, Finance Norway, the critical consumers. Mathematical skills organisation that represents the among Norwegian youth are also low financial industry in Norway, awarded and declining. Meanwhile, the evidence Nordea its ‘Finansstafetten’ – Finance is also that young people are the most Norway’s award to commend the counvulnerable consumers. In 2015, 18,000 try’s leading corporate engagement young people between 18 and 24 had with schools. a bad credit rating – a sharp increase of The award was for our efforts in 12% on the previous year. the previous year but it is an ongoNordea will continue to play its part ing commitment we have to helping in addressing this issue. John Sætre, young people to realise their potential. head of Banking in Nordea Norge, Continuing our collaboration with Ungt took part as a counsellor at last year’s Entreprenørskap (Junior Achievement Nordea Day. He is looking forward to –Young Enterprise Norway), in 2015, doing it again. “As a bank, we have a John Sætre, head of Banking at we had more than 80 of our employees substantial social responsibility, and Nordea Norway, took part as a coungoing into schools as counsellors on a this is part of it. I have children in school sellor at last year’s Nordea Day. special ‘Nordea Day’. Altogether they myself and will, of course, participate as were able to teach 2,200 secondary a counsellor again next year.” school pupils in Oslo and Akershus John Sætre says that this award about personal finance and career belongs to each and every one of the options. employees who participated as counThis is an important and relevant sellors last year – and those who are issue. Research shows that young peoparticipating next year. “The fact that ple in Norway feel that they have insufwe can contribute like this in schools is ficient knowledge about the economy thanks to all the passionate souls workand – with little focus given to personal ing here. This award is something we finances in schools or at home – young can all be proud of,” he says. people are ill-equipped to become The Economy Game: Interview with Sandra Frank Office manager Sandra Frank How do the young people What will happen if this matter volunteers with Ekonomipejl, respond? Most are eager to ask is not taken seriously? In Sweden Nordea’s programme to enhance the questions – some have whole pages of there is a growing trend for young peofinancial skills of young people. She is them prepared. Teachers also appreciple to get into financial diffculty. More one of our employees who visit schools ate it. Even if they have covered the of them are taking out SMS (text) loans, around the country delivering lessons in subject, it seems more valid when which are easy to get without a credit personal finance to 13-18 year-olds. In someone from ‘The Bank’ says it. rating. According to the latest govern2015 we met more than 17,000 pupils. ment report a total of approximately Why is this work important for 1.2 billion SEK has been forwarded to What have you gained personally Nordea? As one of the largest banks the Enforcement Agency for seizure. from Ekonomipejl? I love being able we have a responsibility to help build A visit from Ekonomipejl won’t to share my knowledge – it gives me a sustainable economic future for reverse the trend, but I’m convinced that a feeling of fulfillment. I’m proud that young people. It’s a small thing for we give students a better chance. With Nordea chooses to give back to our us with our enormous resources, the right knowledge young people can community this way. and it can make a huge difference to make well-informed decisions – or at youngsters. least understand the consequences of a wrong one. I enjoy answering students’ questions – some trickier than others – knowing I might have given them something to think about when they are faced with a financial decision.” Sandra Frank Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 33 Creating opportunities for our people Equipping our people for a changing world Our people are key to our ability to run An industry in transition 57% our business well and achieve our goals Increasingly, customers are looking for for the company and society at large. authenticity and connection with the Creating opportunities is about ensuring companies they deal with. Our challenge that we employ the right people, with the – and priority – is to position Nordea as of Nordea employees are female right blend of skills and expertise, and that we develop them in the right way, in a trusted financial partner. We can only do this if we have the best people in our 42 order to achieve our goals. In seeking to workforce. do this we must also take into account The average age of the broader social and demographic The banking industry is undergoing the a Nordea employee is context, such as an ageing population and the rapid pace of technological change. biggest transformation in its history, necessitating changes in the way we work, the positions we recruit for and the Creating opportunities for our employees skills and expertise we need. Relationship 63% to flourish is also part of being a responbanking is rapidly turning digital, with trasible employer. We care deeply about ditional in-branch banking being replaced realising the potential of our people and by online and mobile transactions. This enabling them to enjoy a fulfilling career means we need to meet our customers’ of employees have a degree with Nordea, and helping them to adjust evolving behaviour, needs and expectaand continue to thrive in times of change. tions by strengthening our digital capabilities and providing more flexibility in how our customers can interact with us. Alongside the challenges of competing for the best employees and develop32,610 ing the right mix of skills is the need to % of women develop strong, insightful leaders who are as managers: not only able to manage transitions but also keep our employees engaged, motivated and focused on implementing the 41% necessary changes while still providing Total number of employees 57% 43% great customer experiences. In focus in 2015 Focus area Goal Action & progress Plans ahead Leadership •• Develop leadership competences •• Incentives adjusted to focus •• Further strengthen leadership skills more on leadership skills and personal development •• Executive leadership programme for externally hired leaders Improving gender diversity •• Increase number of women •• 39% of all managers have participated •• Continue support, raise in leadership positions in Gender Diversity training as part of awareness and train managers our Leadership Pipeline Programmes. •• Continue to follow up and develop •• 73% of final three shortlists the recruitment process. Consider for management positions to extend the policy to also cover included both genders appointments/organisational changes Developing our people •• Improve employee satisfaction •• Employee Satisfaction Index 2 •• Encourage managers and teams to points above industry average. engage in dialogue and developing •• Support career development the transformation of the industry. and retention of key people •• Develop career counselling for all employees 34 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Creating opportunities for our people Leadership is vital Good leadership is a key driver of strong performance, and is particularly Focus on strengths: Interview with Erik Gripler critical in times of uncertainty and change. Head of Customer Service, Point of Sales, Nordea Finance, Sweden This is why developing and training our leaders and potential leaders, equipping Q As a leader, you must get presume they can say the same thing them to develop their own employees and the best from your team. What in the same way and get the same helping them to reach their potential is a works for you? My approach is to result with everybody. For a leader, high priority at Nordea. focus on strengths. I find it works well communication is often more about if we use our individual strengths for listening than talking. A key 2015 initiative was around how we the team’s benefit, either directly or measure and incentivise our leaders. We by helping others. To make this work Q How do you help the team have adjusted our incentives to put more you must be able to delegate – not come together? A strong sense emphasis on good leadership skills, in just the responsibility, but also authorof ownership is essential. Employees particular by supplementing the functional ity to make decisions. Follow-up is grow when given responsibility, and targets (what is achieved) with targets important – both to know how they they come together more when that focus on how it is achieved. These are performing and to ensure their responsibility is delegated – coopinclude how a leader translates strategy efforts are acknowledged. erating with one another instead of into actions, puts the right team in place, bringing questions to me. Another and motivates them to achieve their goals. Q Leaders must turn strategy important aspect is celebrating sucThere is also a focus on leaders’ personal into actions. How do you cesses, which is vital for maintaining development – how they live the Nordea approach that? You must show the a positive atmosphere. values and develop their own compelink between individual goals, team tence. Alongside this we have developed goals and how they relate to the Q Leadership involves helping a target-setting guide for leaders, aimed overall strategy. Involving the team your people to develop. How at providing inspiration and guidin goal-setting helps a lot in terms of do you handle this? At individual ance for setting targets in the two key commitment, and ongoing, transmeetings, I focus on their developareas of great leadership and personal parent communication is essential. ment in the role. How do they evaludevelopment. Everybody in the team needs to ate their performance? What is workunderstand the way forward, and how ing and why? What steps are they To further improve leadership, a new their goals and daily work relates to taking to improve? If I get questions programme targeting executive leaders the bigger picture. about priorities or decisions, I first piloted in 2015 will now be part of our listen to their opinion. What do they leadership pipeline portfolio. This two-day Q Describe your communicasee as the best way forward? I also Executive Leadership Programme mainly tion style. If I have a style, it is to involve them as much as possible in targets externally hired leaders, deepenbe myself and talk my own language. decision-making. I believe I contribute ing their knowledge of Nordea’s values, However, I do change my commost to their professional developculture and leadership requirements. munication based on the receiver. ment when I approach it as a coach Different people hear and understand instead of an expert. The launch of this programme represents things differently. Leaders can’t the final step in implementing a full portfolio of leadership pipeline training, available to leaders at all levels of the company. This enables us to secure leadership alignment throughout the organisation – something we believe is For a leader, especially important during this time of transition. communication In 2015, we are delighted that our is often more employees’ satisfaction with their immediate managers improved by a further index about listening point to 81, increasing the gap between than talking.” Nordea and the industry average to 9 points. Erik Gripler Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 35 Creating opportunities for our people Spotlight on gender diversity It is crucial for Nordea that we offer Driving ongoing improvement followed, a woman was chosen as often equal opportunities to all current and To turn our ambitions into reality, we have as a man. This way we hope to increase potential employees both in the hiring put in place some solid foundations, the pool of women eligible for executive process and when it comes to career systems and processes. Our Gender management positions in the future. advancement. This is part of what it Diversity Initiative, launched in 2013, is means to act responsibly, but it also aimed at helping us increase the number •• When we hire graduates, no gender makes sense for us as a business. The of women who are appointed as managshall make up more than 60% of the more diverse we are, and the more closely ers today, while also building the ‘pipeline’ new recruits. Progress in 2015: Women we mirror the societies we are part of, that will deliver the female managers of made up 36% of new graduate recruits. the greater our insight into our customtomorrow. The initiative comprises four This target was not achieved in 2015 ers’ circumstances and the better we main focus areas, reflecting what we and it is a decrease from 2014, when can understand and serve their needs. believe are the main steps in the journey 41% of graduates were women. We firmly believe that an increasingly towards a gender-balanced workforce: diverse workforce benefits our business, We have identified and documented a set which is why we are focused on break•• Sending the signal that gender diversity of significant barriers to women’s advanceing down barriers and biases so that we is a priority for Nordea ment, which include attitudes among senior can achieve a truly diverse and inclusive •• Setting requirements for the improvemale managers and a gender gap in the organisation. We believe that gender-balment of gender balance assessment of individuals’ potential. We anced leadership teams make better and •• Supporting leaders to make the change recognise that we need to be better at more innovative business decisions, leadhappen in practice attracting, promoting and retaining senior ing to improved business performance. •• Supporting dual career families. female executives, and we are committed to Ensuring that we offer equal opportunities making continuous progress in tackling this to both men and women will also result in The initiative is supported by two key challenge. Our long-term ambition is to lead greater employee satisfaction and make performance indicators: our industry in building a diverse and incluus a more attractive workplace. sive culture to ensure full access to talent •• When we recruit for management posipools, an agile organisation and support an Since 2013, we have had a specific tions, both genders must be representeven stronger performance culture. focus on improving our gender balance ed among the final three candidates. and, in particular, increasing the number Progress in 2015: 73% of final three Tackling unconscious bias of women in senior positions. Currently, shortlists for management positions To help address the gender diversity chalwomen constitute 57% of Nordea’s included at least one woman, improving lenge, we support our leaders in making workforce and 41% of all management 15% compared to 2014. change happen in practice. One aspect positions, but are still significantly underWe are delighted with the high level of this is the inclusion in all leadership represented in senior leadership positions of compliance with this policy, and proud pipeline programmes of modules on – a challenge that is also common in the of the gender-balanced hires to which gender diversity – which 1,300 managers financial services industry. the policy leads. When this policy was have completed to date – and on making Both genders represented in 73% of manager recruitments 1,300 managers have completed diversity training “We will keep supporting managers in making change happen in practice and send a strong signal that this is a priority for Nordea. We have made a lot of positive progress and increased awareness in the organisation, and we can be proud of the efforts made, although we still have a long way to go”. Marianne Egelund Siig, Head of Diversity at Nordea. 36 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Creating opportunities for our people Unconscious bias: Interview with Tiina Käsi and Erik Feldt Q How does Nordea benefit TK: I agree. Being an attractive from training managers in employer and getting the benefit of unconscious bias awareness? high-performing, diverse teams doesn’t TK: It’s well known that diverse teams just happen – it takes shared effort and and executive groups perform better. responsibility. It requires ongoing attenMaking managers aware of their biases tion to behaviour and communication, helps change behaviour around recruiteven in things like setting requirements ing and developing employees. and drafting job advertisements. The initial focus is on avoiding gender bias. Improving gender balance among Q As managers, what did the managers will help us attract and retain training teach you about yourself? the best female talent. Our goal is to TK: For me, there are two important increase all aspects of diversity and aspects. As a manager I’m responsible inclusion (gender, ethnicity, impairment for attracting and developing the best and age) to attract people from the people, and as Head of HR I support entire talent pool, ensure the strongest other leaders at Nordea to do the same. Tiina Käsi (TK) is Head of Human possible leadership succession pipeline, It's surprisingly easy to fall into the trap Resources for Group Functions and and enhance customer satisfaction and of judging and stereotyping – avoiding Erik Feldt (EF) is Head of Human business performance. it takes constant, conscious effort. Resources for Wealth Management. EF: It enables us to make better deciEF: Awareness is important because sions – based on facts rather than I realise my behaviour is heavbias – when we recruit, develop and ily influenced by my bias. The more I promote our people. understand that, the better I become at disregarding my bias when making Q Why is it important to recogdecisions. What was alarming about the nise when others are “trapped” training was how prone I was to makin their unconscious bias? ing judgements based on a person’s EF: The challenge of unconscious appearance, without knowing anything bias is inherent in the name – if we about them. aren’t conscious of it, it can be difficult to detect. But we can help each other increase our awareness by talking about it and by challenging decisions and actions. managers aware of unconscious bias in ting assignments, and continuing to address salary increase marked as an equality their recruitment decisions. The unconthis specific gender disparity will be a focus raise, and a policy not to differ on salary scious bias awareness training module area in 2016. when hiring. A similar initiative with targetspecifically addresses the issue that ‘it is ed salary increase earmarked for equality easy to hire someone like you’, and will be Equal remuneration raise has been carried out in Sweden yearmandatory for all new leaders from 2016. According to the local remuneration ly since 2012. The Danish salary model, in Results so far suggest that it is helping to practices, men and women should be paid which each job has a salary span based challenge mindsets and shift practices. the same for doing the same job, and we on the job’s complexity and market value, are taking steps to close identified gaps. contributes significantly to equal pay for We have also developed practical suggesFor legislative reasons this issue is manemployees with the same job, regardless tions for how managers can better promote aged at country level and, in the Nordic whether it is man or a woman. the development of their female employcountries, promoting and making progress ees, and guidelines on how to conduct towards equal pay has been an on-going Next steps for 2016 gender-neutral Performance Development area of focus. Our ongoing efforts to promote gender Dialogues (PDDs). Research shows that diversity include continuously reinforcing fewer women than men are encouraged In Finland, we have an equality committee the requirements for improving gender balto take on more complex tasks. Moreover, comprising representatives from both ance, for instance by creating a policy that results from our own PDDs in 2015 show employers and employees, the purpose of both genders should be represented in the that men are assessed as having higher which is to improve all aspects of gender final three-shortlist also when it comes to potential than women, despite the scores equality. The committee undertakes regular appointments. for performance and competence being salary monitoring to ensure there are no virtually equal between the genders. unjustified salary differences between men We also want to continue to support leadManagers are now being advised and supand women with equal roles. In Norway, ers to make the change happen in practice ported in taking this bias into account both we have focused strongly on equal pay in and to ensure sending the signal that when reviewing performance and when setrecent years, with a proportion of the 2015 gender diversity is a priority for Nordea. Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 37 Creating opportunities for our people Engaging with staff For several years we have conducted Career coaching for all employees among employees for local levels an annual employee satisfaction (ESI) As part of our ambition to strengthen and for Business Area Consultative survey to encourage our employees to employability at Nordea, and to provide Committees that deal with change tell us how they feel about working at additional support to our employees in initiatives. The Group Council is a Nordea. In 2015 over 29,000 employees times of change, a we are launching high-level collaborative body that raises gave us their feedback – a participaa new Group-wide career counselling strategic issues and collects feedback tion rate of 94% – and the results were service in 2016. Available to all Nordea from employee representatives. encouraging. employees free of charge, the goal of this service is to increase our staff’s employThe statistics for participation in PDD Overall, we are delighted that Satisfaction ability and secure high retention of our discussions are gathered from the & Motivation among Nordea employkey people. employee satisfaction survey, in which ees has increased by one index point 94% of all employees participated in compared to 2014 and is now two points Through conversations with a career 2015. In 2015, 97% of those employabove the Nordic financial labour market. coach, participating employees will be ees took part in a PDD dialogue; out In addition, commitment has increased supported in polishing their CVs, increasof them, 56% were women and 44% by one index point and now exceeds the ing self-awareness on key areas of men, 87% were employees and 13% external benchmark of the Nordic finanexpertise and telling a clear and convincmanagers. cial labour market by seven index points. ing story in order to gain leverage in the future job search within Nordea. They will We want to do even better, and to do so also be offered guidance on areas that we need each and every employee to match their skills, and coached on how to take personal responsibility for improvmove to a new part of the Group. ing our company. Our focus for 2016 is to encourage managers and teams to By introducing this new service we are We encourage engage in dialogue, challenge existing processes and embrace the transformasignalling both to employees and the external market that we do all we can to all employees tion of the sector. develop the people we have and to find to take part in new ways of using competence. It also enables us to demonstrate our genuine transforming 94% care for our employees and our desire to help them pursue a fulfilling career the industry. and reach their potential. In the Nordic countries more than 70% of employees are members of a union. Nordea seeks of employees participated to have a good and constructive coopin the ESI in 2015 eration with union representatives on all levels. Representatives are elected Employee satisfaction survey 2015 2013 2014 2015 (+/-) Employee satisfaction and motivation 72 71 72 1 Personal development and training 73 73 74 1 Nordea considered a good place to work 77 75 74 -1 Employee’s pride to tell others where they work 79 77 77 0 Employees recommend others to start working at Nordea 74 71 72 1 Organisation’s ability to live the values 81 82 82 0 Great Customer Experiences 81 81 81 0 Nordea’s values: It’s all about People 75 75 75 0 One Nordea team 80 79 82 3 38 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Creating opportunities for our people People data All employee data is based on number of employees (NOE), if not stated otherwise. Data including excel tables also on www.nordea.com Organisational profile Total workforce in Nordea Group divided by region & gender G4-10 Nordea Group's total workforce consists of 57% women (58 % in 2014) and 43% men (42 % in 2014). The total workforce increased slightly to 32,610 in 2015 (32,264 in 2014) due to recruitment to new functional areas and insourcing. Denmark 47% 53% 9,071 Finland 70% 30% 7,799 Sweden 54% 46% 7,675 Norway 48% 52% 3,346 Poland 53% 47% 1,413 Russian Fed. 69% 31% 1,010 Estonia 79% 21% 570 Latvia 74% 26% 497 Luxembourg 37% 63% 467 Lithuania 69% 31% 407 USA 50% 50% 121 United Kingdom 38% 62% 78 Singapore 55% 45% 75 Germany 52% 48% 52 China 58% 42% 26 Brazil 0% 100% 3 57% 43% 0 1,000 2,000 3,000 4,000 5,000 6,000 7,000 8,000 9,000 The total workforce in Nordea Group by employment type divided by gender G4-10 Figures are based on number of employees employed by Nordea Group in all countries. Temporary/permanent employees by gender Full time/part time employees by gender 100% 100% 3% 3% 3% 10% 3% 7% 80% 80% 60% 60% 97% 97% 97% 90% 97% 93% 40% 40% 20% 20% Temporary Part Time Permanent Full Time 0% 0% Female Male Total Female Male Total Employment Rates of employee turnover and new employee hires in Nordea Group LA 1 Employee turnover as a percentage of total number of employees was 11.6% in 2015. Turnover rate includes employees who have left the company regardless of reason. The turnover rate in Russia was high due to retail business scaling down significantly during 2015. The hiring rate increased (9.8% in 2015 compared to 6.2% in 2014) leaving a net flow of 573 employees leaving the company. Turnover rate in Nordea Group Hiring rate in Nordea Group (figures include permanent and temporary employees) (figures include permanent employees) Denmark 12.8% Denmark 10.4% Hiring increased in all age groups. Finland 8.4% Finland 5.9% Especially in the youngest age groups in Denmark, Finland and Sweden. Norway 4.9% Norway 4.7% Increased share of women hired in Sweden 9.6% Sweden 7.7% three of the Nordic countries. Sweden Estonia 9.8% Estonia 12.3% kept same high share as last year. Latvia 15.9% Latvia 17.7% Lithuania 19.2% Lithuania 17.9% Luxembourg 10.3% Luxembourg 15.0% Poland 9.9% Poland 42.3% Russia 57.3% Russia 5.3% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 39 Creating opportunities for our people People data Occupational health and safety Sickness rates and absenteeism LA6 Sickness rate by region and gender Average sick leave days in Nordea Group in the Nordic countries Following the development in the sickness rate, there has been a In 2015 there was a decrease in the sickness rate in Finland and decrease in average sick leave days in Finland and Norway and Norway and an increase in Denmark and Sweden. Nordea is an increase in Denmark and Sweden. monitoring the sickness rate on a regular basis and will take the needed actions if we see any significant increases. Denmark 7.0 Finland 9.5 4.1% Norway 10.0 Denmark 1.8% Sweden 8.7 4.8% Estonia 2.7 Finland 1.8% Latvia 5.9 5.5% Lithuania 2.1 Norway 2.7% Luxembourg 5.0 Female 4.8% Male Poland 17.0 Sweden 2.0% Russia 4.1 0% 1% 2% 3% 4% 5% 6% 0 2 4 6 8 10 12 14 16 18 Training and education Average hours of training per year per employee by gender, and employee category in Nordea Group LA 9 Average training hours per year in Nordea Group Number of participants in leadership Data is based on internal training only and each employee's own registration. training in Nordic countries Group level online training has been added manually to the Nordic figures. There was a significant increase in 2015 in number of participants in ‘Leading Others’ programmes. The share of female participants in ‘Strategic leader’ programmes increased to 37.5% in 2015 (19% in 2014). Denmark 7 Finland 8 Hours 600 Norway 5 Female Sweden 15 500 Male Latvia 19 400 238 Estonia 11 300 Lithuania 8 Russia 17 200 95 291 Luxembourg 11 100 44 128 88 21 Poland 16 35 0 0 5 10 15 20 1. Potential 2. Leading 3. Leading 4. Strategic leader others leaders leader *These labels are the names of our leadership training programmes Average hours of training per year per employee Average hours of training per year per employee by employee category by gender 7 Employee 6 Female Denmark Denmark 12 Manager 8 Male 7 7 Finland Finland 16 10 Norway 4 Norway 5 12 5 Sweden 14 Sweden 16 19 13 0 5 10 15 20 0 5 10 15 20 40 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Creating opportunities for our people All employee data is based on number of employees (NOE), if not stated otherwise. Data including excel tables also on www.nordea.com Diversity and equal opportunity Composition of governance bodies and breakdown of employees per employee category LA12 44% 56% Female Male The Board of Directors Ratio of women and age groups in management positions There was an increase in the share of female managers among the ‘Leading Leaders’ and ‘Senior managers’ categories. The share of female managers among ‘Executives managers’ decreased in 2015. We are pleased with the improvement but we haven’t reached our ambition level in appointing more women to the executive level. Therefore our effort to attract, promote and retain women executive talents continues in 2016. Under 30 years of age 30-50 years of age Over 50 years of age Group Executive Management 22% 14% 2014 78% 86% 56+44 44% 56% Executive managers * 20% 22% 2014 80% 78% 66+34 34% 66% Senior managers ** 28% 25% 2014 72% 75% 66+34 34% 66% Leading Leaders 32% 30% 2014 68% 70% 66+34 34% 66% 3+65+32 3% Leading Others 44% 56% 32% 44% 2014 56% 65% 16+47+37 Non-managerial 16% employees 58% 42% 37% 59% 2014 41% 47% * Executive managers report to Group Executive Management (GEM) ** Senior managers report to Executive managers. Data consists of Nordic countries, core employees. Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 41 Managing our environmental footprint Reducing our operational impact As well as helping to build the future means making sensible decisions about Full marks for disclosure of the societies in which we operate where to focus our efforts and setting We are committed to being open and by applying our expertise to relevant appropriate targets for improvement. We transparent about our environmental challenges, we must also manage our take a conscientious approach to idenperformance and we participate in the own operations responsibly and run our tifying risks and opportunities, and work CDP (formerly the Carbon Disclosure business in a way that promotes the longto drive down our impact through our Project), disclosing our greenhouse term health of our environment. Ecological Footprint Programme. gas emissions, water usage and strategies for managing climate change, This chapter explains our strategy for Climate change is one of the biggest water and deforestation risks. In the managing and mitigating environmental challenges facing mankind. We believe we 2015 CDP report Nordea scored 100 impact from our own operations. Our must take steps to mitigate our contripoints out of a possible 100 for carbon actions in respect of our supply chain, and bution to carbon emissions, and in our disclosure. our lending and investments, are outlined own operations have committed to being in Sustainable Economic Progress. ‘carbon-neutral’. Our challenge is to reduce the negative We set up our Ecological Footprint environmental effects of our activities Programme in 2009 to address our while seeking to grow our business. This operational environmental impact. This Illustration 1: Environmental management Data reporting process at Nordea in cr360 Analysis Approval process. • Analyse data System estimates • Further investigation missing energy data • Identify improvement areas based on floor area. OUR TARGETS 2008-2016: Data • Energy: -15 % (kWh/FTE) Regular evaluation collection • Air travel: -30% (trips/FTE) meetings • Energy • Internal paper: -50% (kg/FTE) Discuss analysis, decide • Water • Customer paper: -50% (g/cust) on actions and share • Travel by plane, experiences between: train & car • Eco footprint team • Waste members • Paper • Relevant colleagues • External partners Execute the agreed actions Examples: • Run Meatfree Monday pilot in Norway • Install new control system for lighting • Optimise heatpump in Swedish HQ • Set HQ printers to default to double-sided 42 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Managing our environmental footprint Illustration 2: Our emissions and how we offset them Primary energy Primary energy Total CO2 How we supply demand emissions offset 37 790 tonnes District heating Offset project: District 6,540 tonnes CO2 69,548 MWh Vietnam biogas heating 17,50% District cooling 74 tonnes CO2 / 5,654 MWh Nordea buildings District cooling Electricity Hydro power (GOs) 18,345 tonnes CO2 48,50% Rail transport 119,480 MWh Wind power (GOs) Electricity Air transport Business travel 12,632 tonnes CO2 Offset project: 117,349,609 kms Malawi forest management & Fossil Waste biodiversity fuels 199 tonnes CO2 34% Car transport 1,941 tonnes concentrates primarily on reducing the initiation of a large cross-Nordea protions in 2013, and our target for energy emissions from energy and air travel, with gramme that has required resources from consumption was reached this year. Our a secondary focus on paper, waste, green all main locations to get together and the target for internal paper consumption is IT, buildings and communication. We set expansion of one of our divisions. within reach, however, with just one year long-term targets for improvement, monto go we need to redouble our efforts to itor progress each quarter and report our We will maintain a strong focus on meet our air travel target. emissions annually. reducing business travel and will further develop the quarterly travel reports that In 2016, we will develop new targets. How we seek to achieve our goals are distributed to managers in order for To ensure they are both meaningful Initiatives aimed at reducing our operathem to be better able to monitor travel and extensive, we aim to set targets tional impact include increased digitalisain their units and set their own reduction based on scientific indications about tion of customer communications, which targets. how an increase in global temperature also aligns with our customers’ evolving of more than two degrees Celsius can needs. Investing in energy-efficient How we evaluate our progress be avoided. This will be an exciting technology in our buildings is also key We collate and analyse environmental process involving internal and external to our strategy, and new and renovated data on a quarterly basis from the Nordic resources. head offices now use new technology for and Baltic countries, Russia and Poland. heating, ventilation and lighting. Many of We do not include our international our head office buildings are certified to units in our environmental reporting, as the international environmental standard they represent less than 3% of our total Leadership in Energy and Environmental workforce. Design (LEED), with the five Vallila head office buildings in Helsinki, Finland, not We had no environment-related incidents only achieving re-certification in 2015 in 2015, nor were we subject to any fines but also being upgraded to Gold level. All or legal action for environmental issues. new head office buildings have energy efficiency as a priority from the outset. How we are setting our We will develop new targets future targets in 2016 based on avoiding a Reducing our emissions from air travel Our current long-term targets covering temperature rise of more than 2 degrees. remains a challenge for us and in 2015 the Nordic countries were set in 2009, we did not achieve the reduction we were using 2008 as a baseline, and are aiming for. While some divisions in the targeted for achievement by the end of bank made progress, overall travel activity 2016. We reached our target for reducincreased in 2015. The main reason was ing paper use in customer communicaNordea Sustainability Report 2015 43 Managing our environmental footprint Becoming carbon-neutral To signal our commitment to tackling generation and resource conservation Our emissions for 2015 were calculated in climate change – and to work with likeprojects. our environmental management system, minded companies – we have endorsed in which our consumption of energy, our We Mean Business, a coalition of It is important to us that we select highbusiness travel and our waste have been organisations working with businesses quality projects with emission reductions converted to CO2 equivalents using interand investors for a low-carbon economy. verified by an independent third party and national CO2 conversion factors. and that also have a positive impact on While our priority is to continue to local communities. We have looked for Both projects have been validated and reduce our emissions, there comes a projects which offer benefits relating to verified by high-quality independent point at which further reductions are financial security, women's empowerment standards to ensure they deliver the emisnot feasible or are cost-prohibitive. We and developing skills. sion reductions stated. Both contribute to wanted to become carbon-neutral in sustainable development in several areas, order to demonstrate our commitment. Following thorough research and advice including energy access, financial security, For this reason, in 2015 we have offset from offset providers, and considering the education and skills, and economic growth our remaining emissions by purchasing volume of our emissions, we decided to – making them a perfect fit for Nordea. renewable energy and buying carbon finance two projects in order to be able offsets equal to the amount of carbon to make a meaningful contribution to In order to ensure we have a robust and dioxide we emit as a result of energy each one. We chose one whose primary credible carbon-neutral statement, we use in our buildings, business travel and purpose is to generate renewable energy are CarbonNeutral® certified in line with waste. The purchase of these offsets and a second that seeks to achieve a The CarbonNeutral Protocol which was will finance projects that help reduce wider range of environmental goals. We first established in 2002 and is updated emissions, providing an immediate and will finance these projects for two years annually to reflect the latest scientific and measurable way both to cut our emis– 2015 and 2016 – and re-evaluate our industry best practice. sions and to support renewable energy selection for 2017. Vietnam: Household Agricultural Biogas This project installs small-scale biogas plants in households and small livestock operations across Vietnam – enabling animal waste to be turned into energy for cooking and heating. As well as providing a clean, affordable and convenient form of energy to rural areas and reducing greenhouse gas emissions, it also benefits the local area through job creation. Through better sanitation and reduced air pollution, community health is improved, and the replacement of synthetic fertilisers has important environmental benefits. Vietnam has over two million families with pig farms that create odour and waste problems, of which it is estimated that half could benefit from biogas plants. The Malawi: Kulera Landscape project – developed in partnership with the Ministry of REDD+ and Cookstoves Agriculture and Rural Development and the Netherlands Development Organization – helps customers overcome significant upfront costs to the plants’ installation. Through forest protection and the distribution of The project won the prestigious Energy Globe Award clean cookstoves, this project is using carbon finance to in 2007 and the World Energy Award in 2012, reflectdeliver emission reductions, protect an important area ing its contribution to sustainable development, tackling of biodiversity value, and tackle indoor air pollution. It energy poverty and mitigating climate change. aims to conserve 170,000 hectares of forest, and works with local households to reduce fuelwood use, develop sustainable livelihoods, increase resilience to climate change and promote biodiversity. The project has received Triple Gold from the Climate, Community and Biodiversity standard. It was established to reduce deforestation and degradation in Nyika National Park, Vwaza Wildlife Reserve, and Nkhotakota Wildlife Reserve, and works with over 45,000 households living within 10km of the protected parks and reserves. More than 50% of the population lives below the poverty line and one in five is chronically food-insecure. 44 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Managing our environmental footprint Environmental data 2015 We collect environmental data from The Ecological Footprint Programme (GHG) Protocol’s guidelines for emissions our operations in the Nordic countries, the reports on Nordea’s environmental KPIs calculations. Information on the sources Baltic countries, Russia and Poland, which (overleaf). These were set in 2009, before of the emission factors and more detailed together represent 97.5% of Nordea’s the Baltics, Russia and Poland reported consumption data can be found on workforce. Our international units (2.5% environmental data, and therefore only nordea.com. of workforce) are currently not part of our include Nordic countries. environmental reporting. Our emissions-, Below are some highlights of the developwaterand waste reporting include the The environmental data is calculated in ments from 2014-2015. above countries. accordance with the Greenhouse Gas Total Total emissions CO2 Energy emissions Total down 5% down 1.8% Travel emissions up 4.5% Total Total Waste /FTE Water consumption *Air down 6.6% down 1.3% travel (trips /FTE) up 4.5% *Nordic energy *Paper consumption (kWh/FTE) usage (kg/FTE) down 19.5% down 9.6% *These are Nordic KPIs that include only Nordic data. Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 45 Managing our environmental footprint Nordea EcoFootprint programme ENERGY CONSUMPTION Purpose Target Status Development Reduce energy 2008-2016 2008-2015 kWh/FTE consumed in Nordea’s head offices and -15% -20% kWh/FTE 10,000 8,000 8,388 branches 7,418 kWh/FTE Target surpassed 6,000 6,708 7,130 Energy consumption in Energy consumption per FTE has come down 9.6% 4,000 Nordic head offices and from 2014 and 20% from 2008. The total energy branches -15% (kWh consumption has decreased 25% since 2008. We are 2,000 / FTE) 2008-2016 starting to see the benefits of the excellent energy efficiency of our newly constructed or renovated 0 head offices. We expect this trend to continue. 2008 2014 2015 2016 TRAVEL Purpose Target Status Development Reduce air travel 2008-2016 2008-2015 trips/FTE by introducing alternative virtual collaboration tools -30% +6.7% trips / FTE 5 4 4.26 4.45 and promoting 4.17 trips No progress behavioral change. 3 2.92 Business air travel Travel activity increased in 2015, with the number of 2 -30% (trips / FTE) trips / FTE rising by 4.5% from 2014 (total number 2008 2016 of trips by 6.8%). The number of trips is now almost 1 back to baseline 2008 level trips / FTE above 2008 level by 6.7%. The main reason for the increase is 0 two large programmes started in 2015 and going 2008 2014 2015 2016 forward we will see how travel can be limited. INTERNAL PAPER Purpose Target Status Development Reduce the amount 2008-2016 2008-2015 kg / FTE of copy paper used in Nordic head offices and branches. -50% -38.2% kg/FTE 40 Eliminate unnecessary 30 32.2 kg/FTE On track print, increase use of double-sided 20 24.7 print, introduce more Paper purchased for use We saw a big drop in purchased office paper in 19.9 in Nordic head offices 2015 19,5% down (kg / FTE) from 2014. This electronic forms. and branches 50% (kg is due to head office printers being set to double16.1 10 / FTE) 2008 2016 sided print as default, head office personnel moving into activity based workplaces and digitalization of documents. The total volume of purchased office 0 2008 2014 2015 2016 paper has fallen by 42% from 2008 2015. CUSTOMER PAPER Purpose Target Status Development Reduce the amount 2008-2016 2008-2015 grams / customer of paper that we send to our customers. Eliminate unnec-50% -61.4% grams / customer 400 336 essary print and 300 grams / customer Target surpassed offer electronic products and services. 200 Paper sent to customers This target was reached in 2013. There was a 50% (grams / further reduction in paper sent to customers in 168 151 customer) 2008 2016 2015. Total paper sent to customers was down 100 130 11.8% from 2014 (14% in grams / customer). We sent out almost 1,900 tonnes less paper in 0 2015 than 2008. With strong focus on digitaliza2008 2014 2015 2016 tion, we expect volumes to keep decreasing. The full-time equivalent (FTE) employee figures used in the environmental data refer to full-time equivalents at year end including temporary staff and external consultants working in Nordea premises. 46 Nordea Sustainability Report 2015 Independent Auditor’s Limited Assurance Report To Nordea AB (publ) Introduction Responsibilities of the Auditor The firm applies ISQC 1 (International We have been engaged by the Group Our responsibility is to express a concluStandard on Quality Control) and Executive Management of Nordea AB sion on the Sustainability Report based accordingly maintains a comprehen(publ) (“Nordea”) to undertake a limited on the limited assurance procedures we sive system of quality control including assurance of Nordea’s Sustainability have performed. documented policies and procedures Report for the year 2015 with corregarding compliance with ethical responding GRI index on Nordea’s We conducted our limited assurance requirements, professional standards website www.nordea.com. engagement in accordance with RevR and applicable legal and regulatory 6 Assurance of Sustainability Reports requirements. Responsibilities of the Board issued by FAR. A limited assurance and Management for the engagement consists of making inquirOur procedures are based on the criSustainability Report ies, primarily of persons responsible teria defined by the Board of Directors The Board of Directors and Group for the preparation of the Sustainability and the Group Executive Management Executive Management are responsible Report, and applying analytical and as described above. We consider these for the preparation of the Sustainability other limited assurance procedures. criteria suitable for the preparation of Report in accordance with the appliThe procedures performed in a limited the Sustainability Report. cable criteria, as explained in the GRI assurance engagement vary in nature Index published on Nordea’s website from, and are less in extent than for, We believe that the evidence we have www.nordea.com, and are the parts of a reasonable assurance engagement obtained is sufficient and appropriate to the Sustainability Reporting Guidelines conducted in accordance with IAASB’s provide a basis for our conclusion below. (published by The Global Reporting Standards on Auditing and other Initiative, GRI) which are applicable to generally accepted auditing standards Conclusion the Sustainability Report, as well as in Sweden. The procedures performed Based on the limited assurance procethe accounting and calculation princiconsequently do not enable us to obtain dures we have performed, nothing has ples that the Company has developed. assurance that we would become aware come to our attention that causes us to This responsibility includes the internal of all significant matters that might believe that the Sustainability Report is control relevant to the preparation of a be identified in a reasonable assurnot prepared, in all material respects, Sustainability Report that is free from ance engagement. Accordingly, we do in accordance with the criteria defined material misstatements, whether due to not express a reasonable assurance by the Board of Directors and Group fraud or error. conclusion. Executive Management. Stockholm, 12 February 2016 Öhrlings PricewaterhouseCoopers AB Catarina Ericsson Isabelle Jonasson Authorised Public Accountant Expert Member of FAR Nordea Bank AB (publ) Corporate registration no. 516406-0120 Smålandsgatan 17 SE-105 71 Stockholm Tel +46 8 614 78 00 Fax +46 8 10 50 69 www.nordea.com
