InuwtlnoY H.E. Ban Ki-moon Secretary-General United Nations New York, NY 10017 ,rlu USA 9 August 20L6 Dear Secreta ry-General, I am pleased to confirm that lnvestinor AS reaffirms its support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations' Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, the Environment and Anti-Corruption. ln this document, which is the company's second annual Communication on Progress, lnvestinor describes the measures it has taken to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into its business strategy, culture and daily operations. lnvestinor is also committed to sharing this information with its stakeholders þ{ Yours si rely, Tor Helmersen Chief Executive Officer UN Global compact Communication on Progress 2015-2016 The statements in this document are applicable to allten United Nations Global Compact principles, regarding human rights, labour, environment and ant¡-corruption issues. lnvestinor AS has incorporated ESG issues (Environmental, Social and Governance) into all its investment analyses and decision-making processes. The company also aims to be an active owner and ensure that ESG issues are on the agenda in all portfolio companies. lnvestinor is committed to continuing to work to secure acceptance and implementation of the United Nations Global Compact principles and to collaborate with other stakeholders to carry the principles into effect within the global business community. 1t2 www.investinor. no lnvestinor complies with all applicable laws and regulations as a matter of course. However, lnvestinor's initiatives relating to responsible and sustainable investment practice exceed the requirements established in the above. This is because sound long-term returns are deemed to be contingent on sustainable financial, environmental and social developments. This makes it strategically important for lnvestinor to incorporate consideration of environmental, social and corporate governance issues into allthe company's investment analyses, decision-making processes and ownership policies and practice. ln addition to Global Compact, lnvestinor has signed up to the UN's Principles on Responsible lnvestment (PRl). lnvestinor's approach to responsible and sustainable investment practice shall therefore enable the company to fulfillthe pledges it has made in accordance with these principles. ln 2015 lnvestinor adopted a new and more detailed ESG policy, which is published on our company website. We improved and standardized our methodology for analysing ESG risk in investment cases, and introduced a new ESG reporting scheme, which is tailor made for our early stage portfolio companies. Tor el ersen Chief Executive Office r & 2t2 \I
