2015 Corporate Sustainability Report HESS VALUES Hess Values set the framework and establish the ethical standards by which we conduct our business. Integrity. We are committed to the highest level of integrity in all our relationships. Integrity People. We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing the best people by investing in their professional development and providing them with challenging and rewarding opportunities for People Performance personal growth. Performance. We are committed to a culture of performance that Value Social demands and rewards outstanding results throughout our business. Creation Responsibility Value Creation. We are committed to creating shareholder value based on sustained financial performance and long-term profitable growth. Independent Spirit Social Responsibility. We are committed to meeting the highest standards of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment and creating a longlasting, positive impact on the communities where we do business. Independent Spirit. We are committed to preserving the special qualities and unique personality that have made us a successful independent enterprise. GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) IN ACCORDANCE OPTION Following a review by ERM CVS, our external verifier, Hess is selfdeclaring this report in accordance with the Core option of the GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This is our Communication on Progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We welcome feedback on its contents.. ASSURANCE ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) conducted representative site visits, reviewed source data and our internal data collection and aggregation system and conducted interviews to ensure the information presented is a reliable ON THE COVER representation of our performance. An ERM CVS Assurance Statement has been Production Operations, included at the end of this report. ERM CVS also provided an opinion on the GRI Onshore U.S. “in accordance” option. TABLE OF CONTENTS 2 30 Message from the CEO Safety and Health Our CEO’s view on building a sustainable Aiming to get everyone, everywhere, every day, enterprise home safe 4 38 12 About Hess Our People Our company operations in brief Creating a company culture and high-quality workforce that innovates, leads and learns 5 42 Progress and Goals Climate Change and Energy A snapshot of our progress and path forward Balancing the world’s growing energy needs with cost-effective greenhouse gas emissions reduction policy 22 8 52 Approach to Reporting Environment A description of our materiality assessment, Responsible management of our environmental reporting framework and boundaries footprint 12 60 Performance Data 42 How We Operate 62 GRI Content Index The values that define our expectations for sustainable management and performance 67 Independent Assurance Statement 68 Awards and Recognition 22 Memberships and Associations Community and Social Performance A review of social responsibility as a way of doing business 52 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Our company demonstrated strong operational performance reducing dropped objects at our work locations, we achieved and capital discipline in 2015 in the midst of weak oil market a 63 percent decrease in dropped object HiPo incidents, and conditions. Our strategy in this “lower for longer” oil price an overall 43 percent reduction in our safety HiPo rate. environment is guided by three principles: preserve the Process safety is another key focus area. Effective process strength of our balance sheet, preserve our operating safety management at Hess has three components: capabilities and preserve our long-term growth options. understanding and addressing vulnerabilities that could Our mission is to be a trusted energy partner. We are impact the integrity of equipment and infrastructure, committed to help meet the world’s growing energy needs in enhancing process safety leadership and increasing a safe, environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and awareness of process safety across the company. Hess profitable way. Sustainability practices are a fundamental monitors and reports process safety key performance part of our business strategy and operations – they create indicators using international standards. To further advance value for our shareholders and opportunities to continuously Hess’ journey toward zero safety incidents, we codified improve business performance. current and future safety initiatives into a five-year plan that will be reviewed and updated annually. To fulfill our mission and commitment, Hess relies on a world-class workforce and a company culture that fosters SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY excellence in operational, safety and environmental Social responsibility is one of our key company values and performance, professional growth, teamwork and corporate fundamental to the way we do business at Hess. For us, part citizenship. Central to our culture are the Hess Values of of being a trusted energy partner is making a positive impact Integrity, People, Performance, Value Creation, Social on the communities where we operate. Hess’ approach is Responsibility and Independent Spirit. Through our Code of guided by our commitments to international voluntary Business Conduct and Ethics, we translate these Values into initiatives designed to protect the environment, promote sustainable practices that guide the way we do business as a human rights and encourage financial transparency. In 2015 trusted energy partner. we continued our endorsement of commitments to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Our 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report shows how Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles sustainable business practices are integrated into our and Rights at Work, the United Nations Global Compact, the short-term goals and long-term strategy. Detailed information Voluntary Principles on Security and Human Rights, and the on our programs and performance are provided in this report Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative. We also and on our company website at hess.com. enhanced our stakeholder engagement process by integrating stakeholder issues into our enterprise risk workshops, value SAFETY assurance reviews and asset business plans. Our first priority in driving sustainable performance is our comprehensive approach to personal and process safety. Hess’ strategic social investments are intended to make Regarding personal safety, our employees and contractors sustainable improvements to the quality of life in share a goal of reaching zero safety incidents – what we communities where we do business. In 2015, our social describe as “everyone, everywhere, home safe every day.” investment program totaled about $22 million, with more than Hess’ workforce demonstrated outstanding safety $18 million directed toward education projects. The performance in 2015. Our combined employee and remainder was directed primarily to economic development, contractor Lost Time Incident Rate was down 33 percent, health and capacity building. and our Total Recordable Incident Rate decreased by 10 percent. We also measure another key performance indicator for safety – the rate of incidents with high potential severity or “HiPos.” Through a campaign focused on 2 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report CLIMATE CHANGE AND THE ENVIRONMENT PEOPLE We see climate change as both an environmental and We recognize that Hess’ continued success is driven by our economic challenge that requires government and business dedicated employees, and we are committed to fostering a leaders along with civil society to work together on a global workplace that values diversity and inclusion, learning and scale. The International Energy Agency has projected that development, employee engagement and talent global energy demand will increase by 32 percent from 2013 to enhancement. 2040, with 50 percent of the needed supply coming from oil Our company has a special culture – shaped by the Hess and natural gas. To meet this long-term global demand for Values – that distinguishes us. That culture is further energy will require a comprehensive strategy that includes oil enhanced by our adoption of Lean manufacturing principles, and natural gas as well as renewables for many years to come. which foster teamwork and continuous improvement Hess continues to take steps to monitor, measure and throughout our organization to overcome complex develop energy resources that the world needs in an challenges, eliminate wasteful operational processes and environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. create value. Between 2008 and 2015, we reduced our equity greenhouse Overall, we are proud of the progress made in driving our gas emissions by more than 5 million tonnes through company’s long-term sustainable performance and honored improved operating practices and asset closures and to have been recognized once again in 2015 for the quality of divestitures. We are committed to continuous improvement in our environment, social and governance performance and this critical area and have set new intensity reduction targets disclosure. We recently completed a project to review and for flaring and greenhouse gases that are described in this update our environment, health, safety and social report. responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy to guide our efforts moving As a result of the abundant natural gas produced from U.S. forward, which we believe will further enhance our shale, the U.S. carbon footprint has been reduced by about operational effectiveness, reduce risk and strengthen our 10 percent since 2007 as cleaner burning natural gas has license to operate. displaced coal use in electricity generation. U.S. shale energy Thank you to our employees, communities, customers, also has boosted U.S. economic growth and employment business partners and investors for their ongoing support and strengthened global energy security. Hess, as one of the and partnership. Together we will continue to build a largest producers in the Bakken play in North Dakota, has sustainable enterprise that helps meet the world’s energy contributed to this success story and is committed to needs and makes a positive difference for our stakeholders responsible shale energy development. and the world around us. To capture and monetize natural gas from our producing wells and minimize flaring, we have invested more than $1.9 billion in infrastructure in North Dakota. We also remain focused on reducing liquid spills and gas releases from our operations. We are continuously improving our containment practices and have taken a comprehensive approach to analyzing and addressing challenges in this area in 2015 in John B. Hess Chief Executive Officer order to strengthen our operating and reporting practices. We continue to require our contractors to make non-proprietary data regarding the chemicals used in each hydraulically fractured well publicly available on the FracFocus website. 3 ABOUT HESS Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. 2015 HIGHLIGHTS HESS PORTFOLIO OF OPERATIONS • In the Bakken shale oil play in North Dakota, net production averaged 112,000 barrels of oil equivalent per day (BOEPD) – a 35 percent increase from 2014. • In July 2015 we completed the sale of a 50 percent interest in our Bakken midstream business and formed a joint venture, with Hess retaining operational control. • North Malay Basin full field development progressed, with fabrication and installation of the central processing platform and commencement of development drilling. • In deepwater Gulf of Mexico, we advanced Production the Stampede project in preparation for Midstream Developments development drilling in 2016. Exploration • In offshore Guyana, we participated in a significant oil discovery at the Stabroek Production: Operated assets include the Bakken in North Dakota, the Exploration Block. Utica in Ohio, Permian Basin in West Texas, Baldpate and Tubular Bells Production in the Gulf of Mexico, Okume and Ceiba in Equatorial Guinea, South ECONOMIC CONTRIBUTIONS Arne in Denmark and North Malay Basin in Malaysia. Non-operated Developments Our 2015 direct economic contributions assets include the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Shenzi included payments to suppliers, capital and Llano in the Gulf of Mexico, and Valhall in Norway. and exploration expenditures, wages and benefits, taxes and royalties, interest, Midstream: Assets include a natural gas processing plant, rail loading dividends and social terminal and associated rail cars, crude oil truck and pipeline terminal, 0% 20% 40% investments. 60% 80% 100% and crude oil and natural gas gathering systems in North Dakota. $ Millions Developments: Activities include North Malay Basin in the Gulf of Thailand and Stampede in the Gulf of Mexico. Exploration: Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margins and include non-operated interests in the Gulf of Mexico, Guyana and Nova Scotia in Canada. Note: The groupings of assets above include Hess operated and non-operated assets. Divestitures in 2015 are not shown on the map. The Waha Field in Libya is included, but production and export activities have been suspended due to civil and political unrest. Boundaries and restatements of data included in this report can be found in the Approach to Reporting section. A portion of capital and exploration expenditures may include payments to suppliers. 1,086 Carbon and NOx Taxes $5 7.9 375,000 Million BOE Proved Years Reserve Life BOEPD Total Net Hydrocarbons Reserves Produced 4 PROGRESS AND GOALS 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report This section provides a snapshot of our Community and progress and path forward with respect Social Performance to our most material sustainability • Continued development of SR and programs and initiatives. Elements of Human Rights Global Standards in our environment, health, safety and keeping with our EHS & SR strategy social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy • Proceeded with risk-based rollout of are included in the summary table on stakeholder engagement and grievance the following pages, along with select mechanism processes targets and metrics that we have • Developed human rights training established to measure how effectively module for employees and contractors we are implementing our new strategy. • Completed review of social investment The sustainability goals and targets we programs in line with our EHS & SR have established indicate our strategy commitment to improve performance • Invested nearly $22 million in social across a range of material issues and programs throughout our portfolio address challenges facing Hess. Safety and Health In-depth discussion of these topics can • Achieved a 10 percent improvement in be found throughout this report, as workforce Total Recordable Incident referenced by the page numbers in Rate and a 33 percent improvement in Operations, North Dakota the table. workforce Lost Time Incident Rate • Reached 86 percent completion of 2015 PROGRESS Climate Change and Energy action items identified through process To enhance the reader’s understanding • Reduced our equity greenhouse gas safety health checks and are on target of Hess’ progress in 2015, a summary of (GHG) emissions by more than 5 million to close the remaining items by 2017 key accomplishments and developments tonnes between 2008 and 2015 • Made progress in a multiyear program is presented below, categorized • Set new 2020 targets for reducing to enter integrity critical equipment according to the six sections of the flaring intensity and GHG intensity performance standards into SAP to report in which they are discussed. We • Updated carbon price in our economic facilitate systematic implementation and took steps forward in many of our evaluation process for significant new validation of this equipment functional areas to improve how we investments to include two scenarios understand and manage non-technical Our People – $20 per tonne and $40 per tonne – for risks in our day-to-day operations. • Increased focus on employee implementation in 2016 engagement through a variety of actions How We Operate • Continued leadership development Environment • Completed a review and update of our workshops for early career supervisors • Piloted implementation of a compliance EHS & SR strategy up through senior management tracking tool at our Bakken asset • Approved four new global EHS • Introduced new online compensation • Conducted a hydrogeological study to standards and completed gap management and learning management assess capacity of the Ogallala Aquifer, assessments for six standards at modules to better understand long-term selected assets • Conducted review of strategic human availability and yield • Implemented our updated Anti-Bribery resources initiatives through a series of and Anti-Corruption Policy and enterprise-wide focus groups Procedure and deployed online anti-corruption compliance training • Continued to enhance our contractor selection, management and review process 5 PROGRESS AND GOALS Hess strives for continuous improvement and top-quartile that will help to address the material sustainability issues performance in our industry. Through the review and update of facing Hess and the oil and gas industry at large. In addition, our EHS & SR strategy completed in 2015, we expanded our we have identified key areas of focus for our operations sustainability goals beyond climate change and energy to through other strategic efforts for 2016, which build on our include policies, processes and metrics across our business progress to date. SUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND TARGETS TARGET DATE DISCUSSION (PAGE #) HOW WE OPERATE Operating in a low oil price environment, strengthening our license to operate and enhancing our reputation through advocacy and transparency in reporting Deploy Lean metrics 2016 15-17 Roll out and implement complete set of enhanced EHS global standards on a prioritized basis 2016-2019 14-15 Strengthen our regulatory assurance process through integration into our business operating rhythm and 14-15 2016-2018 ensure alignment of our regulatory advocacy priorities with our enterprise risk management process* 18-19 Measure effective implementation of the EHS & SR strategy through established targets and metrics* 2016-2020 14 Expand reporting to meet growing stakeholder expectations 2016 8-9 Further enhance our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and Procedure 2016 18 COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Meeting our commitment to operate as a trusted energy partner Continue to integrate stakeholder engagement, social risk and impact management and social investment 2016 23-27 into enterprise business processes Approve and implement SR and Human Rights Global Standards* 2016-2020 23-27 Expand implementation of stakeholder engagement and grievance mechanism processes* 2016-2020 24-26 Commence risk-based rollout of human rights training module at selected assets* 2016 27 Develop human rights content for contractor onboarding* 2016 23 Track implementation of new standards through the number of employees and contractors completing human 2016-2020 23 rights training at high-risk assets, and the percentage of new contracts with human rights clauses* SAFETY AND HEALTH Focusing on continuous improvement as we aspire toward zero incidents, process safety management systems, integrity and barrier management, assurance and competency Continue to progress our efforts in integrity management to include prioritized asset integrity assessments, implementation of performance standards for integrity critical equipment and offshore implementation of 2016+ 32-34 our enhanced barrier management approach* Meet a workforce Total Recordable Incident Rate target of 0.31 or below 2016 31-32 Meet a safety High Potential Incident Rate target of 0.15 or below 2016 31-32 Continue to make improvements in our process safety management system and process safety standards* 2016 32-34 Build upon our Gulf of Mexico competency assurance program and begin implementation of enterprise-wide 2018+ 32-34 tiered assurance program* *Denotes a key goal or target of our refreshed EHS & SR strategy. 6 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report SUSTAINABILITY GOALS AND TARGETS TARGET DATE DISCUSSION (PAGE #) OUR PEOPLE Preserving management and technical capabilities to respond effectively when the price of oil recovers Continue focus on employee engagement 2016 41 Advance initiatives and process efficiency in the annual compensation process, performance management, 2016 40-41 talent management and learning and development Refine usage of Career Manager, our integrated human resources system, through continuous improvement in data 2016 40 integrity, reporting and use of analytics CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Implementing tactical strategic actions to reduce our carbon footprint Create a working team with senior leader representation to further evaluate and recommend strategic actions 2016+ 43 with regard to climate change* Continue to expand North Dakota midstream gas gathering infrastructure in 2016 and beyond* 2016+ 47 Implement a project in Equatorial Guinea to pipe gas that had traditionally been flared in our Okume operation 2016+ 47 to the Ceiba field to use as fuel gas to help power our operation* Achieve 25 percent reduction in GHG emissions intensity (Tonnes per Million BOE) by 2020 based on our current 2020 45 portfolio of operated assets, versus our 2014 baseline* Continue to improve performance related to reducing methane emissions, through ONE Future sector-based 2020 50-51 targets* Reduce flaring intensity (standard cubic feet per BOE) by 50 percent by 2020 based on our current portfolio of 2020 47 operated assets, versus our 2014 baseline* ENVIRONMENT Safeguarding the environment and responsibly managing our environmental footprint Continue initiatives to reduce environmental impacts of shale energy development 2016+ 54-56 Improve water data collection methodology* 2016+ 53 Incorporate water management in the risk assessment process* 2016+ 53 *Denotes a key goal or target of our refreshed EHS & SR strategy. 7 APPROACH TO REPORTING Within this report, we provide governmental and non-governmental Therefore, our historical social descriptions of the company’s 2015 organizations, industry peers and investment spend was not restated. strategy and performance regarding academics – enables us to strengthen We recently exited several international material economic, environmental and our license to operate and brings assets, including those in Algeria, the social issues. Our annual report, U.S. increased focus to our transparency Canning Basin in Western Australia, Securities and Exchange Commission goals. China, France and the Kurdistan Region Form 10-K filing and proxy statement In 2015 we conducted a survey of select of Iraq. In addition, we completed a detail our financial and governance industry peers and a subset of priority decommissioning project at one of our information; these documents can be external stakeholder groups to validate assets in the United Kingdom in 2015. found on our website. and expand upon our prior materiality Data from these assets have not been Additional sustainability and investor information assessments. We then supplemented excluded from the report, as the data is available at hess.com/investors the survey results with desktop research were not deemed to be material. on a larger group of peers and REPORTING STANDARDS stakeholders by reviewing public reports When conducting our annual internal This sustainability report was prepared and websites documenting key issues review of performance data for this in accordance with the Core option of for our industry. This process allowed us report, we built upon our typical review the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 to validate that stakeholder expectations process and initiated a more detailed Sustainability Reporting Guidelines and are being addressed. The material investigation of the performance data associated Oil and Gas Sector issues identified by the survey, which for 2015 and prior years. Based on this Supplement. The report is also based on have informed our environment, health, analysis, we have revised many of the the Oil and Gas Industry Guidance on safety and social responsibility (EHS & historical environmental values stated in Voluntary Sustainability Reporting SR) strategy and helped to define the prior sustainability reports to improve document developed by IPIECA (the boundaries of this report, are presented the quality of our dataset. global oil and gas industry organization on pages 10-11. INTERNAL QUALITY for environmental and social issues), the RESTATEMENTS ASSURANCE American Petroleum Institute and the We completed our transformation to an Our internal information systems International Oil and Gas Producers exploration and production company in promote the centralized collection of Association, as well as the 10 principles 2014 after exiting our downstream data from Hess-operated and joint of the United Nations (UN) Global business, which included refining, retail, venture assets around the world. In Compact. A GRI Content Index, crossenergy marketing and energy trading. order to evaluate accuracy and referenced with IPIECA indicators and Historical safety and environmental data reliability, we conduct quality assurance/ the UN Global Compact principles, is from 2013 and prior were restated to quality control reviews and validation of provided on pages 62-66. reflect the upstream (exploration and both aggregated and facility-level data. An expanded GRI Index is available at production) business only, with a few Individual numbers in the charts, tables hess.com/gri-index exceptions. For example, individual and text may not precisely sum to the divestitures that did not meet the total amounts shown due to rounding. MATERIALITY materiality threshold delineated in the All currency found in this report is in We prioritized new and emerging issues Hess Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol U.S. dollars. important to our stakeholders when for removal from our new 2014 GHG developing the content for this emissions baseline are included in the EXTERNAL ASSURANCE This report has been assured by ERM sustainability report, consistent with GRI restated data. In addition, downstreamCertification and Verification Services G4 materiality guidance. Engagement focused social investment spend, which (ERM CVS), a third party that annually with our stakeholders – which include represented less than 5 percent of the reviews our sustainability data and employees, suppliers, customers, overall expenditure, was deemed self-declared GRI “in accordance” communities, shareholders, immaterial for restatement purposes. 8 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report South Arne Platform, Danish North Sea option. This external review helps to this report and in our CDP Climate with the GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector ensure consistent and objective data Change response. Supplement and the IPIECA Petroleum collection and reporting of our Industry Guidelines for Reporting GHG sustainability performance. The BOUNDARY SETTING Emissions (2nd edition, May 2011). Included within the scope of this report Independent Assurance Statement is are the principal facilities and assets We also report our social investments for provided on page 67 of this report. operated by Hess Corporation and our our operated assets, joint ventures and ERM CVS’s assurance in years prior to subsidiaries during calendar year 2015, non-operated facilities in which we hold a 2014 included a review of downstream unless otherwise indicated. Data significant interest. data, as well as current exploration and presented are gross figures from See our expanded performance data at production activities. As a result, the prior operated facilities, unless specified hess.com/sustainability/performanceyears’ data that has been restated or otherwise. data/key-sustainability-metrics revised has not been assured. We report some quantitative In addition to providing assurance in environment, health and safety data relation to our sustainability report, ERM on a normalized basis to facilitate CVS also conducts a separate verification year-on-year comparisons. We report of the GHG emissions data provided in GHG emissions on both an operated and equity share basis in accordance 9 APPROACH TO REPORTING BOUNDARIES FOR MATERIAL Overall, our material issues include environmental, social and ISSUES AND GRI G4 ISSUE MAP governance concerns, reflecting the diverse external The 16 issues listed in the table below are those that both stakeholder priorities and Hess’ operational and regulatory risk emerged as top issues from our materiality assessment survey focus. Climate change, which has been a focus of our EHS & and mapped to GRI G4 reporting criteria. The table provides a SR strategy to date, was one of the top five issues identified in cross-reference with the relevant G4 categories for each issue our survey. and identifies the boundary for each issue in this report. HESS’ MATERIAL EQUIVALENT G4 EQUIVALENT G4 BOUNDARY FOR ISSUES CATEGORY MATERIAL ASPECT(S) REPORT Environmental Compliance, Overall Enterprise Regulatory Assurance* Social: Society Compliance Enterprise Transportation Impacts* Environmental Transport Operated Assets, Suppliers Environmental Effluents and Waste Operated Assets Process Safety & Spills* Social: Labor Practices Occupational Health and Safety Workforce and Decent Work Operated Assets and Equity Share, Environmental Emissions Indirect Emissions, Suppliers, Products Climate Change & GHG Emissions* Environmental Energy Operated Assets Social: Society Anti-Corruption Enterprise, Partners, Suppliers Transparency in Social: Society Anti-Competitive Behavior Enterprise, Partners, Suppliers Business Conduct* Social: Society Public Policy Enterprise, Partners, Suppliers Water Management* Environmental Effluents and Waste, Water Operated Assets Emergency Social: Labor Practices Occupational Health and Safety Workforce Preparedness & Response* and Decent Work Grievance Mechanisms Enterprise Environmental for Impacts to the Environment (although currently in pilot phase) Social: Society Local Communities Enterprise Community & Stakeholder Engagement* Grievance Mechanisms Enterprise Social: Society for Impacts on Society (although currently in pilot phase) Standard Disclosure Stakeholder Engagement Enterprise *Identified as a top 10 issue in Hess’ 2015 materiality assessment survey. Note that “Community” and “Stakeholder Engagement” were identified separately in the top 10, but have been combined here. 10 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report HESS’ MATERIAL EQUIVALENT G4 EQUIVALENT G4 BOUNDARY FOR ISSUES CATEGORY MATERIAL ASPECT(S) REPORT Social: Labor Practices Grievance Mechanisms Enterprise and Decent Work for Labor Practices (although currently in pilot phase) Social: Human Rights Investment Enterprise Social: Human Rights Non-Discrimination Enterprise Child Labor, Forced or Social: Human Rights Enterprise Compulsory Labor Human Rights & Security* Social: Human Rights Security Practices Relevant Countries Social: Human Rights Indigenous Rights Relevant Countries Grievance Mechanisms for Enterprise Social: Human Rights Human Rights (although currently in pilot phase) Social: Human Rights Assessment Enterprise Economic Performance, Market Economic Impacts & Economic Presence, Indirect Economic Enterprise (equity share) Development Impacts Social: Labor Practices Employment Workforce and Decent Work Social: Labor Practices Training and Education Workforce and Decent Work Employment Practices Social: Labor Practices Diversity and Equal Opportunity Workforce and Decent Work Social: Labor Practices Equal Remuneration for Workforce and Decent Work Men and Women Economic Procurement Practices Enterprise, Suppliers Supplier Environmental Environmental Enterprise, Suppliers Assessment Supply Chain & Social: Labor Practices and Supplier Assessment for Labor Enterprise, Suppliers Contractor Management Decent Work Supplier Human Rights Social: Human Rights Enterprise, Suppliers Assessment Supplier Assessment for Impacts Social: Society Enterprise, Suppliers on Society Corporate Governance Standard Disclosure Ethics and Integrity, Governance Enterprise Solid Waste Management Environmental Effluents and Waste Operated Assets Chemical Use & Management Environmental Effluents and Waste Operated Assets *Identified as a top 10 issue in Hess’ 2015 materiality assessment survey. 11 Baldpate Platform, Gulf of Mexico 12 HOW WE OPERATE We strive to meet the highest standards The EHS Subcommittee is tasked with Hess’ Operational Excellence (OE) of corporate citizenship, contribute to assisting the Board in identifying, Council, composed of multidisciplinary the sustainability of the communities evaluating and monitoring EHS risks and senior leaders from across various where we operate and deliver long-term strategies with the potential to affect the business functions, aims to align and value to our shareholders. people, environment or communities integrate enterprise-wide, high-impact where we operate or our company’s initiatives that create high value for our The six core Hess Values support our business activities, performance and company. The OE Council plays a role in aim to be the most trusted energy reputation. The Subcommittee also determining the number of initiatives partner. Our Code of Business Conduct develops recommendations for the Audit that will be undertaken each year and and Ethics (Code of Conduct), Social Committee and the full Board on continually monitors and oversees the Responsibility Policy, Human Rights policies, programs and practices to company’s progress in implementing Policy, and Environment, Health and address such issues and risks. these initiatives. It also helps to ensure Safety (EHS) Policy build on our Values Subcommittee members have extensive that resources are available to achieve a to define internal expectations for oil and gas industry experience, successful outcome. sustainable management and including operations, research and performance at Hess. We apply these The OE Council focuses on initiatives development, and financial expertise. principles to key company processes that create value through collaboration Our Vice President of EHS meets and initiatives, as described in and predictable results, utilize a fit-forregularly with the Subcommittee and the this section. purpose approach based on input from Chairman of the Board to prioritize any customers and use standardized GOVERNANCE AND KEY actions needed. methodology supported by tools and INITIATIVES Our company is governed by the Hess processes, all while leveraging global The highest level of oversight at Hess Executive Committee, which is and local strengths. One key initiative rests with the Board of Directors, while composed of Hess’ most senior sponsored by the OE Council in 2015 direct responsibility lies with the executives and chaired by our Chief was our global standards project – with company’s executive leadership. The Executive Officer. The Executive a particular focus on development of the EHS Subcommittee of the Board’s Audit Committee focuses on operational, Management of Change Standard Committee provides guidance to the strategic, financial, EHS and social (discussed in the Safety and Health Board on EHS-related considerations. issues, and is the highest approval body section) and the Documents Standard, Each member of the Subcommittee is before the Board. While the Executive which will outline the minimum independent and qualified under Committee meets face to face at least mandatory requirements for creating or standards established by applicable law, every other month, our Chief Operating revising controlled documents within stock exchange listing standards and Officer chairs an operational Hess. Hess’ Corporate Governance subcommittee of the Executive Guidelines. The Subcommittee met four Committee that meets regularly to times in 2015. discuss these same matters. See Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines at hess.com/hessgovernanceguidelines 2015 KEY DEVELOPMENTS 2016 GOALS • Completed a refresh of our environment, health, safety and social • Deploy Lean metrics responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy • Continue to develop and implement global standards on a prioritized basis • Approved four new environment, health and safety global standards • Further enhance our Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy and and completed gap assessments for six standards at selected assets Procedure through supporting reporting systems and continued rollout • Implemented our updated Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy of online anti-corruption compliance training and Procedure and deployed online anti-corruption compliance training • Strengthen use of regulatory assurance tools • Continued to enhance our contractor selection, management and review • Measure effective implementation of the EHS & SR strategy process • Expand reporting to meet growing stakeholder expectations 13 13 HOW WE OPERATE EHS & SR Strategy Refresh EHS & SR STRATEGY REFRESH We recently completed a project to GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE review and update our environment, health, safety and social responsibility Governance Structure Role (EHS & SR) strategy to fully align with our transition to an exploration and Board of Directors Oversaw and advised on production company and our EHS Subcommittee the strategy commitment to operating as a trusted Hess Executive Leadership Provided strategic direction energy partner. It is our expectation that Executive Committee, Operating Committee and approved the strategy refreshing our strategy will strengthen our EHS & SR Strategy Steering Committee Provided guidance and license to operate, reduce risk and Operations, Enterprise Risk, EHS, SR, Government assisted in developing the enhance both our operational Affairs, Corporate Governance strategy effectiveness and our management of EHS & SR Strategy Refresh Team stakeholder expectations. Operations, Enterprise Risk, EHS, SR, Developed the strategy Government Affairs, Sustainability The governance structure for the project (see table) included a project team composed primarily of subject matter The six priority areas in our EHS & SR Goals section, as well as referenced experts and operational representatives. strategy are: throughout this report. We plan to A steering committee of vice presidents continue to check and adjust our strategy • Climate Change and Greenhouse Gas from each of our major business to align with changes to the social, (GHG) Emissions functions provided guidance, expertise political, economic and regulatory • Community and Stakeholder and strategic direction to the project landscape. Engagement team. • Human Rights and Security Global Standards The project was executed in four phases • Process Safety and Spills Hess utilizes management systems as during 2015, as illustrated below. Each • Regulatory Assurance the framework for continuous phase of the project was reviewed and • Water Management improvement in managing risk, enhancing approved by Hess executive leadership Key elements of our EHS & SR strategy operational excellence, tracking key and the Board’s EHS Subcommittee. are summarized in the Progress and performance metrics and maintaining regulatory compliance. EHS & SR STRATEGY REFRESH PROCESS AND TIMELINE 1. Materiality and Risk 2. Industry Peer 3. Strategic 4. Strategy Development Assessment Benchmark Positioning Recommendations Completed Q1 2015 Completed Q2 2015 Completed Q3 2015 Completed Q4 2015 • Encompassed a wide range of • Benchmarked financial peers, • Focused on six material issues • Developed strategy EHS & SR issues (22 in total). international oil companies and for strategy enhancement based recommendations for the six • Identified material issues for select non-industry leaders on stakeholder expectations and priority EHS & SR issues. benchmarking Hess’ using publicly available data on risk to the company. • Identified tactical actions to performance versus our peers the top 10 issues identified • Determined Hess’ strengths assist Hess in maintaining or and informing stakeholder through the materiality and identified areas for achieving first-quartile issues. assessment. improvement. performance among industry • Results of the materiality • Determined Hess’ position peers during the next five years. assessment can be found on relative to other companies to • Identified key metrics to track pages 10-11. inform the strategy’s and evaluate performance. development. 14 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report In 2015 we continued our effort to Phase II standards completed in 2015 Enterprise Risk Management develop and implement an enhanced and early 2016 included Confined Space In keeping with our commitment to framework of standards across the Entry, Contractor Management, Dropped operational excellence, we apply a company. The goals of this project, which Objects and Emergency Preparedness comprehensive, standardized approach has been guided by the leadership of and Response. to identifying and managing risks of all Hess’ OE Council, are to formalize types across our operations. The Hess An important aspect of this project has enterprise-wide expectations and enterprise risk management (ERM) been the incorporation of Lean principles accountabilities and support a globally process is used to develop a holistic risk (see explanation of Lean concepts on consistent approach to operational profile for each asset and major project, pages 16-17). We began to establish a excellence. By documenting our drawing input from subject matter standardized work process in 2015 to expectations in the form of standards, we experts, performance data, incident gain efficiency, incorporate lessons aim to strengthen the assurance process investigations, lessons learned and learned and more easily track our across the enterprise. recent internal audits. Each risk profile progress throughout the project from the identifies each risk and its associated Following a risk-based approach and start of development through the likelihood as well as its potential impact our Documents Standard, we prioritized implementation of each standard. To add to people, the environment or our the order of development and clarity for all those involved in the effort business. Risks that are classified as implementation for enterprise-wide EHS and to mitigate inefficiencies, we created critical, meaning they are more likely to standards. In 2015 we began a series of support tools and guidance occur and have a higher impact or that implementing the first set of standards documents. To bring accountability to they are unlikely to occur but would have (i.e., Phase I), which were completed and meeting deadlines and targets, we a significant impact, are placed on an approved early in the year: generated a series of metrics and charts integrated register that catalogs actions to track the completion of gap • Energy Isolation for management or mitigation. We assessments. • Land Transportation completed risk assessments and risk • Lifting and Hoisting The project will continue over the next registers for all assets and major projects • Process Safety Information few years, with the cross-functional and in the Hess portfolio in 2015. These risk • Vehicle Entry cross-asset teams developing Phase III registers are reviewed and updated • Waste Management standards, and the assets managing throughout the year as part of each their plans and timelines for the asset’s and project’s operating rhythm. The first part of implementation required implementation of each standard. Our our assets to complete desktop gap In 2015 we conducted the following ERM current plan is to fully implement Phase I assessments to compare their current activities: standards by the end of 2017, Phase II documented practices with the standards by the end of 2018 and Phase • Advanced efforts to align the risk expectations of the newly issued III standards by the end of 2019. criteria and definitions used in EHS risk standards and identify actions to close management practices with the ERM any gaps identified. In 2015 all assets KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES process, with plans to further formalize included within the scope completed gap We apply a number of key processes in and document these processes assessments on the Phase I standards our organization that provide the in 2016 and began implementation of, at a foundation for managing risk and • Continued to work on embedding minimum, two of the standards based on achieving operational excellence. We use the ERM process into key business asset risk and priority. The assets will these processes to evaluate investment processes, such as project planning continue implementing the remaining four opportunities and identify and mitigate (value assurance) and new country standards through 2017. risks in potential, new and existing entry operations. Phase II included the development • Furthered the integration of our ERM of a second set of new standards by process with our stakeholder cross-asset and cross-functional teams. engagement program, including 15 HOW WE OPERATE aligning key contacts at the asset level The value assurance process is closely once a commitment is made to enter a and facilitating stakeholder mapping at aligned with our ERM process so that we new country. Ultimately, we are able to ERM workshops to enable effective can apply consistent methodologies and support our ERM and value assurance stakeholder management criteria to risks across our company. workflows, utilizing the necessary information at key decision points in our Value Assurance New Country Entry investment and project planning Value assurance is a review process that Our new country entry process helps us processes. Hess uses to properly characterize and to assess non-technical aboveground assess our major investment risks when evaluating opportunities in a Lean opportunities, through internal reviews by new country of operation. Through this We began our journey to adopt Lean those who are not directly involved with process, subject matter experts from principles throughout our organization in the asset or project. Following this various functions across Hess evaluate 2010, first applying them to the reduction process helps us ensure that our capital our future operations in a particular of well costs and optimization of well allocation and portfolio management country through a detailed risk productivity in our Bakken asset. Over decisions are based on independently questionnaire that accounts for social, the past several years we have reviewed, high-quality input. environment, legal, external affairs, successfully used Lean to eliminate compliance, commercial and supply waste, create value and drive reliability We review our assets and major capital chain risks. The purpose of the review, and continuous improvement for our projects as part of the appropriate which draws on available information communities, employees, business business planning cycle to verify that from governmental sources such as the partners, shareholders and other they add value to our company and that U.S. State Department as well as leading stakeholders. the relevant technical expertise has been non-governmental organizations such as incorporated. Value assurance reviews At Hess, we view Lean not as a shortthe World Resources Institute, is to focus on economics, subsurface and term program for achieving cost savings, categorize each risk as high, medium or facility design, environmental and but instead as a holistic cultural shift, low based on severity and whether the socioeconomic concerns, regulatory changing the way we think and act in risk can be easily mitigated. requirements and other non-technical order to create value, improve risks. In 2016 we will begin to apply $20 Through the new country entry process, performance and eliminate waste. per tonne and $40 per tonne carbon we endeavor to enhance the quality and Central to this shift has been moving our prices to the GHG emissions generated breadth of information available to Hess leaders from directing solutions toward by new projects to evaluate the potential leadership for the evaluation of new coaching and developing our employees impact of carbon risk on project opportunities. The process also helps the and contractors to generate solutions economics. project team to mitigate identified risks themselves. The result is a distinctive VALUE ASSURANCE PROCESS Frame Screen Refine Implement Operate Handover to Operations Team Gate review and decision Gate review and decision Gate review and decision • Outline objectives • Develop objectives • Optimize preferred • Deliver the refined • Operate in line with • Determine technical and requirements option option budget and plan and commercial • Evaluate and rank • Define plan for • Meet/exceed sanction viability options delivery metrics • Identify alternatives • Reduce risks and • Secure funding • Meet Production uncertainties Excellence • Select preferred expectations option • Post-project review 16 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report Lean culture in which continuous LEAN PRINCIPLES improvement comes from the entire workforce – or our “army of problem Clear Quality Effective Structured solvers.” Operating Dashboards Business Problem Plans Rhythm Solving Empowering our workforce has enabled us to find unique opportunities in both our onshore and offshore businesses to deliver better performance and safer operations. At our Bakken asset, for example, we have experienced a 64 percent improvement in drilling cycle time and a 62 percent reduction in drilling Standard Processes Value Stream Management and completion well costs from 2011 to year-end 2015. Through the first quarter Leadership Behavior and People Development of 2016, we have reduced drilling and completions costs at our Utica asset by 75 percent and 50 percent, respectively, Well Delivery Excellence effort in late 2014. Following approval by since we began to apply Lean in 2013. Hess’ vision for well delivery is to provide Hess executive leadership, we began Most recently we introduced Lean the best drilling and completions rollout of the enhanced process across techniques in our offshore operations. performance among our industry peers, the organization in early 2016. These efforts have contributed to a 40 with no major incidents. To achieve this The WDX process, which is designed to percent reduction in lifting and hoisting goal we have been using a standardized be flexible and scalable to accommodate incidents over two years, decreased process to execute wells across the the full range of well projects in the Hess turnaround time by 50 percent in enterprise since 2010. Our Well Delivery portfolio, involves five phases: Equatorial Guinea and achieved zero Excellence (WDX) framework enables us safety incidents and a significant to consistently deliver wells that produce • Scope – Well concept options and reduction in construction time for our the highest value to the company by opportunities (including an initial Stampede deepwater project in the Gulf facilitating cross-functional collaboration, assessment of potential value, risk and of Mexico. informed decision making and clear roles technical complexity) are identified and responsibilities. The initial rollout of • Design – Final well design is selected, We are embracing Lean as a business the WDX project management process in and the resources required to execute imperative, especially given the low price 2010 was highly successful. the project are refined of oil, and a means to tap into the • Plan – Detailed well design and collective expertise and creativity of all With the significant changes our technical specifications and a detailed our people to drive improvements in company has experienced over the past operations plan for well or program performance. Now we are accelerating several years, we recognized a need to execution are developed the pace of engagement with our refresh the WDX process to account for • Operate – The well operation is suppliers, augmenting our “army of the different organization, portfolio and executed with the goal of safely problem solvers” and achieving win-win business environment. Our aim was not delivering the well or program benefits by saving time and money, to overhaul the process, but to enhance it objectives eliminating waste and inefficiency and through the incorporation of Lean • Closeout – Handover documentation is embracing innovation. For more on how principles, the realization of additional completed, performance is reviewed our suppliers are achieving success capital efficiency gains and the against the plan and final lessons through Lean, please see our case study incorporation of lessons learned since learned are captured and shared on page 20. initial rollout. We initiated the refresh 17 HOW WE OPERATE The activities in each phase are aligned Compliance team enforces policies and POLITICAL SPENDING with other enterprise processes, such as procedures to prevent and detect HessPAC the value assurance and exploration potential compliance violations. Internal In the U.S., federal election law permits excellence workflows. Full assurance also helps us to manage the corporations to establish political action implementation of the refreshed WDX effectiveness of our management committees (PACs), which may make process, including health checks and systems. As part of our long-term political contributions. HessPAC, the measurement of key performance compliance strategy, our regulatory team political action committee of Hess’ indicators, is ongoing. has been piloting the use of a compliance employees, made its first member tracking tool at our Bakken asset. Our solicitation in 2015 and received $32,908 BUSINESS CONDUCT aim is to promote an organizational in member contributions for the year. In the Hess Code of Conduct, we culture that encourages commitment to HessPAC made $5,000 in federal political describe the business conduct and ethical business conduct and contributions in 2015 to candidates behaviors we expect of our employees, compliance. whose legislative agendas are consistent officers, directors and contractors. Any with Hess’ and are pro-energy. All individual or company working for Hess In 2015 Hess globally implemented an distributions from HessPAC are publicly or our subsidiaries is expected to follow updated ABAC Policy and Procedure, as disclosed and accessible via the U.S. similar principles. To promote compliance well as automated approval systems for Federal Elections Commission website across our global operations, the Code of the review and approval of higher-risk (www.fec.gov). As legally permitted, Conduct has been translated in each of transactions. Noteworthy Hess corporate funds, resources and our countries of operation. Hess takes accomplishments also included the facilities were used to provide disciplinary actions for violations of our rollout of an online anti-corruption administrative support for HessPAC. Code of Conduct and related policies. training program that was deployed to all Hess employees and select Advocacy Our compliance policies and procedures contracted staff across our global As a trusted voice on energy policy, there all stem from our Code of Conduct. Our assets. This training has been completed is great value in Hess having candid and Global Compliance team establishes, by approximately 73 percent of global honest dialogue with stakeholders maintains and enforces policies, employees. As part of the online regarding legislation and regulations that procedures, processes and initiatives to training campaign, we conduct audits may impact our company both prevent and detect compliance and ongoing monitoring to achieve domestically and internationally. Hess violations. Its aim is to promote an 100 percent completion. In addition, actively engages in responsible organizational culture that encourages online Code of Conduct training was discussions with elected and appointed commitment to ethical conduct and completed by 100 percent of our government officials in order to mitigate compliance with the law. To continuously employees during 2015. risks to the company’s license to operate improve compliance controls and and to advocate for policies that promote embrace best practices, our Global Our Global Compliance team, through its our business goals. The company’s Compliance team focuses on internal dedicated investigation arm, investigated principles and values dictate that all of investigations, anti-bribery and antiall issues and allegations referred to the our political engagements are done in corruption (ABAC) programs as well as team in 2015. Global Compliance accordance with all applicable laws and other enterprise programs. The Chief continued to partner with other key regulations and that no direct political Compliance Officer reports to the functions such as EHS, Human contributions are made by Hess General Counsel and informs the Board’s Resources and Corporate Audit to review employees using corporate funds. Audit Committee on a regular basis. potential issues and put in place appropriate remediation steps. Hess’ commitment to transparency also Strengthening our regulatory assurance assists the company in fully complying program is one of the six components of Progress on these global compliance with all lobbying reporting requirements our EHS & SR strategy. Our Global initiatives will continue through 2016. outlined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act of 1995 and all substantial amendments 18 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report As part of the regulatory assurance element of our EHS & SR strategy, we aim to align our advocacy priorities with our established processes related to ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing assessments of our global advocacy priorities, to drive improvements to our process for tracking and informing our advocacy efforts. SUPPLY CHAIN Our relationships with business partners, suppliers and contractors are critical to Drilling Operations, Ohio Hess’ success and to reducing operational risks. Through engagement and collaboration with our supply chain, made to the law by P.L. 110-81, the that received more than $50,000 from we are driving continuous improvement Honest Leadership and Open Hess in 2015 can be found on page 68. in performance and creating shared Government Act of 2007. In 2015 the value. In 2015 we purchased more than We recognize that our positions do not company’s lobbying expenses totaled $7 billion of goods and services from always align with all formal positions of approximately $1,020,000. This included more than 4,000 suppliers, whose the associations, organizations and internal employee time associated with manhours comprised nearly 80 percent collaborative working groups in which we lobbying activities, payment to external of our total workforce hours. participate. Our funding should not be consultants, and trade association dues Engagements with our suppliers are considered a direct endorsement of the used for lobbying purposes. conducted so as to comply with entire range of activities undertaken by applicable local laws and requirements, Hess belongs to a number of trade these organizations. To address and practices may differ from those associations, primarily to give the concerns related to potential described below in certain instances. company access to the associations’ misalignment, we publish our positions expertise in business, technical and on key sustainability issues in this annual Management Approach industry best practices – an approach sustainability report. We are building our capabilities to that is consistent with our industry peers. categorically manage our suppliers with a The company has a strict internal policy Our trade associations’ lobbying cross-functional team that works that prohibits Hess employees from activities accounted for 33 percent of our collaboratively to reach safety, quality, engaging with elected officials or total lobbying spend for 2015 (listed delivery and cost targets. Using this regulators as an official representative of above) in accordance with Section 15 of approach, our category management the company without the approval of the Lobbying Disclosure Act Guidance team members, who represent critical Vice President of Government and (http://lobbyingdisclosure.house.gov/ organizational functions such as External Affairs. The policy extends to amended_lda_guide.html#section3). operations, engineering and finance, Hess employees who serve on trade association committees that advocate for each focus on a discrete category of In 2015 none of Hess’ membership fees policy changes. These policies help to spend. This enables them to leverage or dues were used by any of the trade ensure that Hess will continue to operate their procurement decisions associations for direct political advocacy. at the highest level of integrity and companywide, creating efficiencies and Furthermore, no payments made by Hess transparency and remain compliant with driving down costs, while also building to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) organizations all reporting requirements. long-term, strategic relationships with were used for express political advocacy. key suppliers who provide goods and A list of memberships and associations services that significantly influence Hess’ cost structure. 19 HOW WE OPERATE We are also embracing Lean principles in LEVERAGING OUR SUPPLIERS TO PROMOTE collaboration with our suppliers. First in our shale oil and gas business and more CONTINUOUS IMPROVEMENT OFFSHORE recently at our deepwater assets, we are Hess’ Stampede deepwater project is located in one of the largest undeveloped fields in the finding new ways of integrating our joint U.S. Gulf of Mexico. It is highly complex, with some of the deepest projected wells in the world efforts to create win-win solutions that at reservoir depths of about 30,000 feet. Working collaboratively, Hess and our suppliers are have sustainable benefits. leveraging Lean principles to deliver first oil on time and on budget in 2018. Supplier Qualiﬁcations Working with a trusted supplier, for example, Hess used Lean problem solving techniques to Hess follows a standardized approach to transform the process for fabricating the blast wall, which is intended to shield the living evaluate and measure the performance quarters in case of an incident. Rather than building it onsite, the wall was assembled indoors, of potential and current suppliers on the in a horizontal configuration as a single unit. This approach eliminated working at heights, reduced environmental impact and improved weld quality. The blast wall was completed two basis of total value, including safety, months ahead of schedule, with 50 percent fewer manhours and reduced EHS exposure. quality, delivery and cost. We have a centralized global system in place that Our suppliers also achieved significant cost savings by applying Lean principles to the design houses contract templates and other key and manufacture of umbilicals and related hardware. Umbilicals are the lifelines of subsea materials and manages the procurement developments, providing electrical, hydraulic and fiber optic connections. Applying lessons learned through their previous assignments at Hess’ Tubular Bells field, the two firms process. We also use a central global introduced standardized design specifications, manufacturing and delivery to eliminate waste electronic sourcing system to collect bids and simplify production planning – contributing to a cost savings of almost 19 percent. and evaluate suppliers. This system supports the efficient creation of online These and other collaborative efforts at Stampede are demonstrating how Lean principles can Requests for Proposals and encourages be applied in complex projects to deliver results safely, on time and on budget. They are also helping us to build trust and confidence with our suppliers to achieve continuous improvement, the use of best practices. superior safety performance and long-term success for all parties. We employ a systematic prequalification and selection process to help ensure we are working with the most qualified and review in the procurement process. As improvement plans are housed internally safest suppliers. Prospective suppliers one part of the EHS review, we use at the asset level using our existing EHS are given a clear scope of work and EHS recognized industry prequalification data system. Should an operational expectations during the sourcing phase. systems for most major areas of situation occur (such as an emergency) Where appropriate, potential suppliers operations, including in the U.S. and that requires the use of a supplier that undergo a risk review, an ABAC and legal Europe. Outside of these areas, we use has not completed the prequalification compliance review and a review of EHS a standardized process with a process or that has received an performance and programs. In addition, questionnaire based on our 14 EHS unsatisfactory grade, the asset vice our procurement staff reviews the management system elements. president or director must approve the potential suppliers’ insurance, tax and use of the supplier, and asset quality information. If discrepancies with The EHS review includes a review of management must provide increased our standards arise, the relevant training qualifications, safety programs oversight. department within Hess conducts an and performance, environmental additional review and develops management systems and measurement, Supply Chain Transparency corresponding mitigation plans as and emergency preparedness and and Compliance needed. response. Potential suppliers receive a The companies that supply Hess with grade based on this review; any supplier goods and services must comply with Contracts that involve higher risk, due applicable laws and regulations in areas receiving an EHS grade that does not either to the number of manhours the such as EHS, drug and alcohol use, meet our requirements must develop an supplier will work for Hess or the scope conflicts of interest and anti-corruption improvement plan before they can of that work, automatically trigger an EHS laws, and must maintain any licensing or contract with Hess. These formalized 20 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report permitting requirements with respect to enforcement principles, humanitarian law In Peninsular Malaysia, for example, we their activities. Suppliers are also and human rights law. They also require actively support local suppliers, local required to abide by our Code of our security service providers to employment and the PETRONAS Vendor Conduct as well as Hess’ Voluntary communicate our human rights, social Development program. In this Commitments regarding labor and responsibility and ethical expectations to arrangement, Hess agrees to utilize an human rights (see page 23), where these their employees and subcontractors, as approved vendor list that includes activities are not regulated. Standard well as demonstrate compliance. The aim Malaysian-owned companies, and we contract clauses include requirements is to deliver a consistent message of also commit to holding our suppliers with respect to ethical business performance expectations for security accountable to hiring local staff. Another practices, human rights, social service providers and drive consistency example is from Equatorial Guinea, where responsibility, business integrity, search across Hess operations. These the local government requests that we and seizure, quality and EHS. For expectations are also detailed in our use local suppliers whenever possible. activities deemed as high risk, we pursue enterprise-wide Security and Human We have designated staff to lead our bridging documents prior to contract Rights Policy. We have developed a coordination efforts with the government execution where gaps exist between the Security and Human Rights Toolkit that to identify local vendors and to supplier’s EHS management system and can be used locally for training security coordinate and inform them of our Hess’ EHS requirements. personnel on human rights issues. tenders and selections. In addition, clauses that cover federal In the event of a security incident with Supplier Engagement contractor requirements are included for human rights implications, a report is and Sustainability suppliers supporting our U.S. operations. made to the head of Global Security. Hess continues to engage with suppliers Contracts typically also include a Reports are also issued for those on issues that are important to our requirement that suppliers allow access occurrences, such as peaceful industry and our stakeholders. Since to all offices and facilities and cooperate community protests, that highlight 2009 we have worked with current and fully with all audits and inspections. potential future risk. We are not aware of prospective suppliers of hydraulic any incidents where public or private fracturing services to define acceptable Security Services security forces engaged community fracturing fluid systems, including Our Code of Conduct prohibits the use of restrictions on the selection and use of members in 2015, and no incident local military or law enforcement certain chemicals. We require suppliers reports were filed. Global Security personnel except where required by local to publish fracturing fluid chemical continues to leverage our existing authorities or in emergency situations. If composition and quantities via the incident tracking system for reporting of the use of local military or law FracFocus website. While the majority of security incidents. enforcement personnel is unavoidable, chemicals are identified by unique asset managers are required to seek Local Content identification numbers issued by the prior approval from Hess’ Legal and Internationally we often prioritize local Chemical Abstracts Service (CAS) and Global Security functions. suppliers when performing under are listed on the publicly available CAS production sharing contracts or other Registry, we allow our suppliers to use In operating locations where security agreements with host countries. These generic names for proprietary services are necessary, we contract for agreements vary, but may include use of ingredients. these services locally with support from an approved supplier list, requirements our Global Security and Global Supply See more on Hess’ expections and for government approval of suppliers or requirements for suppliers at Chain functions. Contracts with security suppliers.hess.com threshold specifications for local service providers include clauses companies or workers. covering security and human rights expectations. These clauses detail our requirements that security providers adhere to applicable international law 21 LEAP Program, Edison Middle School, Houston, Texas 22 COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Social responsibility (SR) is integrated We have endorsed or formally joined a Organizational Structure into the way we do business, enhancing number of voluntary initiatives designed Hess deploys SR resources across the our ability to be an effective and trusted to protect the environment, promote organization. To do this effectively, we energy partner. Our approach to SR is human rights and encourage financial have a core SR team combined with centered on three focus areas: transparency: local practitioners who are embedded stakeholder engagement, social risk and with our assets and project teams. • Universal Declaration of Human Rights impact management, and strategic • International Labour Organization’s The role of the core team is to develop social investments that facilitate direct Declaration on Fundamental governance, advise executives, manage and indirect local benefits. Proactively Principles and Rights at Work companywide social performance, engaging with communities and • United Nations Global Compact (Hess provide technical and functional support stakeholders where we operate serves on the Board of the UNGC’s to the assets and project teams, and maximizes our business value, helps us U.S. network) provide assurance across these efforts. manage social risks and impacts and • Voluntary Principles on Security and creates opportunities for stakeholders. Human Rights GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK • Extractive Industries Transparency GOVERNANCE Hess’ SR governance framework sets Initiative (EITI) FRAMEWORK out our commitments to our employees These initiatives, which we collectively and communities where we operate call our “Voluntary Commitments,” through every phase of our business inform our SR, Human Rights, and activity. Our commitment to ethical and Security and Human Rights Policies. responsible business practices begins with the Hess Values and Code of As part of our environment, health, Hess Values Conduct. The Hess Value of Social and Code Hess Values safety and social responsibility (EHS & Responsibility of Conduct and Code establishes our SR) strategy, we are working to commitment of Conduct to meeting the highest implement SR and Human Rights Global standards of corporate citizenship by Standards. These standards, which Voluntary Commitments protecting the health and safety of our and Voluntary Principles Voluntary Commitments will further integrate the management andemployees, safeguarding the Voluntary Principles of social risk into our value environment and creating a long-lasting assurance process, cascade from SR, Security and Human Rights, positive impact on the communities our policies and comprise the and Human Rights Policies SR, Security where weHuman and Rights, Our Code of do business. next level of our governance and Human Rights Policies Conduct describes the business framework. The final level conduct and behaviors that we expect SR and Human Rights Global Standards is made up of training, R and Human of our employees, Rights officers, directors and Global Standards toolkits and local contractors, including our expectations procedures. Toolkits, Training and Local Procedures/Plans regarding human rights. kits, Training and Local Procedures/Plans 2015 KEY DEVELOPMENTS 2016 GOALS • Continued development of Social Responsibility (SR) and Human Rights • Continue to integrate SR considerations into enterprise business processes Global Standards • Approve, implement and track implementation of the SR and Human • Proceeded with risk-based rollout of stakeholder engagement and Rights Global Standards grievance mechanism processes • Expand implementation of stakeholder engagement and grievance • Developed human rights training module for employees and contractors mechanism processes • Completed strategic review of social investment programs • Commence risk-based rollout of human rights training module at • Invested nearly $22 million in social programs throughout our portfolio selected assets • Develop human rights content for contractor onboarding 23 23 COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE The asset and project practitioners Stakeholder Engagement Process workshops, value assurance reviews and report into the business line management We understand that our success is asset business plans. structure and are responsible for dependent on our ability to mitigate the We identify and map our stakeholders developing and executing assetor risks associated with our activities, which and work with the assets to develop project-specific SR plans. SR activities have the potential to impact stakeholder engagement plans as needed. We are integrated and aligned between the relationships and public perception. completed a stakeholder engagement core team at our operational Stakeholder engagement is a critical plan for our North Dakota operations in headquarters in Houston and assetaspect of operational success across the 2015 and began developing plans for based practitioners across the globe. life cycle of our business, from the other assets. We will continue to develop earliest phases of our new country entry STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT and implement asset-specific plans process through the decommissioning of Our industry faces many challenges in following a risk-based approach, as part an asset. Proactive, two-way and the pursuit of sustainable oil and gas of our EHS & SR strategy. ongoing stakeholder engagement helps exploration and production, including to establish a mutual understanding of Grievance Mechanisms social considerations. Effectively expectations between Hess and those Formal grievance mechanisms provide engaging with stakeholders in our host who live and work nearby. stakeholders with a means for sharing communities is critical to our ability to feedback with companies on their access the resources we require as an Our stakeholder engagement process operational impacts, while also helping international energy company. We aim to focuses on the proactive relationshipcompanies respond to and act on that create value through mutually beneficial and trust-building opportunities created feedback through an established opportunities with our stakeholders, by meaningful engagement, as well as process. Grievance mechanisms help to which include communities, employees, the business value engagement brings ensure that people see Hess as a valued suppliers, customers, industry members, when it is integrated as a part of project and trusted partner. governments and investors. risk management. Consistent with continuous improvement methodology, We maintain an internal database – the STAKEHOLDER we follow the “Plan, Do, Check, Adjust” stakeholder management system (SMS) ENGAGEMENT PROCESS cycle to direct our stakeholder – to support the implementation and management efforts. As the management of our stakeholder CTIVES, RISK expectations, priorities and engagement and grievance mechanism OBJE S& TIFY IM concerns of our stakeholders processes. The database provides a EN PA ID CT 1. S evolve, we adjust our central repository for information and Long-Term & Short-Term Risks Impacts/ approach to align with allows for task tracking. Business Issues Objectives their needs and our business activities. To enhance our ability to listen and Building on our respond to stakeholders, we have been Understand: STAKEHOLDERS piloting a component of the SMS with our NALYZE & MAP Track Engagements & Stakes, Needs and earlier efforts, in Grievance Resolution Timing Interrelationships Bakken Surface Land Team. The Hess 4. MONITOR 2015 we continued 2. A One-off or Cross-asset to enhance our Community Connection, which is the Report Regularly stakeholder local name for our grievance mechanism Map to Grids: Rate Influence & Interest engagement in North Dakota, is a process for Define: Share Lessons • Desired Outcome Rate Strength of process and reporting, investigating and resolving Learned Relationship • Relationship Owner associated tools by issues and concerns raised by people • Engagement and/or Response • Indicators and Metrics integrating who believe they are impacted by Hess stakeholder issues operations. When we are alerted to a Implement Engagement Plan and engagement into potential issue, our response team draws Grievance Management our enterprise risk employees from various disciplines within 3. D (continued on page 26) E FI N E NT & IM PLEM E 24 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report EXTERNAL n the Permian basin,STAKEHOLDERS we have well sites located near r Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to identify opportunities for community service agencies and indigenous groups. A few recent benefiting our host communities while improving our business and examples of our stakeholder engagement activities are provided below. strengthening our license to operate. We engage with a wide range of external stakeholders – from local landowners and governments to EXTERNAL RECENT EXAMPLES CATEGORY STAKEHOLDER GROUPS OF ENGAGEMENT Residents, landowners, Deployed the Hess Community Connection to engage with Bakken Land Users/Landowners commercial land interests, stakeholders. Conducted outreach with local elected officials to farmers, ranchers improve dialogue and proactive risk management. Continued to engage with Utica surface water rights owners for Mineral rights owners, water Resources Users/Rights purchase of non-potable water for our operations. Implemented rights owners and users, Holders property remediation related to extraction and pipeline placement in hunters/fishers/gatherers consultation with surface water rights owners. Hosted a bipartisan congressional delegation visit to Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico to educate members of Congress on offshore Local, regional and national production, operations and safety. Participated in a bipartisan authorities, national militaries, Governments congressional member visit to North Dakota for Bakken crude-by-rail international governing education. A Hess representative served on the U.S. Department of authorities Energy Secretary’s Advisory Board for the Quadrennial Energy Review. Investment partners, vendors Worked with suppliers to learn and apply Lean principles for mutually Direct Economic Interests and suppliers, contractors, beneficial enhancements to projects. unions, shareholders A Hess representative served on the executive committee of IPIECA. Chambers of commerce, Leaders of Hess’ EHS and SR functions actively participated in IPIECA industry organizations, local working groups and stakeholder engagement activities focused on External Business Interests businesses, sustainability topics such as biodiversity, social responsibility, water, climate change initiatives and sustainability reporting. Provided funding for Watford City’s preschool program in North Dakota. Non-governmental Participated in multi-stakeholder initiatives, including the Voluntary organizations, religious groups, Special Interest Groups Principles on Security and Human Rights, the EITI and the UNGC, to cause-oriented nonprofits, advance responsible business practices globally. community groups Conducted an emergency response drill in Flushing, Ohio, with involvement from our drilling contractor Nabors, as well as Belmont Local police/fire/emergency County 9-1-1, the Flushing Volunteer Fire Department and a helicopter medical services, health care medical evacuation team. Supported the Minot Domestic Violence Community Services services, education, human Shelter with repurposed computers, installation and training. service agencies Launched a safety education program near our Permian operations to make students and their families aware of safety considerations near oil and gas sites. In Exmouth near our offshore operations in Western Australia, Formally recognized groups, conducted early engagement with the registered Ngulli Traditional tribal coalitions, government Owner Claimant Group, through their elected representatives. Indigenous Groups supporting agencies, indigenous Maintained regular communications with the traditional owner advocacy groups support agency, North West Cape Exmouth Aboriginal Corporation, to keep them apprised of Hess’ progress in the area. 25 COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE STAKEHOLDER n the Permian basin, we have ENGAGEMENT well sites located near r Agricultural Program in Equatorial Guinea Wau Kite Safety Campaign in Malaysia Hess, in consultation with the Equatorial Guinean Ministry of Near Hess operations in the North Malay Basin, families enjoy the local Agriculture, the Professional School of Agriculture, and local pastime of flying traditional wau kites. Although regulations ban the communities, engaged the Spanish agrarian company Dalmau in flying of kites near the Kota Bharu airport, operators were finding kite 2013 to design and implement an agricultural development project twine in helicopter rotors, and pilots were concerned about the for two small farming cooperatives in Equatorial Guinea. The primary inability to see the kites when flying in the area. To address these objectives of the project are to create employment and a market concerns, we led a community campaign, with help from our partner economy, decrease rural flight and improve the quality of life of PETRONAS and other industry participants including Repsol, Petrofac cooperative members and their communities. Our efforts have and Westar Aviation, to increase safety awareness concerning focused on providing basic equipment, financial support (both funding helicopters used in oil and gas operations. and financial advice), guidance and training tools, and technical support to the cooperatives so they can become fully operational and In 2015 we helped to organize a series of talks at community centers sustainable. as well as a wau safety-themed folk music competition at the annual Kelantan International Kite Festival. Hess employees helped judge the In 2015, the first full year of production, the two cooperatives competition and assisted in giving away prizes. The festival was well produced eight different food crops, totaling over 4,300 kilograms attended by locals and was successful in communicating our and resulting in sales of $3,900. Both cooperatives have already message. Pilots have reported back to the campaign team that they begun expanding their acreage, and their initial success is inspiring have seen significantly fewer kites flying in the restricted zone. other communities and individuals to replicate the concept. Hess such as EHS, drilling, completions, has been adequately addressed. processes and standard operating operations, maintenance and civil procedures into our routine operating We received a total of 214 grievances construction in order to reach a rhythm. We aim to build upon this pilot to during the pilot phase, including resolution. Our response team strives to create a set of guidance and feedback related to roads, dust, complete their investigation within 14 accompanying tools, so that we can maintenance, land reclamation, weeds days of the original report. As a final step continue to strengthen our relationships and EHS concerns. With this pilot, we are before closing the case, we contact the with other communities and respond setting the stage to embed new business stakeholder to ensure they feel the issue more effectively to their concerns. 26 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT respect for rule of law, and social and training over the coming year, focusing MANAGEMENT economic development. on assets in high-risk environments. When entering a new country, We continue to align our business We have also developed an internal commissioning a new development or practices with our SR, Security and SharePoint site focused on Hess SR expanding an existing facility, we engage Human Rights, and Human Rights policies and initiatives that covers Hess’ with stakeholders to proactively identify, Policies. Human rights issues are Voluntary Commitments, including the mitigate and manage aboveground risks analyzed at all phases of our business Voluntary Principles. Through that that can impact our activities or the activities, beginning with new country internal site, Hess employees can link to communities where we operate. As part entry. SR, along with other functions, the Voluntary Principles website and key of our strategic planning process for contributed to our new country entry components of the Hess security and these activities, we examine the social, process refresh in 2015, through which human rights governance framework. political and economic environment to we reviewed current practices and made This internal SharePoint site is intended identify non-technical risks and necessary changes to our human rights to be augmented over time with mitigation activities. due diligence. The new country entry additional reference materials, We address human rights considerations process helps inform our strategy and presentations, internal examples of throughout the process, including during approach. security and human rights best practices, the due diligence phase and during the and the Hess Security and Human Rights We also began a third-party review of the social risk mitigation and management Toolkit. human rights-related risks associated step, when we provide training on our with our assets. This global assessment In Equatorial Guinea in 2015 we Security and Human Rights Toolkit. includes security-related risk and will conducted training on human rights and Risk mitigation measures are driven by update our existing analysis of Hess’ the Voluntary Principles for a number of the value assurance process and global human rights risk profile. Through our employees, including our country conducted on an as-needed basis. In this review, we aspire to gain an external manager. The training built on previous 2015 we conducted a social baseline perspective of our potential impacts on security and human rights-related study for our Gulf of Mexico assets; the human rights. courses carried out in Equatorial Guinea baseline will be used to influence social by incorporating an introduction to our Hess is committed to educating our programs and investments for the region. Security and Human Rights Toolkit. personnel on the importance of We also began working toward a social respecting human rights as well as COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND and environmental impact assessment raising internal awareness of the CAPACITY BUILDING for our Ghana asset. Voluntary Principles on Security and Hess maintains our reputation as a Human Rights Human Rights (Voluntary Principles). responsible corporate citizen by creating At Hess, we understand that although it Over the years, we have invited external mutually beneficial relationships with our is the duty of governments to protect experts to provide human rights training host communities. We design our human rights, companies like ours must to our employees around the globe. In an programs to create shared value in local build trusted partnerships and treat all effort to provide more systematic communities and help create a favorable citizens with dignity and respect training, in 2015 we finalized an online environment for our operations. At the wherever we operate. Our strategy is to human rights training module for local level, our assets create, maintain prevent human rights-related incidents employees that explains the concept of and implement strategic social by engaging with stakeholders to human rights and why they are important investment programs tailored to each proactively address potential issues. The for Hess, reviews our Human Rights operation and community. complex environments in which we Policy, offers guidance on integrating We continue to evaluate our programs to operate present an opportunity to make respect for human rights into employees’ ensure a balance of strategic investment positive and lasting contributions in the daily work and provides directions on and support of local organizations so areas of governance, transparency, how to report suspected human rights that we evolve along with the changing violations. We will continue to roll out that 27 COMMUNITY AND SOCIAL PERFORMANCE 2015 Social Investment Spending development needs of the secondary education systems and by Country communities where we operate. In capacity. $ Thousands 2015 we completed a strategic review PRODEGE II of our social investment programs to 1% Our Program for Education better align them with our business 56% Development of Equatorial Guinea, or and social risks, as identified through “PRODEGE II,” is a partnership with 2% gap analyses, stakeholder 41% the Equatorial Guinean government engagement, social baseline studies that aims to strengthen preschool, and independent research. As a result, primary and junior secondary we will focus on established education in that country. The fivepartnerships with key organizations, year, $50 million program achieved U.S. $12,136 projects best aligned with business Equatorial Guinea $8,807 significant results in 2015: Ghana $422 and social risks, and projects Norway $186 identified from social assessments. • Provided active learning training for All Others* $294 We will continue our efforts in future more than 2,700 primary-level *Includes Algeria, Denmark, the Kurdistan Region of Iraq, Malaysia and the U.K. years by integrating the new strategy teachers and children’s development into our business, enhancing training for an additional 2,700 2015 Type of Investment investment visibility and leveraging preschool teachers $ Thousands volunteer opportunities for our • Distributed related teaching aids and <1% employees. learning materials to all primary 1% <1% <1% 1% schools (grades 1–3) Our social investment programs Education $18,108 Community $3,119 • Conducted a gap assessment of 14% contribute to education improvement Arts and Culture $231 secondary education students and and work skill development, which are Health $165 Inkind $101 designed a plan to address gaps fundamental Environment $85 to sustainable economic 83% Disaster Relief $35 through an active learning approach growth. We also seek to identify • Created opportunities for out-ofopportunities in the supply chain to school youth to complete ESBA, the provide lasting economic benefit current secondary education Education Education$18,108 $18,108 through local job creation. Our Community Community$3,119 $3,120 curriculum framework Arts Artsand andCulture Culture$231 programs generally fall into two $231 • Strengthened the capacity of the Health Health$165 $165 categories: corporate-led, multiyear Inkind In-kind$101 $101 education sector to manage and Environment Environment$85 $85 and multimillion-dollar flagship sustain the project’s momentum Disaster DisasterRelief Relief$35 $35 programs and asset-based projects through 2019 Note: These charts include all social investments in with moderate funding levels. 2015, including those associated with joint venture • Assisted the Education Ministry’s operations. In 2015 our social investments totaled Statistical Unit in data collection to nearly $22 million, with more than $18 chronicle PRODEGE II activities in million going toward education 2014–15 and provided a critical data projects. Another $3.6 million was analysis tool earmarked for economic development, We also continued to work in health and capacity building. partnership with FHI 360, a nonprofit Flagship Investments in human development organization, to Education provide technical assistance, Hess continues to show progress with monitoring and evaluation of the two flagship social investment PRODEGE II program. programs focused on developing 28 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report Succeed 2020 Belmont College This successful program has grown over We initiated the Succeed 2020 program We continued our partnership with the years, from an initial enrollment of in partnership with the state of North Ohio’s Belmont College in 2015 by 71 scholars in 2012 to a current Dakota and FHI 360 with a $25 million providing scholarships for local students enrollment of 318. Initially accessible in grant in 2012. The five-year program pursuing post-secondary education. the three coastal districts of Jomoro, aims to improve the transition from When selecting scholarship recipients, Ellembelle and Nzema East, it was secondary school to higher education the Belmont College Scholarship expanded to Shama and Ahanta West in and the workplace by supporting Committee and Office of Student 2015 with further plans to include college and career counseling for Financial Aid give special consideration Sekondi in 2016. Five schools currently students, professional development for to non-traditional students – displaced participate in the program, although we teachers, and tutoring and online workers returning to college in order to are planning to add two more secondary learning. further their education and regain schools for the fifth intake in October employment. Our focus is to encourage 2016. We continued to see significant continued education in STEM fields, so progress from the program’s In addition to the direct benefit to the that students gain the technical skills participants in 2015. Approximately participating students, the program has needed to succeed in the oil and gas 4,500 students participated in career a number of indirect benefits, including industry. Also, 2015 marked the second fairs and nearly 1,200 students gained the development of good relations with year we have supported the hands-on experience with science, the local fishing communities and development of local emergency technology, engineering and positive relationships with local, regional responders through Belmont College’s mathematics (STEM) through summer and national government stakeholders. Utica Shale Safety Institute. camps and robotics competitions. A LEAP total of 57 students qualified for We measure the success of these In 2015 we continued our engagement scholarships in 2015, more than double programs through several key with LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, the number in 2014. Businesses have performance metrics, including Persevere) — a three-year, $4.3 million also been engaged; more than 300 scholarship recipient demographics, pilot program aimed at dropout businesses supported students through completion rates and job placement prevention for at-risk middle school career fairs, job shadows and data (when available), as well as data on students in Houston. Hess is one of five internships. In one area alone, 14 the overall status of the energy program partners working internships and 25 job-shadowing programs at Belmont College. collaboratively to provide support to opportunities were provided to Ghana Scholars Program students who are English language students. Businesses also hosted With Ghana National Petroleum learners and over age for their grade teacher tours and advised on program Corporation (GNPC), we established the level. Our support has been focused on development, while the number of Hess GNPC Scholars Program, a two middle schools in the Houston teachers reporting progress in the multiyear initiative to provide secondary, Independent School District, which is teaching of state standards nearly vocational, technical and health one of largest school districts in Texas. doubled. education to underprivileged students in The LEAP initiative showed steady Local Program Highlights Ghana’s six coastal districts. The progress in its second year, through Hess’ global assets and Houston scholarships we provide cover three improved attendance and engagement operational headquarters engaged in a years’ cost of tuition and administrative among its targeted student population. variety of local social investment fees, books, kits and uniforms, plus a opportunities focused on education and stipend for the term. The first group of community development. scholars graduated in 2015 with an 85 percent pass rate. 29 Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico 30 SAFETY AND HEALTH Working safely is a top Hess priority. been following BBS processes since Full Workforce Safety Performance* Cases per 200,000 Hours Safety is central to our culture – each 2011 with positive results. We are individual is personally responsible for building on these efforts to develop core 0.52 supporting our ultimate goal of zero procedures that can be adapted across incidents. Our commitment to personal the enterprise. 0.40 and process safety begins at the top of 0.36 In July 2015 during a Hess Global Town our organization. We include key safety Hall, the CEO’s Award for Safety metrics in our annual incentive plan Excellence was presented to our U.K. formula for executives and employees, Decommissioning Team, which achieved and we invest in systems and programs 0.14 0.12 a rolling Total Recordable Incident Rate designed to deliver continuous 0.08 (TRIR) of zero during a complex well improvement. To reinforce the plug and abandonment program, importance of workforce safety including removal of subsea equipment, practices, our annual Chief Executive 2013 2014 2015 in the North Sea. In addition, two Hess Officer (CEO) and President’s Awards Workforce TRIR Workforce LTIR employees were presented with for Safety Excellence recognize Hess *Hess’ workforce data includes both employees and President’s Awards for Individual Safety contractors. When calculating LTIR, calendar work days are teams and individuals that exemplify used. A lost time incident involves one or more days away Leadership. One was our Global Supply outstanding and sustainable safety from work, excluding the day of the incident. We use occupational illness and occupation-related disease for Chain Logistics Team Lead, who is performance. current employees in our companywide safety totals. accountable for the safe operation of the PERSONAL SAFETY Fourchon Supply Base and supports our Employee and Contractor Safety Performance Our personal safety programs focus on passenger activity at the Bristow Cases per 200,000 Hours leadership, awareness and Heliport in Louisiana. The heliport 0.60 accountability across all levels of the achieved 33 years and 1.9 million work organization. To further advance our hours without a recordable incident or global safety performance and continue lost time injury. The other individual was 0.45 our efforts to drive down personal safety our Manager of Completions Operations 0.39 risk and exposure, we began developing in North Dakota, who was recognized a standardized, behavior-based safety for championing workplace safety within (BBS) program in 2015. BBS is a our North Dakota asset, as well as for 0.24 peer-to-peer observation program leading the implementation of BBS and 0.20 0.20 through which trained Hess employees overseeing integration of contractor and contractors observe other workers’ BBS programs. safety behaviors and provide feedback. Our overall safety performance It is one of several safety observation continued to improve in 2015. The TRIR programs used at Hess. Our assets in 2013 2014 2015 for our full workforce (employees and North Dakota, Ohio and Texas have Employee TRIR Contractor TRIR contractors) was 0.36, a 10 percent 2015 KEY DEVELOPMENTS 2016 GOALS • Achieved a 10 percent improvement in workforce Total Recordable Incident • Continue to progress our efforts in integrity management Rate and a 33 percent improvement in workforce Lost Time Incident Rate • Meet a workforce Total Recordable Incident Rate target of 0.31 or below • Reached 86 percent completion of action items identified through process • Meet a safety High Potential Incident Rate target of 0.15 or below safety health checks and are on target to close the remaining items by 2017 • Continue to make improvements in our process safety management • Made progress in a multiyear program to enter integrity critical equipment system and process safety standards performance standards into SAP to facilitate systematic implementation and • Begin implementation of companywide tiered competency assurance validation of this equipment program 31 31 SAFETY AND HEALTH PREVENTING DROPPED OBJECT INCIDENTS Hess safety programs and practices are designed with the goal of A steering committee progressed the program through biweekly having everyone across our operations return home safe every day. In “hazard hunts,” during which employees and contractors were asked late 2014, after identifying an increase in high potential (HiPo) to identify potential dropped object hazards and suggest mitigation incidents resulting from dropped objects, we implemented a campaign solutions. We also provided frontline leaders with tools to enhance to reverse this trend. A HiPo event is an incident (including near their selection of preventive and mitigation controls and identified miss incidents, which are discussed further below) with high severity workforce champions to act as local subject matter experts with and actual or potential consequence. Dropped object hazards, regard to DROPS objectives. In order to communicate expectations to which can result from the improper storage or securing of tools our workforce, we implemented a comprehensive education program and equipment, have the potential to harm people and property and provided weekly updates of leading and lagging metrics focused during operations. on dropped object incidents and hazard analyses. Our campaign gained significant momentum in 2015 when, through Through this comprehensive approach we achieved a significant engagement with our contractors, we developed the Hess Dropped reduction in the number of dropped object incidents in our North Object Prevention Scheme (DROPS). DROPS had three primary Dakota asset. Similar DROPS efforts were initiated across our onshore objectives: documenting our program expectations and requirements, and offshore operations throughout 2015. Together these initiatives engaging our workforce on dropped object prevention, and increasing contributed to a 63 percent reduction companywide in the number of assurance and sharing of lessons learned. HiPo incidents due to dropped objects in 2015 compared to 2014. DROPS was launched in January 2015 at our North Dakota asset. Our To help sustain this progress, we completed the Dropped Object workforce at this asset engaged in a series of stand downs, through Prevention Standard, which establishes requirements for addressing which executives and senior managers visited worksites to talk about observed dropped object hazards. This standard will help us conduct safety issues with frontline supervisors and workers. assurance activities and drive continuous improvement. improvement from 2014. Our full incidents. We require that information Effective process safety management at workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) concerning near miss incidents, which Hess means focusing on understanding was 0.08, a 33 percent improvement are a leading indicator of injury events, and identifying process safety from 2014. We experienced no employee be reported companywide into the same vulnerabilities that impact integrity, as or contractor fatalities in 2015. incident management system as injury follows: and illness cases. By tracking and Our contractor-only TRIR decreased in • Design integrity – reducing risks to as reporting near misses we are able to 2015, from 0.45 to 0.39. By contrast, our low as reasonably possible in the communicate lessons learned and take employee-only TRIR increased to 0.24. design and construction of facilities actions to address at-risk behaviors and Various incidents appear to have resulted • Technical integrity – inspecting, testing observed workplace hazards. Near from established procedures that were and maintaining our hardware and misses are also an important indicator of not being followed, indicating a potential software barriers potential process safety events, root cause for this increase. As we • Operational integrity – working within discussed below. continue to build out our EHS operational design parameters management system and associated PROCESS SAFETY We understand that to promote integrity standards, we remain focused on the We have resources dedicated to process assurance in these areas we must also competency and training of our safety to help prevent a loss of primary focus on enhancing process safety workforce. containment of any material, including leadership and increasing awareness of those that are non-toxic and nonAlthough lagging indicators are an process safety with key people across flammable, that could result in an important way to track performance, the organization. Our goal is to minimize incident such as a fire, explosion, toxic Hess also tracks leading indicators the likelihood of process safety events release or environmental impact. related to safety in an effort to prevent 32 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report through the effective management of process safety risks by our workforce. Recognizing that process safety is an important issue, we established strategic objectives and developed action plans as part of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy update, which is discussed in the How We Operate section of this report. These actions include enhancing our management systems and standards, implementing integrity critical equipment and barrier management processes, and building upon our current competency and training efforts. For example, in 2015 we continued to develop standards that relate to process safety, including our enterprise Management of Change (MOC) Standard. Once fully developed, this standard will establish minimum requirements for functional and regional MOC procedures so as to mitigate EHS risks during changes in people, documents or operations. As part of our larger global standards effort, our assets completed Tioga Rail Terminal, North Dakota desktop gap assessments and began implementation of our Energy Isolation, detection, control, mitigation or Stampede field development project. Process Safety Information and Vehicle emergency preparedness and response. Risks related to deepwater assets, which Entry Standards. Through these Although our production operations were include wells at a depth of more than assessments, we analyzed current already conducting regular maintenance 1,000 feet underwater, can be greater practices and developed implementation of ICE, we advanced our program in 2015 than those of land-based assets because plans to help close identified gaps. by focusing on the systematic they tend to operate much deeper wells Please see the How We Operate section implementation of performance under greater pressure and also present for more detail on the global standards standards for each piece of ICE. The unique challenges related to containment project. standards set specific expectations and of accidental discharges. Our Gulf of We also worked to strengthen our criteria that help to ensure each barrier is Mexico deepwater assets are subject to process safety program in 2015 through effective and that the ICE will operate as the U.S. federal government’s Safety and the ongoing implementation of intended. Environmental Management System performance standards for integrity (SEMS) regulations, which provide for a Process safety continues to be a focus at systematic approach to the identification critical equipment (ICE). ICE is defined as our deepwater assets. Hess currently and effective management or mitigation equipment that acts as a barrier for the operates two production facilities in the of hazards. prevention of accident events through Gulf of Mexico in the Baldpate and isolation, containment, prevention, Tubular Bells fields and has initiated the 33 SAFETY AND HEALTH In 2015 we enhanced our approach to Hess collects information on process PROCESS SAFETY EVENTS barrier management as part of our safety key performance indicators (KPIs) continuous effort to improve process pursuant to the International Association 2013 2014 2015 safety risk management. Our offshore of Oil and Gas Producers’ (IOGP) Tier 1 18 20 21 production operations team is piloting Process Safety – Recommended PSE Count the use of “bow tie” diagrams as an Practice on Key Performance Indicators, Tier 2 48 49 43 PSE Count integrated approach to barriers, their Report No. 456, November 2011. Note: Tier 1/Tier 2 criteria and PSE events are based on definitions relationships to hazards, threats and Categorized as Tier 1 and Tier 2 KPIs, from the International Association of Oil and Gas Producers, Process Safety Recommended Practice on Key Performance consequences, and the support systems these are reported at an enterprise-wide Indicators, Report No. 456, November 2011. required to manage them. It is our level in both internal and external reports. expectation that operating with a visual We also track Tier 3 and 4 KPIs, which Our goal is to continually reduce our and holistic understanding of the are leading indicators primarily designed number of process safety events (PSEs). relationship of barriers to these factors to monitor risk control systems and We conducted a detailed analysis of our will ultimately help lead to improved process safety barriers at the facility, PSE data from 2013 to 2015 and process safety management. asset or enterprise level. We use these determined that, although the number of KPIs to support continuous improvement We also continued to manage a number Tier 1 incidents has increased slightly at particular facilities or within company of ongoing process safety initiatives in year over year, this change does not systems. For instance, our global drilling 2015. These included the completion of indicate a statistically valid trend. We will and completions function tracks Tier 3 actions identified during our 2013 continue to enhance our process for KPIs specific to their operations, such as process safety health checks, which tracking, reporting and investigating blowout preventer performance and loss provided a high-level global assessment incidents, including near misses and of power events. An example of a Tier 4 of our production and drilling operations. PSEs, which will allow for consistency in KPI is the implementation of performance We completed 86 percent of identified how these events are classified and will standard tests for integrity critical actions by the end of 2015 and are on help to provide us with a high-quality equipment, which was included in the target to close the remaining items on dataset. 2015 annual incentive plan bonus schedule by 2017. calculation for employees. SAMPLE BOW TIE DIAGRAM HAZARD THREAT BARRIER BARRIER BARRIER BARRIER CONSEQUENCE EVENT THREAT BARRIER BARRIER BARRIER BARRIER CONSEQUENCE HAZARD 34 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report LOCAL EFFORTS Offshore Safety Performance Pre-Job Contractor Management Reducing Workforce Health Risks Hess delivered exceptional safety In 2015 we initiated an innovative contractor Through one of our contractors, we performance in 2015 at our offshore engagement process for work on our facility introduced a “sandbox system” for operations in Equatorial Guinea. Prompted by in the Baldpate field in the Gulf of Mexico. We transporting proppant sand to a number of an upward trend in HiPo incidents at this took our onboarding process to contractors’ our Bakken wells in 2015. During traditional asset, we focused on our established controls sites, where we met face to face with leaders truck unloading, blowers blast sand out of the such as hazard observations, risk and workers and obtained a firsthand look at truck, spreading dust. The sandbox system assessments, toolbox talks and visible the equipment that would supply a particular uses gravity to transfer sand from the leadership in the field. In addition, we project. We also shifted our pre-work project container to the conveyor, eliminating the heightened awareness of process safety meeting from a Hess-led presentation to a need for blowers to blast sand out of a management through workforce engagement collaborative dialogue that capitalized on the hauling trailer. This switch has increased and training on losses of primary containment expertise of each project contractor. This operational efficiency, reduced operational and dropped object hazards. These initiatives innovative approach resulted in highly costs and improved site safety. helped the asset to achieve its best safety effective communication and collaboration year ever, with a TRIR of just 0.08 and only prior to mobilization, which contributed to two HiPo incidents, down from seven in 2013. safe project execution ahead of schedule and below budget. 35 SAFETY AND HEALTH EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS effectively and efficiently engage relevant CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT AND RESPONSE stakeholders should an incident occur. Because contractors comprise nearly 80 Although we are primarily dedicated to percent of our total workforce hours, Emergency Preparedness and preventing incidents, we also diligently contractor management is a fundamental Response Partnerships prepare so that we can respond element of our EHS management system. Hess’ international oil spill response effectively to any emergency that may As part of the procurement process, we needs are supported by our partnership occur. In the event of an incident, Hess’ conduct reviews of contractors who are with Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL), emergency preparedness and response considered higher risk, either due to the an international, industry-funded program is designed to respond to number of exposure hours they will work cooperative that responds to oil spills injuries to people, spills and releases to or the nature of the work they will globally. Our domestic needs are the environment, damage to our assets perform, such as drilling and completions supported by Marine Spill Response and impacts to the company’s reputation or offshore work. We utilize a recognized Corporation, Clean Gulf Associates, – all in that order of priority. Our industry safety database management Sakakawea Area Spill Response Mutual emergency response organization is system to standardize our Aid, Tri-State Bird Rescue and Research, composed of teams positioned at the prequalification processes and Control Risks and International SOS. asset, regional and global levels. We contractor data management across Hess representatives serve on the Board conducted multiple exercises in 2015, multiple sites for most major areas of our of Directors of the OSRL and on the including one full-scale exercise to enact operations. This provides us with the Executive Committee of Clean Gulf the highest level of our three-tiered ability to clearly communicate Associates, a not-for-profit oil spill preparedness response plans. requirements and expectations to our cooperative that supports the Gulf of Mexico. contractors and share information In 2015 we created a global Emergency efficiently across Hess operations. Preparedness and Response Standard. Our international subsea preparedness The standard establishes a framework and response capabilities are supported In line with our new Contractor through which we can effectively manage by the Subsea Well Intervention Service Management Standard, which was emergency preparedness and response and Wild Well Control. In the Gulf of approved in early 2016, we are across our assets and defines company Mexico, we are members of the Marine implementing a process through which expectations for preparedness, training, Well Containment Company. These potential U.S. contractors receive a grade exercises and continuous improvement. organizations provide well capping, based on factors such as past EHS Preparedness focuses on the tiered containment and dispersant capabilities performance and existing safety response organization, engagement with as well as equipment and personnel management systems as well as officials and communities, emergency mutual aid. fulfillment of insurance requirements. facilities and response plans. The training The asset director or a more senior and exercise component defines roles, We are also active members of the Oil Hess employee must endorse a safety responsibilities and resources. Spill Response Joint Industry Project improvement action plan for contractors Continuous improvement is an essential organized by IPIECA and the IOGP. Hess who receive a low grade before that element of the standard by which we participates in several of the American contractor may be approved for incorporate lessons learned from Petroleum Institute’s preparedness and procurement. The prequalification incidents and exercises into our response efforts, including the Oil Spill process may include an on-location preparedness, training and exercises. Emergency Preparedness and Response audit. In addition, new contractors Subcommittee, the Pandemic Planning working on Hess-controlled worksites Another development in 2015 was the Working Group, and the Oil-Rail will take part in a comprehensive completion of an Emergency Response Emergency Response Joint Working onboarding process. Stakeholder Engagement Guidance Group. We also contribute to the IPIECA document. This document provides our Oil Spill Working Group in support of our assets with the tools they need to international businesses. 36 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report North Malay Basin, Malaysia In 2015 we made significant strides in • Health risk assessment and planning fitness for duty and exposure programs managing our marine contractors. We • Industrial hygiene and control of (e.g., noise, respiratory) were centrally developed and implemented a marine workplace exposures coordinated and tracked. Centralization assurance framework that established • Medical emergency management helps us to remain compliant with enterprise-wide guidelines for the • Management of health in the requirements of the U.S. Occupational evaluation of marine contractors and workplace, fitness for task assessment Safety and Health Administration and vessels. We also subscribed to the and health surveillance increases efficiency across our assets. Offshore Vessel Management and Self • Health impact assessment We continued to expand random drug Assessment program, a tool developed • Health reporting and record and alcohol surveillance of our by the Oil Companies International management employees and contractors at our U.S. Marine Forum. This tool allows us to both • Public health interface and promotion operations in 2015. This effort included provide clear and consistent of good health the establishment of drug testing communication of our needs and Our employee programs include free programs for compliance with U.S. expectations to our marine contractors preventive medical services, international Department of Transportation and U.S. as well as review the qualifications of travel vaccinations and flu shots for Coast Guard requirements. marine contractors from around the employees and family members. world using an internationally accepted, In 2015 we provided first aid, Employees at our Houston operational standardized approach to assessing a cardiopulmonary resuscitation and headquarters have access to wellness contractor’s compliance with safety and automated external defibrillator training rooms – private areas where employees quality standards. We expect this for employees at our North Dakota and can rest if they are not feeling well during framework will help us reduce costs and Ohio assets. We also transitioned to an the work day. These rooms are monitored realize enhancements in marine online training module provided by the by occupational health professionals who contractor procurement. American Heart Association (AHA) at our are available to respond if needed. assets and our operational headquarters HEALTH AND WELLNESS Our mobile medical surveillance program in Houston. AHA’s Heartsaver e-learning Our health and wellness strategy for Hess’ U.S. workforce continued in program offers cost-effective online includes several elements: 2015. Through this initiative, annual training followed by hands-on testing medical exams covering employee with an AHA instructor. 37 Kuala Lumpur Office, Malaysia 38 OUR PEOPLE 150 Our workforce is vital to Hess’ continued success, and we are committed to EMPLOYEES IN TRANSITION Employees who were not retained were 2015 Turnover and New Hires Number of Employees 100 cultivating a company culture that fosters offered severance packages to help 400 400 338 innovation, leadership and continuous ease their transitions. The company also 300 300 learning. With our transformation into an 200 200 provided outplacement services to 131 100 exploration and production company support them with resume preparation, 0 100 complete, in 2015 we renewed our focus interview skills and job search strategies 5050 50 on key human resources programs, as they launched their search for new 42 including talent management, learning employment. This approach is 4040 40 and development, diversity and inclusion consistent with Hess’ values, which 3030 30 29 and employee engagement. The same include treating people with fairness, 20 2020 Lean principles we applied to our honesty and respect. 13 10 11 operations – including a deep respect for 1010 4 3 people and an ethos of problem solving DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION 0 0 0 0 – are also being utilized to enhance our Hess is committed to diversity and Africa Americas Asia-Pacific Europe human resources programs. equal employment opportunities for all employees and job candidates Female Turnover Female New Hires Male Turnover EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS regardless of race, color, gender, age, Male New Hires We began 2015 with 3,039 employees sexual orientation, gender identity, and ended the year with 2,770 creed, national origin, genetic employees. By year’s end, 79 percent of information, disability, veteran status or 2015 EMPLOYEES Male Turnover BY Turnover Female REGION Male New Hires Female New Hires our employees were located in the U.S., any other protected status in Americas 2,198 79% including 67 percent in Texas, and 21 recruitment, hiring, compensation, percent were in international locations. Asia-Pacific 237 9% promotion, training, assignment of work, performance evaluation and all other Africa 169 6% As the price of crude oil steepened its aspects of employment. decline in late 2015, we scaled back Europe 166 6% activities and further reduced our We do not tolerate any form of headcount to address increasing budget workplace harassment, including sexual In 2015 we continued our diversity pressures. We targeted workforce harassment. We reinforce these outreach efforts with organizations that reductions in areas where activity had expectations through our Code of advocate for minorities, women, declined and in positions that were Conduct, our Equal Employment veterans and the disabled, including largely held by contractors. We Opportunity and Affirmative Action Equal Opportunity Publications, the redeployed employees where possible to Policies and training (for U.S.-based National Business & Disability Council preserve the management and technical managers), other human resources at the Viscardi Center, the National capabilities we will need to respond policies and our Human Rights and Diversity Council, the U.S. Business effectively when the price of oil recovers. Social Responsibility Policies. 2015 KEY DEVELOPMENTS 2016 GOALS • Increased focus on employee engagement through a variety of actions • Continue focus on employee engagement • Continued leadership development workshops for early career supervisors • Advance initiatives and process efficiency in the annual compensation through senior management process, performance management, talent management and learning • Introduced new online compensation management and learning and development management modules • Refine usage of CareerManager, our integrated human resources • Conducted review of strategic human resources initiatives through a series system, through continuous improvement in data integrity, reporting of enterprise-wide focus groups and use of analytics 39 39 OUR PEOPLE human resources professionals in 2015 NATIONAL EMPLOYEES to improve the company’s annual Country Category* 2013 2014 2015 performance management and compensation process by applying Lean National Employees 83% 87% 85% principles. The team’s recommendations Denmark resulted in a more streamlined process National Managers/ 75% 78% 77% Professionals better suited to the size of our company National Employees 74% 77% 78% and with an increased emphasis on Equatorial Guinea performance. We plan to build on this National Managers/ 41% 46% 54% progress in 2016 by exploring additional Professionals opportunities for improvement. National Employees 72% 74% 75% Malaysia Learning and Development National Managers/ 70% 72% 73% Professionals We launched a new enterprise-wide *The percent of national employees is equal to the number of national employees in that country divided by the total number of learning management system in 2015, employees in that country. The percent of national managers/professionals is equal to the number of national managers/ professionals in that country divided by the total number of managers/professionals in that country. CareerManager Learning, which houses a variety of computer-based training Leadership Network, the Women’s publicly where the number is 100 modules and supporting materials for Energy Network, the Society of Women employees or more. The percentage of instructor-led courses. It also tracks and Engineers and the Veteran Jobs local nationals overall, as well as the records employee training and measures Mission. We also continue to support proportion of nationals holding training effectiveness through surveys additional membership-based managerial or professional positions, and evaluations. organizations that promote a diversity of has increased between 2013 and 2015. expression and thought. In 2015 we continued our practice of TALENT MANAGEMENT developing employees who are new to Our proportion of women and U.S. We utilize a comprehensive talent supervisory management through minority employees, as defined by the management process to understand and focused training for first-time leaders. U.S. Department of Labor, remained assess our leadership and technical Employees who participated in our relatively flat in 2015 compared to 2014. capabilities, which aids us in developing training program built skills that they can We are committed to fostering women’s succession and hiring plans. Identifying leverage to execute day-to-day professional growth in all areas of the employees with leadership potential responsibilities and enhance the company. In 2015 several employees early in their careers enables us to performance of their team members. launched a networking group at our develop talent in support of Hess’ Program topic areas included setting operational headquarters in Houston strategic goals. performance expectations, motivating called Women Inspiring Success and team members, providing effective CareerManager, our integrated human Excellence (WISE), with the vision “to feedback, coaching for success and resources system, provides a common help promote and cultivate leadership improvement, accomplishing work platform for Individual Development skills, business practices, career efficiently through team members and Plans (IDPs), objective setting and opportunities and personal contacts for managing change. performance evaluations. We leverage women.” The group held several the system to encourage every employee Throughout the year, internal operating successful events in 2015 and continues to prepare an IDP as a roadmap for functions such as exploration, to grow in membership. setting and achieving career goals, developments, and drilling and In keeping with our aim to foster diversity developing capabilities and maximizing completions, as well as support and cultivate leadership, we employ a career opportunities. functions such as Human Resources, high number of local nationals in our Environment, Health and Safety and As a continuation of work from prior international operations and report Information Technology, encouraged years, we convened a small team of 40 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report Hess regularly shares information with 2015 WOMEN AND MINORITY* REPRESENTATION and solicits feedback from employees Women Minorities about our business performance and (U.S. and International) (U.S.Based Employees) processes. We use a range of Total Number Total engagement tools, including one-on-one Job Employees Percent Number of Percent in Job of Women Employees in Minorities Category Category Women Job Category Minorities and small-group discussions, focus groups and global town hall meetings Executives and Senior 57 11 19% 50 4 8% and webcasts. We also utilize the Officers First and company intranet, digital signage at our Mid-Level 706 128 18% 554 91 16% major locations and feedback surveys to Managers share information and connect with Professionals 1,390 447 32% 1,104 310 28% employees in a timely and meaningful Other 617 172 28% 475 134 28% manner. Total 2,770 758 27% 2,183 539 25% As an example, in 2015 our Chief *As defined by the U.S. Department of Labor Executive Officer John Hess and Chief Operating Officer Greg Hill continued to knowledge sharing through “lunch and their work location prior to their first day host small-group sessions called learns” and other informal gatherings. on the job. Leadership Dialogues, launched in 2014, Employees were also active in a variety Hess remains committed to our to discuss enterprise opportunities and of professional development Foundation Program, which prepares challenges to achieving our strategic opportunities, including engagement with early career engineers, geoscientists and vision. In 2015 we held 27 Leadership trade associations, attendance at supply chain professionals for Dialogue sessions, reaching more than conferences and enrollment in external challenging assignments through 700 employees (25 percent of all courses. focused training, mentoring and on-theemployees). Themes from these sessions New Hires and Early Career job assignments. The program maintains were presented to the Executive Programs Committee and turned into actions. relationships with key universities that Employees new to Hess benefit from our align with our values, standards and onboarding and orientation program, We also held three global town hall business operations. Passport to Hess. The program is meetings, which were webcast to all designed to facilitate a smooth EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT company locations, and multiple local assimilation into the company through Our employee engagement activities in workforce gatherings to communicate close interaction between supervisors 2015 focused on business strategy, business updates, reinforce strategy and and new employees. In 2015 the performance and culture. We conducted values and answer questions. Each Passport to Hess program was extended a mid-decade review of our vision and meeting was followed by a pulse survey from 90 days to a full year, with a roadmap – including our strategic human to solicit feedback on key company substantial focus on engagement with resources initiatives – through a series of issues and measure the meeting’s senior executives. We introduced a enterprise-wide focus groups effectiveness. Leadership Engagement Series through representing every major location, Our employees continue to participate in which new employees are invited to business, function and level across the activities at various locations that quarterly meetings led by senior vice company. We sought employee feedback demonstrate the Hess Value of Social presidents to discuss business unit and on the past five years and on our future Responsibility. These employees functional strategies and objectives. We and presented the resulting themes to volunteer their time, conduct fundraising also implemented an onboarding portal, the Hess Executive Committee. One of and make in-kind donations in areas which is designed to help minimize the the outcomes of this review was a greater such as education, health and social uncertainty often experienced by new emphasis on creating a distinctive Lean services. hires by enabling them to learn about culture to drive performance by eliminating waste and inefficiency. 41 Okume Complex, Equatorial Guinea 42 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Hess’ position on climate change is that Paris in December 2015, IPIECA created rising greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions a series of papers to address major GLOBAL ENERGY and global temperatures pose risks to issues our industry sees as necessary OUTLOOK society and ecosystems warranting for tackling climate change. Collectively, cost-effective policy responses that these papers highlight the key role the According to the 2015 World Energy balance mitigation, adaptation and oil and gas industry should play in terms Outlook New Policies Scenario (i.e., most likely case) developed by the International societal priorities such as access to of innovation, global reach, knowledge Energy Agency (IEA), worldwide energy use affordable energy. Hess is committed to and technical expertise to help develop will grow by 32 percent between 2013 and helping meet the world’s growing energy and provide credible future energy 2040, with all the growth coming from needs in an environmentally responsible solutions. developing countries. Energy demand for oil manner by taking steps to monitor, and gas will grow through 2040 with oil Hess continues to meet our goal of measure and reduce our carbon and gas each accounting for approximately top-quartile performance in our sector 25 percent of the energy mix. In 2040 oil footprint. Hess’ updated environment, for the quality of our climate change and gas will collectively account for 50 health, safety and social responsibility disclosures. For the seventh consecutive percent of the energy mix, down slightly (EHS & SR) strategy addresses climate year, Hess was included in the CDP’s from 52 percent in 2013. Even under the change and the actions we can S&P 500 Carbon Disclosure Leadership IEA’s 450 Scenario, which is consistent undertake to control and reduce our Index, and for the sixth consecutive year with limiting concentrations of GHGs in the carbon footprint. We work with key atmosphere to around 450 parts per million was also listed in the Dow Jones stakeholders, including government of carbon dioxide, energy demand will Sustainability Index North America. Our agencies, private landowners and increase by 12 percent by 2040, with oil CDP responses contain more detailed and gas accounting for approximately 44 communities, among others, to obtain information on the company’s climate percent of the energy mix. In this projected approval for these actions, including the change-related risks and opportunities. environment, coal would experience the plans and goals discussed in this See our CDP Climate Change response at largest demand degradation. section. hess.com/s/cdpclimatechange Hess remains an active member of GREENHOUSE Climate Change 2007 (AR-4) prepared by IPIECA on sustainable development GAS PERFORMANCE issues such as climate change, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate We report GHG emissions from our oil biodiversity impacts and access to Change to estimate CO 2e totals. GHG and gas assets on an operated and energy – issues that are too complex for data from prior years have not been equity basis. Our emissions estimates individual companies to tackle alone. restated, because the impact on include carbon dioxide, methane and IPIECA represents its members at the historical values was not material nitrous oxide—reported in units of United Nations’ Conference of Parties (about 1 percent). carbon dioxide equivalent (CO 2e). meetings, engaging with governments (continued on page 45) Starting in 2014, Hess began using on climate-related issues. In advance of global warming potentials based on the the Conference of Parties meeting in values in the Fourth Assessment Report: 2015 KEY DEVELOPMENTS 2016 GOALS • Updated climate change initiatives as part of our environment, health, • Create a working team with senior leader representation to further safety and social responsibility strategy refresh evaluate and recommend strategic actions with regard to climate change • Set new 2020 targets for reducing flaring intensity and greenhouse gas intensity • Continue to expand North Dakota midstream gas gathering infrastructure • Updated carbon price in our economic evaluation process for significant • Implement a project in Equatorial Guinea to pipe gas that had traditionally new investments to include two scenarios – $20 per tonne and $40 per been flared in our Okume operation to the Ceiba field to use as fuel gas tonne – for implementation in 2016 to help power our operation • Reduced equity greenhouse gas emissions by more than 5 million tonnes between 2008 and 2015 43 43 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY CARBON ASSET RISK REPORT This section discusses the potential impact that future climate change underestimates the realities of the projected growing demand for regulation may have on Hess’ market valuation. Hess has established hydrocarbon resources through 2040 as well as how the categorization an enterprise risk management (ERM) process to manage all types of and timing of reserve development contribute to the market valuation of a business risk, including climate change. All Hess assets have company. developed a holistic risk profile in which key risks are identified with the likelihood and potential impact to the business estimated. Critical By using an extremely broad definition of proved reserves, stranded asset risks – risks with higher likelihood and impact or those that are proponents misstate how reserves contribute to market valuation. unlikely but would have significant impact if they were to occur – are According to IHS Energy’s September 2014 report Deflating the Carbon placed on an integrated risk register that catalogs actions for Bubble, the intrinsic value of an oil and gas company is based primarily on managing or mitigating each risk. In addition, all new projects are its proved reserves, 90 percent of which are expected to be monetized rigorously screened to verify they meet or exceed established during the next 10 to 15 years. The Securities and Exchange Commission threshold return on investment criteria to balance risk and return and defines “proved reserves” as those quantities of oil and gas that, by meet Hess’ capital discipline philosophy. We factor theoretical carbon analysis of geoscience and engineering data, can within reasonable dioxide prices into our economic evaluation process for significant certainty be estimated to be economically producible – from a given date new projects, and we have recently updated the pricing scenarios to forward, from known reservoirs and under existing economic conditions, $20 and $40 per tonne. This enables us to evaluate project viability operating methods and government regulations. based on differing ranges of potential future carbon constraints. Stranded asset advocates argue that extractive companies will be left with A select group of stakeholders and investors has raised concerns stranded reserves over the next 30 to 40 years, thus undercutting current that energy companies may be overvalued in a future carbonvaluations. According to IHS Energy, while proved reserves on average constrained world because these companies may not be able to account for only 24 percent of the resource base by volume, they account produce a portion of their reserves, hence these reserves will be for 84 percent of the 2014 resource base that drives a company’s total “stranded.” According to IHS Energy, the stranded asset theory valuation. Therefore, reserves that are expected to be produced beyond a 15-year time horizon have limited impact on a company’s valuation. Tioga TiogaGas GasPlant, PlantNorth Dakota 44 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report Approximately 97 percent of Hess’ direct (Scope 1) operated GHG emissions are from stationary combustion sources such The stranded asset theory also assumes that coal, oil and gas are as flaring, heaters, turbines and engines. The factors used to equally vulnerable to climate policies restricting energy sources, without estimate emissions for these sources enterprise wide are those considering the differences in carbon intensities. Coal is the most prescribed by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (U.S. carbon-intensive energy source, with a significantly larger carbon EPA) in its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part 98, footprint than natural gas. As a result, coal is most likely to experience Subpart C). The remaining 3 percent of our operated GHG demand degradation in a carbon-constrained economy. The production emissions are from a variety of non-combustion and fugitive of natural gas will be promoted as part of the transition to a loweremission sources such as storage tanks, compressor seals, carbon environment. pneumatic pumps and valves. For such sources at onshore We will continue to do our part to help provide reliable, affordable energy facilities, we use the emission factors prescribed by the U.S. to meet growing demand, while endeavoring to take actions to reduce EPA in its GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part 98, our carbon footprint through investments in energy efficiency, flaring Subpart W). Subpart W does not provide factors for fugitive reductions, fuel switching and new and emerging technologies. GHG emissions from offshore facilities; therefore, Hess uses other appropriate U.S. EPA or industry-specific factors to 2015 Hess Proved Reserves by Resource Type* estimate fugitive emissions for those facilities. We also report indirect emissions associated with purchased 15% electricity (Scope 2) and other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. 30% Operated Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) We believe it is our responsibility to operate more efficiently by 55% reducing GHG emissions per unit of production as we continue to expand our business. Therefore, in keeping with our EHS & SR strategy, we have established a new 2020 GHG intensity Conventional (including Acid Gas) Unconventional reduction target for our current portfolio of operated assets. Deepwater Our target is to reduce GHG emissions intensity by 25 percent *Deepwater is a conventional resource but it is shown separately here to provide more for the current portfolio of assets that we operate by 2020 clarity on our reserve base. Deepwater refers to reserves found below 1,000 feet of water depth. versus a 2014 emissions baseline. In 2015, of the estimated 5.6 million tonnes of gross GHG 2015 Hess Proved Reserves by Region* emissions from our operated oil and gas assets, 5.1 million 1,086 Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent tonnes were Scope 1 emissions, primarily from flaring and fuel combustion, and 0.5 million tonnes were Scope 2 emissions from purchased electricity. Process operations (primarily fuel combustion) and flaring accounted for 33 percent and 63 percent of our Scope 1 GHG emissions, respectively. In 2015 46% 25% absolute GHG emissions increased over 2014 by an estimated 0.2 million tonnes, due primarily to increased activity in North Dakota; however, on a GHG intensity basis (i.e., tonnes of 11% 18% emissions per 1,000 barrels of oil equivalent (BOE)), emissions decreased by 18 percent versus our 2014 baseline. Equity Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) Since 2007 Hess has tracked GHG emissions from our operated and non-operated oil and gas assets based on our *Proved reserves consist of 76 percent liquids (light and medium crude oils, condensate and natural gas liquids) and 24 percent natural gas. equity interest. Between 2008 and 2015, we reduced equity 45 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY 2015 Operated Scope 1 Greenhouse GHG emissions from our oil and gas Development’s GHG Protocol Scope 3 Gas Emissions by Source operations by over an estimated 5 million standard, which includes 15 categories of Thousand Tonnes CO2e 4% tonnes of absolute emissions, primarily Scope 3 emissions. Historically, only three through a combination of improving of the Scope 3 emissions categories – operating practices, selling assets and Purchased Goods and Services shutting down refinery operations. If our (emissions generated from refined 33% 2008 baseline were restated for all of the petroleum products sold), Use of Products 63%54% collective asset sales, our GHG emissions (emissions generated from our natural gas reduction between 2008 and 2015 would sales) and Processing of Sold Products Flaring 3,203 be approximately 4 million tonnes instead (emissions generated from energy used to Fuel Combustion 1,654 of over 5 million tonnes. refine petroleum products) – were material Other 225 to Hess. With our transformation to an Our major sources of emissions from Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions exploration and production company, the non-operated oil and gas assets in 2015 (Scope 1 and Scope 2) Purchased Goods and Services category included the Malaysia/Thailand Joint 5.4 5.6 is no longer applicable. Although not GHG Intensity (Tonnes per Million BOE) Development Area and the Gassi El Agreb 6 6 50 50 material, we track and report emissions (GEA) project in Algeria. Our interest in 5 5 43 40 associated with employee business travel. Million Tonnes CO2e 40 4 4 GEA was sold in late 2015. Total emissions 36 30 3 3 31 30 from these assets accounted for The table on the following page details our 2 20 20 approximately 1.7 million tonnes of our Scope 3 emissions. In 2015 we sold 485 2 10 equity emissions. million standard cubic feet per day 1 1 10 (MMSCFD) of natural gas which, when 0 0 0 In 2015 major sources of emissions from 2014 2015 2020 0 burned by customers, accounted for an operated assets included those from our Scope 1 Emissions estimated 9.7 million tonnes of GHG Scope 2 Emissions Equatorial Guinea and North Dakota emissions. We sold 254 thousand barrels GHG Intensity and 2020 Target assets and the Seminole and Tioga gas Note: 2014 data excludes 0.2 million tonnes from discontinued per day (MBPD) of crude oil which, when downstream assets. processing plants, which together processed by refiners, accounted for accounted for an estimated 3.2 million another 4.3 million tonnes of GHG Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions tonnes of equity emissions. All of our other by Country emissions, for an estimated total of 14 Million Tonnes CO2e operated and non-operated assets made million tonnes of Scope 3 emissions. 12 up the balance of equity emissions of an estimated 0.6 million tonnes. In addition, combined emissions from 10.8 10 employee business travel via commercial Scope 3 Emissions air carrier and rail in 2015 was about 9.0 To assess our Scope 3 GHG emissions, 8 10,000 tonnes. As an element of our we use the Petroleum Industry Guidance climate change strategy, we have 6.6 for Corporate Value Chain Accounting 6.0 purchased carbon credits annually since 6 methodology. Scope 3 emissions are 5.5 2010 to offset at least 100 percent of emissions generated from corporate value business travel emissions. In 2015 we 4 chain activities that are not accounted for purchased approximately 15,000 carbon and reported in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 credits from The Climate Trust, which 2 emissions. more than offset the GHG emissions we The Petroleum Industry Guidance is based estimate were generated from employee 0 2008 2011 2013 2014 2015 on the World Resources Institute’s and the business travel. U.K. Ghana Thailand World Business Council for Sustainable Norway Libya China Denmark Azerbaijan U.S. Algeria Russia U.S. Virgin E.G. Indonesia Islands Gabon Malaysia 46 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report EMISSIONS REDUCTION from 100 to 250 MMSCFD and increased 2015 Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Country INITIATIVES the liquids processing capacity almost Thousand Tonnes CO2e We track and monitor air emissions at tenfold, from 260,000 to 2.5 million each of our assets. We then examine gallons per day. opportunities at our largest emitting 100 We anticipate that expansion of the facilities to potentially reduce GHG 90 midstream gas gathering infrastructure, 80 emissions where it is technically and including additional gas compression 70 69% economically feasible to do so, and 60 facilities and natural gas liquids and gas where we are able to achieve stakeholder 50 gathering lines, will continue into 2016. approval. 40 These midstream infrastructure projects 30 26% Flaring leave Hess well positioned to significantly 20 3% A key component of our climate change reduce flaring over the next several years. 10 2% 0 strategy is to reduce flaring. In 2015 our gas flaring from operated assets was Natural Gas Capture U.S. 3,885 essentially flat compared to 2014, at 99 We anticipate that large-scale reductions Equatorial Guinea 1,488 MMSCFD. We have set a new 2020 target in flaring will be addressed through our Denmark 174 Malaysia 89 to reduce flaring intensity (i.e., standard long-term 2020 flare intensity reduction cubic feet per barrel of oil equivalent, or target. In the interim, however, we are SCF/BOE) by 50 percent for the current also mitigating flaring in our shale energy Hess Flaring Rates portfolio of assets we operate, compared plays by exploring ways to capture gas at 99 99 to a 2014 baseline. This flaring reduction the wellhead for use in our drilling 100 100 300300 Flaring Intensity (SCF per BOE) will result from major stakeholderoperations and for conversion to natural 80 80 287 approved initiatives in Equatorial Guinea gas liquids (NGL). 250250 Flaring (MMSCFD) and our Bakken asset in North Dakota. 60 60 Bi-Fuel Rigs and Boiler 226 200200 Conversions 40 40 At our Equatorial Guinea asset, we have In 2013 in North Dakota we launched a 150150 invested more than $30 million in a 20 20 145 bi-fuel installation project in which we project to pipe gas that has been 00 0 100 retrofitted diesel engines to gas/diesel traditionally flared at our Okume 2014 2015 2020 engines on several of the drilling rigs operation to the nearby Ceiba field, to use North Dakota operating for Hess in the Bakken. The as fuel gas to run our operations. This Equatorial Guinea new bi-fuel engines capture and use Other project is a win-win, as it is expected to Flaring Intensity and 2020 Target natural gas at the wellhead, which substantially reduce both flaring and reduces fuel costs due to fewer diesel costs associated with fuel purchases. delivery truck trips and lowers air To capture and monetize natural gas from emissions from the cleaner burn of 2015 SCOPE 3 EMISSONS Million Tonnes CO2e our wells and minimize flaring, we have natural gas compared to diesel. As part Use of Sold Products 9.7 invested more than $1.9 billion in of this project, nine boilers were also infrastructure in North Dakota between converted to operate exclusively on Processing of Sold Products 4.3 2012 and 2015. As part of this, in March natural gas during winter operations. In Total 14.0 2014 we completed the expansion of the 2015 this project saved 529,000 gallons Tioga Gas Plant, one of our major of diesel fuel, reduced GHG emissions by infrastructure projects. This expansion an estimated 1,532 tonnes and resulted in more than doubled the plant’s capacity 66 fewer truck deliveries. 47 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Natural Gas Liquids The equipment that was developed to Partnership presented an award of In 2013 in North Dakota we partnered address these challenges consisted of excellence to Hess and our partner, with GTUIT, a designer, manufacturer patent-pending flow control with gas GTUIT/Caterpiller Oil and Gas, for and operator of well site gas capture and compression and refrigeration that successful use of GTUIT’s well site gas NGL extraction equipment, to recover lowers the gas stream to -40 degrees capture and natural gas extraction high-BTU (British thermal unit) gas from Fahrenheit, resulting in the creation technology to reduce flaring in the locations that were producing NGLs and of a stream of NGLs and conditioned Bakken region in North Dakota. flaring. This project provided dual field gas. Power Generation economic and environmental benefits by By the second quarter of 2015, we had Power generation utilizing Bakken gas converting gas into marketable products installed a total of 15 mobile units with a was piloted by Hess in 2014. This project as well as reducing the amount of gas capacity of 10 MMSCFD. An estimated involved replacing diesel generators with flared and the associated air emissions. 8.2 million gallons of NGLs were gas generators and was implemented at The project addressed two significant captured in 2015, resulting in more than a stranded site that is utilizing eight 170 challenges: 526 MMSCF of gas that was not flared, kilowatt gas generators. As a result of • Developing equipment that adapts to reducing GHG emissions by an the project, the site is now using 140 the ever-changing flow conditions of estimated 51,084 tonnes and saving thousand standard cubic feet per day the well and the changing chemistry of about 16,000 tonnes of volatile organic (MSCFD) of gas to directly power its the associated gas (e.g., BTU content, compounds (VOCs) from entering the electrical needs, replacing 8,600 barrels water content) atmosphere. of diesel fuel that was previously burned • Developing reliable unmanned, mobile and reducing GHG emissions by 1,046 In September 2015 the World Bank tonnes in 2015. This pilot project will be and modular equipment Global Gas Flaring Reduction expanded to two additional North Dakota Gas Capture and Recovery Project, North Dakota 48 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report sites, which will use approximately 100 transportation costs and risk of vehicle 2015 Energy Use by Country Thousand Gigajoules MSCFD each, by mid 2016. Additional accidents. 3% sites are being evaluated, with a goal to In 2014 we piped 43 percent (4.5 million replace all diesel generators in North barrels) of the water used for fracturing 6% Dakota with gas generators. via these hoses. In 2015 we exceeded 12% To further help reduce flaring emissions, our goal of 65 percent by piping 72 the Environmentally Friendly Drilling percent, or 6.9 million barrels, of the 79% (EFD) program, Gulf Coast Green Energy water used for hydraulic fracturing, which and ElectraTherm partnered with Hess to resulted in a reduction of 63,000 truck test the ElectraTherm Power+ deliveries, 2.3 million miles driven and U.S. 28,428 Equatorial Guinea 4,333 Generator™, a leading distributed 5,010 tonnes of GHG emissions. During Denmark 2,305 Malaysia 1,083 waste-heat-to-power technology, at a winter operations, by using line heaters Hess North Dakota well site. The pilot we were able to deliver 75 degree project captures the natural gas to Fahrenheit water to locations through flat 2015 Direct Energy Use by Fuel Source generate electricity and reduces or hose into insulated tanks, eliminating the Thousand Gigajoules eliminates onsite flaring. ElectraTherm’s on-location heating of water. We plan to Power+ Generator™ captures the waste continue to utilize flat hose for water 13% heat and provides clean methane transport in 2016. utilization without capital-intensive gas See our CDP Climate Change response at cleanup. At the well site, natural gas that 87% hess.com/s/cdpclimatechange would otherwise be flared is instead used to fuel a low-emission industrial boiler. The boiler heats water to run the ENERGY USE Monitoring and managing our energy use Power+ Generator™ and produces clean Natural Gas 23,991 is an important part of Hess’ Lean energy that is used for onsite processes, Diesel 3,514 approach because it has the dual benefit offsetting the cost of electricity from the of reducing both costs and GHG grid. The pilot system operated with an Energy Use emissions. estimated on-stream reliability of greater Thousand Gigajoules than 98 percent and showed average We make and purchase energy primarily estimated reductions in carbon for power, processing, heating and 40,000 36,148 monoxide of 98 percent, nitrogen oxides cooling. In 2015 energy consumption 33,850 34,426 of 48 percent and VOCs of 93 percent, from Hess-operated assets was 30,000 compared to flaring. approximately 36 million gigajoules (GJ), 5 percent higher than the previous year. Transportation 20,000 However, our 2015 energy intensity (GJ/ In 2013 at our North Dakota asset we barrels produced) declined by 18 percent began using flexible hose for freshwater 10,000 as we became more efficient through our transport instead of trucks. This type of Lean approach to operations. Seventyhose collapses flat when not in use, like a 0 six percent of Hess’ energy use was fire hose, and can be used to pipe water 2013 2014 2015 directly generated from our operations, directly from the water source to our primarily at the Seminole and Tioga gas Direct wells. Use of these flat hoses offers Indirect processing plants and at our production several benefits – they eliminate the need facilities in North Dakota, Denmark and for trucks to haul water, resulting in less Equatorial Guinea. The remaining 24 noise and lower GHG emissions, 49 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY percent was indirect energy (energy burned by utilities to MANAGING METHANE EMISSIONS provide net purchased electricity) purchased for the Seminole (West Texas) and North Dakota production operations and the Seminole and Tioga gas processing The advancement in shale energy technology in recent years has plants. Our 2015 electricity usage was essentially flat resulted in an increased supply of abundant, low-cost natural gas. compared to 2014. The clean burning characteristics of natural gas can play a critical role in the transition toward a low-carbon economy. Although natural 2015 ELECTRICITY PURCHASED gas burns cleaner than other fuels, there is considerable debate FROM PUBLIC UTILITIES about fugitive methane leakage along the natural gas value chain, Thousand which may have the potential to reduce its climate benefits. Methane Utilities’ Primary Energy Source Percentage MWh emissions have a stronger global warming potential than the carbon Coal 524 56% dioxide emitted when natural gas is combusted, thus methane emissions may have the potential to offset many of the benefits of Natural Gas 207 22% natural gas as a clean fuel. Over the past two or three years there has been increasing stakeholder scrutiny around this issue. In Wind 125 13% January 2015 the U.S. announced plans to cut methane emissions Nuclear 39 4% from oil and gas operations by 45 percent by 2025 from 2012 levels. This has resulted in several federal regulations (some final and some Conventional Hydroelectric 35 4% under development) aimed at reducing methane emissions. The Other Non-Renewables 4 <1% industry maintains that these regulations are largely unnecessary, as methane emissions have decreased at a time of growth in natural Biomass, Solar, Other Renewables 2 <1% gas production and because it is in the industry’s best interest to Note: Approximate figures based on U.S. Energy Information Administration 2014 state monetize gas to generate additional revenue. electricity generation profiles. ONE Future One element of our EHS & SR strategy has been to pursue voluntary In 2015 our U.S. operations accounted for all (approximately reductions in methane emissions in advance of potential new 936,000 megawatt hours) of our purchased electricity. regulations. As a result, Hess became a founding member of the ONE Based on U.S. electricity generation profiles, we estimate Future Coalition, a group of companies from across the natural gas that approximately 14 percent of this electricity was industry focused on identifying policy and technical solutions that generated from renewable sources, primarily wind power. In yield continuous improvement in the management of methane addition, as part of our climate strategy, we use renewable energy through the purchase of renewable energy certificates (RECs), equivalent to at least 10 percent of the net electricity used in our operations. In 2015 we purchased 135,000 Green-e Energy certified RECs for wind power, equivalent to 135,000 megawatt hours or about 14 percent of our purchased electricity from our exploration and production operated assets. Overall, between the portion of our electricity generated through renewable grid sources and the purchase of RECs, approximately 28 percent of our indirect energy use came from renewable sources. Optical Gas Imaging, Bakken Well Site 50 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report emissions associated with the production, processing, gathering infrastructure and processing plants. This study is one of transportation and distribution of natural gas. ONE Future offers a 16 studies sponsored by EDF and its industry partners to quantify performance-based, flexible approach to managing methane natural gas emissions across the value chain. Researchers found emissions that is expected to yield significant reductions in such wide variations in the amount of methane being emitted at various emissions. The goal is to voluntarily lower methane emissions to sites – especially in the gathering sector. The study found that less less than one percent of gross methane production across the than one percent of the methane that passed through natural gas value chain by 2025. Peer-reviewed analyses indicate that a leak/ gathering and processing facilities in the U.S. is leaked, but that loss rate of one percent or less across the natural gas value chain roughly one-third of gathering facilities account for 80 percent of provides immediate GHG reduction benefits. methane emissions. The study indicated that variations among facilities were being driven by differences in inlet and outlet To achieve this goal, ONE Future has established methane emission pressure and abnormal process conditions. Overall the study rate targets for each sector of the natural gas value chain: production provided valuable insight into potential gaps within the current (0.36 percent), processing (0.11 percent), transmission and storage national GHG inventories and reporting protocols. It is anticipated (0.30 percent), and distribution (0.22 percent), which cumulatively that results from the study will help to inform the implementation total to the one percent target. Hess has activities in two sectors, of new U.S. EPA reporting rules in 2016. production and processing. In 2015 our methane emissions rate for production was 0.11 percent and our emissions rate for processing was 0.11 percent, both of which are already well below the industry averages and meet the 2025 ONE Future targets. Methane Emission Rate (ONE Future Protocol)* Additional Performance Improvement Efforts Although Hess has already met our ONE Future sectoral targets, 0.6 0.56 we are committed to further improving our performance. We are currently expanding the leak detection and repair (LDAR) programs 0.5 0.44 from our gas plants and Ohio production operations to our North Methane Emissions Rate (%) Dakota production operations. We are also working to change out 0.4 0.36 0.30 our remaining high-bleed pneumatic controllers. These measures, together with the steps we are taking to reduce flaring in North 0.3 0.26 Dakota (described previously), will, if approved by applicable 0.19 0.22 stakeholders, help to further reduce our methane emissions. 0.2 0.11 0.11 0.11 Research Partnerships 0.1 We are also supportive of efforts to improve methane monitoring technologies. Hess is collaborating with other oil and gas 0 companies, the Environmental Defense Fund (EDF) and the Production Processing Transmission Distribution & Storage Southwestern Research Institute in the Methane Detector Natural Gas Value Chain 2012 Challenge, which tasks technology developers and engineers with Hess 2015 developing low-cost methane monitors that can help the oil and ONE Future 2025 Target gas industry better detect, and ultimately reduce, methane *The methane emissions rate represents the ratio of methane emitted (in tonnes) to methane emissions. produced or processed (in tonnes) from U.S.-operated assets. Hess, together with a number of other oil and gas companies, also collaborated with Colorado State University and EDF to study methane emissions associated with the natural gas industry’s palette steven’s original new version ONE future line se 51 Production Operations, North Dakota 52 ENVIRONMENT 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report Responsible management of our strive to reduce the amount of water and Freshwater Use environmental footprint is a key energy we use, limit our emissions to air Million Cubic Meters component of our drive for operational and prevent spills and other unplanned 12 excellence. We maintain spill releases. 10.6 10.3 preparedness and response plans and 10 conduct emergency response exercises WATER MANAGEMENT 8.9 at each of our assets. We also dedicate Water is vital for our onshore exploration 8 significant staff and resources to help and production operations, primarily for ensure compliance with environmental cooling and hydraulic fracturing. At our 6 laws and regulations, international new developments and operations, water standards and voluntary commitments. use may be impacted or restricted due to 4 local limitations on water supply and One of our voluntary commitments is our disposal options. We recognize public 2 sponsorship and active participation in concern about our industry’s use of the Environmentally Friendly Drilling water, and we are committed to 0 2013 2014 2015 (EFD) program, which is a partnership evaluating our water footprint. As such, among multiple oil and gas companies, we identified water management as a Groundwater Municipal Water academia and environmental material issue and critical element of our Surface Water organizations that is coordinated by the environment, health, safety and social Houston Advanced Research Center. The responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy. We 2015 Freshwater Use by program aims to provide sound science are developing a risk-based, life cycle Business and Facility and develop solutions to address approach to manage water from sourcing Thousand Cubic Meters environmental issues associated with oil through disposal. We also plan to pursue 4% 1% and gas development. One outcome of objectives relating to water data our involvement was our partnership with enhancement, water risk assessment 8% EFD, ElectraTherm and Gulf Coast Green and risk-based evaluation of asset-level Energy to reduce flaring at our Bakken water management opportunities. 21% asset, as described in the Climate Additional examples of our approach to 66% Change and Energy section on page 49. reducing our water footprint are In addition, we initiated efforts to reduce discussed in the Shale Energy section. water disposed in underground injection wells, as described further in the Shale Our total freshwater use for exploration Seminole Gas Plant 5,874 Energy section on page 54. and production decreased by 13 percent North Dakota 1,908 Ohio 766 from 2014 to 2015, primarily due to our Tioga Gas Plant 321 To track our environmental performance exit from several international assets International 76 and drive improvement over time, we use (e.g., Algeria, Kurdistan Region of Iraq, key performance metrics – including the U.K.) in 2015. cooling, remained our largest single those factored into our annual incentive The Seminole Gas Plant in West Texas, freshwater user in 2015, accounting for plan – at the asset and enterprise level. (continued on page 57) Through these efforts, we continuously which uses water primarily for process 2015 KEY DEVELOPMENTS 2016 GOALS • Piloted implementation of a compliance tracking tool at our Bakken asset • Continue initiatives to reduce environmental impacts of shale energy • Conducted a hydrogeological study to assess capacity of the Ogallala development Aquifer • Begin efforts to improve water data collection methodology • Adopted our new global Waste Management Standard • Further incorporate water management in the risk assessment process 53 53 ENVIRONMENT SHALE ENERGY In recent years, advances in horizontal drilling and hydraulic fracturing engagement. In North Dakota, the state operates a regional network of have resulted in a rapid increase in shale oil and gas development in groundwater quality monitoring wells. the U.S. Hess has made significant investments in these unconventional oil and gas plays – first in the Bakken Formation in Water Use North Dakota, one of the premier U.S. tight oil plays, and more recently We understand the importance of managing water resources in the Utica Formation in Ohio, an emerging shale gas play. Oil and gas responsibly and continue to evaluate our operations for potential from these plays constitute about 50 percent of Hess’ total operated opportunities to improve our water performance. Hydraulic fracturing production. accounted for 25 percent of Hess’ total freshwater consumption in 2015, with our North Dakota and Ohio assets reflecting 17 percent and We recognize that some groups have voiced concerns about the 8 percent, respectively, of this amount. potential effects of shale energy operations on the environment, public health and safety. The practices we use are well established and in Hydraulic fracturing requires significant amounts of locally sourced most cases have been employed in conventional oil and gas water. A large percentage of that water remains underground, retained development for many years. within the formation during and after the hydraulic fracturing process, and thus is removed from the Earth’s water cycle. We aim to develop our resources responsibly and with minimal impact. All assets undergo several stages of detailed, activity-based risk The ability to incorporate alternatives to fresh water within the assessments during the appraisal, capture, development and operational life cycle is dependent upon a multitude of factors and is production phases. These multidisciplinary risk assessments allow us predominately driven by local conditions. In 2015 Hess initiated a to identify mitigation measures we can pursue to help us protect the program to evaluate opportunities to reduce the quantity of recovered environment, the communities in which we operate and the safety of water disposed in underground injection wells. Through various efforts our workforce. Our enterprise risk management process, discussed in to pilot the reuse of drilling, flowback and produced water in hydraulic the How We Operate section, includes identification and ranking of fracturing, we were able to eliminate the disposal of more than 76,000 environmental considerations and other aspects of our operated barrels of recovered water and to offset our use of freshwater activities as well as technical review and value assurance activities. resources by that amount. We also perform numerous EHS audits on an annual basis. As Well Integrity discussed in the Community and Social Performance section, we Whether for conventional or unconventional resources production, a continue to identify and address stakeholder concerns to improve our key to protecting groundwater is well integrity – that is, ensuring performance and enhance our license to operate. physical barriers between the wellbore and the surrounding rock and Protection of Water Quality underground aquifers. Hess protects water resources through the implementation of various While hydraulic fracturing processes occur several thousand feet controls. Our well pads and aboveground operating equipment use below the Earth’s surface, wellbores pass through groundwater secondary containment to minimize impacts from loss of primary bearing zones at shallower depths. Therefore before designing or containment (LOPC). Measures to prevent stormwater from entering constructing any well, we investigate the depth and lateral extent of the well pad are incorporated into our construction design, and any underground fresh water so that the well can be drilled and precipitation that falls within an operating area is controlled to help completed in a way that protects groundwater resources and conforms prevent impacted runoff from leaving the pad. Hess also has processes to regulatory requirements and internal Hess standards. and procedures to respond to an LOPC to quickly control, contain and mitigate impacts. Certain U.S. state agencies require operators to design casing and cementing plans that will isolate any underground fresh water from the We employ closed-loop containment systems for drilling fluids, which contents of the wellbore. We submit this information in applications for reduce the risk of LOPC. These systems also provide efficiency in well construction permits, which must be reviewed and approved by controlling waste volumes, as liquids and cuttings can be better regulators. Well designs can vary from asset to asset due to separated for improved waste management and disposal. We store differences in the formation, the management of drilling risks and flowback and produced water in closed tanks. technology applications. In Ohio, Hess meets or exceeds state regulatory requirements for To help ensure well integrity, our current process for new wells is to baseline groundwater and surface water sampling of neighboring line wellbores with multiple layers of steel pipe encased in cement to properties prior to drilling. Through water sampling, both Hess and the depths well below the deepest freshwater zones. Specifically: surrounding property owners are provided with a baseline of water quality conditions prior to operations. This activity affords all parties a • A surface casing is installed from the surface to below the lowest level of protection as well as promotes transparency and stakeholder known freshwater zone and then cemented in that interval from the 54 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report deepest point to isolate the freshwater zone, thereby creating a physical barrier between the materials in the well and the strata containing the groundwater being protected. • Inside the surface casing, another casing is installed and cemented in place and an acoustic cement bond log is employed to confirm that the cement barrier meets regulatory requirements. • The well completion is performed through a final casing (Ohio) or liner (North Dakota) placed inside the production or intermediate casing to the depth of the lateral. In North Dakota, a “frac string” is then run and connected to the top of the liner. This provides an additional physical barrier to isolate fluids within the well. Intermediate Conductor Casing Casing • To prevent potential fracture stimulation interference – that is, stimulating one well and having it result in hydraulic communication Cement Freshwater in nearby wells – existing offset oil and gas wells are shut-in during Aquifer fracturing activity, and the wellhead systems in nearby wells are tested prior to being shut-in. Surface Frac String • During hydraulic fracturing, procedures are in place to operate Casing surface and downhole equipment within their design ratings. Bakken example. Drawing is not to scale. • Induced seismicity from hydraulic fracturing or underground injection wells has not been a focus of potential concern for our lowers fuel use and emissions) and a reduction in the overall number operations in North Dakota. In Ohio, regulators have implemented and volume of chemicals used per well. Using fewer chemicals per measures through the permitting process to address seismicity well reduces the number of vehicle deliveries and the occupational concerns in the state. Hess follows a monitoring methodology and and environmental exposure risks associated with handling an operational control process when performing hydraulic fracturing chemicals, as well as the potential for and consequences of spills. By in areas of known faults or areas of previous seismic activity the end of 2015, approximately 26 percent of our North Dakota wells greater than 2.0 magnitude. had been completed with the reduced additive fluid composition containing HCFRs. Hess is continuing to increase the percentage of Hydraulic Fracturing Fluid Composition wells completed with the new composition and is targeting 100 Hydraulic fracturing fluid is predominantly composed of water with percent of all wells by year-end 2016. proportionally small volumes of proppant and chemical additives. The water we use for the fluid is primarily from freshwater sources, We participate with our peers in forums that are engaged in though as discussed in the Water Use section, non-freshwater developing science-based frameworks for the evaluation of sources may also be used. Proppant is a solid material, such as sand, suppliers to provide data on the composition of hydraulic fracturing used to hold the formation open and allow the oil and gas to flow into fluid used in each well. This information is publicly available on the the well. We have been increasing our use of sand as a proppant FracFocus website. While respecting laws that allow our service (instead of ceramic materials) and reached 100 percent use of sand providers to preserve the confidentiality of their fracturing fluid by the end of 2015. The chemical additives in fracturing fluids are formulations, we encourage transparency in chemical use and used for specific purposes such as reducing friction, killing bacteria disclosure. or inhibiting corrosion or scale deposits. Air Emissions We know that some stakeholders are concerned about the chemical In our shale energy operations, regulated emissions occur during composition of hydraulic fracturing fluid. Hess does not use diesel or flowback and production operations. When technically feasible, these benzene, toluene, ethylbenzene or xylene (BTEX) in our hydraulic emissions are collected and directed to a pipeline for gathering and fracturing fluids. processing. Where pipeline availability is constrained, flaring of the natural gas produced may occur. See the Climate Change and Energy We also evaluate the additives we use and consider new products that section for more information on greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. become available. In 2014 and 2015 Hess pioneered the use of highCompanywide non-GHG air emissions are discussed at the end of concentration friction reducers (HCFRs). HCFRs have multiple this section. benefits, including a reduction in pumping power requirements (which 55 ENVIRONMENT SHALE ENERGY, CONTINUED Land Use procure crude oil tank cars equipped with thicker shells and full-height We seek to minimize land use and reduce the number of well sites head shields for puncture resistance, enhanced thermal protection and needed to develop our acreage. In North Dakota this can be achieved bottom fittings protection as called for in the DOT-117 enhanced tank by implementing multi-well pad drilling – that is, multiple wells (up to car design standard issued in May 2015. 18) on a single well pad with shared surface facilities. In both Ohio and North Dakota we use geographic information systems when siting Effective July 1, 2015, Hess entered into a midstream energy joint facilities to minimize the impact on the environment and local venture in which Global Infrastructure Partners purchased a 50 communities. percent ownership interest in Hess’ Bakken, North Dakota, midstream assets. The Tioga Rail Terminal and associated rail cars are included in Transportation Impacts the joint venture. However, Hess, through our affiliates and service We are sensitive to stakeholder concerns about increased trucks on agreements with the joint venture, continues to operate the assets. the road in areas of high drilling activity. In North Dakota we have participated in multi-stakeholder initiatives aimed at minimizing We do not own any “legacy” DOT-111 rail cars. Through the midstream impacts on public roads and traffic congestion. We have also joint venture, we have an ownership interest in 956 crude oil rail cars collaborated with community partners and state officials in North that were constructed between May 2011 and March 2012 to AAR Dakota to promote adequate infrastructure funding to improve traffic Petition 1577 (CPC-1232) safety standards and are equipped with safety and support road maintenance. In 2015 we were able to remove advanced safety features, including a thicker, more puncture-resistant additional trucks from the road through the use of remote truck shell, extra-protective head shields at both ends of the rail car, and offloading at the Ramberg Truck Facility in North Dakota and the additional protection for top fittings and a self-closing safety relief addition of new crude oil booster pumps that now deliver oil from value. Each of these CPC-1232 crude oil rail cars is capable of being Ramberg to the Tioga Rail Terminal. upgraded to the most recent DOT-117 safety standards. Our midstream joint venture acquired 550 new crude oil rail cars, which it began In 2015 we further increased our use of piping to transfer fresh water receiving in 2015. These cars have been constructed to the most for completions at our North Dakota asset. During the year we piped recent DOT-117 standards, with the exception of adding electronically water to approximately 72 percent of our well completions, which controlled pneumatic (ECP) brakes. In accordance with the 2015 offset more than 63,000 truck deliveries. transportation legislation passed by Congress and signed by the President in December 2015, implementation of the ECP brake As discussed in the Safety and Health section, the Hess completions requirement is on hold while the National Academy of Sciences team is using a new “sandbox system” for delivering proppant sand to conducts a hazard study on ECP brakes to determine whether they are about half of the wells Hess is fracturing in North Dakota. With the warranted. sandbox system, the boxes empty by gravity and the sand falls out of the boxes onto a conveyor. Importantly for road safety, the sandboxes In May 2015 a crude oil train – at the time owned by a Hess affiliate– can be delivered ahead of time and pre-staged for use throughout the was being transported by BNSF Railway when it derailed near Heimdal, fracturing process. This reduces the need for nighttime and bad North Dakota. No injuries were reported in connection with the weather truck deliveries, which reduces the risk of exposure for accident. The derailment resulted in a release of crude oil. The drivers, well site staff and other road users. National Transportation Safety Board is investigating the cause of the accident, and that investigation is ongoing. Crude-by-Rail Safety Over the past several years, the transport of crude oil by rail has We have worked with local and national governmental agencies, become an issue of concern in the U.S. and Canada. Improving industry, rail equipment manufacturers and the railroads to facilitate crude-by-rail safety is a shared effort among railroads, regulators and the safe transportation of crude oil and other petroleum products. operators. At Hess, we are committed to doing our part to minimize the Also, we have an internal, cross-functional Rail Transport Working risks involved. Hess encourages the adoption of a holistic approach to Team that meets regularly to share information regarding issues rail safety that is science based and addresses accident prevention, relating to rail safety. We are also actively engaged with industry mitigation and emergency response capability. efforts to further improve the safety of rail crude oil transport. We are represented on the American Petroleum Institute (API) Rail Policy We recognize that appropriate train and track design standards and Committee, Government Affairs Committee and Rail Transportation maintenance are significant factors in preventing train derailments. We Group. We are also active on several multi-stakeholder task forces rely on guidance from studies conducted by railroads and regulators addressing these issues. and follow mandatory train and rail car design and maintenance standards. To that end, Hess was one of the first companies in 2015 to 56 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report 66 percent of our companywide We understand that water optimization is conducted a formal environmental freshwater usage. The plant sources its a concern for our company and our entire impact assessment (EIA) in North Dakota. water from a network of Hess -owned industry. To promote knowledge sharing The EIA identified one species of and -operated groundwater wells that and inform our path forward with respect butterfly (the Dakota Skipper) from the withdraw from the Ogallala Aquifer. to these issues, we participate in two IUCN Red List in our area of operation. Based on an evaluation we conducted industry forums focused on water We subsequently developed mitigation using the World Resource Institute’s management. First, we actively participate measures, including surveying and Aqueduct water risk mapping tool, the in a water working group convened by continuous monitoring, to help protect baseline water stress in the region is IPIECA. The working group aims to help this species. categorized as “high risk.” According to companies improve their water use Texas Water Development Board data, performance and reduce their water In the U.S. we have been monitoring the the primary driver for water demand in footprint by providing sound analysis, addition of new species to the national the region is agricultural activities. Hess’ assessment tools, good practices, endangered and threatened species lists consumption comprises a small fraction credible data sources and appropriate by the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service. In of the region’s total use; our withdrawals indicators. Second, we are members of addition, we are identifying locations from the aquifer represent only 0.1 percent the Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative where we may need to conduct new of estimated annual water demand. effort among 18 oil and natural gas biological risk assessments and develop companies to study, describe and mitigation plans as a result of these Recognizing the need to address water improve life cycle water use and listings. Already, we have adjusted drilling stress in this region, we are studying our management in upstream unconventional site locations to accommodate habitat water use impacts on the Ogallala oil and natural gas exploration and features and priorities for certain species. Aquifer. In 2015 we conducted a production. hydrogeological study to assess the Hess utilizes third-party software capacity of the aquifer and help us better BIODIVERSITY programs, such as the Integrated understand long-term water availability At every Hess location around the globe Biodiversity Assessment Tool, to identify and yield. We are in the process of we consider the protection of biodiversity protected areas and key biodiversity evaluating the results of the study and in our decision making and management. areas as well as specific species listings. considering the potential options for We maintain a list of IUCN Red List reducing our water use. We conduct formal environmental and species with habitats that overlap with social impact assessments (ESIAs) on our operations (see table). We also continue to prioritize reusing major capital projects as part of site water at the Seminole Gas Plant. In 2015 evaluation, selection and risk IUCN RED LIST SPECIES we reused more than 1 million cubic assessment. These ESIAs include Number of meters of fresh water at the plant, biodiversity baseline studies as well as Category Species representing 18 percent of the plant’s screenings of identified species using the Critically Endangered 16 total usage for the year. The facility International Union for Conservation of recirculates water in its cooling towers Nature (IUCN) Red List and other Endangered 32 between three to five cycles, and to threatened, endangered and protected Vulnerable 118 prevent the buildup of solids in the species lists. The results of an ESIA are circulating water, a portion is removed as used to create mitigation strategies. Even Near Threatened 161 “blowdown.” This blowdown water was where the conditions or circumstances reused in our Permian production do not call for a full ESIA, we still We also identify IUCN-protected areas operations to maintain reservoir pressure. routinely conduct biodiversity risk (categories I-III) adjacent to our screenings and impact assessments and operations. In 2015 there were three such Drilling and completion activities in North undertake appropriate mitigation areas – two in North Dakota (Lostwood Dakota and Ohio comprise our secondactivities. In addition, we conduct Wilderness Area and Theodore Roosevelt largest water use. Most of this water is assessments where the classification of National Park) and one in Western used for hydraulic fracturing. We use species and habitats changes in areas Australia (Wanjarri Nature Reserve). small quantities of brackish groundwater where we operate. for reservoir management purposes in We regularly work with our industry peers North Dakota. In 2015, as part of the permitting process on biodiversity-related issues. For for the Hawkeye Pipeline project, we example, we are an active member of 57 ENVIRONMENT Waste the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services their waste management plans to Thousand Tonnes Working Group of IPIECA. In October we address any gaps. helped lead and had several staff 300 300 members participate in the working In 2015 we generated approximately 252.9 250 250 group’s first peer-to-peer training 252,900 tonnes of solid waste, more than workshop on managing biodiversity and 99 percent of which was deemed 200 200 148.7 ecosystem services in the oil and gas non-hazardous according to applicable 150 150 119.8 industry. We also participate in an API regulations. This year-on-year increase in Endangered Species Working Group to waste was primarily due to an extensive 100 100 discuss large-scale projects with the clean up and recycling of scrap metal 50 50 goal of minimizing biodiversity harm and (approximately 95,000 tonnes) that had 0 aligning operational siting objectives to accumulated onsite in North Dakota and 0 2013 2014 2015 proactively balance development with at midstream assets over the course of environmental decision making. several years. Hazardous Non-Hazardous We also participate in the Cross Sector We also disposed of approximately Biodiversity Initiative (CSBI), a partnership 74,000 tonnes of drill cuttings from our Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea of IPIECA, the International Council on North Dakota and Ohio assets at licensed Mining and Metals and the Equator disposal sites in 2015. Drill cuttings, as Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) 160 140 136 120 Principles Association. This initiative brings well as the discharges from our offshore 3500 140 facilities (discussed in the next section), 120 the mining, oil and gas and financial Oil Volume in Water (Tonnes) 3000 100 120 sectors together to develop and share are not included in our overall waste totals 100 2500 100 80 good practices for safeguarding per IPIECA reporting guidance. 80 81 2000 80 70 biodiversity and ecosystems. In 2014 the 60 60 DISCHARGES 1500 60 CSBI published a timeline tool designed 40 FROM OFFSHORE FACILITIES 40 40 to help align project development, 1000 Discharges from our offshore facilities 20 10 15 20 biodiversity impact management and 500 20 14 include drilling mud, drill cuttings and financial timelines and milestones. 0 0 0 0 produced water. These waste streams 2013 2014 2015 WASTE are either reinjected for disposal or Oil Volume in Produced Water (Tonnes) Our operations generate a variety of waste reservoir management, discharged Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) streams, including waste specific to drilling directly to the ocean or transported to and production operations. Wastes are shore for treatment and disposal. Hydrocarbon Spills managed according to the waste Offshore produced water discharges management plan specific to each location totaled an estimated 6.5 million cubic 6000 6,000 5,130 200 that we operate. Waste management plans meters in 2015. Produced water 180 are designed to comply with all applicable discharges had an average oil content of 5000 5,000 160 Volume of Spills (BBL) regulatory requirements and to protect 15 parts per million volume (PPMV), Number of Spills 140 4000 4,000 110 116 120 human health and the environment. As totaling 81 tonnes of oil discharged. This 3000 3,000 100 outlined in the plans, Hess-operated reflects an increase in average oil content 86 80 2000 2,000 1,090 1,448 60 locations are expected to apply our waste and total oil discharged, compared to 2014. 40 minimization principles of “Remove, 1000 1,000 20 Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Treat SPILL PREVENTION 0 0 0 2015 and Dispose” – with disposal being the Hess tracks LOPC events regardless of 2013 2014 least preferred option. size and material, and reports spills Volume of Spills following industry and applicable Number of Spills As part of our global standards project, regulatory guidance. By proactively we rolled out the Hess Waste tracking all LOPC events, we are better Management Standard at our assets in able to analyze root causes, including 2015. Our operated assets conducted those events that may be low in impact gap assessments against the standard but high in frequency. and are now in the process of revising 58 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report The total number of spills (i.e., including worksite controls such as use Non-Hydrocarbon Spills hydrocarbon and non-hydrocarbon of fluid transfer checklists, expansion of combined) has remained relatively flat existing training and implementation of a 20,131 over the past three years. Of the total hose registry program in our Bakken 20,000 160 number of spills in 2015, 64 percent were drilling operations. To address spills that 127 140 less than 10 barrels in volume, 26 percent result from corrosion and integrity issues 15,000 120 Volume of spills (BBL) 103 Number of Spills were between 10 and 100 barrels and 10 related to fluid injection and pipeline 99 100 percent were greater than 100 barrels. conveyance systems, two of our onshore 10,000 80 While we observed a decrease in the assets initiated projects focused on 60 number of hydrocarbon spills in 2015, we improved inspection and surveillance 40 5,000 2,786 2,813 observed an increase in the number of programs, upgraded external corrosion 20 non-hydrocarbon spills and the volume of protection and use of corrosion inhibitors, 0 0 combined hydrocarbon and nonand pipe replacement or redesign where 2013 2014 2015 hydrocarbon spills. needed. In addition, we undertook a detailed analysis of LOPC incidents that Volume of Spills The increased volume of spills is aimed to build on the work commenced Number of Spills attributable in part to the occurrence of in 2014. The project team conducted a infrastructure leaks and process safety gap assessment of our policies and Air Emissions events. In 2015 our two largest programs, worked to identify common 100 100 mechanical integrity-related LOPC events root causes, and identified leading and 90 90 Emissions (Tonnes per Million BOE) 92.3 90.3 amounted to 2,500 and 2,130 barrels lagging indicators for tracking LOPC 80 80 87.1 (BBL) and occurred in our North Dakota performance that have since been 70 70 77.2 72.7 and Permian assets, respectively. Both integrated into our incident reporting 60 60 65.2 LOPCs occurred from brine water program. 50 50 injection pipelines, and the causes were 40 40 believed to be related to weld and repair To support a swift and effective response 30 30 equipment failure. Loss of infrastructure for any LOPC incident, we maintain 20 20 21.7 21.3 integrity and vandalism are believed to strong relationships with mutual aid and 10 10 13.7 have resulted in other significant but emergency response organizations at the 0 0 smaller-volume LOPCs at both assets. local, regional and global levels. More 2013 2014 2015 information about our emergency SO2 Intensity Hess also experienced a process safety response program, including our NOx Intensity VOC Intensity event in North Dakota in 2015 that memberships and partnerships with spill resulted in a significant spill. Operational response organizations, is provided in the observations and the incident Safety and Health section of this report. of operation for the expanded Tioga Gas investigation indicated that the primary Plant, compared to only a partial year of and secondary aboveground well barriers AIR EMISSIONS operation in 2014 – meaning that the inlet failed. An estimated 3,250 barrels of oil The normal operation of fuel combustion compressor engines for the plant, which and 9,000 barrels of produced water were and processing equipment as well as produce combustion emissions including released from the wellhead. Site incident flaring activities results in air emissions of NO X , were operated for a longer period of control was immediately established nitrogen oxides (NO X) and sulfur dioxide time in 2015. The SO 2 emissions increase along with spill containment coordination (SO 2). Product loading and storage is the is primarily due to a number of operational efforts. No injuries occurred as a result of primary source of air emissions of volatile upset events we experienced at the the incident, and the release was organic compounds (VOCs). In 2015 our Seminole Gas Plant in 2015, which were contained onsite. In addition to the normalized emissions of VOCs remained related to power supply problems at the immediate actions taken to mitigate this relatively consistent with previous years, plant causing unexpected shutdown release, we have implemented while normalized emissions of NOX and events. We have an ongoing reliability operational and management of change SO 2 increased compared to 2014. program in place through which we procedures to prevent reoccurrence. continually seek to enhance facility The increase in NOX can be partially operations to minimize such events in We are addressing the challenges in this attributed to 2015 being the first full year the future. area through a variety of measures, 59 PERFORMANCE DATA Units 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Business Performance Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 6,636 10,737 11,905 12,245 10,647 Net income attributable to Hess Corporation $ Million -3,056 2,317 5,052 2,025 1,703 Total assets $ Million 34,195 38,407 42,515 43,222 38,872 Total debt $ Million 6,630 5,987 5,798 8,111 6,057 Stockholders’ equity $ Million 20,401 22,320 24,784 21,203 18,592 Debt to capitalization ratio % 24.5 21.2 19.0 27.7 24.6 Exploration and Production Total net hydrocarbons produced Thousand BOE/D 375 329 336 406 370 Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,086 1,431 1,437 1,553 1,573 Liquids (crude oil (light and medium oils), condensate & natural gas liquids) % 76 78 77 75 74 Gas % 24 22 23 25 26 Reserve life Years 8 12 12 10 11 Replaced production % 100 158 118 141 147 Economic Contributions Capital and exploration expenditures $ Million 4,042 5,305 5,674 8,152 7,462 Operating costs $/BOE 15.7 20.0 21.5 20.6 19.7 Income tax $ Million 1,299 744 565 1,529 702 Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 457 707 807 920 947 Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 287 303 235 171 136 Employee wages and benefits (U.S.) $ Million 791 1,040 1,037 1,045 1,057 Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 331 321 406 419 383 Operating costs $/BOE 16 20 22 21 20 Supplier spend $ Billion 8 8 8 8 6 * (approximate) Communities and Social Performance Total social investment $ Million 22 42 37 40 23 Education % 83 80 52 47 33 Health % 1 1 2 4 5 Disaster relief % <1 2 3 13 5 Community contributions (not in-kind) % 14 13 25 22 20 In-kind % <1 4 12 9 28 Arts and culture % 1 0 6 5 8 Environment % <1 <1 <1 <1 1 Our People Number of permanent employees # 2,770 3,039 12,128 13,277 13,021 U.S. % 79 78 91 90 91 International % 21 22 9 10 10 Part-time employees % 0 1 27 23 24 Full-time employees % 100 99 73 77 76 Employee turnover – voluntary ❖ % 5.2 9.1 13.1 10.4 7.9 Employee layoffs ❖ % 8.9 19.8 14.6 3.2 1.1 Female employees (U.S. and International) % 27 28 43 40 39 Minority employees (U.S.) % 24 24 39 38 37 Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 3 1 4 6 7 Safety Performance Fatalities – workforce (employees + contractors) # 0 0 0 1 0 Hours worked – workforce (employees + contractors) Million hours 28.6 37.8 47.1 45.3 35.5 Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.24 0.20 0.20 0.14 0.25 Contractor Total Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.39 0.45 0.60 0.71 0.75 Workforce (employees + contractors) Total Recordable Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.36 0.40 0.52 0.60 0.64 Employee Lost Time Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.03 0.00 0.05 0.05 0.08 Contractor Lost Time Incident Rate cident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.10 0.14 0.16 0.20 0.12 Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.08 0.12 0.14 0.17 0.11 Employee Occupational Illness Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.09 0.00 0.02 0.05 0.23 Contractor Occupational Illness Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.25 0.24 0.13 0.25 0.30 Workforce Occupational Illness Rate Per 200,000 hrs worked 0.21 0.20 0.11 0.21 0.28 Products with Material Safety Data Sheets % 100 100 100 100 100 Health and safety fines and penalties – operated $ Thousand 0 37.5 0 0 0 Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures and the downstream businesses. See Approach to Reporting for details. * Supplier spend for 2013, 2014 and 2015 are for exploration and production only. ¤ Reflects data for exploration and production only. 60 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report Units 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbons MMSCF 36,121 35,987 29,356 26,386 21,604 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million tonnes CO2e 5.1 4.8 4.4 5.0 4.3 CO2 Million tonnes CO2e 4.7 4.4 4.2 4.7 4.2 CH4 Thousand tonnes CO2e 403.7 403.1 166.5 207.4 139.6 N 2O Thousand tonnes CO2e 2.7 28.4 31.1 24.5 21.8 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source Flaring/venting % 63 61 54 49 43 Fuel combustion % 33 35 41 46 55 Other % 4 3 5 5 2 Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Million tonnes CO2e 0.55 0.64 0.75 0.76 0.74 CO2 Million tonnes CO2e 0.5 0.6 0.8 0.8 0.7 CH4 Thousand tonnes CO2e 0.24 0.29 nil 0.15 0.15 N 2O Thousand tonnes CO2e 2.4 2.7 3.1 7.8 7.2 Equity GHG emissions (includes HOVENSA) Million tonnes CO2e 5.5 6.0 6.6 8.0 9.0 Scope 3 emissions – use of sold products Million tonnes CO2e 9.7 11.5 13.9 22.1 35.7 Energy Use Production energy intensity (equity) Gigajoules/BOE 0.23 0.29 0.28 0.24 0.25 Operated direct energy use Thousand gigajoules 27,506 25,829 26,421 28,074 27,125 Operated indirect energy use (gross) Thousand gigajoules 8,642 8,597 7,429 6,913 6,729 Net purchased electricity by primary energy source Thousand MWh 936 865 688 663 646 ** Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (wind power) Thousand MWh 135 125 140 140 180 Freshwater Use Groundwater Million cubic meters 6.0 6.2 6.3 6.5 8.5 Municipal water Million cubic meters 1.2 1.9 3.8 2.0 0.7 Surface water Million cubic meters 1.69 2.17 0.45 0.07 0.02 Reused/recycled (estimated) % 12.0 9.0 8.0 11.0 11.0 Solid Waste Non-hazardous waste Thousand tonnes 252.5 118.8 144.2 52.8 151.8 Hazardous waste Thousand tonnes 0.4 1.1 3.6 3.9 4.0 Basel Convention (recovery/reuse/recycle) Tonnes 0 0 22 10 0 Liquid Waste† Non-hazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 7,275.07 5,295.63 2.22 39.62 1.17 Hazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 18.44 0.50 0.00 0.00 0.00 Spills Hydrocarbon spills – number # 86 116 110 118 103 Hydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 5,130 1,448 1,090 1,018 1,251 Non-hydrocarbon spills – number # 127 103 99 120 120 Non-hydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 20,131 2,813 2,786 3,250 7,054 Air Emissions (Excludes GHGs) ◆ Sulfur dioxide (SO2) Tonnes 3,363 2,016 2,888 3,168 3,069 SO2 intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 21.3 13.7 21.7 21.8 20.8 Nitrogen oxides (NOx) Tonnes 11,504 9,595 10,270 10,600 9,784 NOx intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 72.7 65.2 77.2 72.9 66.4 Volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Tonnes 13,766 13,288 12,279 12,175 7,152 VOC intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 87.1 90.3 92.3 83.7 48.5 Exploration & Production Discharges Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 81 70 136 119 149 Oil in produced water to sea PPMV 15 14 10 9 10 Produced water to sea Million cubic meters 6.5 6.0 16.7 16.5 17.4 Other Environmental Indicators ISO 14001-certified operations % of production 6 7 2 8 12 ISO 14001-certified operations # 1 2 2 3 3 Environmental fines and penalties – operated $ Thousand 25 84 509 105 115 Environmental expenditures – remediation $ Million 13 12 16 19 19 Environmental reserve $ Million 80 80 65 55 60 Where relevant, all data are restated to exclude joint ventures and the downstream businesses. In addition, several historical environmental data points have been revised based on a recent deep-dive review. See Approach to Reporting for details. ** Third-party power generation † Historical waste data have been restated to separately report solid and liquid waste where possible. Liquid waste totals (2011-2015) include wastewater treatment. Liquid waste totals (20142015 only) include deep well disposal. Deep well disposal (2011-2013) is included in the landfill category and cannot be separated out. ◆ The gross operated hydrocarbon production (normalization factor) was 433,239 BOE/D in 2015. 61 GRI CONTENT INDEX This index refers to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) G4 indicators, with cross reference to the 10 Principles in the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and IPIECA sector-specific guidelines. Detailed information on GRI indicators related to Board-level governance (G4-34—G4-55) and defined benefit plan obligations (G4-EC3) can be found at hess.com/investors and in our Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) forms 10-K and DEF 14A. An expanded GRI Content Index is available at hess.com/gri-index. GRI G4 Indicator GRI G4 OGSS Indicator ● Reported Omitted GRI GRI UNGC IPIECA Indicator General Description Page(s) Status Principle(s) Indicator Strategy and Analysis G4-1 Message from the CEO 2–3 ● G4-2 Key impacts, risks and opportunities (a) 2-3, 5-7 ● Organizational Profile G4-3—G4-9 Organizational profile (a) 4, 67 ● G4-10 Employees by contract, gender and region 39-40, 60 ● 10 G4-11 Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements 60 ● 3 G4-12 Organization’s supply chain 19-21 ● G4-13 Significant changes during the reporting period 8-9, 19-21 ● G4-14 The precautionary approach (c) OCI ● G4-15 Externally subscribed or endorsed voluntary initiatives 23 ● G4-16 Key memberships and associations 36, 66 ● Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries G4-17 Operational structure of the organization 4, 9 ● G4-18—G4-21 Determination of report content 8-11 ● G4-22, G4-23 Explanation of restatements and significant changes 8-11, 61 ● Stakeholder Engagement G4-24—G4-27 Stakeholders, types of engagement, key topics and concerns 8, 10-11, 24-26 ● Report Profile G4-28—G4-30 Reporting period and frequency (c) 8 ● G4-31 Contact point for questions 67 ● G4-32 GRI content index (c) 62-66 ● G4-33 External assurance 8-9, 65 ● Governance G4-34 Information on the highest governance body (a,b,c) 13-14 ● G4-54, G4-55 Compensation ratios for highest paid individuals (c) OCI Ethics and Integrity G4-56 Internal values, code of conduct and principles (b) 18, 26-27 ● 10 G4-57, G4-58 Mechanisms for seeking advice or reporting concerns related to ethics and integrity (b,c) OCI ● 10 OGSS: GRI G4 Oil and Gas Sector Supplement a – See also Annual Report and SEC 10-K OCI: GRI Online Content Index b – See also hess.com/investors NM: Not Material c – See Online GRI Content Index (hess.com/gri-index) 62 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report GRI GRI UNGC IPIECA Indicator General Description Page(s) Status Principle(s) Indicator Economic EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to economic performance and market presence 2-4, 15-21, ● (a, b) 27-29 G4-EC1 Direct economic value generated and distributed (a, b) 4, 60 ● SE4, SE13 G4-EC2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change (c) 5, 16, 43-45 ● G4-EC3 Defined benefit plan obligations (a, b, c) OCI ● 7 G4-EC4 Significant financial assistance received from government (c) OCI SE13 G4-EC5 Comparison of standard entry level wage with local minimum wage (c) OCI ● SE15 G4-EC6 Local hiring at significant locations of operation 40 ● 6 SE6 EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to indirect economic impacts 27-29, 60 ● 6 G4-EC7 Development and impact of infrastructure investments and services 27-29, 60 ● SE4 G4-EC8 Understanding and describing significant indirect economic impacts (c) 27-29, 60 SE4, SE6 EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to procurement practices 19-21 ● G4-EC9 Local supplier spend at significant locations of operation (c) 19-21 ● SE5, SE7 EC DMA Disclosure on management approach to oil and gas reserves (a) 44-45 ● OG1 Volume and type of estimated proved reserves and production 4, 45, 60 ● Environment EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to materials used 53-61 ● G4-EN1, G4-EN2 Materials used and percentage recycled materials 53-57, 61 ● 7, 8 E10 EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to energy (c) 49-50 ● G4-EN3 Energy consumption within the organization 49-50, 61 ● E2 G4-EN4 Energy consumption outside of the organization 46 ● 7 G4-EN5 Energy intensity 49, 61 ● 8 E2 G4-EN6 Energy conservation and efficiency initiatives and improvements 47-49 8 E2 G4-EN7 Initiatives to provide energy efficient or renewable energy-based products and services OCI ● 8, 9 E3 (c) OG2, OG3 Total amount invested in renewable energy and total amount generated by source (c) OCI ● 8, 9 E3 EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to water use 53-57 ● G4-EN8, G4-EN9 Total water withdrawal by source and significantly affected water sources (c) 53-54, 57, 61 ● 8 E6 G4-EN10 Water recycled and reused 57-61 ● 8 E6 EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to biodiversity 57-58 ● 8 G4-EN11, G4-EN12 Proximity of protected areas/areas of high biodiversity 57-58 ● 8 E5 G4-EN13 Habitats protected or restored 57-58 ● 8 E5 G4-EN14 Number of IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species 57 ● 8 E5 OG4 Significant operating sites in which biodiversity risk has been assessed and monitored 57-58 ● 8 E5 EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to air emissions (c) 43-51, 55, 59 ● 8 G4-EN15—G4-EN17 Total direct, indirect and other relevant greenhouse gas emissions by weight (c) 43, 45-47, 61 ● 8 E1 G4-EN18 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity 45-47 ● 8 E1 G4-EN19 Initiatives to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and reductions achieved (c) 5-7, 43-51 ● 8 E1 OCI: GRI Online Content Index a – See also Annual Report and SEC 10-K NM: Not Material b – See also hess.com/investors c – See Online GRI Content Index (hess.com/gri-index) 63 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI GRI UNGC IPIECA Indicator General Description Page(s) Status Principle(s) Indicator G4-EN20 Emissions of ozone-depleting substances by weight (c) OCI NM 8, 9 E8 G4-EN21 NOx, SO2, and other significant air emissions by type and weight (c) 59, 61 ● 8 E8 EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to effluent and waste 58, 59 ● 8 G4-EN22 Total water discharge by quality and destination 58, 61 ● E7 OG5 Volume of formation or produced water 58, 61 ● 8 E7 G4-EN23 Total weight of waste by type and disposal method (c) 58, 61 ● 8 E10 G4-EN24 Total number and volume of significant spills 59, 61 ● 8 E9 G4-EN25 Basel Convention Annex waste management summary (c) 61 ● 8 E10 G4-EN26 Biodiversity value of receiving water bodies for water discharges and runoff 57, 58 ● 8 E5, E7 OG6 Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbon (c) 47, 61 ● E4 OG7 Amount of drilling waste and strategies for treatment and disposal (c) 58 ● E10 EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to environmental impacts of products and services 43-59 ● G4-EN27 Mitigation of environmental impacts of products and services 43-59 ● HS4 G4-EN28 Products sold and packaging reclaimed (c) OCI ● 8, 9 OG8 Benzene, Lead, and Sulfur content in fuels (c) OCI ● 8 EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to environmental compliance (c) 18-21, 43-59 ● G4-EN29 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations (c) 61 ● EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to environmental impacts of transportation 46-49, 56 ● 8 G4-EN30 Transportation impacts 46-49, 56, 61 ● E1, E9 EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to environmental expenditures and investments (c) OCI ● 8 G4-EN31 Total environmental protection expenditures and investments by type (c) OCI ● EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to environmental assessment of suppliers (c) 19-21 ● 8, 9 G4-EN32 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria (c) 19-21 ● G4-EN33 Significant actual and potential negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and OCI ● 8 actions taken (c) EN DMA Disclosure on management approach to environmental grievance mechanisms (c) 24, 26 ● 8 G4-EN34 Number of grievances about environmental impacts filed, addressed and resolved OCI ● through formal grievance mechanisms (c) Labor Practices and Decent Work LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to employment (c) 23-37 ● G4-LA1 Total number and rate of employee turnover by age group, gender and region 39, 60 ● SE15 G4-LA2 Benefits provided to full-time employees by major operations (c) OCI ● 6 G4-LA3 Return to work and retention rates after parental leave by gender (c) OCI NM LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to labor/management relations 23-37 ● 6 G4-LA4 Minimum notice period(s) regarding significant operational changes (c) OCI ● SE16 LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to occupational health and safety 31-37 ● 3 G4-LA5 Total workforce represented in formal joint health and safety committees (c) OCI ● HS1 G4-LA6 Injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism and fatalities (c) 31-32, 60 ● HS3 G4-LA7 Workers with high incidence or risk of disease related to their occupation (c) OCI ● HS2 OCI: GRI Online Content Index a – See also Annual Report and SEC 10-K NM: Not Material b – See also hess.com/investors c – See Online GRI Content Index (hess.com/gri-index) 64 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report GRI GRI UNGC IPIECA Indicator General Description Page(s) Status Principle(s) Indicator G4-LA8 Health and safety topics covered in formal agreements with trade unions OCI NM HS1, SE16 LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to training and education (c) 40-41 ● G4-LA9 Employee training by gender and employee category (c) OCI ● SE17 G4-LA10 Programs for skills management, lifelong learning and career endings 40-41 ● 6 SE17 G4-LA11 Employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews (c) 40-41 ● SE17 LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to diversity and equal opportunity 39-40 ● 6 G4-LA12 Governing bodies and employees by category according to diversity indicators (c) 41 ● 66 SE15 LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to equality of renumeration by gender (c) OCI ● 66 G4-LA13 Ratio of basic salary of men to women by employee category (c) OCI SE15 LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to assessment of supplier labor practices (c) 19-21 ● 6 G4-LA14 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using labor practices criteria (c) 19-21 ● G4-LA15 Significant negative impacts for labor practices in the supply chain (c) OCI ● 6 LA DMA Disclosure on management approach to labor practice grievance mechanisms (c) 24, 26 ● G4-LA16 Grievances about labor practices from formal grievance mechanisms (c) OCI ● SE18 Human Rights HR DMA Disclosure on management approach to human rights investments (c) 13-21, 27 ● G4-HR1 Human rights and significant investment agreements (c) 19-21, 27 ● SE8 G4-HR2 Employee training on policies and procedures concerning human rights (c) 18, 20-21 ● SE8 HR DMA Disclosure on management approach to non-discrimination (c) OCI ● 1, 2 G4-HR3 Total number of incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken (c) OCI ● SE8, SE18 HR DMA Disclosure on management approach to freedom of association and collective OCI ● 3, 5, 6 bargaining, child labor and forced or cumpulsory labor (c) G4-HR4 Operations and significant suppliers identified at risk re: freedom of association and OCI ● SE8, collective bargaining (c) SE9 G4-HR5 Operations and significant suppliers identified at risk re: child labor (c) OCI ● SE8, SE9 G4-HR6 Operations and significant suppliers identified at risk re: forced or compulsory labor (c) OCI ● SE8 HR DMA Disclosure on management approach to security practices 21, 23, 27 ● 66 G4-HR7 Security personnel trained on human rights that are relevant to operations 18, 21 ● SE10 HR DMA Disclosure on management approach to indigenous rights 23-26 ● 1 G4-HR8 Violations involving rights of indigenous people (c) OCI ● 1 SE10 OG9 Indigenous communities present or affected by activities, and engagement strategies 23-26 ● 1 SE2 HR DMA Disclosure on management approach to human rights assessments (c) 25-27 ● G4-HR9 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments (c) 25-27 ● SE8 HR DMA Disclosure on management approach to supplier human rights assessments (c) 19-21, 27 ● 1 G4-HR10 Significant suppliers, contractors and other business partners screened for human rights (c) 19-21, 27 ● SE9 G4-HR11 Significant negative human rights impacts in the supply chain and actions taken (c) OCI ● 2 HR DMA Disclosure on management approach to human rights grievance mechanisms (c) 24, 26 ● 2 G4-HR12 Grievances on human rights from formal grievance mechanisms (c) OCI ● SE9, SE18 OCI: GRI Online Content Index a – See also Annual Report and SEC 10-K NM: Not Material b – See also hess.com/investors c – See Online GRI Content Index (hess.com/gri-index) 65 GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI GRI UNGC IPIECA Indicator General Description Page(s) Status Principle(s) Indicator Society SO DMA Disclosure on management approach to local communities 13-29 ● G4-SO1 Programs and practices that assess and manage impacts of operations on communities 23-29 ● SE1 G4-SO2 Operations with significant actual or potential negative impacts on local communities 23-29 ● 1 SE1 OG10 Significant disputes with local communities and indigenous peoples (c) OCI ● 1 SE1, SE3 OG11 Sites that have been or are in the process of being decommissioned (c) OCI ● E11 OG12 Extent and impact of involuntary resettlement (c) OCI ● SE3 OG13 Number of process safety events, by business activity 34 ● HS5 SO DMA Disclosure on management approach to anti-corruption 18 ● G4-SO3 Business units analyzed for risks related to corruption (c) OCI ● SE11, SE12 G4-SO4 Employees trained in organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures (c) 18 ● 10 SE11 G4-SO5 Actions taken in response to incidents of corruption (c) OCI ● 10 SE11 SO DMA Disclosure on management approach to public policy (c) 18-19 ● 10 G4-SO6 Political contributions (c) 18-19 ● SE13, SE14 SO DMA Disclosure on management approach to anti-competitive behavior and legal OCI ● 10 10 compliance (c) G4-SO7 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust and monopoly practices (c) OCI ● G4-SO8 Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance (c) OCI ● SO DMA Disclosure on management approach to assessment of suppliers for impacts on 19-21 society (c) G4-SO9 Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using criteria for impacts on society (c) 19-21 SE12 G4-SO10 Significant actual and potential negative impacts on society in the supply chain and OCI ● SE12 actions taken (c) SO DMA Disclosure on management approach to grievance mechanisms for impacts on 24, 26 ● society (c) G4-SO11 Grievances regarding impacts on society from formal grievance mechanisms (c) OCI ● Product Responsibility PR DMA Disclosure on management approach (c) OCI ● G4-PR1 Lifecycle assessment for health and safety impacts of products and services (c) OCI ● HS4 G4-PR2 Non-compliance with health and safety impact requirements for products and OCI HS4 NM services (c) G4-PR3 Product and service labeling requirements for significant products (c) OCI ● HS4 G4-PR4 Non-compliance with product and service labeling requirements (c) OCI ● HS4 G4-PR5 Customer satisfaction practices (c) OCI NM G4-PR6 Marketing communications compliance programs (c) OCI NM HS4 G4-PR7 Non-compliance with marketing communications regulations and voluntary codes (c) OCI NM HS4 OG14 Volume of biofuels produced and purchased meeting sustainability criteria (c) OCI NM G4-PR8 OCI: Substantiated customer GRI Online Content Index a privacy complaints – See also and data Annual Report SEC(c)10-K andloss OCI NM NM: Not Material b – See also hess.com/investors G4-PR9 Non-compliance with laws and regulations concerning the provision and use of products OCI NM EN3 c – See Online GRI Content Index (hess.com/gri-index) and services (c) 66 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Hess Corporation (Hess) to provide assurance on the 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report (the Report). Engagement Summary Scope: Whether the 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report is fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria. The GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines ‘Core option’ (including the Oil and Gas Sector Supplement); and Reporting Criteria: IPIECA Oil & Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary Sustainability Reporting, 3rd Edition, 2015. Assurance Standard: ERM CVS’ assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised). Assurance Level: Limited assurance. • Hess is responsible for preparing the report and for its correct presentation in reporting to third parties, including Respective disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary. Responsibilities: • ERM CVS’ responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgment. Our conclusions Based on our activities, as described below, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the following conclusions are not correct: • The 2015 Corporate Sustainability Report is fairly presented, in all material respects, with the reporting criteria. • The report meets the GRI G4 Guidelines ‘in accordance’ core option. • The report meets the common reporting elements of the IPIECA reporting guidance. Our assurance activities A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed the following activities: • A review of external media reporting relating to Hess to identify relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period. • Interviews with relevant staff to understand Hess’ sustainability strategy, policies and management systems. • Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the information. • Visits to production sites in North Dakota and Gulf of Mexico, USA to verify the source data and review sustainability management systems. • An analytical review of the year end data submitted by all sites included in the consolidated 2015 group data. • A visit to Hess office in Houston, Texas to review the data from all operations, the consolidation process and the results of the internal data validation process. • Reviewing selected evidence related to the design, information collection, and production of the Report in accordance with GRI requirements. • Reviewing the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with our findings, including the results of ERM CVS’ separate engagement providing verification of the Hess 2015 CDP submission. The limitations of our engagement The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. Our observations We have provided Hess with a separate detailed management report including our observations. ERM Certification and Verification Services, London Jennifer Iansen-Rogers www.ermcvs.com Head of Corporate Assurance email: post@ermcvs.com 14 June 2016 ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the ERM staff that have undertaken this engagement work have provided no consultancy related services to Hess in any respect. 67 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION Sustainability Workforce • CDP • Workforce Diversity magazine’s Top 50 Employers S&P 500 Leadership Index for seventh • Woman Engineer magazine’s Top 50 Employers consecutive year S&P 500 (#1 in Energy Sector) • Careers and the disABLED magazine’s Top 50 Employers • Dow Jones Sustainability Index North America for sixth consecutive year • Hispanic Network magazine’s Best of the Best Employers • Corporate Responsibility Magazine 100 Best Corporate Citizens for eighth • Black EOE Journal’s Best of the Best Employers consecutive year • North Dakota Safety Council’s Occupational Safety #1 oil and gas company for second Merit Award consecutive year • Newsweek Green Rankings for fifth Technology consecutive year • Petroleum Equipment and Services Association’s #1 in U.S. Energy Sector Explorers of Houston Award for Leadership and • STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index for third Innovation consecutive year • Hearst Energy Award for Technology, Permian Basin • MSCI ESG Indexes for fourth consecutive year • World Bank Global Gas Flaring Reduction MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes Partnership Award of Excellence for Flare Reduction MSCI Global SRI Indexes in the Bakken, USA MSCI KLD 400 Social Index • Corporate Knights’ Global 100 Most Sustainable Corporations for second consecutive year • Environmental Investment Organization Environmental Tracking Carbon Rankings for third time Global 800 North America 300 MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS • American Petroleum Institute • International Association of Oil and Gas Producers • Business Roundtable • IPIECA • Center for Offshore Safety • National Petroleum Council • Center for Strategic and International Studies • Producers for American Crude Oil Exports • Council on Foreign Relations • U.S. Chamber of Commerce Design: incdesign.com • Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative 68 REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Social Responsibility Policy or Human Rights Policy, or for more information regarding our operations, please visit our website at hess.com. We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this report. To send us your questions or comments, or to request more information or additional copies of this report, please contact: Vice President, Environment, Health and Safety Hess Corporation 1501 McKinney Street Houston, TX 77010 You can also send us an email at sustainability@hess.com. SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS This report contains projections, future estimates, plans, expectations and other forward-looking statements, including information about sustainability goals and targets and planned social, safety and environmental policies, programs and initiatives. These statements reflect the company’s current views with respect to future events and the company’s performance. No assurance can be given that the development or continuation of any policy, program or initiative expressed in any forward-looking statement will be achieved, and actual results could differ materially from those expected for a number of reasons, including risk factors affecting the company’s business. A discussion of these risk factors is included in the company’s annual report of Form 10-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 The savings below are achieved when PCW Savings from the use of emission-free, certified printer with Forest Stewardship recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber: wind-generated electricity: Council™ (FSC®) Chain of Custody, printed 6,743 pounds of GHG emissions 93 trees preserved for the future the Hess Corporate Sustainability Report not generated with the use of renewable wind power 6 pounds of water pollutants not created resulting in nearly zero carbon emissions. Displaces this amount of hydrocarbons: 43,472 gallons of water saved This report was printed on FSC®-certified 3.36 barrels of natural oil unused Mohawk Options paper, a process2,910 pounds of solid waste not created chlorine-free 100 percent post-consumer In other words, your savings from the use of 8,016 pounds of net greenhouse wind-generated electricity are equivalent to: waste (PCW) paper manufactured entirely gases (GHGs) prevented with 100 percent certified wind energy and 3,455 miles not driven containing 100 percent post-consumer 42 million British thermal units of energy recycled fiber. 38 trees planted not consumed LEARN MORE AT WWW.HESS.COM/SUSTAINABILITY Community and Social Safety and Health Our People Performance Aiming to get everyone, everywhere Creating a company culture A review of social responsibility as a every day, home safe and high-quality workforce that way of doing business www.hess.com/sustainability/safety-health innovates, leads and learns www.hess.com/sustainability/communities www.hess.com/careers/life-at-hess -social-performance Environment Responsible management of our GRI Content Index Climate Change and Energy environmental footprint Performance against GRI G4 Balancing the world’s growing energy www.hess.com/sustainability/environment indicators needs with cost-effective greenhouse www.hess.com/sustainability/ gas emissions reduction policy sustainability-reports/GRI-Index www.hess.com/sustainability/climate-changeenergy www.hess.com 1
