Supporting the Global Compact We continue to believe in the UN Global Compact message and values, as we hereby renewing our commitment to the ten principles that cover the following four fields: • Human Rights • Labor • Anti-Corruption • Environment As we continue for the fifth year to be committed to transparently apply these principles in running our company and to infuse them in our policy and strategy making, as more Syrian companies are In need of such mindset and principles, given the fact that the Syrian economy is currently in an uptrend and the local community is regaining momentum. This is a major factor in our commitment to the Global Compact principles, highlighting our leadership and dedication to high ethical standards and globalized understanding. Maya Patsalides General Manager Human Rights Principal 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human right; and Principal 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human right abuses. We have a culture of understanding at our offices and studios, a culture of respect and unity, which facilitate our creative ability and magnifies our efforts, protecting and supporting human rights are one of our core culture anchors, as the diversity of our employees and their mixed cultures and backgrounds enables us to be a salient example to all our stockholders. Therefore, our involvement with human rights have given us the reputation of a contemporary and loving organization, which is both a talent magnet and an example for other Syrian companies in our community. Labor Principal 3: Business should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right of collective bargaining; Principal 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor; Principal 5: The effective abolition of child labor; and Principal 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. At Direct Line, we aim for a better future, knowing the fact that the Syrian devastating crisis have led the local economy to record GDP low, by overseas sanctions, boycotting the Syrian merchandise and the purchase of the Syrian oil. Which created an enormous pressure on the Syrian pound purchasing power and exchange rate. These mentioned factors are key to employment instability and irregularity, leaving hundreds of thousands of talented individuals jobless, with little income and stability, creating a vacuum effect for our talent and youth to aim for better life in the neighboring counties and offshore. Direct Line responded very differently to the mentioned facts, we grew our team, maintained their payroll scale and even supported those facing an adverse political situation without any discrimination as to gender, religious denomination or political affiliation. We even expanded our operations and started offering professional marketing and creative training, both on individual and corporate level, and we have set up a second sound studio with state of the art capabilities to diversify our source of income. Direct Line was a part of the first social media summit in Syria; we offered our expertise and knowledge in community management and social media interaction, as a part of our strategy to present ourselves as a leader in positive and prosperity on our community. Environment Principal 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principal 8: Undertake initiative to promote greater environmental responsibility and; Principal 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The current political situation have created significant pollution of every kind, mortar shells and explosions’ smoke is just one of the many things we see on a daily bases, not forgetting the human loss and devastating war destruction to our infrastructure and landmarks. Ignoring all what is mentioned, we continue to do our best to keep our offices and studios power efficient, support environmental education for our employees and stakeholders. Anti-Corruption Principal 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all forms, including extortion and bribery. We have a culture of transparency and openness at Direct Line, we use our non-formal groups in a way to facilitate creativity, not to induce prejudice or negative behavior, and we honor team members who show and share the anti-corruption culture. Final Notes We would like to point out that we request the following from the Global Compact network members and board: • Facilitate the acceptance of Syrian refugees in your companies and countries; we are loving and peaceful people. • Stand up against prejudice and racism, as more Syrians are objectified in the world due to negative media and political association. • Be a part of a positive change to the Syrian economy, as many are trying to further devastate and pressure it down. To all respected and kind members of the Compact, Best Regards.
